-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fallout 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/fallout3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Freedom to explore what you want, when you want.
 Fantastic, intricate quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying ways.
 VATS combat system results in all sorts of tense and gruesome encounters.
 Outstanding art design makes for a desolate DC.
 Rewarding mixture of excitement and atmospheric exploration.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The story and characters can feel a bit sterile.
 Combat feels mildly clunky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.1, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 8,274 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 28, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fallout 3 is a profoundly engrossing role-playing game just waiting to reveal its deep, dark mysteries. 
 

  A lot of games make a big deal out of player choice, but few in recent memory offer so many intricate, 
 meaningful ways of approaching any given situation. You fulfill or dash the spiritual hopes of 
 an idyllic society, side with slavers or their slaves, and decide the fate of more than one city 
 over the course of your postapocalyptic journey through the Washington, DC wasteland. Your actions 
 have far-reaching consequences that affect not just the world around you but also the way you play, 
 and it's this freedom that makes Fallout 3 worth playing -- and replaying. It's deep and mesmerizing, 
 and though not as staggeringly broad as the developer's previous games, it's more focused and vividly 
 realized.  

           Welcome to the wasteland.      

  This focus is obvious from the first hour of the game, in which character creation and story exposition 
 are beautifully woven together. It's an introduction best experienced on your own rather than described 
 in detail here, but it does set up Fallout 3's framework: It's the year 2277, and you and your 
 father are residents of Vault 101, one of many such constructs that shelter the earth's population 
 from the dangers of postnuclear destruction. When dad escapes the vault without so much as a goodbye, 
 you go off in search of him, only to find yourself snagged in a political and scientific tug of 
 war that lets you change the course of the future. As you make your way through the decaying remnants 
 of the District and its surrounding areas (you'll visit Arlington, Chevy Chase, and other suburban 
 locales) , you encounter passive-aggressive ghouls, a bumbling scientist, and an old Fallout friend 
 named Harold who has, well, a lot on his mind. Another highlight is a diminutive collective of 
  Lord of the Flies -esque refugees who reluctantly welcome you into their society, assuming that 
 you play your cards right.  

  The city is also one of Fallout 3's stars. It's a somber world out there, in which a crumbling 
 Washington Monument stands watch over murky green puddles and lurching beasts called mirelurks. 
 You'll discover new quests and characters while exploring, of course, but traversing the city is 
 rewarding on its own, whether you decide to explore the back rooms of a cola factory or approach 
 the heavily guarded steps of the Capitol building. In fact, though occasional silly asides and 
 amusing dialogue provide some humorous respite, it's more serious than previous Fallout games. 
 It even occasionally feels a bit stiff and sterile, thus diminishing the sense of emotional connection 
 that would give some late-game decisions more poignancy. Additionally, the franchise's black humor 
 is present but not nearly as prevalent, though Fallout 3 is still keenly aware of its roots. The 
 haughty pseudogovernment called the Enclave and the freedom fighters known as the Brotherhood of 
 Steel are still powerful forces, and the main story centers around concepts and objectives that 
 Fallout purists will be familiar with.  

  Although some of that trademark Bethesda brittleness hangs in the air, the mature dialogue (it's 
 a bit unnerving but wholly authentic the first time you hear 8-year-olds muttering expletives) 
 and pockets of backstory make for a compelling trek. There are more tidbits than you could possibly 
 discover on a single play-through. For example, a skill perk (more on these later) will enable 
 you to extract information from a lady of the evening, information that in turn sheds new light 
 on a few characters -- and lets you complete a story quest in an unexpected way. A mission to find 
 a self-realized android may initiate a fascinating look at a futuristic Underground Railroad, but 
 a little side gossiping might let you lie your way to quest completion. There aren't as many quests 
 as you may expect, but their complexity can be astonishing. Just be sure to explore them fully 
 before pushing the story forward: Once it ends, the game is over, which means that you'll need 
 to revert to an earlier saved game if you intend to explore once you finish the main quest.  

 
  Thus choices are ruled only by your own sense of propriety and the impending results. For every 
 "bad" decision you make (break into someone's room, sacrifice a soldier to save your own hide) , 
 your karma goes down; if you do something "good" (find a home for an orphan, give water to a beggar) , 
 your karma goes up. These situations trigger more consequences: Dialogue choices open up, others 
 close off, and your reputation will delight some while antagonizing others. For example, a mutant 
 with a heart of gold will join you as a party member, but only if your karma is high enough, whereas 
 a brigand requires you to be on the heartless side. Even in the last moments of the game, you are 
 making important choices that will be recounted to you during the ending scene, similar to the 
 endings in the previous Fallout games. There are loads of different ending sequences depending 
 on how you completed various quests, and the way they are patched together into a cohesive epilogue 
 is pretty clever.  

  Fallout 3 remains true to the series character development system, using a similar system of attributes, 
 skills, and perks, including the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system from previous games for your attributes, 
 such as strength, perception, and endurance. From there, you can specialize in a number of skills, 
 from heavy weapons and lock-picking to item repairing and terminal hacking. You will further invest 
 in these skills each time you level, and you'll also choose an additional perk. Perks offer a number 
 of varied enhancements that can be both incredibly helpful and a bit creepy. You could go for the 
 ladykiller perk, which opens up dialogue options with some women and makes others easier to slay. 
 Or the cannibal perk, which lets you feed off of fallen enemies to regain health at the risk of 
 grossing out anyone who glimpses this particularly nasty habit. Not all of them are so dramatic, 
 but they're important aspects of character development that can create fascinating new options. 

           The VATS system makes for some awesome-looking battles.      

  Although you can play from an odd-looking third-person perspective (your avatar looks like he or 
 she is skating over the terrain) , Fallout 3 is best played from a first-person view. Where combat 
 is concerned, you will play much of the game as if it is a first-person shooter, though awkwardly 
 slow movement and camera speeds mean that you'll never confuse it for a true FPS. Armed with any 
 number of ranged and melee weapons, you can bash and shoot attacking dogs and random raiders in 
 a traditional manner. Yet even with its slight clunkiness, combat is satisfying. Shotguns (including 
 the awesome sawed-off variant) have a lot of oomph, plasma rifles leave behind a nice pile of goo, 
 and hammering a mutant's head with the giant and cumbersome supersledge feels momentously brutal. 
 Just be prepared to maintain these implements of death: Weapons and armor will gradually lose effectiveness 
 and need repairing. You can take them to a specialist for fixing, but you can also repair them 
 yourself, as long as you have another of the same item. It's heartbreaking to break a favored weapon 
 while fending off supermutants, but it reinforces the notion that everything you do in Fallout 
 3, even shooting your laser pistol, has consequences.  

  These aspects keep Fallout 3 from being a run-and-gun affair, and you shouldn't expect to play 
 it as one. This is because the most satisfying and gory moments of battle are products of the Vault-Tec 
 Assisted Targeting System, or VATS. This system is a throwback to the action-point system of previous 
 Fallout games, in that it lets you pause the action, spend action points by targeting a specific 
 limb on your enemy, and watch the bloody results unfold in slow motion. You aren't guaranteed a 
 hit, though you can see how likely you are to strike any given limb and how much damage your attack 
 might do. But landing a hit in VATS is immensely gratifying: The camera swoops in for a dramatic 
 view, your bullet will zoom toward its target, and your foe's head might burst in a shocking explosion 
 of blood and brains. Or perhaps you will blow his limb completely off, sending an arm flying into 
 the distance -- or launch his entire body into oblivion.     

   

  This anatomically based damage is implemented well. Shooting an Enclave soldier's arm may cause 
 him to drop his weapon, shooting his leg will cause him to limp, and a headshot will disorient 
 him. But you aren't immune to these effects, either. If your head takes enough damage, you'll need 
 to deal with disorienting aftereffects; crippled arms mean reduced aiming ability. Fortunately, 
 you can apply healing stimpacks locally to heal the injury; likewise, a little sleep will help 
 ease your troubles. You can also temporarily adjust your stats using any number of aids and healing 
 items. Yet these, too, come with consequences. A little scotch or wine sounds delicious and offers 
 temporary stat boosts, but you can become addicted if you drink them enough, which results in its 
 own disorienting visual effects. And, of course, you will need to deal with the occasional effects 
 of radiation, which is a problem when you drink from dirty water sources or eat irradiated food. 
 Radiation poisoning can be cured, but you'll still need to weigh the healing benefits of certain 
 items versus the resultant increase in radiation levels.  

           Quests are often more than meets the eye.      

  This all makes for a remarkably complex 
 game that's further deepened by other elements that add some gameplay variety and help the world 
 feel more lived-in. Lock-picking initiates a decent, if odd, minigame that simulates applying torque 
 to the lock with a screwdriver while twisting a bobby pin. The hacking minigame is an interesting 
 word puzzle that requires a little bit of brainpower. Or if you fancy yourself more of a blacksmith 
 than a wordsmith, you can earn and purchase schematics to help you create weapons using the various 
 components scattered around the land. More of an interior decorator? No matter: Should you acquire 
 the deed to an apartment, you can decorate it and even outfit it with a few helpful appliances. 
 The jokester robot comes free.  

  Although you'll be spending much of your time wandering alone out in the wastes, or perhaps with 
 a companion or two, there are some memorable cinematic sequences. You will join soldiers as they 
 take on a giant boss mutant, spearhead an assault on a famous DC landmark, and escape from a doomed 
 citadel while robots and soldiers fill the air with laser fire. It's a good mix, paying off the 
 atmospheric tension with an occasional explosive release. Your enemies put up a good fight -- often 
 too good, considering that enemies that were a challenge early on can still be tough cookies 5 
 or 10 levels later. This scaling difficulty makes your sense of progression feel a bit more limited 
 than in other role-playing games, but it feels somewhat appropriate, considering the game's open-ended 
 nature and inhospitable world. After all, if skulking mutants weren't a constant threat, you wouldn't 
 be afraid to peek into the dark corners of the Fallout world. It should be noted that unlike previous 
 games in the series, you cant take a completely peaceful approach to solving your quest. In order 
 to complete the game, you will have to get into combat and kill off some enemies, but since the 
 combat system is generally pretty satisfying, this shouldnt be a serious problem for most players. 

  Fallout 3 takes place in a bombed-out, futuristic version of Washington DC, and in the game, the 
 area is bleak but oddly serene. Crumbling overpasses loom overhead and optimistic 1950's-style 
 billboards advertise their products with sunny catchphrases. It looks impressive, and you move 
 around the wide-open wasteland with nary a loading time, though you will encounter loads when entering 
 and exiting buildings or quick-jumping to areas you've already visited. Numerous set-piece landmarks 
 are particularly ominous, such as a giant aircraft carrier that serves as a self-contained city, 
 or the decrepit interiors of the National Air and Space Museum. But the small touches are just 
 as terrific, such as explosions that produce mushroom-like clouds of flame and smoke, evoking the 
 nuclear tragedy at the heart of Fallout 3's concept. Character models are more lifelike than in 
 the developer's prior efforts but still move somewhat stiffly, lacking the expressiveness of the 
 models in games such as Mass Effect.  

  It's a shame, in light of these impressive design elements, that the PlayStation 3 version is shockingly 
 inferior to the others from a technical perspective. Although the Xbox 360 and PC versions display 
 the occasional visual oddity and bland texture, these nitpicks are easy to overlook. Sadly, the 
 jagged edges, washed-out lighting, and slightly diminished draw distance of the PS3 release aren't 
 so easy to dismiss. We also experienced a number of visual bugs on the PS3. Character faces disappeared 
 several times, leaving only eyeballs and hair; limbs on robots went missing; some character models 
 had an odd outline around them as if they were cel-shaded; and the day-to-night transition may 
 cause odd streaks on the screen as you move the camera around. This version doesn't even offer 
 trophies, whereas the Xbox 360 and PC versions offer Xbox Live/Windows Live achievements.  

           While there is plenty of somber exploration, you'll still find lots of action.      
 

  Aside from a few PS3-specific sound quirks, the audio in every version is marvelous. Most of the 
 voice acting is great, some sleepy-sounding performances notwithstanding. Any game's atmosphere 
 can live or die by its ambient audio, and Fallout 3 rises to the challenge. The whistling of the 
 wind and the far-off sound of a gunshot are likely to give you a chill, and the slow-motion groans 
 and crunch of a baseball bat meeting a ghoul's face sound wonderfully painful. If you get lonely 
 and want some company, you can listen to a couple of radio stations, though the frequent repetition 
 of the songs and announcements grates after a while. The soundtrack is fine, though it's a bit 
 overwrought considering the desolate setting. Luckily, its default volume is very low, so it doesn't 
 get in the way.  

  No matter what platform you own, you should play Fallout 3, which overcomes its issues by offering 
 a deep and involving journey through a world that's hard to forget. It has more in common with 
 Bethesda's Elder Scrolls series than with previous Fallout games, but that is by no means a bad 
 thing. In fact, Fallout 3 is leaner and meaner than Bethesda's previous efforts, less expansive 
 but more intense, while still offering immense replay value and quite a few thrills along the way. 
 Whether you're a newcomer to the universe or a Fallout devotee, untold hours of mutated secrets 
 are lurking in the darkest corners of Washington.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (570 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SerbWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  Did you ever wonder, what will happen with China's might?
  Wheather or not the two most powerful states on Earth after Russia,
  China and USA would bring 
 about the apocalypse?
  Wonder no more...
  Fallout 3 has the answers...
  Apparently in the year 2077, USA and China will let off some steam...
  By sending many nuclear 
 warheads at each other, thus destroying almost everyone, and everything!
  Ah, that beutiful mushroom cloud, rising above the city limits...
  But, wait, the story dosent end 
 there silly...
  Apparently, a pitiful band of survivors managed to pre-enlist, in a vault...
  Vaults were facilities, where the chosen ones went to, to avoid the horror of nuclear holocaust...
 
  The survivers had off springs, and its been 200 years, no one ever left 
  the vaults, until...
  Your character's dad, a scientist and doctor of sorts, wants to bring clean 
 fresh, radiaton free water to the world...
  Thats right, radiaton spreads through water too!
  The project he was working on, is called...
  PROJECT PURITY, my, how original!
  He will escape 
 the vault, leaving his poor child behind...
  But little did the good doctor knew, that his kid was one bad motherfuc*er!
  You will leave the 
 vault in pursiut of love, and finding your father...
  Pftt, just mesing around, your gonna leave the vault TO RAISE SOME HELL, well... bring a more hellish 
 existance!
  So you left the vault, a whole new world of learning and expirience avaits you, yes, this time im 
 not kiding...
  A whole new world of learning how to kill, and achieveing expirience in killing...
  The Washington 
 D. C area, is now reffered to, as...
  THE CAPITAL WASTELAND!
  Why? Well 4000 nuclear war heads sent by China arent going to make a place more beutiful!
  So 
 anyway, get out of the vault, and you go looking for your dad..
  By killing 1000's of  dudes etc.
  note:
  Enclave-a false profit 
 organisation, claiming to be the USA governamnt...
  Raider-piece's of shi* (not really, just a band of raiders who raid inocent civilians)
  Animals-the 
 little dudes who arent human....
  Monsters-the big dudes who arent human, nor animals...
  Yes, you will be killing a lot of living things here, so, whats the bad news?
  What?
  Love?
 
  Love is for hippies, fuc*ing tree lovers!
  You finaly find your dad...
  Guess what, he is working on project purity...
  You dont say, no... noooo............ no!
  Well, yeah, he 
 is...
  Another suprise, he gets killed, cause the enclave wants the pure water...
  Dad dies...?
  Well no... nooooooo...... no!
  Oh yeah!
  You go avange him the fuc*ing end, good 
 ridance, who needs plot, when you have such an incredible game on your hands...
  Better than oblivion?
  Fuc* no, nothing is better than oblivion...
  Fallout 3 is still an incredible 
 game!
  You will find weapons, like shotguns, rifles, automatic weapons, rocket launchers, mini nuke launchers, grenades, mines, 
 snipers, smg's, pistols, silenced pistols, baseball bats, sledghammers, knives, swords...
  Oh yea...
  You can build a fire sword...
  (You are the angel of death thy name is Micheal! 
 )
  Yes, yes, yes you can build weapons, by collecting worthless shi* around the capital wasteland!
 
  You can build a rocket thrower, a rocket that uses ANYTHING exept real ammo, for ammo!
  Nuka grenade, nuclear grenade!
  A mini crosbow, yea it like has poison arrows, and the arrows?
 
  Well... their darts, OK!?
  Deathclaw, basicly, you gonna kill a mean fuc*er called a Death claw, they are a modern-day version 
 of a grizly bear, radiation gave 
  grizly bears super speed, super streangth and super size...
  And now they are death claws!
  
 You kill one, take his hand, and make a weapon!
  And there's a bunch of other shi*!
  Now lets take a look at VATS
  The Vault assistant targeting system... or something like that!
 
  When you enter VATS mode, defualt v, time frezes, you aim either for the head, right arm, left arm, right 
 leg, left leg...
  You choose, and based on your action points, that rises with your agility... you can target more body 
 parts...
  PS. Different weapons require more/less action points...
  So, you choose your targets, you finish, and the fun starts...
  You go into slow motion, and start 
 shooting the shi* out of everything that moves!
  You get a head shot, there's a chance the targets head will explode... and fragments of brain, skull, blood 
 and eyeball will start flying...
  Ok lets cover the level up process, you gain enough exp, you level up, here is the bad part, level 
 cap 20...
  Yeah i know...
  Well, each level up you will choose to put a desired amount of points in each skill, the points you 
 will have, is defined by intelligence, in other words, if people could level up, and the level up thing 
 worked like in Fallout 3, i would have 1 point to distribute among my infirior and few skills, when 
 most people would get 20!
  The skills are:
  Explosives (KA-FUC*ING BOOM)
  Small guns (i like em when their small)
  Big guns (BIG, BIG, BIG WEAPONS Arrrggghhhhh)
  Laser 
 guns (Yes well, you see, my dear colegse, laser guns function on the principle of laser *zzzzzzzzzzz* 
 *snore*)
  Meele weapons (SMASH SKULL, SMASH SKULL)
  Unarmed (beat them with your iron fists)
  Medicine (healing of wounds and such)
  Lockpick (go, steal)
 
  Computer (im a nerd lol) lol
  Sneaking (from the shadows i shall strike, like a fuc*ing coward)
  Speech (Ok, i am not here, i 
 am there, you do not see me here, you see me there and i did NOT have sex with that little girl, 
 *thats just how good you are, you can bullshi* your way out of anything)
  Bartering (Hm, the cost of this item is 3000 bottle caps)
  Repair (Damn, should have went to highscool, oh 
 wait, thats right, its post apocalyptia, there are no highscools *cough* cough* 
  lucky bastards)
  Ok... anyway, besides the skills, you will also get one ,, perk'' per level... perks 
 are like abilities, some will affect skills, some shooting, 
  Some allow you to know the location of every location etc.
  You can choose only 20, because of 
 the level cap, so choose wisley!
  
  Now, unlike Oblivion, Fallout 3 will feature no potions, i mean there are some drugs, that ease the 
 pain, and focus the mind... and maybe there is a drug in game that focuses your di..
  Um, never mind :)
  Anyway, action filled, adrenaline packed, historicly 100% inaccurate 
  since 
 History studies the past not the future, many weapons, many perks, many side quests, giant world, great 
 AI, great graphics, great music.... Amazing game!
  
  AI 10/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Music 10/10
  Design 10/10
  Gameplay 20/10
  Concept 30/10
  Weapons 10/10
  
  Overall 
 rating:15/10
  ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murissokah
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Oh boy, it's been a long wait on this one. I was actually playing F2 when it was released, so the 
 old style was fresh in the memory. Bethesda promised us a fallout experience with a new perspective, 
 and most of it was delivered. The old school community feared that they would lose the fallout 
 depth in favor of an action-oriented oblivion of the wastes. That did not happen.
  While it does use a similar (ok, it's almost identical) engine to Oblivion's, it does so with great 
 success. The VATS system was a bullseye in my opinion. How do we keep the tactical turn-based aim-n-pray 
 system that was so greatly successful, and yet move on to a faster paced, more focused combat? 
 VATS does that by giving you the opportunity to revisit the old aiming scheme and wait for the 
 results. Only this time you get a cinematic-like action instead of a well-put ironic remark about 
 critical blindness, or a groin shot. I was really afraid that it would get old, but it did not. 
 I only wish that people wouldn't dismantle so easily (There is a mod for that though. There is 
 a mod for everything!) .
  Enough about VATS. We all played oblivion (didn't we?) , and know damn well that the scenery exploration 
 was godly, and there were so many things to do the we often forgot about the main quest. This is 
 also true for the old fallout series, where you would go out of your way, leaving your dying friends 
 and family back in arroyo waiting just to look for a new fuel controller for your car (after all, 
 a pimped up car gets all the girls) . Fallout 3 does not abandon its roots for this matter, and 
 gives you a gorgeous, fully loaded world ready to be explored.
  The story aspect is really nice. The old series seemed to focus on the bigger figure for the story, 
 also packed with lots of side stories and deeply worked NPCs. That meant your character's personal 
 history was somewhat unimportant, giving you a fresh start to develop its personality. Fallout 
 3 changes a bit in this aspect, as your story is tailored from 2yo up to 16 before the game actually 
 starts. That gives a little more intimacy with tour wasteland self, but does so without taking 
 away the much appreciated freedom of personality.
  The main quest progresses well, and takes you for a tour on the wastelands. At a certain point, 
 you are very likely to start exploring on your own. That's when you fell at home again, and the 
 world is yours for the taking.
  The weapons are also very nice, and the ammunition scarcity will ensure that the balance is respected 
 without having to hide the sweets away from the hungry children. Also, creating your own railroad 
 spike shooter, and removing the head of any unfortunate living being on your way is really fun. 
 I only wish I knew what happened to my all-time favorite gauss rifle (it's gotta be good if it 
 has Gauss' name on it) .
  The fact that the game is made on a modified Oblivion engine means that most of it is tried and 
 true, and also that the modding community will have a very familiar system to work with. For those 
 who enjoy modding their games, Fallout 3 is not coming short on this matter.
  Now for the blasphemy, I must criticize something otherwise my review would be somewhat pointless. 
 Firstly, the multi platform approach has taken its toll on the PS3 this time (rather than on the 
 PC with Oblivion's interface) . The graphics are the worst amongst all three and we all know there 
 is a lot of untapped potential on that cell beast. The dark and cynical nature of the old series 
 is preserved, but feels a little watered down. It's like they removed the religious cults, city-wide 
 whoring, mass drug addiction and all that stuff. It's all still there, only less. Character design 
 has been GREATLY improved from Oblivion, but still could be better. I know a nuclear armageddon 
 is not good for your skin, but ugly people don't really appeal to me. Also, dude, where's my car? 
 I miss that old highwayman so much right now....
  All in all, its Fallout alright, and it was worth the longest wait I ever had for a game. Did I 
 mention I was still playing Fallout 2 by the time of the lauch? Oh, I think I did. So go install 
 it already. And mod whatever you don't like about it, it's that easy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lswgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Even though RPG is a term that describes every game from fantasy to Modern day to Future, almost 
 all of them have at least one similarity to the Fallout series, not that they are plagiarisms, 
 of course not, but this series is so Iconic, it's hard not to have ever heard of it. It mixtures 
 humor and inventive game-play with an great plot, and even after 10 years, it remains fresh. From 
 the very moment you take a look into your copy of "You're S. P. E. C. I. A. L." to when you decide the 
 future of the wasteland, it's like you've never saw anything like that, it's the perfect mix of 
 past and future, from a can of nuka-cola to your blasters, everything came out of the 50's, so 
 it's not a new game, where they made out the history out of the blue, but is the first to collect 
 all of the information, from the movie "Them!" to Fishtail Cars and Leather jackets, they got everything 
 and did what no one ever did. they re-created and gave a context to everything, from giant ants 
 to mutants, the old becomes new and the new becomes unique. So I'd recommend not only this game, 
 but every game that sports the name fallout, because it's like if you couldn't say when the 50's 
 end and when the 21 century start. this game is worth playing, and for all I know, worth knowing 
 every single one of the other Fallout's (at least 1 and 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virgilsparda
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  ok when first got i installed and every thing but this game improves the genration and its worth 
 the wait and worth the money i broght the gamepad for this game its so freaking amazing . now lets 
 review the good & the bad.
  
  GOOD:
  impreseve graphiks a game thats that big, varity to explore evey thing want explore and when you 
 want to, works perfectly on gamepad & keyboard and mouse, very brutal & very grate weapons & owseme 
 costumastions.
  
  BAD:
  3rd person isnt that good first person is the best, some bugs that make restart from last chectpiont 
 like geting stuck were you cant move or jump.
  
  so what ever gamesystem you have pc/xbox360/ps3 you must get fallout 3 its the best action rpg 
 game ever made and one of the best games of 2008
  
  FALLOUT 3 MAKES HISTORY
  
  (vault 101 were nobody ever enters nobody ever leaves) LOL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolation7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Since everyone has been focusing on the positive aspects (all of which I agree with) I have decided 
 to summarize the negatives.
  
  - You often find yourself in a loop: Shuttling pickup items from corpses, to inventory, to a merchant, 
 then travelling back to do it again. This selling grind consumes 1/2 of your overall time. 
  - Human AI animation is clunky and often disjointed.
  - Steam version of the game often crashes 
 after being minimized. Game crashes at random.
  - The sidekick dog takes primary focus of the enemies and dies easily. Its jump attacks sometimes 
 causes you to shoot it in VATS. The dog also removes your ability to use explosives (messy) .
  - Sidekick AI gets confused in certain parts of the wasteland and will not follow you forcing one 
 to find new routes.
  - Enemy AI is easily tricked at any difficulty setting. 
  - Gunfire can clip objects your next to. Line of sight does not always mean line of fire.
  - 
 You can use save games to exploit senarios, like getting the ideal dialogue with a NPC, or pass 
 a difficult area, or even do save game loops to boost your cash flow.
  - Buying and selling system could be better organized so you don't have to waste time asking yourself 
 'which one of these 8 rifles is the one im using?' when your quickly trying to sell.
  
  Otherwise a great game. Easily a 8/10 or more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rma
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It was a lot better than I expected after playing Oblivion (good game but 
 the main quest is short) . The game made me mad, disappointed, and happy all from the story. The 
 freedom is always awesome and there are so many choices and outcomes there is almost unlimited 
 replay value. The games graphics are amazing if you have the the right stuff for your computer. 
 This game is awesome. This game is awesome. This game is awesome. This game is awesome. This game 
 is awesome. This game is awesome. This game is awesome. This game is awesome. You should definitely 
 buy this game if you like FPSs and  
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galidou
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard there was a sequel to the first fallout games, I tought of myself that they 
 couldn't do that great considering it was supposed to be a kind of mix between FPS and RPG. Getting 
 my hands on the game couple days after it got launched, I had trouble stopping playing when I had 
 to leave home for work. The storyline, the graphics, the V. A. T. S., everything was in harmony with 
 the previous fallout.
  
  First you start in the vault when your mother gives birth to you then dies of complications. You 
 grow and learn everything in a very fashioned way between your underground walls. Meet up with 
 friends, celebrate your anniversary, receiving your first PIP-boy. Then your father leaves the 
 vault and you discover the outside world for the ''first'' time of your life. The world is devastated. 
 Mole rats, raiders, Super mutants and more scavenging the wasteland! You've got to find your dad 
 to understand who he really is and what is happening.
  
  In my opinion, what would've made it even better is more quests, higher maximum level and the primary 
 quest being much, much longer and a bit harder. Don't go the easy way and do the main quest, explore 
 and take your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheat-A-Lot
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This Game totally beats Oblivion & Morrowind by all means but other than the occasional crashes 
 that are more than occasional. but other than that the V. A. T. S is revolutionary, the combat is 
 awesome. I wish that there were a little more big cities. The disbarment is totally wicked. Fallout 
 3 Demonstrates the new type of gaming (Open World) Extremely well giving it a good name. If you 
 want to buy fallout 3 make sure you have a really good computer, or else you will see repeated 
 crashes. I Had at least 4 different games that I wanted to get, And I'm Glad that i made the choice 
 I did.
  
  Right now I need 22 more characters.
  ______________________ ____________________
  People Suck, Live With It : ] | | OOPS I did it 
 again ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky_seven07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge Fallout fan ever since the original Fallout RPG came out in 1997. When I heard 
 that Bethesda had taken on Fallout 3, I was a little worried about what new changes might be in 
 store for the Fallout series. Would they stick to the general story behind the original games? 
 Would there still be that general quirkiness that originally drew me to the series (if you've played 
 them you know what I'm talking aboutany game with a talent called "bloody mess" automatically 
 gets points in my book) or would it be made into a generic RPG?
  
  My anxieties were completely unfoundedFallout 3 is an amazing game that sticks with most of the 
 original elements still in place. If you played through the original Fallout series, you won't 
 be let down.
  
  The story in Fallout 3 blends in well with the stories from the previous games. Your character 
 is born in a vault, deep underground and away from the horrors inflicted by a nuclear war that 
 has devastated what used to be the United States. You guide your character from infancy to your 
 teenage years and then your seemingly perfect life in the vault starts to fall apart. You are awakened 
 in the middle of the night to discover that your father has suddenly left the vault. He leaves 
 few clues as to why he's leaving or what he's doing. Your job is to find him in the vast nuclear 
 wasteland near what used to be Washington, D. C. Through your journey you discover that your life 
 isn't everything that you thought it was.
  
  There are so many great things in Fallout 3, so I'll start from the very beginning. I very much 
 enjoyed the fact that the "tutorial" in the game involves playing as an infant. I have never played 
 an RPG where you create a character and guide it from infancy through adulthood. The character 
 creation is enjoyable and you have many choices in how you want your character to look (I've heard 
 some complaints about this from some peoplethey are unfounded) .
  
  When you finally leave the vault, you are thrust into a bleak world full or dangerous obstacles. 
 The post-apocalyptic world created by Bethesda is amazing. From the parched earth suffering under 
 massive radiation to the crumbling ruins of D. C., you feel immersed in a world devastated by nuclear 
 war. There are a wide variety of baddies out there waiting to surprise yousuper mutants, ghouls, 
 robots, raiders, slavers, mutated animals, and even the infamous Deathclaws. The world is absolutely 
 massive! You could probably spend 20+ hours just exploring the world and finding various locations. 
 The graphics are greatfrom the environment to the "bloody mess" created when you score a nice 
 crit on some unsuspecting enemy.
  
  Another highlight for me was the voice acting in the game. It was very good. Liam Neeson is the 
 voice behind your father. Ron Perlman (Hellboy himself) does the "War" introgames + real life 
 actors = win.
  
  Overall, Fallout 3 is deserving of all the praise and awards it has received. It is a great game. 
 I gave it a 9.5 because it is almost close to gaming perfection. As a Fallout fan, I wasn't let 
 down at all. If you have played the original Fallout series (starting with Fallout, released in 
 1997, and continuing with Fallout 2 and Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel) you'll agree that 
 Fallout 3 is a great addition.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: overmars_ady
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 12:49 am PT
Review:  The name Fallout 3 hasn't told me much when I first heard it because I haven't played any of the 
 previous Fallout games, but when i saw the hype surrounding it I thought I should give it a try. 
 From the early stages of the game I fell in love with it and i understood why so many fellow gamers 
 have recommended it to me knowing that I am a RPG addict and a FPS enthusiast. Bethesda did a great 
 job combining the RPG and FPS features in the game so that it could be enjoyed by both RPG and 
 FPS fans. One of the games numerous strong points is the awesome post-apocalyptic world excellently 
 created for the players to explore. Another plus are the quests designed to be played by players 
 who want good karma, bad karma or who prefer to remain neutral giving the game variety and replay 
 value. The combat system is a bit annoying at some points but it makes up with the V. A. T. S. system 
 that makes battles more fun and very addictive. The S. P. E. C. I. A. L., the skill system and the perks 
 are balanced and give the player plenty options to choose his/hers playing style. A minor drawback 
 is the level cap which limits the number of perks you can take so choose your perks wisely. Fallout 
 3 is in my opinion the best RPG game made recently because few other games give the player such 
 a deep and addictive RPG feeling and the FPS elements are there to complement the game's complexity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splitka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the best RPGs i have ever played with so many mods, such a vast location, and 
 many more make this game worth the price. My review may be short but for a reason. ITS SUCH A GOOD 
 GAME YOU DONT NEED ANYMORE CONVINCING. One thing to know is that it can be boring at some points 
 but then again a great game. My review has now ended. Please read no further. Thank you. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. My review has now ended. Please read no further. My review 
 has now ended. Please read no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: israel_hlc
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an amazing game, with rich details, nice plot and excellent gameplay.
  
  The graphics are excellent, and fit well in mid-range graphic cards.
  
  Everything you do in 
 the Wastes (The Wasteland, the "world" of the game) takes you somewhere, being nice to someone 
 or not is decisive in almost every time. You can increase your skills in things like speech (for 
 those who prefer diplomatic ways) or big guns (for those who want to kill anything alive)
  
  In the "world" you will face mutants, settlers, kids, mutated animals, traders, wanderers and 
 much more. Many kinds of weapons - some not... how can I say... usual... like railway rifles - 
 and items make your journey in the wastes something new all the time.
  
  The main plot is very interesting, but surely you won't keep to it. Exploring the locations, finding 
 people and completing parallel quests makes your experience much better. Do what you want, you 
 are free to explore everything, and surely you will be very happy to find some special items like 
 the Alien Blaster or the bobbleheads.
  
  I'd say only one thing more: Think carefully before everything you do. Some thing don't come back, 
 and you will have to face the consequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:09 am PT
Review:  The folks at Bethesda had a lot to live up to while making a sequel to Fallout 2. The latter game 
 offered the player an absolutely huge world to explore, combined with very realistic violence. 
 While Fallout 3 faithfully keeps and improves the latter, creating a world that matched the one 
 of its predecessor in scope, but with advanced 3D graphics was, if not impossible, then certainly 
 impractical. This time, you are confined to one city - or what's left of it - but it is a world 
 in itself, and exploring it is enormous fun. The level of detail is so high, and the graphics so 
 realistic, that sometimes it seems as if you are actually standing there. People that like exploring 
 abandoned places or roaming the countryside will find the world of post-nuclear Washington DC especially 
 satisfying. The amount of quests and characters has likewise decreased, but is still considerable, 
 and like in Fallout 2, you can choose to follow the path of good or evil, either of which will 
 offer you some unique possibilities. 
  
  When it comes to fighting, Fallout 3 has everything the previous game had to offer, and much more. 
 Now you can shoot off your enemy's limbs, turn them to goo or deliver bone-crushing blows and watch 
 it all in slow motion. You can fight either in the semi-turn-based V. A. T. S. mode or in real time, 
 which is handy, because one or the other may be preferable depending on the situation. In terms 
 of violence, Fallout 3 is about as hardcore as video games get. You can kill anyone except children 
 - an understandable limitation considering how graphic the game is; besides, children here aren't 
 particularly annoying. On the downside, the concept of AC is often taken to absurd levels, like 
 when you shoot a guy in the (unprotected) head with a rifle at point-blank range, and he not only 
 survives, but is able to fight back.
  
  While there are a lot of interesting quests in the game, the main plotline is actually quite weak, 
 little more than a rip-off of the previous game's plot (you actually need to find a GECK at a certain 
 point) . It starts off good and is pretty intriguing, but only until you discover what the whole 
 business is about. It's not about blowing up the HQ of an evil government or even saving anyone, 
 just improving the living conditions in the wasteland to some degree. The importance of your mission 
 is understandable, but it's not very inspiring. They should have put some more effort into this.
 
  
  One other drawback is that the game becomes very easy when you get your hands on some decent armor 
 and firepower. Also, you can raise pretty much all of your skills to the maximum, even though you 
 are limited to level 20. Because of this, very few enemies are a challenge in the later stages 
 of the game, even on Hard difficulty, and the final battle can hardly be called a battle at all, 
 which makes the ending even more anticlimactic.
  
  On the whole, though, Fallout 3 is definitely a worthy sequel. War never changes, and all that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berzao
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  At first when i saw the game i didnt think too much of it, but when i first played my life changed! 
 Its the same type of gameplay of the game Oblivion technically. The game story's is one other great 
 spots to accomplish. Nice and great environments with incredible wastelands, buildings and houses 
 razed by the ww2. One great thing about this game is that you can do ANYTHING you want to do, you 
 can rob a person, a house, kill someone, destroy an intire city, do some dirty work and much more! 
 Things like that i think that should do a revolutionary game, and probably they all should be like 
 this. Its like a real life if you know what i mean, you travel to a unknown world (earth but is 
 kind of death earth ^^) killing monster, saving people and finding your destiny =D. I still think 
 a terrible mistake make metal gear 4 Game of the year, i mean you finish then what? Do that stupid 
 mini-games? Ahhh come on! Fallout 3 its almost impossible to finish all (find and complete all 
 the quests) , and in Fallout 3 you is like a free person, do what your mind think kkkkk ! Well the 
 only let down to me is the third person view, the way that your character move, it seems when you 
 move diagonal his legs and foots and move wrong to the direction making really and only stupid. 
 Well i think thats enough, if you want to check, find by yourself, i bet you will enjoy ;D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoCoNuTVieT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll see is the detailed environment, the music and sounds, if you liked games 
 like Kotor 1 - 2, Fable, etc.. You'll love this. Everything you do affects gameplay, and you have 
 to make some major moral decisions. It's a game that can be thrilling and full of action, but also 
 make you reflect.
  
  V. A. T. S fighting system is revolutionary, though the "shooter" aspect of the game could be greatly 
 improved, you quickly forget about it once immersed into a world that is so very detailed. But 
 it is not all fantasy, the plot isn't something impossible like so many other games. You should 
 definitely try it, but remember THIS IS NOT A SHOOTER.
  
  The Radio system is so elaborate, and even if it loops a few times it is very well designed.
 
  
  There are so many things to do, you can be a bad guy, a good guy or even both! You can finish the 
 game in two hours or spend days visiting the wastelands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OveR-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  Very atmospheric and addictive game. Nice work with the weapons, NPCs and locations. The missions 
 were rather interesting and theres plenty of side missions.
  
  Overall it's a really good and interesting game, mixing the V. A. T. S with first person shooting 
 maybe didn't work out as well as they had hoped. Aiming for yourself and shooting felt corny somehow.
 
  
  The biggest letdown was how they limited your gaming experience by capping the maximum level at 
 20. Personally I managed to reach maximum level before even being halfway through the main story.
 
  
  Also, being good or evil doesn't affect that much really, which is a bit disappointing but no big 
 deal.
  
  Lots of people say it's Oblivion with new skins, but I don't agree, this game is way better than 
 Oblivion, mainly because it's not half as repetitive and there's no level scaling. This means you 
 will actually be able to make your character better than the enemies, exactly the way it should 
 be. Wheres the fun in having the same problems killing a little spider at level 1 as it is at level 
 20? And working hard to get a new armor just so I can enjoy another texture on the character?
 
  
  It might sound as if I'm bashing the game, but don't get me wrong - it's often easier to mention 
 the bad parts of a game. Any RPG / FPS fan should enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wasdie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Whats more fun than spending the first 18 years of your life in a whole in the ground underneath 
 an oppressive, power-hungry leader? How about the realization that you had it easy. That is if 
 you don't mind bathing in nuclear radiation, fighting off freakish mutants who will tear you limb 
 from limb and snack on your liver, snacking off of heavily radiated, 200 year old processed food, 
 and solving the worlds problems by your little teenage self...
  
  This is the bleak future as told by Fallout 3. You play... well you, or at least whatever escapes 
 from your sick and twisted mind with the aid of a rather robust character creation section. After 
 emerging from the comfort and safety of Vault 101 (with a few incentives physically gnawing on 
 your heels) you enter a post apocalyptic Washington D. C. conveniently named the Capital Wasteland. 
 This radiated wonderland filled with little less than certain death will become your new home. 
 
  
  The Capital Wasteland is definitely a shadow of its pseudo art deco past. Setting it in the former 
 nation's capital just adds to the feeling of a broken world as there is a sense of total anarchy 
 with the destruction of human society. Destroyed, decaying buildings dot the landscape as well 
 as the makeshift shelters of the post-war human existence. There is this sense of a dark history 
 to the relatively newly made apocalyptic landscape. Evidence is literally splattered all of the 
 walls of the buildings. I found myself being sidetracked out of pure curiosity to see what every 
 little part of the world had in store for me. I was never disappointed.
  
  If this waste of a land doesn't convince you that society has crumbled with only shreds of hope, 
 then meager population will. The part of the fledgling population that won't make a brain and kidney 
 smoothy out of you reeks of a dieing population who has all but given up on the future. The many 
 different characters that populate the world are pale or have a nice green tint, underfed, diseased, 
 and have no real hope for the future and only focus on surviving. As in most RPGs, the characters 
 can't seem to actually solve many problems without your assistance. Its a wonder why society hasn't 
 rebuilt itself when the population dumps all of its burdens on some teenager...
  
  When it comes down to the actual gameplay, Fallout 3 differs greatly from its predecessors. Instead 
 of being a tried and true, hardcore RPG, Fallout 3 takes a new approach for the role playing game. 
 While you do quests, level up your character, explore dungeons, and look for better armor and weapons 
 for whatever kind of character you have decided to play, the way you do all of that is much different. 
 Fallout 3 occurs in the first person and play very similar to modern first-person-shooters that 
 are on the market today. It is much more of an action/RPG hybrid than a traditional RPG or a traditional 
 FPS.
  
  The combat, while using firearms of all sorts, is still heavily dependent on stats. A combination 
 of weapon damage, skill level, and weapon condition will all determine the total amount of damage 
 that you deal to enemies. Just because you have that big, badass assault rifle doesn't mean your 
 character is going to do tons of damage with it. Heck you will be lucky if you hit the target. 
 To help with your aiming, Fallout 3 has a is a special aiming mode called V. A. T. S. With V. A. T. S. 
 you go into a lock-on mode that targets the selected character and allows you to pinpoint your 
 shots (or blows with a melee weapon) on certain parts of the enemy character. You aim at the arms 
 or legs to cripple these parts, or go for the kill by aiming for the chest and head to have a much 
 more significant impact on the enemies HP. If you kill an enemy while using the V. A. T. S system, 
 you go to a cinematic camera view of the dieing enemy in a slow motion view that seems to be ripped 
 right from the movie 300. Not to mention following a bullet from the barrel of your gun into the 
 the head of your enemy in slow motion never gets old.
  
  The downside of the combat is the enemy AI. A majority of the creatures will just bluntly attack 
 you from up front with some generic attack animations. Seeing that these creatures usually consist 
 of ghoulish, mutated humans and animals, a blunt front attack is pretty believable. The AI on the 
 wanna be intelligent creatures and beings is extremely disappointing. Enemy's try to take cover 
 the best they can, but usually they just run straight at you guns blazing and somehow seeming to 
 hit you very accurately. The world is filled with plenty of cover. Its to bad that the AI does 
 not take advantage of the open world and flank you from time to time. A bit more robust AI would 
 have been appreciated. I also noticed that the AI would often get hung up on the environment. 
 
  
  Scattered throughout the ruins of Washington D. C. are tons of weapons and armor to beef your character 
 up. Weapons include a taped upped hunting rifle, a pseudo futuristic pistol, assortment of blunt 
 objects to bash skulls in with, a mini-nuke gun (tons of fun, great for kids) , and some laser weapons. 
 There are also a lot of different kinds of drugs and food that you can digest to improve stats 
 or heal yourself in different ways. Be careful what you ingest though, drugs are addicting and 
 food is usually radiated. Weapons and armor take damage as well as radiated food increases your 
 radiation level which could negatively impact your character if it goes unchecked. I guess eating 
 radiated food is probably not the best of ideas, but it is a quick fix if you are hungry. Though 
 I never understood how eating radiated sugar bombs could somehow repair the damage I just took 
 from getting riddle by 5mm bullets from a super mutant's minigun. Or for that fact, how the hell 
 does a mount fit in your freaken backpack?
  
  Leveling up in Fallout 3 wanders a separate trail than most RPGs today. You get a number of skill 
 point to improve your level in various skills (like melee, lockpicking, stealth, ect.) . In addition 
 to the skill points, you get to pick a perk. Perks enhance different skills and abilities or give 
 you different powers. Its a fresh approach to leveling up that fits right with the high action 
 of the game. Some of the perks have some pretty cool powers like the ability to heal in the sun 
 and be much more immune to radiation allowing you to explore the world even better.
  
  The game really allows for freedom without hindering your experience. A PipBoy 9000 is strapped 
 to your arms at all times and you can easily search through your inventory, quests, examine your 
 health, and use the world map all via the PipBoy. This is adds another level of immersion as well 
 as a very handy tools for keeping the many sidequests nice and organized. The hud also does a good 
 job of of directing you in which way to go. Some could argue that it linearizes the game and takes 
 out the exploration, but it is a really valuable tool in finding where to go through the twisted, 
 radiated ruins.
  
  Building upon the game engine behind TES: Oblivion, Fallout 3 is a very good looking game. Excellent 
 textures, lighting, character models, and objects that clutter the world keep you in the experience. 
 The physics on the dead characters and objects are a bit wonky and can go crazy on you sometimes. 
 For the most part these physics add to the experience, but every once in awhile you will marvel 
 at your ability to kick a shopping cart 50 yards in the air. For the most part of the game you 
 say in a first party view, but when the V. A. T. S. combat system comes into play, the camera switches 
 to a very cinematic camera with multiple viewing angles that enhances the action. Add some top 
 notch voice acting by all of the characters to the mix and you have a very well built game with 
 high production values. (Note: I know many other people experienced bug, I didn't seem to notice 
 these bugs)
  
  Overall Fallout 3 delivers. High production values combined with a very intriguing open world and 
 story as well as tons of well written sidequests and lore spread throughout the Capital Wasteland 
 really come together to be a unique, memorable experience. It blends the FPS genre with the RPG 
 genre very well and never seems to get boring or repetitive with the diverse amount of enemies 
 and open world that you can explore. I highly recommend this game to anybody who is sick of just 
 shooting up enemies and wants a more rich experience. A few problems aside, Fallout 3 is one of 
 the best action RPGs I have ever played and has definitely raised the standards for open world 
 adventure games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: black -- wolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Huge game with many options and really BIG map
  it is really worth playing.
  you can adjust your player just the way you want him to be plus the big map which you can choose 
 to finish main missions or sub-missions and gain new levels and choose unique and new abilities 
 which are tied to your player's character (Good or Evil)
  it has a very big variety of weapons and many kinds of enemies .!!!
  you have to heal to yourself 
 every time your in danger.
  and the most fun part is the slow motion mode (V. A. S. T) which allows you kill more accurately and 
 more fun also add to that the view of the blood fountain when you explode a head
  you can find many homes and make many friends to accompany you
  , you can discover places that 
 are not part of the main story. in other words, you can visit those places to gain new items or 
 levels .
  
  in overall this game is just Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 Review (3/25/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Massive- While not as large as Oblivion's world was, Fallout 3 is still absolutely massive. Along 
 with the main quest you have numerous side quests which should last you over 30 hours if you choose 
 to take your time with it. These quests are full of variety, ranging from simple fetch quests to 
 blowing up the enemy base with a giant, Anti-Communist robot at your side.
  
  Combat with VATS- VATS, which lets you target specific enemy body parts with your weapons, refines 
 the combat from Oblivion. Nothing is as satisfying as leveling up to gain the Bloody Mess perk 
 and blow off an enemy's head to watch it fly off and the blood splatter.
  
  Choices- Unlike most games where the choices you make are pretty black and white and don't really 
 affect the world much (see Fable II) , the choices in Fallout 3 basically defines what you do in 
 the game. Save a town from being blown up by a nuke and you'll be hailed as a hero of that town 
 and frequently receive gifts from its inhabitants. Or you can just blow it up and gain lots of 
 money.
  
  Perfect Atmosphere- The dreary, barren wasteland, the savage raiders wandering around, and the 
 vintage songs from the 30s and 40s do nothing short of truly immersing you in the world.
  
  Replayability- Fallout just inspires you to replay it over again once you beat it. Play through 
 it once as a good guy saving all who needs rescue and only level up your stats and perks for heavy 
 weapons. Now play through it again as an evil slaver leveling up your speech, sniping, and stealth 
 skills.
  
  Modding Community- Just like the other Bethesda Softworks games like Oblivion and Morrowind, Fallout 
 is perfect for the modding community. User-created quests, items, weapons, perks truly make this 
 game shine for multiple playthroughs. 
  
  Liberty Prime- The coolest giant robot in the history of video games. It's the reason you should 
 be buying this game. 
  
  
  
  Cons:
  
  Animation- Just like the other Bethesda Softworks titles, the animation on this game is terrible. 
 The way characters walk and move in their clunky fashion, especially once switching to third person 
 mode, destroys the immersive feel of everything else.
  
  Poor Coding- This game is (at the time I wrote this review) still filled with bugs and glitches, 
 some which can be game breaking. Hopefully they will be eventually fixed by Bethesda, or at least 
 the modding community like Oblivion.
  
  Combat without VATS- VATS relies on a collection of action points to use, once you run out of those, 
 you have to wait for them to refill, effectively bringing you back into the clunky combat of Oblivion. 
 Although it's not that big of a deal, and thankfully the action points recharge fast enough. 
 
  
  
  Overall: A+ (An amazing RPG, my personal Game of the Year for 2008)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: descascaralho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin here.. its such a big game.. many hours of playing and exploring.. but a.. its a desert 
 pos-apocalyptic world with ugly people and ugly.. everyting.
  Here I go again talking bad about a game almost everyone enjoyed it.. Well I did enjoy it but.. it 
 was so boring after the first 25 hours and the story so lame that.. I dont know.. Really
  I like how the game started in the vault and all that freedom and option you have but after a couple 
 of hours outside..
  Damn the world is a wreck, people are a wreck and 90 % of them are stupid to talk too.. and have 
 mental problems.. which is understandable after a nuclear war!!
  About the game itself..
  
  Graphics: Good... if you like seeing the world in a total mess.. 
  Story: Was not needed.
 
  Characters: Some interesting ones if you like crazy people with interesting backgrounds and history.. Oh 
 your dog is cool.
  Sound: Cool you hear the shots and limbs of your enemies skirking and dismembering.. but please 
 kill that radio dude.. lol. The music is so.. well I know its on purpose
  but hell that is so.. I dont have the word for it now.. But its not good.. unless your into 30s 40s 
 American radio.
  
  Ok the main part and the fun part of the game.. forget history forget quests.. the world is a mess 
 no one gives a damn so why should you.. Lets walk randomly and do s*** evrywhere and if 
  possible kill everyone.. LOL.. Now thats cool. Thats why Im giving this a 7,5 because of the freedom 
 you have.
  My advice if you didnt play it yet (which is impossible that at this point existing someone that 
 dint try fallout 3 yet) , play it at least for that matter.. so you can have some random
  bloody fun and do whatever you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game lets you experience an open world, which is quite realistic and you can kill pretty much 
 anyone you want. It is the cloest game to the real world I played so far. The game is plagued with 
 bug because of this because some characters simply walk off a cliff and die, act weirdly or when 
 killed before they are meant to have effect on the world, they may still have that effect even 
 though they are dead.
  
  However, this is the cost of progress. The game is revolutionary and it adds a new dimension to 
 gaming. It increases the threshold for new games. 
  
  Having said that, the bugs are numerous but do not really affect the way you play the game too 
 much. In addition, for some reason I could not really feel as a part of the game. I was immerssed 
 in it as far as the graphics go, but the characters you talk to do the same dialogue over and over 
 again and there is no real bond. A game that succeeds in this bond between you and other players 
 is perhaps recently mass effect (not completely successful on this point but very successful nontheless) . 
 
  
  In any case, this game is amazing and it is the only game I played again in my life. Usually I 
 finish a game and get on with another one but one is so wide and so big that I just had to do it 
 again. Also, I must mention that the side missions are pretty simple and could have done with a 
 lot more work. In most of them you caqn just talk to somebody and the mission is over or simply 
 do a kill and it's over. When playing it again I did not enjoy these side missions as much as I 
 thought I would have, so even though I started replaying it, I never finished it because I knew 
 the ending. The shooting is interesting but could also have been done a lot and I mean a lot better. 
 
  
  Having said all that, the game is a must play and I hear it has expansions which really makes it 
 worth playing. 
  
  I will give it 9.5/10 simply because of the innovations in the gameplay and the techniques it adds. 
 If it was not so incredibly innovative (at least in my opinion and experience) , I would have probably 
 given it 8 or 8.5.
  
  
  
  
  
  Anyways, to the marking system now.
  
  
  
  Graphics: 10/10 - very very good graphics
  
  Controls: 9/10 - some difficulties but not much
 
  
  Immersiveness: 7/10: simple side missions, no attachment to certain characters and no changing 
 dialogues make you realise this is just a programmed game after all.
  
  
  Bugs: 7/10 - many bug, some fixed, some not. Understandable though and do not affect gameplay too 
 much
  
  Voices: 8/10 - very good and very well done, although repetitive - different characters have the 
 same voice
  
  Sounds: 9/10 - impressive variety of environmental sounds
  
  Storyline: 8/10 - pretty good, I personally liked it, although could have been better.
  
  Length: 
 8/10 - good length. You can finish it quickly but you can do side missions and prolong the game. 
 However, the developers should make you take some side missions in order to finish the game.
  
  Music: 9/10 - - cool old time music
  
  Difficulty: 8/10 - not too difficult but shooting 
 should have been a lot better
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves 9/10 
 meaning it is a must play but will not be legendary, albeit revolutionary. It is in a way unfortunate 
 that this game did not deliver so much more that it could have. Superb game in any case. 
  
  
  
  Overall: 9.5 / 10
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute 
 Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing 
 to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
 
  
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is very impressive even if it has its shortfalls.
  
  
  
  I do apologise for the grammar and spelling mistakes, I really cannot be bothered to go through 
 it all correcting it. If I got paid I'd be a perfectionist but I don't get paid for this stuff. 
 I basically do it for myself so I can remember what good games I have played. Thank you to gamespot 
 for enabling such a function. 
  
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: auronlb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  ill start off with this this game is a new age of fun with the good guy and bad guy thing its just 
 cool i like the starting your a baby and reads a book to get stronger then you grow grow grow into 
 a man.... or woman your dad ran away from this thingy called THE VAULT which is a nuke shelter you 
 escape outa there to find him, and thats all im gonna tell you about the storyline 1st the guns 
 are cool talking to people and making choices to shoot em or be a angel is fun and theres a cuple 
 of ways to finish this game i also like how theres a big world out there to explore the only crapy 
 thing is you cant go in the whitehouse! there are super mutants crazy muggers and other people 
 that make you feel at home :] the weapons you can get are fun but the fat man is well to me one 
 of those guns your never gonna use till you HAVE too, there are gouls and other things on this 
 also a whole load of quests that you can do secret stuff and good voice acting vary vary good voice 
 acting there are some aonnying things tho.... somtimes monsters on that just pwn you even wen you 
 are dead and if your in lets say megaton and shoot your gun the whole city will try and kill you 
 and theres no rides not even horses to get to places quicker luckly your PIP BOY can transport 
 you to places you have been to but not places on your map also i dont like how when you finish 
 the game you cant keep going with the sidequests.... it has a strange fighting feel to it cuz its 
 kinda rpg/shooter which i hate how the guns dont hurt worth anything if you dont use vats but over 
 all this game isnt just worth buying but worth staying inside till you have done everything this 
 game gets a 9.5 outa 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngons
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:10 am PT
Review:  This is a very good, entertaining, and addicting game. I'd recommend it if you have a good PC but 
 even then there are issues. 
  
  The good:
  - Nice story
  - Very large map that rewards explorers who like to search every nook and cranny and experience 
 the whole game
  - Lots of weapon and gameplay style choices
  - Very destructive and violent
  
  The bad:
  - Lots of tehcnical issues; I've never played 
 a game that crashed this often before (even after updates)
  - Voice acting of characters, especially the raiders, is horrifically bad. 
  - Shooting outside 
 of VATS is aggravating! Enemies move as though they're on ice skates and seem to glide across the 
 ground and seem to blink from spot to spot randomly. Very unrealistic. If you're going to play 
 like a normal shooter be prepared to use 1.5 - 2 clips of ammo on every raider! : (
  - The game ends. Quests can be left undone and areas left unexplored.
  
  I understand that 
 DLC is going to fix a lot of this but to rate this game on its own merits without any extras, I 
 have to call this a mixed bag. Good, playable, repeatable, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakzango
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  Wow. You will probably hear alot of that word when you read this review, i know i've said it often 
 enough while playing it! Well this is the highly anticipated Fallout 3! I had been looking forward 
 to this game months before its realise, and when i finally began to play all of my expectations 
 were surppased and i was blown away!
  
  You begin the game in the dark and all you can hear is a heart-beat, for a couple of seconds i 
 thought the game was going to start with some chase through a dark building or being locked in 
 a room. But to my surprise i was instead being born! After you are born you have to pick a name, 
 race, hairstyle and looks, wow alot of expectations for a new-born. But after you have made your 
 choices things start to go wrong! I'm not going to ruin the surprise but you are rushed out of 
 the room quickly and you proceed to the next phase of your childhood. And this is what you do for 
 the begining part of the game its nothing that special but it feels different and its the good 
 kind of different like biting into your twix and not finding a biscuit center but instead vodka 
 comes out.
  
  After you play out your particularly traumatic childhood thing's again go wrong! You are woken 
 up by your childhood friend and told that your dad has fled the vault and one of his friends has 
 been killed by the overseer, the very person that is meant to be taking care of the vault! So you 
 jump out of bed and grab your baseball bat and you proceed throught the vault in the midst of a 
 radrouch infestation. After you have made a couple of moral choices you find your way to the vault 
 door. Just before you exit the immersion does brake a little bit when a window pops up and says 
 'is there anything you didnt like about your childhood and want to change?' but when you are finally 
 outside all i can say is wow!
  
  When you exit the vault your eye's are almost blinded by the son that you have never seen but when 
 you regain your vision you almost collapse under the sheer weight of all your conflicting emotions 
 and thoughts of the amazing scale of the land before you. Once you have regained control of your 
 bodily functions you can set off! You can go anywhere and do anything you like! Do you want to 
 go search for your dad? Or do you want to proceed on your own path and see where that takes you?
 
  
  This is a truly amazing game and most of the fun comes with finding out all the many many many 
 little thing there are to find! I mean i have played this game for about 80 hours and i still havent 
 found everything! This is a game that has an amazing power over you. It sucks you in and doesnt 
 let you go, it makes you feel such powerfull emotions and it makes you think. The gameplay can 
 be a little annoying with breaking guns and ammo scarecity but thats the real point of survival. 
 
  
  To sum up this is not just a game this is an experience no person should go without and if you 
 buy this game you will not be left wanting!
  
  p. s This is my first gamespot review so please send me and constructive critasism to help me with 
 my writing. Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of things I could say about this game.
  
  Lets get the bad out of the way first.
  
  The major flaw for me in this game is the combat 
 mechanics outside of the VATS system. Extremely clunky and unenjoyable. I appreciate they used 
 the Oblivion engine for this and it shows, Oblivion had terrible combat, worse than this game. 
 Perhaps that was a mistake but that engine is very reliable for almost everything else. If this 
 game had decent combat mechanics outside of VATS it could easily for me be one of the greatest 
 games ever and a certain 10.
  
  The other slight shortcoming is the main storyline being so short. I enjoy the fact that I can 
 explore the rest of this world but I found once I completed the main quest my desire to explore 
 lessened. That combined to the Level cap that is placed on you. I would have preferred if the main 
 storyline could have been longer and taken you many more places across the map.
  
  The good about this game is a far longer list. Excellent atmosphere, a large explorable world with 
 many different people to meet, things to do. 
  
  Hundreds of tiny little things which really were wonderful, such as megaton and your house there, 
 whenever I returned there after a mission I always felt like I was going home to security with 
 the towns walls and such. 
  
  You can choose any path through the game and that helps to immerse you in the atmosphere. The post 
 apocalyptic feeling really shines through and the stories and characters you find throughout are 
 excellently developed and put together.
  
  The main plot line is brilliant in my opinion, great variety and imagination, puts several new 
 and unique situations into your path.
  
  VATS i liked but as I said before I would have preferred if I could have approached it a little 
 more FPS.
  
  Really an acomplished and brilliant game only let down by the clunky mechanics. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Being someone who sadly has not had the opportunity to play either of this game's prestigious predecessors, 
 and neither having known the wonders Cyrodiil within Bethesda's previous game The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion (although this has now been gladly rectified) , I approached Fallout 3 not knowing 
 exactly what to expect, since I had no bar to judge it against. What I discovered was a game packed 
 to the brim with a unique atmosphere, a fantastic sense of scale and grandeur, a solid plot and 
 huge replayability. Whilst there are a couple of problems here and there (mostly some graphical 
 hitches and sound corruption) , there is little which majorly spoils this glorious romp through 
 the Wasteland.
  
  To summarise briefly some of Fallout 3's lengthy backstory. The game is set in an alternate history, 
 where sometime during the 1950's, society stagnated, with core social values and ideals remaining 
 relatively consistent for the next hundred years. It envisaged a retro-futurist world; where cars 
 are nuclear powered, the microchip and transistor were not invented, and everything still uses 
 vacuum tubes. Fully-functioning robots are commonplace, Betty says at home to clean the house and 
 cook the meals whilst Bob works in the bank and little Jimmy plays in the yard. Imagine a scene 
 within a typical 1950's comic book such as The Eagle and you will soon get the picture. However, 
 things quickly did not turn out to be the swell, good 'ol times many had hoped for. A combination 
 of wars for natural resources and the constant threat of an invasion from Communist China eventually 
 lead to an all-out nuclear Armageddon occurring on October 23rd, 2077. The world is thrown back 
 to the Stone Age, and most of the Earth's population perishes. Those who remained were either hideously 
 mutated by radiation poisoning, or took refuge in a system of underground fallout shelters, known 
 as vaults, which were constructed to house the citizens of the United States in the event of a 
 nuclear engagement (or so the people living in them believed; the truth was rather different) . 
 The previous two games in the series have both been set at earlier times after the Great War, with 
 this third iteration taking place 200 years later, in 2277. You play as a resident of Vault 101, 
 a pre-war fallout shelter located within the ruins of the Greater Washington D. C. Metropolitan 
 Area. The player resides in the vault until waking up one day to discover that their Father has 
 left for reasons unknown. From hereon in, it is your task to hunt down your Father, discover the 
 reasons behind his actions, and maybe explore the remains of the Capital Wasteland while you are 
 at it. For the most part the plot is relatively involving, although it suffers the same fate as 
 BioShock by having a lacklustre ending.
  
  The first thing that will hit you upon escaping from the vault is that the Wasteland is huge. Like 
 the Imperial Province of Cyrodiil from The Elder Scrolls IV, most of the map is one vast, sprawling 
 expanse, where you can trek from one side to the other. The area is festooned with crumbling freeways 
 and monorails, collapsing ruins of Pre-War buildings, and the ramshackle settlements which survivors 
 have erected in an attempt to scrape a living. The various districts of the actual city of Washington 
 (such as The Mall or Pennsylvania Avenue) are only accessible via the ruins of the Metro system, 
 because collapsed buildings have blocked most of the old thoroughfares. What's more; all of this 
 is explorable from the very beginning. You can decide to ignore the main campaign and go off on 
 your own, to forge your own way in the wilderness. Whilst there aren't as many listed quests as 
 there are in Oblivion, each of these is a lot more detailed, containing numerous sub-parts to reach 
 the final objective. The Wasteland itself is one of the strengths of the game; it usually being 
 a joy to simply roam around, dealing with whatever you might encounter. It also has a great sense 
 of scale, and whilst there are some discrepancies to real life (e. g. the Mall is much too short) 
 these can be explained away. If I could level some criticisms, it would be that there are areas 
 where there isn't a whole lot to do (just rocks, dead trees and bare earth) , and that the general 
 colour palette is quite limited, especially compared to Oblivion. The Wasteland is a sea of grey 
 and brown, and also features no changes in the weather (it never rains, for example) . Whilst I 
 can understand the limitations of colour do add to the general atmosphere, it can become rather 
 monotonous.
  
  Gameplay is a mixture of classic RPG and FPS elements. The SPECIAL attribute system makes a return 
 for the series, as do Perks, which have been merged with Traits for simplification purposes. You 
 level up by gaining experience points through killing things, unlocking doors and hacking computers, 
 and at each level you can assign skill points to each of the 13 skills, such as Sneak, Barter, 
 Small Guns, etc. You are also granted one special Perk per level-up, which include various special 
 abilities; for example Mr. Sandman allows you to kill characters silently whilst they are sleeping, 
 or Animal Friend makes most of the Wasteland 'animals' become non-hostile. This mix of styles normally 
 works very well; the major stumbling block is the somewhat restrictive level cap, which tops out 
 at Level 20 (which can be reached relatively quickly) . From then on, you never feel like you are 
 actually making any progress in building your character. Travelling around is done exclusively 
 on foot (unsurprisingly, none of the Pre-War automobiles work, although they will still explode 
 very nicely) . You can attack enemies in the standard FPS way, but you can also enter VATS (Vault-Tec 
 Assisted Targeting System) , pausing the action momentarily, using a number of Action Points to 
 queue up attacks on the various parts of the enemy's body. These sequences are done through a cinematic 
 camera, and whilst it can sometimes loose sight of what is going on, mostly it gives you a great 
 show as your bullets or melee blows rip off various limbs.
  
  There are a great number of characters with whom you can converse with out in the Wasteland, although 
 this number is heavily down from that featured in Oblivion. However, since there is a larger cast 
 of voice-actors here, each who normally has his or her own minor quest, you will be hard pressed 
 to think of two people who sound exactly the same. Voice-acting is very good across the board, 
 and also includes some foul-mouthed children (which is rather unexpected) . A separate carryover 
 concept from Oblivion is the idea of weapons degradation. Whenever you use a weapon, or a weapon 
 is hit by enemy fire, its condition degrades, making it less accurate until eventually it is unusable. 
 You must work to keep everything in good condition by using the repair skill; either by salvaging 
 spare parts from subsequent weapons, or by giving it to vendors to repair for you (at a price) . 
 This concept works to make you less gun-hoe about blindly rushing into battle, since you may loose 
 your most prized weapon in the process.
  
  Music is divided into a two-forked approach. The orchestral soundtrack is reasonably good, with 
 the main theme being suitably dramatic, but some of the incidental music is rather uninspiring. 
 However, the music you can listen to on the in-game radio stations is fantastic. Galaxy News Radio 
 has a selection of classic tracks from the 40's and 50's, ala BioShock, such as "Civilization" 
 by Danny Kaye and "I Don't Want to Set the World on Fire" by The Ink Spots. There is also Enclave 
 Radio, broadcast by the remnants of the US Government, who in-between various jingoistic patriotic 
 speeches by President John Henry Eden also play typical American tunes, such as "Hail Columbia" 
 and "The Star-Spangled Banner". Finally, upon completing a certain mission you can also here a 
 number of classic violin pieces whilst journeying about the Wasteland. It is these in-game songs 
 which add to much of the atmosphere, and occasionally assist the darkly humorous undertones that 
 have always been part of Fallout. Graphically the game is also very impressive, with an excellent 
 draw distance, good character models and some extremely impressive explosions. However, there are 
 some minor issues with both sound and graphics. You will infrequently find misplaced objects which 
 appear to be floating, or enemies that are suddenly thrown a hundred feet into the air. I also 
 suffered some occasional sound corruption with songs on the radio. Also be sure that if you have 
 an ATI graphics card you uninstall Catalyst Control Centre, since this seemed to cause frequent 
 crashes to desktop.
  
  Fallout 3 is the reinvention of the Fallout series. It might take many cues from Oblivion, and 
 it might lack some aspects which made the previous incarnations so enduringly popular, but it takes 
 a successful formula and delivers appropriately. With several downloadable content packs still 
 on their way (one of which is scheduled to expand the main quest past the current ending, as well 
 as raising the current level cap) , there is still much to be seen and heard in the retro-futuristic 
 wilderness of the Capital Wasteland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LGTX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  We all know what the first two Fallouts have meant for every single gamer around the globe. We 
 all know about their legendary, almost holy status. We waited for many years, preparing for an 
 epic comeback of the series. But when Bethesda Studios was named the developer for Fallout 3, the 
 gamers mentioned above took a deep sigh. Elder Scrolls: Oblivion was great, yes, but it had flaws 
 that were unacceptable for Fallout. Today, one thing can be said for sure: Bethesda did a great, 
 wonderful job on reanimating the series, and deserves our deepest respect for the preserved unique 
 atmosphere of the original games, which have been fused with Next-generation technologies.
  
  But first we need to make things a little clear. Fallout 3 is, yes, Oblivion with guns. But 
 I beg you not to turn away. It's not the buggy Oblivion we've known, loved and hated. It's Oblivion 
 minus ALL of the flaws it had, moved to a post-apocalyptic setting and made ten times better in 
 every term and meaning of the word. The game takes place in a completely destroyed Washington DC. 
 The reason is, as some may have already guessed, a nuclear war. With China, to be more precise. 
 After nukes rained down on DC the place had become a wasteland of ruins, mutants, radiation and 
 rare survivors. But things are not as hopeless as they seem. The war was imminent, and the American 
 Government knew it long before the Apocalypse. So the Vaults were constructed - enormous underground 
 strongholds designed to shelter some of the population from the nuclear disaster and preserve generations 
 of residents.
  
  The story takes off at one of these shelters, Vault 101. We begin playing from our first seconds 
 - As we witness our own birth from first-person perspective. Without hesitation I can call it one 
 of the most memorable moments in the whole game. As in every standard Role-Playing Game, there 
 is not one predefined parameter of your character. You are free to choose your name, sex, race 
 and change your appearance. From the first moments Fallout 3 shows that it definitely has succeeded 
 in storytelling - It is captivating, interesting, and always tempts you to just get on with events 
 and climb out of the shelter to explore the mysterious world outside.
  
  After some key moments (including your 10th Birthday, when you get your first Pip-Boy, and your 
 first GOAT test) , at the age of 18 you find out that your father has somehow left the Vault, and 
 all of the security is looking for you for answers. A brief tutorial-like level follows, where 
 you traverse the Vault, killing guards and getting the hang of the game's core mechanics. After 
 some time you finally witness as the steel door of Vault 101 rolls aside, and then, now behind 
 you, seals for the last time. The second most memorable moment.
  
  The prologue ends here, and as you step out from the caves you are blinded from the light - and 
 after a few seconds your eyes adapt to the sun for the first time in your life, and you witness 
 The Capital Wasteland in all it's glory and misery. The third most memorable moment.
  
  From this moment on, everything that involves the story is up to you, your actions, your decisions 
 and the game's innovations. So I'm not going to ruin it up anymore, and move on to other aspects.
 
  
  The gameplay was our first and utmost subject of worry. How would the ingenious isometric RPG going 
 to be moved to a 3D environment without losing it's charm and atmosphere? Bethesda proves itself 
 yet again.
  
  We can choose to look at the world from the character's eyes or from a third-person perspective, 
 although the latter makes interacting pretty hard and is generally not a valid way to play. The 
 DC is huge - and there's zero chance of any kind of transports after a nuclear war, so it's up 
 to us and our swift feet to explore every single unique bit of the Wasteland. As an example I'll 
 set a town that the 99% of all players visit after leaving the Vault - Megaton. The architecture 
 itself is amazing and very creative. The town is built from the remains of a crashed airplane, 
 and what's more - built around a dropped atomic bomb which didn't detonate for some reason. After 
 a friendy chit-chat with the local Sheriff-and-Mayor, you are free to walk around and see what's 
 what. And right then and there the game starts to amaze. You can start to investigate your father's 
 disappearance from the nearby bar, or you can just turn away from the main storyline and start 
 completing side quests. They are NOT like in other games. Most of the optional missions unfold 
 into such complex stories of their own that you just want to stand up and applause. Some of them 
 are typical quests given by key (Or not so) NPS-s and resulting with a reward, while others are 
 unlocked by mere accidents, while traversing the Capital Wasteland for hours and stumbling by a 
 little town. Completing the main storyline head-on equals not knowing more than a half of the game's 
 potential. 
  
  The core mechanics of the game have, naturally, been developed from the ground-up. From RPG elements 
 we have Leveling, XP, Perks, Skills of course, which are very varied and well-balanced, although 
 genre veterans wil most likely understand some of the useless ones from the first glance. We have 
 a very well-organized inventory which is displayed on The Pip-Boy (A portable computer on the character's 
 hand) . Apart from your items, the device also shows you everything else you want to know: Your 
 health level, your social status, the world map with unlocked locations (Fast-travel is not forgotten) , 
 and what's most satisfying, it has a built-in radio. At first, there are only two frequencies available: 
 The Enclave Radio which broadcasts President Eden's speeches and is believed by many to be pre-recorded; 
 And The Galaxy News Radio, narrated by a friendly DJ Three Dog. He constantly talks new stuff like 
 whereabouts of Raiders, general status on The Capital Wasteland and it's key locations, useful 
 information regarding enemies or sometimes even about your heroic deeds. Simply the most ingenious 
 motivational system in games up-to date. 
  Notice how I said that these two stations are available "at first". Intrigued? You should be, because 
 that's all I'm going to say.
  
  Now, about the combat. Yes yes and the new VATS system too. The gunplay itself is pretty well-made 
 for an RPG, but is definitely outdated compared to today's FPS games. You have a gun, you shoot 
 and that's it. Well not exactly. The basic shooter rules like "crouching increases accuracy" and 
 "strafing is critical for success" are in works, yes, but more useful then them is the V. A. T. S (Vault-Tec 
 Assisted Targeting System) , which pretty much is all that is left from the turn-based machanics 
 of the prior games. In mid-combat, you press the "V" button, and the world freezes. You get a close 
 up on one of your enemies (Or another, you are free to change targets in-range) , and are given a 
 choice to shoot at a specific location on his body (No bad thoughts) . Along with it comes a percentage 
 of the possibility of hitting that particular part, and the ability to hit multiple limbs or even 
 chain the targeting on a few enemies. After you've chosen your victims you press "E" and take a 
 deep breath. You get a close up on you or your foe (The camera work, I must admit, is impressive) 
 and see as your every predefined hit finds it's target, or misses. The most interesting thing is 
 that during this cutscene you have absolutely no control over your character, and the world isn't 
 frozen anymore, you can easily get hit or even die during VATS. Of course, all of this lasts mere 
 seconds. But we all know how valuable seconds are in action sequences.
  Hopefully the number of shots you can make from VATS depend on your Action Points (AP) Which are 
 pretty limited but recharge over time themselves. So you wont be a slo-mo superman, no, you will 
 be trying to find more and more ways to use VATS economically and gain a tactical advantage over 
 another unfriendly Supermutant.
  
  The weapons themselves are extremely variable and there are just too many of them. Sometimes you 
 even need to find schematics, develop a certain skill and obtain parts of a particularly powerful 
 gun to build it yourself. The mother of all weaponry here is entitled "The Fat Man", and fires, 
 ahem, mini-nukes. You can guess the firepower. 
  
  And now about the presentation, and the main problems of the Oblivion game engine. Let's get the 
 worst out of the way first. 
  Yes, the graphics are not as good as we'd like, but almost, almost. It's an enormous RPG, if nothing. 
 You have to take that into account. But then again, the polygon count and texture size isn't everything. 
 The horrible animation from Oblivion is here, and shines out whenever the moment permits. But it 
 takes only minutes to get captivated by the game, and once that happens, you don't care ONE BIT 
 about how unnaturally that ghoul moves or why are the faces so emotionless.
  
  What I want to say is that with a game so complex even isometric graphics would do and we'd still 
 be praising Bethesda, but they even let us take a look at some next-gen features. Great HDR, Bloom 
 and amazing draw distance are what make the picture from Fallout 3 stand out. and a great optimization 
 for PCs.
  
  What really crowns the experience though is the sound design, which is simply gorgeous. There were 
 a scary amount of people invited to voice the hundreds of characters in Fallout 3, the music is 
 just great, and makes a big chunk of the atmosphere. Along with some classical score pieces you 
 have some really nice 80's licensed songs, which just deepen the involvement and, I am clearly 
 overusing the word, atmosphere even more.
  
  It's impossible to believe but Bethesda actually did it. A perfected Oblivion formula met with 
 a post-apocalyptic world and the two were fused with a very rare ingenuity. And the very feelings 
 that everyone experienced when leaving the underground vault from Fallout 1 are replicated to the 
 core here in Fallout 3. The series fans will have a great nostalgic time reviving the good old 
 times in a next-gen setting, while newcomers will see what made Fallout so great, that it's still 
 king of the RPGs over ten years later now.
  
  P. S. I sincerely apologize for such a long and unbalanced review. It constantly happens to me: 
 I just get carried away, and text compression just isn't my thing. But I had to pour this out somehow 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinox
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:04 am PT
Review:  Well, played Fallout 1 and 2 and now 3.
  
  This was a lil different experiense due the first person view and realtime combat.
  
  Story 
 is fantastic, enviroment awsome, but the actual playing the game was boring and way too easy.
 
  
  Had my difficulty set on hardest but still the AI gave no challenge..
  
  I gained access to explosives, killed few highly armored patrols and the rest of the game was pure 
 blood spilling with heavy gun fire.
  
  how ever in Fallout 1 and 2 there was no way to gain acess to the heavyest equipment in the game 
 so easely, mainly cous of the turn based combat system.
  
  Now in 3 with realtime combat, you can use the AI's lack of brains, and use all covers to kill 
 the most toughest opponent with a BB gun wearing bathrobe.
  
  How ever, blood spilling was entertaining, but props won't play the game again, in a year or two... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mokz0r
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is not a Fallout game. It's Oblivion with guns, as has been said before.
  That said, Oblivion was much better. The melee addictiveness and brutality is gone, any RPG strategy 
 build-up is terribly gone.. basically, guns are lame and the game is terribly dumb.
  
  Speaking of dumb, 75% of the content comes from Fallout, but terribly dumbed down and turned easy, 
 and so, character building choices become irrelevant, as building any one skill or multi skilling 
 will be more than enough to beat any kind of adversity..
  
  Speaking of choices becoming irrelevant, welcome to the new world of RPG free will: the upper choice 
 will always be nice, the middle one neutral and the lower one evil. Wow. Convincing characters? 
 pump points into the speech skill and the right option will appear eventually, creating situations 
 where you convince computers they should not be presidents because they were not elected, causing 
 them to self-destruct. Seriously.. in-depth RPG? Look somewhere else.
  Dialogue has got to be the game's worst feature. I even chose a perk for having "special" dialogue 
 options with females, didn't find any.. don't think I'll try to..
  
  Just as I won't try to give any structure to this rant, the game does not deserve more than the 
 hours I spent just to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afroman340
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a very addicting game. The world is very expansive and on my third play through, I 
 still find new places to see. Gameplay wise, the game is solid. The enemies on the easier setting 
 are all fairly easy, except the ghouls who still move and hit fast. On the higher difficulties 
 all enemies get harder to put down. The V. A. T. S system makes it so awesome to watch headshots, 
 time after time after time. 
  Story wise, it's alright, the story could of used a bit more fleshing out towards the end of the 
 main story, but the beginning, end, and sidequests are still very in thralling. The characters 
 for the most part are well developed but still feel a little bit cold sometimes. 
  All in all the game is a worthy buy, for all of the replay value and fun that can be had. The only 
 problem I had was the ending at the end of the game, which really did not live up to the rest of 
 the story. with some many different paths to choose, you would think they would have a lot more 
 then the generic few endings they have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_pharaoh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the Fallout series and a huge fan of the Elder Scrolls series, but the two are so 
 different that they can not be related to each others except by both being RPGs. So, when I heard 
 that Bethesda was going to make the next Fallout game, I was like "wow, how's this going to turn 
 out?!!!" And it turned out so much better than I ever thought it would.
  The game starts from the day your character was born, the first chapter shows his/her childhood 
 and early life in vault 101, through short sequences of gameplay depicting your character at different 
 stages in his/her life. After that, the story unfolds through a series of quests that starts by 
 you escaping from vault 101 to find your father who has left without saying a word. As you make 
 your way through the game you will learn a lot about the back story of the game's world, meet a 
 lot of interesting characters, make friends and enemies, recruit companions, and fight a lot of 
 mutants. 
  The gameplay is very addictive in every aspect. Exploration is much like in the Elder Scrolls series 
 in the way you interact with NPCs and object; the environments are expansive and very detailed, 
 depicting a very believable post apocalyptic world. There are a lot of different places that you 
 can explore, whether through the main quest, a side quest or just wandering around. Most of the 
 places you visit are inhabited with a number of NPCs who, most of the time, have something helpful 
 to say, whether to give you a new quest, information about the back story of the game's world or 
 simply chatting about themselves and their lives. There are also some NPCs that won't talk, but 
 start shooting you instead, which brings us to Combat.
  Combat is much like an action game except for the VATS system which is based on the action points 
 system of the previous Fallout games and can produce gruesome slow motion deaths. There are a lot 
 of varied weapons that you can choose from, the ranged weapons include light, heavy & energy guns, 
 and there are also melee weapons and explosives. As in the previous Elder Scrolls games you'll 
 have to repair your weapons and armor every once in a while to keep them in good condition. Effectiveness 
 of weapons and armor will depend on its condition as well as which attributes & skills you choose 
 to level up, and this brings us to character development.
  Character development is much like in previous fallout games; the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system is used 
 for the attributes, each attribute governs a certain set of skills, and you can choose which skills 
 you'll level up depending on how you want to go through the game whether you want to resolve a 
 certain situation by sneaking, talking or fighting your way out, is up to you, unfortunately most 
 of the time you will have no choice but to fight. There are also a number of perks that you can 
 choose from every time you level up, these perks have very different effects, some enhance attributes 
 or skills and some gives you new abilities.
  The Karma system is also an important part of the gameplay; you will start neutral and depending 
 on your actions, you'll either gain or lose karma by doing good or bad deeds respectively. Different 
 NPCs will react to you depending on how much karma you have, similar to light and dark sides in 
 Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic games.
  The game is so huge and has much more features that can't be covered in this short review. The 
 game is unfortunately not perfect, for example, the story is not as great or as epic as it could 
 have been. There are a lot of randomly generated enemies that look exactly the same, well this 
 seems to be a problem in a lot of games, but I think it's becoming really annoying. Also your companions' 
 A. I. is not so bright, they can get themselves killed often, sometimes they get stuck somewhere 
 and you can't find them and sometimes they die suddenly without a warning. And in a lot of situations 
 it's very hard to avoid fighting.
  But I don't think these small annoyances will prevent anyone from enjoying this otherwise captivating 
 and addictive game. If you like the Elder Scrolls series or RPGs in general you'll definitely like 
 this game, if you're not a fan of RPGs, then you should try out this game and you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is obviously an updated version of the original two games in that at first glance, it 
 only resembles them in as much as a new Dodge Charger resembles an old Ford Fairlane. It definitely 
 looks and feels more like an Oblibion style game. However, the soul of Fallout has been retained 
 and is easily identifiable once you get into the game. This is not all bad... or good. The fast 
 travel system from Oblivion greatly reduces the amount of time you will spend running back across 
 the entire map just to complete a quest, or to head back to someplace you have already been. This 
 is a definite plus. However, I must admit that a lot of the humor and easter egg type things that 
 Interplay had in the 1st two games is missing from this game, and it has a more serious feel to 
 it. All in all, I wish the main quest line was longer, as I was a little suprised when I actually 
 finished the game. However, that being said, there is a lot to do to spend hours and hours aside 
 from the main quest exploring and discovering this world that has been created. If you liked the 
 original games then I say definitely check this game out. If you have never played a Fallout game 
 before, then give it a shot. You can jump right in and not miss a beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simianjohn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  so I played oblivion and never really finished it each time it sucked me in something came up that 
 took me right out of the experience and the weapons kind of felt the same. 
  So I didn't really have any expectations to it at all. But after hearing people praising it to 
 the skies I thought "what the hell" and bought it.
  Not a bad Idea at all I must say. The main story is pretty good and will keep you entertained through 
 it all. There are choices all through the game which consists of good choice, bad choice and whatever 
 a mix between the devil and hitler would do. All very nice with the karma based system and characters 
 around the world will react differntly towards you depending on what choice you make. 
  The game invites you to explore as much as possible looking for weapons, meds, drugs, unique items, 
 characters and much much more. 
  when you raise in level each time you will feel like it makes a difference and the various perks 
 will let you customize a lot of different characters that will play somewhat differently.
  And then we got the weapons thank god they didn't cock that up like they did in oblivion. There 
 are a lot of weapons and even more you can craft, and they feel pretty different and the huge variaty 
 will keep you happy. Nothing like blasting a mutants face off with a shotgun, or pinpointing your 
 sniper at a unsuspecting raider and watch his leg get teared of like a piece of wraping paper christmas 
 eve.
  All in all it's similar to oblivion just better in every single way. And it didn't bore me to tears 
 like that god awefull game did. 
  If I have to complain which I do, there are some flaws to the game. Characters you escort have 
 some wierd talent of getting stuck in the enviorment, which is really freaking anoying since you 
 need them to progress whatever quest you might be on at the time. The pc version whichj I played 
 can have some really wierd crashes which can be fixed with some tweaking. A bit too many characters 
 have the same voices, but then again what can u expect with so many npc's in the world (at least 
 there has been done a lot to the voice acting compared to oblivion) .
  If you like a good mix of action, rpg, exploring and choice making the get this game and have a 
 blast!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElderGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Please do not mis-understand. I am a big fan of Bethesda! Fallout 3 has made big-time improvements 
 from Oblivions 5-6 voice-over people that they had, with alot very "colorful" "now" conversations 
 that sound great and more people used! Bethesda seems to falls some-what short in the technology 
 used for the unique voice control available today. The people's accents from other countries, speech 
 variations, and more of that type. Seriously, when a company can make such amazing graphics, story-line 
 and action come alive with their cutting edge physics engine, why can't they hire more voice techs 
 to enhance the depth and flow of conversations? As one example, in Mass Effect, you could give 
 your multiple choice -answer before the person had stopped talking and it felt like "real-time" 
 if that's the name for it. Bethesda is so powerful in their gaming knowledge that I felt this was 
 a topic that could be brought up. My rating for Fallout-3 is on-going amazing and when I'm immersed 
 in the game the phone can ring off the hook and someone could be talking to me but I hear nothing 
 else. The DLCs are very habit forming and I hope they do continue!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddso01
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  I haven't played the others Fallout games. My only experience with Bethesda was Oblivion and I 
 found it very complicated and gave up playing after 20 hours or so. Thought I could give it another 
 try with this one and I was right. Fallout 3 feels a lot like Oblivion, but putting you in a wasted 
 Washington DC way after a nuclear war is quite a fun experience. I think I couldn't get the hang 
 of fighting with medieval weapons, witch are mostly melee ones, and now with the 60's guns everything 
 is much more interesting. The VATS system opens up some nice gory death scenes, witch are very 
 satisfying. There are some drawbacks: you still get that strange skiing sensation when running 
 while on a third person view, and the camera is sometimes placed at odd positions during some scenes 
 and conversations. And the lack of vehicles makes traveling through the landscapes a lot boring. 
 But what I dislike the most was the fact that you can only reach up to 20 levels of experience. 
 I was so badly addicted to this game that I wanted to complete every quest and find every item. 
 In a game where every bullet you fire damages your own weapons, there should be an ever going reward 
 for it. Killing some Super Mutant without getting any experience points for it, because you are 
 at level 20, really takes out some of the fun. The gory death scenes are the only thing that stands. 
 So I urge you to get the Bloody Mess perk right away.
  Other than that, it's one of the best games I've played and you shouldn't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tapakidney
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  I posted a negative review a few days ago and it was deleted by Gamespot. I put a lot of thought 
 into that review and it was deemed flamebait.
  
  So, in case the fascists decide to delete this review as well, I am not going to put as much work 
 into it:
  
  Pros;
  Graphics
  Atmosphere
  
  Cons:
  -Ineffectual stat system - You can play through with the minimum Int and Cha with almost no loss 
 of dialogue options.
  -Simplistic Karma system - Stealing critical info from a bad guy, even a really bad guy = bad karma. 
 Black and white in a post-apocalyptic world? Come on.
  -Weak, impotent-feeling weapons
  -Clunky FPS mechanics
  -Shallow, uninspired RPG mechanics
  
  This is a game that is perfect 
 for FPS addicts looking for a change. Actually, it's also perfect for anyone who doesn't really 
 expect much from their gaming experience.
  
  Bethesda has sold out to the lowest common denominator, and with their hard-hitting influence, 
 this IS the new direction of RPG gaming. Old school RPG fans, it's time to find a new hobby.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Gibbon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Obviously, this game is far more - and less - than Oblivion with guns. Having said that, there 
 are striking similarities. There are also striking differences.
  
  On the good side, Fallout 3 is funnier and more exciting. It has better and more varied voice acting. 
 You can't wait to move forward in the story. The game is gorgeous, if you a scene of nuclear devastation 
 can be called so.
  
  On the bad side, the game goes by a lot more quickly. It feels less open-ended. It's mechanics 
 are not as well balanced for the Action/RPG genre as are other Bethesda games since the Fallout 
 stats and perks are made for a largely different type of game. Maybe they just need more time on 
 this.
  
  Whatever this game is, it is not Fallout 1 or Fallout 2. That should be no surprise. When the original 
 Fallout came out, Bethesda had already been making first-person action RPGs for years. While Baldur's 
 Gate-style gameplay was more popular in the late 1990's, Bethesda's day has come.
  
  Those expecting the original Fallout in three-dimensional space are likely to be disappointed to 
 varying degrees. I think this is understandable, but a shame. The game has a lot to offer.
  
  Those who loved Oblivion but wish it were funny and kitschy and cool with more than 6 voice 
 actors or so, will likely love this game. It's not the marathon that Oblivion is, but it is a great 
 ride while it lasts.
  
  There are people who loved Oblivion and people who loved Fallout, while this game is neither and 
 both. If you can step away from all of that and play the game as though it were just a great quirky/funny 
 action rpg with very unique elements, I think you'll have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -GeordiLaForge-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely surpassed all of my expectations. I wasn't sure if Bethesda could pull it 
 off, but this is truly the most immersive game that I have ever played. It is the perfect blend 
 of survival horror, role playing, and first person shooter.... Take my advice on this one. For 
 the best experience, play alone in the dark. I did, and every step of this game was terrifying...
 
  
  Now, I'm going to share an AWESOME ini tweak. I strongly recommend increasing the fully loaded 
 grid count from 5 to 9 in the Fallout 3 ini file. It is just so awesome seeing every detail as 
 far as the eye can see.
  
  Beware though... Make sure your pc is up to the task, because every save file created after this 
 will require the setting to be set at 9 if the save file is to be loaded... Also, I encountered 
 the same strange jumping anomaly that I experienced when I did this in Oblivion. It only happened 
 a couple of times though, so no worries...
  
  Oh, and one last thing. Do not increase the fully loaded grid count beyond 9... just trust me on 
 this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boysangur
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a difficult game to review. It's hard to downright hate it or completely love it. 
 It can be a lot of fun but can also get extremely dull. It's the most role-playing of RPG's in 
 the past several years, yet it pales in comparison to its predecessors. It's not a bad game but 
 it's a horrible sequel. It's hard to come up with a score for something like this. In fact, I changed 
 my mind regarding the game several times during my first playthrough. To review Fallout 3 accurately, 
 one must spend a decent amount of time with it and be familiar with the series. It doesn't look 
 like that's the case with most reviewers, hence the odd scores it has received. I will attempt 
 to do better by going into more detail, while avoiding any spoilers. 
  
  For those who don't know, the original Fallout was developed back in 1997, by the now defunct Black 
 Isle Studios, as a spiritual successor to the popular 80's PC game, Wasteland. Black Isle was a 
 legendary subdivision of Interplay, whose developers are known for some of the greatest RPG's of 
 all time (you owe it to yourself to check them out) . Fallout and its sequel have developed a strong 
 cult following who regard it as the greatest game ever made. It introduced a very unique and highly 
 interactive world, an elaborate character stat system that dramatically affected gameplay, engaging 
 story, fantastic writing, top notch voice acting, tactical combat and everything else an RPG fan 
 might want from a game. The 1998 sequel had its flaws but it improved on the original in every 
 way possible in terms of its role playing elements.
  
  As is now the industry trend, Interplay decided to capitalize on the series' success with a few 
 spinoffs that few have played and many like to pretend never happened. A few similar decisions 
 later, financial troubles caused Interplay to close down Black Isle, effectively cancelling the 
 development of Fallout 3, codenamed Van Buren. In the meanwhile, Troika Games, a company started 
 by several key developers of the original Fallout, were making a spiritual successor to Fallout 
 of their own. After a couple of stellar games, Troika too had to shut down, along with the project. 
 
  I
  n 2004, Bethesda licensed the Fallout franchise and began work on Fallout 3 completely from scratch. 
 Many welcomed such development while others became worried that Bethesda would turn it into a first 
 person action game, or Oblivion with guns. I fell somewhere in between: a big fan of the original 
 series, yet partial to the idea of first person Fallout. Years of nail biting later, here we finally 
 are. The game is released, the reviews are in, and I am writing one of my own because I do not 
 agree with the majority of them. It seems like most reviewers played only a few hours of the actual 
 game and even less of the originals. I think it's important to review a game both on its own and 
 as a sequel. It's even more important to be familiar with both the game and the series to do so. 
 Now, for the actual review of Bethesda's Fallout 3.
  
  
  Bethesda starts things up in a familiar fashion, with a tutorial level involving an escape. It's 
 a rather humorous sequence of childhood events (although, one that you will only want to playthrough 
 once) that ends with your dad, voiced by Liam Neeson, suddenly disappearing on you. I'm not big 
 on providing any details on the main story, so as not to spoil anything, but I will say that it's 
 unbelievably dull. The biggest surprise of the story comes at the end with the realization of just 
 how mediocre the main plot actually is. It's pretty unexpected really but it's not the kind of 
 twist ending I appreciate. 
  
  That's not to say that your adventures will be completely boring, as there are quite a few fun 
 sequences and plenty of great side quests along the way. Exploration is also incredibly fun. I 
 love Elder Scrolls type free roaming gameplay and what could be more enjoyable than exploring post 
 apocalyptic gameworld with plenty to see and do. There may not be as many quests as in Oblivion, 
 but there are a lot more options for handling them, including lying about your progress (sometimes) . 
 Unlike other Bethesda games, or any RPG's in recent memory, there is also very little handholding. 
 There are no pop-ups explaining every step, telling you exactly how to solve quests. The options 
 are simply there and it's up to you to recognize and use them. It doesn't make a big difference 
 for the many straightforward fetch quests in the game but it makes solving the more complex ones 
 incredibly satisfying.
  
  Unfortunately, the quests are not at the same level as they were in the originals, mostly because 
 of the horrendous writing. I said it before and I'll say it again, Bethesda, perhaps more than 
 anyone, MUST cave in and spend some money on a good writer already. Poor writing hurts RPG's more 
 than any other game type so there really is no excuse. It's particularly a shame because Fallout 
 series is known for fantastic writing with dialog being one of the best elements of the game; in 
 Fallout 3, it ranges from boring to downright stupid.
  
  Overall, Fallout 3 is very combat heavy. Bethesda weren't kidding when they said that you wouldn't 
 be able to play the game as a purely diplomatic character. Even if a quest doesn't directly require 
 you to fight (which is rare) , the world is filled with enemies that can't be reasoned with. This 
 is a bad thing mainly because combat in Fallout 3 sucks. It isn't my personal opinion; it's a fact 
 acknowledged by Bethesda developers. As a first person shooter, Fallout 3 could never compete with 
 any game in recent history. One reason for it is that weapons mostly sound and look very weak and 
 unsatisfying, save for a few interesting custom weapons. Another reason is that player's character 
 is incredibly slow and stiff: he (or she) can't prone or lean or effectively use cover in any way. 
 The same goes for the enemies, who pretty much either rush you or walk from side to side, during 
 combat. 
  
  The poor AI is not to be underestimated. It sort of fits some dumb looking and sounding (more on 
 this later) enemies but it makes little sense when you set an animal on fire and it keeps rushing 
 and attacking you with complete disregard for its own well being. (human enemies do flee for a 
 few feet before crouching down and waiting for you finish them off) . All this results in boring 
 identical fights that boil down to holding the 'fire' button until one of you drops, throw in an 
 occasional use of a Stimpack. Unless you get behind a wall, there is nothing you can do to keep 
 from getting hit. A good but flawed additional element is that the condition of your weapon and 
 your weapons skill (think about this one) determine how straight and powerful your bullets go. 
 Yet another odd element is that stabbing someone can cause them to explode, while shooting your 
 portable nuclear bomb launcher (yep) won't necessarily kill someone. I could go on and on but I 
 think you get the point. 
  
  V. A. T. S., on the other hand, can actually be quite fun. It's a combat system that allows the player 
 (and only the player, for whatever reason) stop time and get a few free shots aimed at different 
 body parts. Getting hits with it can be satisfying and it adds some level of tactics as you can 
 cripple a limb or shoot an enemy's weapon out of their hands. My only problem with the system is 
 the odd angles the V. A. T. S. chooses for the action: the view is either obstructed by an object, 
 the back of player's character or an extreme close-up of the enemy. Overall, though, it's a lot 
 of fun and almost makes me wish it was a full turn based combat mode (there is a hint there somewhere) 
 
  
  Visually, Fallout 3 is a stunner. Don't let the screenshots fool you, it looks a lot uglier on 
 pictures than it actually is live. The view of the sun setting over the rubble of Washington DC, 
 in high resolution, is truly something to behold. Unfortunately, not all is well in terms of presentation. 
 Animations, for one, look stiff and robotic. Faces, although a lot prettier than in Oblivion, still 
 look wooden and lack any expression. 
  
  That is made a lot worse by the horrible voice acting. The majority of NPC's sound out of place, 
 and downright silly. It can be odd, looking at an expressionless face talk with the enthusiasm 
 of a wacky cartoon character. To make things worse, all Super Mutants and male Ghouls, the most 
 annoying of all voices in the game, sound exactly the same. Again, a shame, since the originals 
 are known for some of the best voice acting in video game history. 
  
  The sound department gets another F for the music. The main theme is not so much bad as it is out 
 of place. The originals featured a very atmospheric ambient electronic score, while Fallout 3 music 
 sounds like something out of Batman Begins. It has about the same effect as if an Indiana Jones 
 movie used music from the Terminator.
  
  In good Bethesda tradition, Fallout 3 is full of bugs, although to be fair, the same was true for 
 the original Fallouts. The biggest technical problem is probably the constant crashing and freezing. 
 However, there are many problems that are not likely to be fixed with a patch. They mostly resulted 
 from either laziness or the lack of thought put into them. One example is the game's karma system. 
 Karma was introduced in Fallout 2 to reflect the way the world perceived your character. Things 
 done in secret, such as stealing, did not affect karma, which made a lot of sense given the setting. 
 In Fallout 3, however, all your deeds (and I do mean ALL) are noted by an unknown higher power 
 that always watches you. The problem is that its moral values are not clear. It may punish you 
 for stealing from an evil NPC, who is already dead, and then reward you for blowing another NPC's 
 brains out. Not only that but you lose karma for stealing from that other NPC. There is more: accessing 
 their computer terminals will lower your karma each and every time you do it. So, you can access 
 the same terminal enough times to become a bigger villain than if you wiped out an entire town 
 of people. 
  
  Karma is not all that makes little sense in this game. The world of Fallout 3 is full of contradictions. 
 For example, there are working pre-war computers that are still ON over two centuries after a NUCLEAR 
 holocaust. It doesn't feel like the war happened that long ago or took a big enough toll for people 
 to experience shortages of anything, let alone scrap metal as is the case in Fallout 3. Children 
 and several selected NPC's are immortal, and mountains of ammo weigh 0 pounds. I assume that by 
 now, everyone has heard about the gaming equivalent of 'nuking the fridge' that Fallout 3 is responsible 
 for. Of course, I'm talking about junk cars that blow up in nuclear explosions when shot at. By 
 the way, I wonder what all the gas stations are for
  
  Balance is yet another problem area. You will encounter the majority of game's enemies and weapons 
 early on and they don't get much more difficult. Once you are comfortable with a couple of Super 
 Mutants armed with heavy weapons (which is very early in the game) you are good to go for the rest 
 of the game. Powerful weapons become available pretty soon to make things even easier. In fact, 
 you will get so many sets of Power Armor and heavy weaponry early in the game that you won't be 
 able to carry it all (or use) . You will constantly be overloaded with the best stuff so loot hunting 
 becomes pointless fairly quickly. That is why it was a great idea to let players use up items to 
 repair their equipment. It makes things a lot easier but doesn't fix the problem.
  
  Fallout 3 is filled with these blunders to the point where it feels amateurish and the size of 
 the game is no excuse. Fallout 2 was an incredibly big game that had several times more attention 
 to detail (just as many bugs though) . It also dwarfs Fallout 3 in terms of content and possibilities. 
 As mentioned before, from writing to dialog to quests, the game can't hold a candle to the originals. 
 The biggest letdown is the gameworld and its atmosphere. The very first town you encounter, Megaton, 
 is sadly the most fleshed out town in the whole game. It's also where you will make the most interesting 
 decisions. Compared to the first two games, the towns and NPC's of Fallout 3 range from boring 
 to silly (note how this phrase keeps reappearing in this review) . 
  
  There is a lot of attempted creativity and originality that came out downright cringeworthy. For 
 example, visit a town of peaceful vampires for a ridiculous lecture that will attempt to make you 
 think and relate to their condition (miserably failing and boring you to death instead) . How about 
 a town of snobby little kids who cannot be killed (which is the only sensible explanation for their 
 careless existence right next to a Super Mutant base) ? 
  
  There are obviously countless flaws in Fallout 3 and in some ways the game is a mess. Having said 
 that, I will agree with most reviewers that it's one of the best RPG's in recent years. However, 
 that's mostly a testament to the poor state of today's RPG's because the game pales in comparison 
 to its predecessors in almost every category. It seems like the world has forgotten what real RPGs 
 used to be. To double-check that it's not nostalgia talking, I fired up the original and was blown 
 away for a hundredth time by everything from atmosphere to quest design. If you doubt me, do yourself 
 a favor and BUY Fallout 1 and 2 to see just how low the RPG genre has fallen in terms of, uh, RPG-ness. 
 Put about an hour into it and I promise you that you won't regret it. You will then think that 
 my score is rather generous. 
  
  Gameplay: 4
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 6
  Story: 2
  Replay Value: 7
  
  Overall: 6.8 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamone
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  So are you a boy or a girl?
  
  Well that's the first question you get to answer in Fallout 3, and there is many more to come. 
 For the players who has played Elder Scrolls IV or Star Wars Kotor, this isn't a new concept, but 
 players who doesn't have any experience in these types of games might think that Fallout 3 is a 
 FPS game, but that's not the case.
  
  In the beginning Interplay, the creators of both Fallout 1 and 2, was going to create Fallout 3, 
 but on December 8, 2003 Interplays roleplayingdivision Black Isle Studios had to be shutdown.
 
  The Fallout title was now out on the market, and Bethesda Softworks producers of the Elder Scrolls 
 series, where the one's who claimed the rights to keep the series going.
  
  10 Years has passed since Fallout 2 was released and much has happen to it, the game is now played 
 in first or third person. It can fool you when you watch screens from the game, it looks like a 
 FPS but it's not. No Fallout 3 is a RPG, just as it's predecessor's. An other thing that the predecessor's 
 had that is getting even greater in Fallout 3 is the dialogs and dilemmas the people in the wasteland 
 have.
  
  Dialogs in Fallout 3 are exactly as in Elder Scrolls IV, when you talk to a person you will be 
 able to choose from several responses and approaches. This builds up many ways to twist and turn 
 your characters personality. When approaching a person friendly most times result in a peace full 
 conversation, it doesn't mean it's always the right thing to do to get the best result, but it 
 sure helps being nice to the towns people, but on the other hand being a real bad ass can scare 
 somebody and give a pretty neat result to.
  
  Dialogs leads the player to the people of The Wastelands dilemmas and tasks, almost every place 
 you visit will have a small quest chain, from picking landmines and getting food supplies, to shooting 
 down people hit man style. It's actually really fun to walk the great Wasteland and discover all 
 the small towns and factory's. And The Wasteland is a big place.
  
  Your story begins at the day of your birth the year 2258, you are now a citizen in vault 101, one 
 of the fallout shelters that mankind has used to survive from the nuclear war that took place year 
 2077, vault 101 was just one of many shelters but it was the only one the door out to the wasteland 
 never opened for.
  During the first 30 min's of the game you fast travel through time, to different period's of your 
 life, in the end of these time jumps you are a 19 year old boy or girl, the year is now 2277. You 
 wake up and your friend Amata is standing by your bedside screaming for you to get up. You ask 
 her what is going on and she tells you your father has escaped the vault, and you have to do the 
 same thing or the Overseer of the vault is going to kill you. And there the story of Fallout 3 
 takes it's start, it is time to find your father again.
  
  The Wasteland is stunning to look at, the sun light dazzles you and the sandstorms has a natural 
 feeling to them. But even if it looks amazing there is dangers out there in the wastes, and weapons 
 and armors are necessary.
  
  The weapons in Fallout 3 is on of the things I got a bit disappointed at. Some of the weapons in 
 the game are really useless, take the laser gun for example. It looks like a square pipe and it 
 doesn't do any damage at all, same goes for the laser rifle, this could have been done better, 
 as the weapon actually shots laser beams. But that is not the biggest issue on the weapons front, 
 the biggest issue is the recoil, almost every weapon in the game has Rambo recoil, there is not 
 much feeling. But hey it's still amazing to shot down super mutants in V. A. T. S.
  
  W. H. A. T I. S V. A. T. S?
  V. A. T. S (The Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System) is a in combat option, 
 where you can freeze time and select different parts of your enemy's body, and put a bunch of bullets 
 in it. When entering V. A. T. S the enemy (s) will get there limbs marked and a percentage count will 
 show how big the chance is that you hit that limb. A head shot might be more difficult to pull 
 of then one in the leg, but it makes more damage, though a shot in the leg can prevent your enemy's 
 from fleeing.
  
  By killing enemy's or completing quest's you gain experience points, and gain levels. You can get 
 to a level of 20 and each time you gain one you get to spend points in attributes that makes your 
 character better at picking locks or aiming with smaller guns etc, these are known as Tag skills. 
 There is also the Perks. Perks are also skills but instead of only boosting existing skills it 
 grants you new one's and ability's, one of them makes it able for you to kill people while they 
 are sleeping and another one makes it able for you to collect fingers from enemy's you kill, so 
 you later on can turn them in for cash and so on.
  
  The enemy's in general are either ghouls, raiders or super mutants there is other creatures and 
 fiends out in the wastes to, but to be honest face one and you have seen them all, and that is 
 one of the games downsides, not that there are to few different types of enemy's although it wouldn't 
 hurt to throw in another hand full of monsters. No the thing that is lowering the score is that 
 you can face 10 super mutants at the same time, go in to V. A. T. S and look through all of them, 
 and realize that they all look the same, someone has a helmet an the other one doesn't okey, but 
 come on is it that hard to at least make some different faces and maby a leader for each mutant 
 group? And another thing that is a bit sad, is the lack of boss encounters, it would be easy to 
 fit in several random boss encounters in the big world of Fallout 3 and maybe atleast a couple 
 in the main story. 
  
  Overall Fallout 3 is a really really fun game, and it should be one of the games that stand in 
 the RPG/FPS players shelf. Bethesda managed to keep the Fallout shelter alive and there will be 
 no more bombs over the Wastelands for now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is set in the year 2277. The player's character is born inside a fallout shelter named 
 Vault 101. Along with the other inhabitants, the main character grows up and survives in relatively 
 safety inside the shelter. The storyline kicks off when Dad goes mission from Vault 101. The player's 
 character must go brave the outside world beyond the vault to find Dad. Once emerged from the shelter, 
 it will be quickly apparent the player is now located in a ruined urban area of Washington D. C. 
 There was a nuclear war that rage on two hundred years prior that caused the cataclysm of the world.
 
  
  Bethesda, commonly known for popular game series of Elder Scrolls, developed Fallout 3. There are 
 a few similar features in Oblivion that will be found in Fallout 3. First, both games uses the 
 same graphic engine, characters can be customized thousands of ways, and a skill list to customize 
 characters even further later on in the game. However, Fallout 3 is not Oblivion, with very different 
 styles of gameplay.
  
  Players will quickly find themselves battling enemy AI. V. A. T. S. can be used to pause game time, 
 select a location on the enemy's body to attack, and watch in slow motion to see the results. Fighting 
 the enemy in real time throughout the entire game without using V. A. T. S. is optional. Targeting 
 locations such as the legs, can hamper the enemy AI ability to run, which could be used in strategies 
 while in battles with other enemies. Fallout 3 isn't for the faint of hearts. Attacking an enemy 
 on the leg or arm often enough will cause body parts to come off. It would be very common to see 
 decapitations throughout the game. Luckily there is a setting to turn off the gore for those who 
 get tired of seeing dismemberment of body parts.
  
  Player's characters will level up as they advance throughout the game by gaining experience from 
 killing enemies or completing quests. Leveling up will give the ability to further customize their 
 characters by improving specific stats and skills. There are many types of weapons, such as rifles, 
 laser guns, explosives, and other weapons in Fallout 3 to help with the player decide what stats 
 and skills to improve on.
  
  Early in the game, the player is given a Pip Boy 3000. A device that is wore on the right arm and 
 used to display quests, stats, and a world map useful to help locate locations needed for quests. 
 The Pip Boy also have a built in AM/FM tuner to listen to the local radio broadcasts.
  
  One thing I particularly love about Fallout 3, is the realism of the music. Any radio located in 
 the world will broadcast music or someone talking or tuning the Pip Boy to the broadcast the player 
 could listen to the same music. That music cant be heard without a radio. It makes the game feel 
 more real then have background music playing over and over again, but instead have music that is 
 played by a NPC somewhere in the world.
  
  Another statistic that is tracked by the game is karma. Karma is actions done within the game that 
 would else be good or bad. Talking to a NPC gives the option to decide to either improve karma 
 or decrease it. Other ways is quests and killing good characters. Karma will effect how NPCs will 
 react to you and the outcome of the game at the end.
  
  Fallout 3 is a very well done game. It is highly detailed, well thought out storyline, and a life 
 like environment. With it getting four best game of the year rewards from media sources, this game 
 is truly a game to must be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madreric
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:20 am PT
Review:  Before playing I thought the game was going to be a boring shooter with some rpg stuff, but it 
 turned out to be a great Rpg with a gun in hand. At first the game can be a little confusing but 
 the menus are user friendly enough, using cartoons to represent the items and having everything 
 organized. The quests are simple to understand and even thou the world is huge and you can travel 
 wherever your ammo might take you there is always a clear path to follow so you won't feel lost.
 
  
  I really enjoyed the way this game gets you immersed in its world. Every decision you make will 
 change the flow of the game to the direction of your answers. So if you want to be a loner or a 
 good neighbor, or a nasty thief is all up to you.
  
  The only one thing I didn't like about this game is the way characters move, they look robotic 
 instead of organic, even robots move too robotic... if that can be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMDP92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok. My bestfriend recommended this game for me. He said it is just the perfect game. So I was like 
 "ok, relax. I'll buy it soon..."
  
  Now, I bought it. It's not just a game, it's THE game.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  The Graphics are 
 undeniably great. The textures and everything are very detailed.
  
  Sound 10/10
  I can just feel the post-apocalyptic atmosphere by the sound effects. Truly astounding.
  
  
 Gameplay 9.5/10
  The gameplay is almost perfect. The game lets the player immerse in the true gameplay of RPG. Combining 
 FPS and Sandbox made it better.
  
  Story 9.8/10
  I haven't finished it yet but the story is so unique.
  
  Bottom point:
  The story, graphics, 
 sound, gameplay, and the other components of Fallout 3 make it the best game of 2008. I consider 
 Fallout 3 as the best RPG of 2008.
  No more 20 questions: BUY the game. Don't just install it, but also PLAY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zweh5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  wow i like this game, honestly i never play the previous fallout and im still playing it .
  
  the great:
  
  dont talk about the graphic, most of latest games have a beautiful graphic 
 but it is not toooooo beautifool like Red Alert 3. but it cant beat crysis.... so ill give 0.5 / 
 1
  
  sound is great too ill say 1 / 1
  
  the gameplay is the most i like for this game, you can customize your profile from gent and looks 
 to skill and karma. and has a VATS... ill give a full mark 2 /2
  
  ill give a full mark 2 / 2 for storyline, from missions to find your pa, then continue a project 
 from him and there are some side missions too
  
  the bad:
  
  the control is bad, cant change weapon by using wheel, there are no hotkeys for data, item, and 
 status (like stalker) . cant change weapon while reloading (wow it is automatically reload when 
 you change weapon) . no keys to give order to your companion, have to talk and it is annoying. so 
 it is going to be 1 / 2
  
  the AI is not too bad except your companion, sometimes they are dumba$$h () le storm to enemy like 
 a rambo, cant follow you when you jump or going down 1 feet higher or lower than them. forget sneak 
 attack when you bring your companion together. the only smart about your companion is they can 
 change their weapon to grenade, so it will be 1.5 / 2
  
  honestly there is no more fun when you reached the maximum level, so the only way to upgrade your 
 skills are to find books and bobbleheads
  
  this game same as other game from console. it has an auto-aim that is not good for MUNGOS!!! (damn 
 those punk kids in Little Lamplight no manner, and lucky punks i cant put a nuka grenade in their 
 mouth) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  I got this game expecting heaps of fun based on the reviews. Honestly I found it rather boring.
 
  
  The environment is dreary, There are a few areas where the graphics look impressive and interesting 
 but they are too far and few between. Most of the environment is boring to navigate and dead. The 
 condition of your weapons is frustrating and finding ammo for your chosen weapon is just as tiresome.
 
  
  There's a stack of dialogue so if you're into 'run and gun' think again. The pip-boy which houses 
 everything from stats to inventory and world map is not the greatest and fills the whole damn screen. 
 No on-screen map makes navigation irritating. You quite often get lost because of the bad map.
 
  
  Oblivion was a great game but Fallout 3 is not.
  
  Graphics:
  Dismal in places. Too many objects which are not defined enough. Too few sunsets and different 
 weather conditions for this type of game.
  
  Sound:
  Mostly good
  
  Technical:
  I had no problems playing with an 8800GTX and 8800GT but the game was a little unstable with my 
 8500GT.
  
  Gameplay:
  I found the VATS system slowed the game down too much, I don't want a cut scene every 5 seconds 
 I kill something. The story may be good but the game just doesn't will me to go forward.
  
  Bottom line:
  If you haven't played Oblivion then get Fallout 3 because chances are you'll really 
 love the game. Sadly it's just too similiar to Bethesda's previous work. A few years on and I was 
 expecting something fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  Back when I finished playing Mass Effect I thought it would take years for another RPG to beat 
 its gameplay and unique storyline, it was a new standard for modern RPGs in a way. But that standard 
 was short-lived when Fallout 3 came out. If Mass Effect, well, massive as its name suggest, Fallout 
 3 has even more grandeur and go more farther, and it easily sets a new standard for RPGs. Fallout 
 3 could easily be one of the best RPG I've ever played, and addition to Mass Effect I'm throwing 
 in this group, Deus-Ex (even if not a straight RPG) , KOTOR and Final Fantasy VII
  
  Taking aside a somewhat cumbersome HUD system known in the game as The Pip-boy, about which I'll 
 talk later, the game sets you up from the beginning into a story with one expected ending (at least 
 at the start) that will take you through an endless wandering through the nuclear war decimated 
 landfill or as the game more elegantly put it, wasteland- of what Washington DC used to be, complete 
 with Potomac river and locations the city used to have, and in the same cardinal locations. During 
 your journey, anything can happen and you will face multiple situations that only mean tons of 
 fun and a long playtime for sure. Add to this very real graphics, with the best draw distance I've 
 seen in years granting you have the system to support it- and showing you a true feeling that 
 something really bad happened here. Taking aside minor glitches and a few crashes, graphic rendering 
 is superb in this game, even If you don't have a cutting-edge system. The retro-modern look as 
 the game developers call it also adds a flavor to a plausible scenario were the US grew fond of 
 the 50s style and took it on everything developed in future years ahead as a trademark, including 
 the relentless fear to the nuclear Armageddon that ultimately destroyed the world. I think the 
 developers and story makers took this fact very seriously and successfully took at as the game 
 framework, with a game that not only plays great but look amazing. If you like RPG, you shouldn't 
 miss this game. And if you don't like RPGs that much, you should give a try at least
  
  On the not so good side, the Pip-Boy information display takes a long time to get accustomed to, 
 and even if all the information is there for a reason and needed to have the intended experience, 
 it's not that straightforward and uses too many abbreviations and weird terms that got me to look 
 at the manual frequently for the first few hours of gaming. I know, the developers wanted to have 
 that old 50s look and functionality, but in my opinion shouldn't have been that complicated. It's 
 a minor matter really, but I think it's worth mentioning as it's a very important part of the game. 
 Also, the "forced to rest" feature adds plenty of realism into the game but can be way repetitive 
 when you have been doing it many times by the middle of the game. I also experienced a few crashes 
 with no apparent reasons, and from time to time graphics acted weird like things floating when 
 they were supposed to be on the floor and a strange screen flickering that can be annoying, but 
 to be fair that stuff happened only a few times and were not detrimental to the gameplay
  
  Overall an amazing game that goes straight to the list of classics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahjeremy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll list the good and bad about this game, which is overall one of the best RPGs to come out in 
 some time, definitely since Oblivion.
  
  (warning: possible spoilers ahead)
  
  GOOD
  -landscape looks great
  -lots of creatures to fight
  -good variety of weapons to use
  -immersive 
 and atmospheric
  -huge map with lots of locations
  -followers
  -VATS (I find it useful and interesting)
  -incredible attention to detail
  -good dungeon crawls 
 (believe it or not)
  -merchants
  -side quests
  -lock pick game is good
  -memorable locations... pick your favorite
  -free roam (good if you like this type of game)
 
  -great unique weapons especially if you focus small guns
  -ability to craft a unique character based on skills and SPECIAL and gear
  -sneak attack option 
 is fun
  -picking pockets is fun
  -craft-able weapons, grenades
  -ability to have your own house ("condo" haha) or apartment
  -stealth character very much possible 
 and rewarding (sneak, sneak attack, sniper rifle, pick pocket, lock pick, science, etc.)
  -hilarious banter btwn NPCs, for example, "What's up?" "Not much besides keeping you dumba$$es 
 alive." 
  -so many little easter eggs and hidden items... I doubt we have discovered them all
  -fast travel 
 eliminates a lot of potential boredom
  
  BAD
  -not enough side quests... needed approximately 30 instead of around 15 or so for such a huge map... plus 
 no one will complete all the side quests so you have to overload it... I sensed that this was sacrificed 
 for time put into graphics, area/level design, etc.
  -main story line is a bit lame and too short... there are a few fun battles at the end though... won't 
 spoil that
  -stim paks should heal more and should be limited in how many you can take one after the other 
 (currently can just chain them unlimited!)
  -level cap of 20 is too low OR experience is too much... XP gained should have been approximately 
 halved
  -not enough variety of armor... only a few good pieces in the game... power armor basically sucks 
 which is totally lame!
  -needed a few more souped up enemies at the end, you know, several giant robots that require a 
 couple fat men (which is almost completely useless because its overkill 99.99% of the time haha) , 
 10 waves of 10 super mutants attacking the Citadel, etc. By the end its way too easy and all you're 
 fighting are enclave lamers!
  -follower interface pretty much sucks (text only... no item assignment)
  -inventory system in 
 general is not that good
  -difficult to repair rare items (sniper rifle, power armor, etc.)
  -vehicles?
  -something about 
 picking pockets... you need a really high sneak or they always catch you
  -drinking out of the toilet is just plain weird, haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex__13
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  A hard game to review... again. You see, as an RPG fan, and this is like.. an unwritten RPG community 
 rule, I have to say that games made by Bethesda and dumbed down, mediocre, button mashing, cheesy 
 attempts at an RPG. At least thats what "they" say since Morrowind. which was also able, at the 
 same time, to keep the right balance between being a "RPG for the masses" and "for the I have no 
 life RPG hardcore fans". We'll call them group speciment A and B from now on.
  
  Now most of you much be thinking what the heck I'm talking about. Bethesda is the company behind, 
 now 3D, RPG type games, such as Morrowind, Oblivion and lately Fallout 3. Fallout is a game built 
 and based on the idea of another now non-existent developer. Very popular game n its time, and 
 sure to have many type B followers who have two reasons to hate this game. both of them already 
 explained by... previews lines.
  
  Now to the game it self. Fallout 3 is good looking game, with very beautiful environments and a 
 big, fairly dense world to explore. I won't be going deep into details, there are many well paid 
 pros who do/did that, and I cannot put enough emphasis on the well plaid part.
  
  I have already written a very biased Oblivion review, which was both bad and inaccurate, so this 
 time around I would like to keep a better balance. So what is right, and what is wrong about this 
 game? Simply put, this game is a FPS/RPG, looks good, plays relatively good, has a good hours of 
 gameplay Vs cost ratio and has a difficulty that can suit anyones need. The bad, it's a FPS/RPG, 
 plays relatively good and thinks you are stupid since it really is a dumbed down RPG game.
  
  But I like you Fallout! So what am I trying to say? I'm saying that Fallout is game more likely 
 to appeal to non hardcore RPG fans who still like the RPG style of gameplay but do not want to 
 go too deep into it. It is a game for masses and has a lot of weaknesses. The storyline isnt all 
 too great either but it will suffice unless you are looking for a script so good that it alone 
 can keep you hooked. So why the hell do I still like this game? It's simple; it doesnt do much 
 wrong. and this final product and experience feels very professional and well polished (not referring 
 to BUGS) .
  
  To wrap this short not very detailed review up, this is a game that will make you like it even 
 if you dont like RPG games. Sure it has it's weaknesses, such as, average dialog, average animations, 
 mediocre A. I. but it somehow manages to use its magic dust on you and get you to fall in love with 
 it. And for me a self-"pro"claimed hardcore RPG gamer, Fallout 3 is a guilty pleasure which is 
 going to get a bad reputation from the gaming community and good reviews from the pros. This is 
 a game not worth of a good score if we want to be accurate, but doesn't deserve to be thought of 
 as a bad game. This is exactly what is wrong with gaming reviews. They should be more like a movie 
 reviews. Fallout is not a 4/4 star "movie", but it's more like an expensive multi-million 2/4 star 
 worthy production that makes you leave the movies thinking "now that was a fun to watch movie". 
 Sure all the euro-cinema fans will say it's crap, sure you are likely to forget all about it after 
 a few weeks/months, but do you really need to waste permanent memory for a game? So all of you, 
 go play this game, chances are you're gonna like it. As for You, cultured European cinema fan, 
 you liked it, and you know it, a guilty pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TopDomino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Sci-Fi RPG since Mass Effect. It is immersive and fun. Great graphics with 
 animations that are just a bit on the stiff side, but the voice overs and the pervasive radio just 
 transport you to the setting. The story itself is well fleshed out and if you like playing games 
 twice then you can play once as a good guy and once as a bad guy and have almost two games in one. 
 I wish the developers had taken a page from the Witcher and gone more adult in some of the situations 
 where it could have added to the story but that is a critique of the industry as a whole. Some 
 of the dialogs should be a bit more streamlined particularly with NPC's that have dual roles as 
 vendors and quest givers but that is just nit picking on my part. I finished this game weeks ago 
 and still can't the the song out of my head. Go buy it (even if you are reading this a year after 
 it was published) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jettpack
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 2:35 am PT
Review:  Never has the story of a boy and his dog ever felt so real. 
  
  What makes this game truly excellent is its ability to pull at your emotions. Fallout 3 puts you 
 I situations in where you have to choose between fun, money and morals. Blow up the town or save 
 it, or do nothing. You can save Butch's mom, or kill her, or kill them both, or save his mom and 
 then kill them both, or do nothing. This is truly a game that lets the player play how he/she wants. 
 Which is great, but what really makes it fun, is that all of your choices matter. A choice u make 
 at point A affects you at Point B later on in the game. What is so intrinsically excellent about 
 this is that it increases the amount of realism you feel in the Fallout world. There is morality. 
 there are choices, but most of all there is fun..... fun and super mutants. 
  
  That aspect combined with pretty graphics, an endlessly entertaining universe and tons of content 
 to explore, makes Fallout 3 is the most enthralling game I've ever played and is hands down the 
 best game of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suds100
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  This is the first Fallout game I've played so I cannot make comparisons with the previous editions. 
 Looking at things from an isolated point of view, Fallout 3 is very well done in general although 
 there are some aspects that are quite disappointing to me. 
  
  Set around a post-nuclear age where the world has become a literal wasteland due to a nuclear war, 
 humanity has to fight for survival against robots, mutants and other threats. Briefly, you play 
 the character of a 19-year-old (male or female) seeking the whereabouts of your father who is a 
 scientist. This forms the main quest of the storyline. There are optional side quests that may 
 take your fancy and these are added according to your responses when conversing with people. Completion 
 of quests is rewarded with bottle caps, the currency of the age. I found this a rather neat idea 
 by Bethesda Softworks. Pre-war money could be found in some places but couldn't be used directly 
 to buy items with. 
  
  Bethesda Softworks didn't seem to leave anything out when it came to items either. You could pick 
 up just about anything, add it to your inventory and sell it to any trader. It added a new level 
 to gaming reality but it was disappointing when your inventory was full! Schematics could be used 
 at any workbench when making your own items. They simply give you a list of items that need to 
 be collected in order to make the final product. 
  
  Besides the health damage you face when you're shot at or bitten by creatures, there are also radiation 
 hazards when in the presence of radioactive material. It's a natural aftermath of a nuclear war 
 and I'm glad it was included in the game. Drugs could also be found and used. While it gave an 
 initial boost to certain stats, taking too much resulted in addiction which could be cured at a 
 doctor (who could also decrease your radiation levels) . 
  
  The V. A. T. S is the most important factor behind the brilliant gameplay. It allows you to pause 
 the game and plan a sequence of shots that would be carried out automatically once you're done. 
 It also gave you an idea of how effective a shot to an opponent would be by highlighting areas 
 (hands, legs, torso and head) with percentages, which is ultimately based on the distance and orientation 
 of the opponent from you. The thrill of the V. A. T. S is after the completion of the sequence of 
 shots, where you usually see heads flying and dismembered bodies with limbs lying around. 
  
  Now for some constructive criticism. Firstly, I found that the cut-scenes were not too appealing 
 for a game of this caliber. The level of interaction with people was fairly good but they usually 
 had the same facial structure which immediately raised your boredom level a couple notches. Secondly, 
 the rate at which the story unfolded was a bit too slow for my liking, but it might be just me 
 that feels this way. I really enjoyed the storyline so it doesn't matter too much anyway. Finally, 
 the abrupt ending was too much to bear! I felt that the conclusion should have been somewhat proportional 
 to the length of the story as a whole. This would have given the gamer enough time to gather their 
 thoughts on the subject matter.
  
  I have no doubt in recommending this game to anyone and everyone and it sure as hell deserves its 
 "Editors Choice" position on Gamespot. Bethesda Softworks, keep it up! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORD_MARINE
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Idea/Originality 0.7 points
  
  - Place Fallout in FPS - sounded interesting, but came out as Fallout parts copy/paste over Oblivion 
 
  
  Storyline 0.5 points
  
  - Starts OK ... finding your father to pass only a few main quests to the ending of purification 
 plant for the entire area ?? Well anyone who knows about Radiation like Fallout fans will question 
 a lot of nonsense in this game.
  
  Animations 1 point
  
  Sounds/Music 0.9 points
  
  - New scope on radio stations that you can pick up on PIP BOY .... over longer time it gets boring 
 and irritating.
  - Missing the real Fallout background theme music.
  
  Graphics 1 point
  
  Mission updates/Debriefing/Quests 0.5 points
  
  - Compass on main screen 
 indicates where is your next objective in a quest (also indicated on a map in PIP BOY) ... sometimes 
 it doesn't work 
  - Lot of really stupid lines for the NPC, and as I recall in Fallout series to majority of people 
 you can menace (threat) and of course get in a verbal fight that ends with a bullet to the head.
 
  - Lot of NPC's cloned and babbling the same thing with the same voices.
  - For example on some quests you can dig up information from the NPC .... that doesn't mean anything 
 until you speak with a "certain" person, and sometimes even then the quest doesn't appear... even 
 tho as a player you know all the answers? .. In Fallout 1/2 any information you dig out matters...
 
  - The best part for me was while exterminating cannibals called "family" ... quest of rescuing 
 some kid .. failed... also then I lost karma... stealing from dead cannibals what the ...??? eventually 
 the civilian settlement attacked me but I guess they died of lead poisoning.
  
  Gameplay 0.9 points
  
  - Followers can be equipped with armors and weapons except some ... non 
 human...
  - If you are a good guy, you can pick up your followers near the end ??.. what the ??... man I want 
 to scavenge the wastes with leather armor and a cracked sawed off shotgun...... if you're a bad 
 guy then on the beginning of the game in Megaton some ex-raider will join you ??... why not place 
 a mercenary ? in the first town!
  - V. A. T. S. uses your action points to target enemies limbs so you can enjoy watching a bloody preview.
 
  - The dog (Dogmeat) is useful to scavenge the hard locked safes and lockers... otherwise in my 
 case only a bullet magnet.
  
  AI 1 point
  
  Weapons/Armor/Upgrades 1 point
  
  - well I almost gave a lower point for missing some standard weapons like a normal shotgun.. or 
 at least real combat shotgun (not like in the game) , then "plasma" rifle ? (must be magnetically 
 shielded in round shaped capsules.. its the only way to contain plasma) not this green glue gun 
 or whatever... no heavy machine guns ?.. like M60... but you find some special weapons and armors 
 like T-51b Power Armor from Fallout 1/2 and also now with new expansion packs that will slowly 
 expand the weapon & armor arsenal... similar to oblivion.. (a new town appears in the original game) , 
 so I guess in time it will contain all what's missing now.
  - Bigger weapons have ammo box attachment on your back... nice...
  - Armors.. various and well 
 designed ... ability to place or remove helmet
  - Ability to create some awesome firepower like fire swords... and you must ransack the map in search 
 for the missing parts
  - Weapons/armors damage and deteriorate over time so it must be repaired to use it effectively.. cool 
 is when weapons deteriorate.... they start to malfunction.
  
  Multiplayer 0 points
  
  - No multiplayer ... to play single player campaign over LAN or internet with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:22 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 proves to be a great successor to the major success of Fallout 2. The first thing to 
 notice is that it swith to 3D first person view instead of the old 2D grpahics. At first i thought 
 they coudn't get it right with this change, but as it turnes out the change was inspired and perfectly 
 executed. 
  The graphics are not only up to date but but also pretty good, if not excellenet. mutants look 
 cool, so do most of the characters and items, with some minor exceptions. Areas are original and 
 provide some satisfaction of exploration and conversation, but are to small. Compared to the towns 
 in Fallout 2 they lack most of the irony and the hiddne quests. Weapons, armors and items have 
 good design adn look really nice on the character.
  Sound is excellent. Fallout 3 has by far one of the most atractive and entertaining soundtracks 
 i have ever heard. 
  Gameplay is good and always keeps you comming back for more. The bullet time targeting system is 
 decent (even if it has some minor problems) and is really quite usefull. Even so if you use it 
 a lot, you lose a lot of time and the pace of the game slows down dramaticly. keeping a balance 
 between bullet time and real time shooting keeps yuo glued to the chair. Even if it's not really 
 necesary you can explore the "wonderfull" post-apocalyptic world and find interesting and usefull 
 stuff. 
  Leveling up is my major disapointment. The game still offers perks and stats but you are limited 
 to level 20. If you tend to check out every place, to kill every mosnter you find in your way you 
 will reach this cap long before you finish the game. When this happens the game becomes boring.
 
  Most of the perks are taken from Fallout 2 with some interesting exeptions. You can say the same 
 about weapons and items, since only a handfull are new. 
  As with the previous games the story is simple, and will make you explore most of the map to finish 
 al main quests. Most sidequest are not that well inpired but are still really cool to complete. 
 A few quest are really original.
  The dialogs are great, each characters wants to tell you something intersing or funny. 
  The 
 duality of the game (good or evil) lets you aproach all missions diferently and with different 
 outcomes which will guarantee you will play the game at least two times.
  At the end i will say that Fallout 3 is probably one of the best games i have ever played, a great 
 sequel in the serioes and a great RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I recently finished my first play through of Fallout 3. I haven't played a full-scale RPG in a 
 while and was cautiously optimistic when the early reviews were published. Let me begin by saying 
 that I have not played the previous two Fallout games so I am going to review this game solely 
 on its own merits. Also, I am reviewing the basic store-bought version of the game without any 
 3rd party downloadable mods. In short, this game suffers from three fundamental flaws that are 
 not immediately present until players are at least half-way through the game and these flaws are 
 serious game balance flaws rather than graphic or other presentation flaws.
  
  The game is set in a not so distant future in Washington D. C. after a nuclear war with China. Players 
 portray a late-teenager that has spent his entire life inside a nuclear shelter with his father. 
 Upon leaving the shelter, the object of the game is to survive in a hostile post-apocalyptic wasteland 
 populated by mutants, roving gangs, killer robots, and the occasional friendly settler in need 
 while re-engaging with his father to help improve the lives of the survivors. During the game, 
 you earn experience points completing mission objectives (quests) but mostly by killing anything 
 that moves. Experience points allow your character to level-up and earn specialized skills called 
 "perks."
  
  Character creation and UI tutorial are integrated into the game plot. You begin the game as a toddler 
 learning how to walk, crawl, jump and interact with non-player characters (NPCs) . Later, players 
 develop the character's physical appearance and basic skill sets. The entire character creation 
 process is about 15-30 minutes.
  
  Once players leave the safety of the shelter, the character is thrust into the post apocalyptic 
 wasteland to fend for itself with one or two low-power weapons for defense. The game play area 
 is setup sandbox style. The entire game space is accessible from the beginning with the exceptions 
 of the areas that require information or keys to open. As a result, players are free to explore 
 the entire game space with few limitations. The game space is sizable. I estimate that without 
 obstacles or enemy encounters one would still need at least 20-30 minutes just to walk from one 
 side of the board to the other. Of course, there's no way to do that without encountering either 
 an object like a mountain or river to circumvent or having to fight past at least a few bad guys. 
 The terrain is mostly scrub desert with a few buildings and rock formations but as the character 
 moves toward the heart of D. C. the terrain changes to a more urban setting. Day and night cycles 
 are part of the game but there is no weather simulation. It's always partly sunny in D. C.
  
  Peppered throughout the game space are buildings, caves, sewers, towns, and other areas that 
 can be explored that may be hostile or friendly depending on the local inhabitants but expect most 
 areas to be hostile. Characters can interact with NPCs as a good guy helping others, a bad sociopath 
 smoking everything in view, or something in-between. Karma plays a distinctive role in this game. 
 Depending on player decisions, some side missions are inaccessible.
  
  Also throughout the game space are items to be scavenged. These items include health packs, weapons, 
 armor, aids to improve skills, and miscellaneous "junk" all of which can be bartered for other 
 items or used to construct custom weaponry. Weapons vary from bb guns on up to shoulder launched 
 missiles. There's even alien weaponry to be found if you're really good at scavenging. Clothing 
 can be anything from pre-war suits of clothing to power armor and different clothing will impart 
 unique bonuses on the wearer. All items used in the game have a finite condition score and each 
 use lowers its condition, its subsequent effectiveness and value. When an item's condition drops 
 to zero the item is no longer usable and must be repaired or traded for a new item.
  
  The quests can be separated into those that drive the main plot of the game and those that are 
 side-missions only for the benefit of increasing experience points and obtaining unique items. 
 The number of side quests far outnumbers the plot-line missions. Players are not required to solve 
 most of them or in any particular order. If players wander into an area of the map with enemies 
 that are too powerful then prepare to retreat or die. Personally, I found the game more fun to 
 play by simply walking in a random direction just to see what I would find rather than solve quests 
 in the order they were discovered.
  
  Graphically, the games requirements are moderately steep. I played this on a single-core Pentium 
 IV operating at 3.6 GHz, 1 GB of RAM, and an Nvidia 7600GT 256 MB video card. Prospective players 
 should note that the default graphics setup by the game is inadequate, especially in draw distances. 
 Players are advised to increase the draw distance as much as the possible while still achieving 
 decent frame rates. Otherwise, players may find themselves attacked by enemy units that appear 
 out of nowhere. Likewise, they may not see valuable objects unless they make very close approach.
 
  
  At this point I must describe three serious flaws in the game. 
  
  1. While players are free to explore the game space, each creature killed, every lock picked, every 
 computer hacked, and every quest objective completed will give the player experience points that 
 drive the level advancement system of the game. Through random exploration of the game space, one 
 can expect to advance levels about every 1-3 hours of game play depending on the difficulty level. 
 However, the basic game is limited to only 20 levels of character advancement. Afterward, there 
 are no more experience points awarded and, thus, no way to further develop skills except through 
 finding specialized items. As I played, I was able to reach level 20 after only exploring about 
 60 to 70 percent of the game space, all while playing on the "Hard" difficulty level. Maximizing 
 the character level so early has several detrimental consequences as described below
  
  2. By advancing levels so quickly the character rapidly attains overwhelming superiority in the 
 face of enemies. Granted, a lot of the offensive and defensive capabilities depend on selected 
 character traits, perks, and found objects. However, anybody with a minimum of RPG experience should 
 be able to quickly determine the most desirable set of parameters. Additionally, there are a few 
 NPCs that can be engaged to aid the player throughout the remainder of the game or until the NPC 
 is killed in combat. Without giving away too much of the plot, there is one NPC in particular that 
 is pretty much over-the-top indestructible. Having him on your side means never having to say you're 
 sorry.
  
  3. The third and most annoying aspect of the game comes down to the most basic game design. In 
 virtually every RPG, shooter, racing sim, or hybrid game ever invented, the tendency is for the 
 game to become progressively more difficult. Fallout 3 seems to be played the opposite direction. 
 During the early stages of the game (player level 10 and below) players are advised to choose their 
 combat carefully. However, taking flaws 1 and 2 into account, by the time players reach end game 
 stages the character is capable of destroying everything in its path with little difficulty. Most 
 disturbing is the fact that the final plot-line mission is so easy that I can't imagine anybody 
 not finishing it on the first try. And once the final plot-line mission is over the game is really 
 over (i. e., no opportunity to search any remaining unexplored areas) .
  
  Overall, I cannot give the generic version of Fallout 3 my highest ratings because of these three 
 serious game balance issues. Granted, there are many third party mods available that alter the 
 difficulty. However, the game designers should have had the foresight to incorporate these changes 
 in the basic game rather than leave it to the gaming community to raise the bar. After all, the 
 game retailed $49.99 USD new. At that price, I really expected a better overall product.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Thus the ramifications of the spectacle come, nor am I submerged in the the vast glory of what 
 comes about, but thou hens forth in the discovery of something amazing. What be... ith done unto 
 this which named not but yet makes thy eyes feel like mushy corn? Thee intricate un-discovery made 
 and who shalt know.. ith not and therefore be a sad old stump on the corner stone of unhappy. Please 
 do with which, might not enjoyed, be in... it.. and... pringles. SO THENS to one thus thee thy they 
 and pretentious my lord granted it be made on thy PlayStation. Bitter batter bungalow into the 
 canoe, the doggy goes woof woof and thy does too. Yo holmes in thy crib wiggly jiggly whack the 
 home kindle and those shorts made knot. Understanding that an 800 minimum word count be granted, 
 I now blab on as a drunken monkey. Thus thy may leave and do forth in whatever may continue in 
 the misery of life. Go get a taco or maybe even a notecard that says taco. I bid you adieu and 
 a happy farewell, for I must go on thy wild journey on thee valiant steed to the land of the fridge 
 to get some chocolate ice ith cream ith.
  Translation:
  It's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RADOGMIJ
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I have never really enjoyed FPS games until I played S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and Fallout 3. These two games 
 add more to the mindless point and shoot, and I like that. Not that there is anything wrong with 
 FPS, but when I spend 50 to 60 dollars on a game I want to be able to play it for a while. The 
 setting, storyline, and game play kept me in the game, and will keep me in this game. Fallout 3 
 is perhaps the first FPS game that I have felt that I got all of my money out of it and more. Now 
 they are adding DLC to it through LIVE. Anchorage, The Pitt, and others coming. This game is well 
 worth it.
  
  The only thing that I would have added is a way to modify gear such as Clear Sky did. A way to 
 tinker with guns ammo armor and stuff you find. Yes, Fallout has the workbench, but I would rather 
 tweek my armor and guns than build junk guns... well the rail gun is awesome.
  
  
  Overall Awesome Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  From the wastes of a world 200years after a nuke holocaust comes Fallout 3
  
  As immersive as Morrowind as edgy as Resident evil as void as Silent hill
  
  as polished as 
 Oblivion as satisfying a kill as Medal of Honor / Call of Duty/Halo
  
  Not many games can call on so many different forms of games as FPS an RPG classics but that is 
 exactly what this game does The ability to mix war games with horror with RPG's is as unique as 
 u will find if it allowed u to pick up a pool cue to play pool u could strech in GTA but as u might 
 think this will be a been here seen it bought the T-shirt review its far from that this game is 
 as expansive a game as we have come to expect from the brilliant Bethesda / Rockstar / Illusion 
 Softworks team's
  
  Taking Oblivion into the future is a difficult concept from swords to guns from past to future 
 & is done as seemless as Mafia Lovin every second from the heart thumpin attacks from no where 
 in the dark of the wastes from all the gruesome yet wonderful creatures too the shoot-outs with 
 the armed crews. The relief of finding a non hostile to the humour of the home bot in Megatron The 
 main Quests to the side issues this game is as close to a 11/10 that only the sublime Mafia & Morrowind 
 have achieved as classic as the afore mentioned games PLAY IT is all i can say p. s get a move on 
 with Elder scrolls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda has refined their open-world RPG formula down to a science. Fallout 3 is certainly the 
 studio's most well-crafted game to date, giving you a much tighter, more focused and faster-paced 
 experience than anything we've seen before in Oblivion or Morrowind.
  
  It's also refreshing to play a RPG based in our own world, grounded in science fiction with strong 
 voice-acting, well-written dialogue, excellent sound design and a stable game engine. Gone are 
 the days of having to worry about Quick Saving every 5 minutes out of fear the colossal Bethesda 
 graphics engine would implode. On an average, modern computer, Fallout 3 plays smooth with maximum 
 settings. Rare loading freezes and crash-on-quits were minor quibbles. This is by far Bethesda's 
 most stable engine yet.
  
  Betheda's is well-respected for creating fascinating game worlds and lore, and they came to this 
 game with a loaded playbook as the Fallout universe is easily one of the most compelling game worlds 
 in recent memory. The rubble and waste around Washington DC showcases excellent level and world 
 design, not unlike 2007's epic FPS, Bioshock. The landscapes feel real, the areas feel lived-in, 
 characters have unique quirks and mannerisms, despite re-using some voice actors. 
  
  It's easy to overlook how excellent the world design in Fallout 3 is because you don't really notice 
 it ... it just feels authentic and never gets in the way or pulls you out of the game's immersion. 
 This is a major improvement over Oblivion, though it doesn't quite reach the level of imagination 
 and curiosity on display in Morrowind. Bethesda's also backed off of the hundreds of random caves 
 and bunkers. There are still certainly random locations to investigate, but by and large most locations 
 in Fallout 3 are quest-related and not random curiosities you stumble on with little mini-stories 
 to discover inside. Which is a shame, because Bethesda makes games that (should) reward explorers. 
 These are massive landscapes, and one of the best achievements in Morrowind was all the little 
 out-of-the-way secrets and mini-plots uncovered across the world. Morrowind also made you feel 
 like if you trekked to the farthest reaches of the world to investigate an underwater nook, you 
 would find something inside to justify your travels. From the exploration I did in Fallout 3, it's 
 an uneven experience. You might find some unique settings, but by and large you'll find generic 
 locations with monsters to shoot.
  
  When it comes to combat, Bethesda did a fantastic job modernizing the old Fallout's turn-based 
 combat with VATS. It's a great thrill for the first half of the game, but after 20-some hours, 
 you'd wish combat would move faster. It becomes a stop-and-go affair and makes you wonder if they 
 tried alternate versions of VATS, like the slow-motion abilities in F. E. A. R. or Max Payne which 
 could give you the same effect but keep the game moving more naturally. And while it's nice to 
 see Bethesda got rid of some of Oblivion's annoying design conventions (rubber-banding creature 
 levels, scaled gear on NPCs, skill-based leveling) the dreaded degrading equipment makes a return. 
 I wish developers knew how annoying this gambit is. It was annoying in S. T. A. L. K. E. R., it was annoying 
 in Oblivion, it's annoying in every game that punishes you for finding a great new gun or armor 
 and then worry about using it because it degrades over time. It's no surprise that the first mod 
 to come out for these games is one that either slows down or removes item degradation completely.
 
  
  The last bit I want to touch on is story, and that's where Fallout 3 is a bit of a mixed bag. It 
 sets up a fantastic storyline and carries it halfway through with incredible set-pieces and awesome 
 unique locations, but once you get to the endgame, it's disappointing to see a bit of repetition 
 in locations and the story doesn't quite reach as high as I wish it had. It stops quite a few floors 
 below epic, into  terrain. This is a challenge for all 
 game developers, and not many games fully deliver outstanding conclusions -- Bioshock and Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 are two of the rare examples in recent memory. Which is unforunate with Fallout 3, 
 because the talent is clearly there at the studio but maybe they put 90% of their energy into the 
 first half of the game and 10% into the last half.
  
  As far as Fallout's famous black humor goes, Bethesda did a respectable job trying to incorporate 
 it into a realistic vision of post-apocalyptia but it's clear they aired on the side of keeping 
 the world real and professional rather than really pushing the personality and human connections. 
 Conversations can feel sterile. You don't feel deep connections in any relationships, including 
 our own father, and when the "big" moments happen throughout the game, the emotional impact is 
 worse off for it. Actually the best relationship in the game -- the main character and your childhood 
 friend, Amata -- is completely underutilized. I was expecting (and hoping for) a story that drew 
 these two people from their childhood through adulthood but it's just never fully realized. 
  
  And that seems like Fallout 3's biggest shortcoming. There is potential in all these relationships, 
 most notably Amata, but Bethesda fails to capitalize on them to turn a great RPG into a timeless 
 classic by showing you relationships developing over time and building human connections rather 
 than just telling a pretty neat science-fiction story with guns and leveling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:55 pm PT
Review:  For those who haven't played the previous Fallout before, you may enjoy it as a revolutionary RPG 
 or FPS, no matter how you view it, but for Fallout fans, this is a  
 moment. I've spent close to 130 hours on it before completing the main game and I still had tons 
 of places yet to discover and more than half of those side quests untouched. This is crazy! I bought 
 the official game guide and thus spent those ungodly hours trying to collect every skill book and 
 mini nuke to the point my wife thought I was preping for Cambridge PhD or something.
  
  For Elder Scroll fans, you may love the usual sprawling universe gameplay setting via a different 
 era and for Fallout boys and girls, you may just be overwhelmed by how nice Bethesda did the makeover. 
 Sure there are some stuff like having a FPS mode that caused some distress among hardcore turn-based 
 fans, but it sure brought in more fans to the series by having this brilliant blend. The V. A. T. S 
 mode is a cool feature which is a tribute to the aiming system of the classic Fallout, so FPS fans 
 may have something new to experience.
  
  The music is timelessly iconic, ironic and beautiful which fits in to the post-apocalyptic wasteland 
 perfectly. Three Dog is my fave game DJ apart from those in the GTA series. Voice acting is ace 
 especially when you have Quigon and Hellboy taking part in it.
  
  My only gripe would be that the level cap is too limited too early and that curbs the desire to 
 explore more and kill more things or do more quests. I reached level 20 and seems godly already 
 even before halfway through the main quest and not even explored half the locations yet. But in 
 any way, Fallout 3 is still the emperor of RPGs and FPS shooters so far. Great work guys.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punumscott
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  If there was one game I wanted most for Christmas, this is it, and good thing too. 
  
  The 2008 Season was filled with good games, from MGS 4 to Dead Space, but this is one that should 
 not be left out. At bare minimum this game supplies countless hours of fun, gorey gamplay.
  
  It is a suprise that I have logged over 200 hours on this game. Thanks in large part to extreme 
 replayablitity of such an amazing an enviroment. From your first moments steping out of Vault 101, 
 (the subterranian bomb shelter your hidden into.) You are thrust into a world filled with, raiders, 
 mutatated Creatures, and believable characters each with their own hidden agenda. But this world 
 is not like it is today. Threatened by radiation and other by-products of Nuclear holocaust the 
 world truely comes to life. It is in this bleak desolate landscape full of dangerous beings and 
 shriveled trees that you become engulfed not only in the atmosphere, but in the mind of your individual 
 character... this is where the game has you. 
  
  For the rest of the game you play your character, the way you want your character to play! An innovative 
 concept isn't it? Adding even more depth to your evolving story as you go from meagre Vault boy 
 to the Hero or Scourge of the Wastes. In fact to help you with your storytelling the game introduces 
 a Karma system, that changes depending on how you play your character. Wether it be Good, Neutral, 
 or Evil your sure to get some kick out of how the infamous Three Dog at GNR radio address' your 
 character. 
  
  But the game is not as shallow as a simple Karma system, depending on your perceived look of your 
 character you get to mold and distibute skill points into things such as Lockpick, or Melee skills. 
 Adding even more replayablility as you create and recreate even more characters to be molded into 
 brutal killing machines or kindly scientists. 
  
  Even if your not into this Role Playing atmosphere, the game plays from a first person perspective. 
 Allowing intense action as you blow off a mutants head with a shotgun, something that in the end 
 never tires. In fact all the weapons in game feel just right and resemble that of their real world 
 counterparts. Though the game lacks a cover system, and relies on skills to determine damage makes 
 it impossible to confuse with a real FPS. Still, wether you slash quickly with a knife, or shoot 
 a fast moving nail at an opponent the brutal side effects are sure to keep you coming back for 
 more. 
  
  In fact the game does what it does so well it's almost impossible to criticize it. The only things 
 that are obvious is the less then capable AI (including Companions) , the semi-fake feeling FPS, 
 less variety of Weapons and Armor then other games of this Genre, and the fact that once the main 
 story is over... there is no going back and you must refer back to an earlier save.
  
  All in all Fallout 3's strength's outshine it's weaknesses, and is a great game for anyone with 
 a moderate interest in roleplaying. 
  
  (9.8)
  
  (Played on an Advanced Machine)
  
  Best Regards,
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ionizer23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I thought Fallout 3 was just another shooter RPG. Then as I was slowly introduced to the game-play 
 and eventually the gore and soon I was addicted!
  
  The visuals are very high quality yet they don't even stress my comp.
  
  I loved how much detail 
 they put into everything from houses to enemies and NPCs. And the VATS system is very handy for 
 when you are not bothered shooting yourself. I must add that the crosshair isn't that great. I 
 think that they should've used the circular crosshairs like in Crysis Warhead.
  
  On a positive note theres heaps of blood and gore which is shockingly gruesome but fun. There's 
 heaps of side-quests. The environment is very interactive and overall it seems quite real. The 
 use of drugs gives this game a mature and engrossing feel. 
  
  I didn't like the 1950's retro theme. It made the game seem quite primitive. And the power armor 
 design scared me. I would have like to see the Halo/Crysis style armor used. Plus the one handed 
 weapon movement didn't look that good. And the movement seemed VERY slow. And there's some nasty 
 bugs.
  
  But despite its flaws Fallout 3 is one heck of a good and and is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:37 am PT
Review:  The Fallout Series of games was originally started by Black Isle. Originally called Van Buren, 
 Fallout was purchased by Bethesda and was developed in the game we all love today. Fallout 3 is 
 Oblivion; with guns. However the action is cut short by the VATS system, which autoaims for you. 
 VATS is a breath of fresh air (ironic, since Fallout 3 takes place in an apocalyptic future) . 
 
  Even though Fallout 3 is a solid RPG, it stil has its faults. Each weapon loses "health" and potency 
 every time you use it. This is also present in Oblivion, except the weapons in Fallout lose their 
 health way to quickly. After clearing out a building (the new dungeons) you will have to repair 
 or find another gun of its type to fix it. This can get annoying and is an attempt to be realistic. 
 (If this was the case, the militants in Gaza would be changing Ak47s every half hour) . The characters 
 in Fallout 3 are more realistic and are like real people, considering there are fewer NPCs then 
 in Oblivion. The game may be hard to some players since enemies do not change stats according to 
 your level, many players who venture out into the D. C waste, will soon become wasted. 
  All in all, Fallout 3 is a great and solid RPG that you must play. Even though it has learned many 
 of the mistakes made by its older brother TES Oblivion, Oblivion still reigns king of RPGs on the 
 Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago, in a vault far, far away, PC RPGs were peaking and the world was introduced to 
 the world of Fallout. Success followed, and fast forwarding to today we have the third installment. 
 Bethesda has taken the helm this time around, and even though many a die-hard fan worried themselves 
 sick over this news, Fallout 3 didn't turn out so bad after all.
  The basic premise is that the world has had its butt handed to it through the liberal use of nuclear 
 weaponry. Children cried, parents cursed the world, and Mother Nature took a leave of absence. 
 Luckily for you, as a born resident of one of Vault-Tech's vaults, you managed to survive the ordeal 
 and grew up knowing nothing but the inside of that very vault.
  The game starts off at your birth, and through some new-fangled equipment your father has, you 
 are able to see what you'll look like when you're all grown up. This is where you get to make your 
 character look as normal or abnormal as you please. Facial features and the like can all be tweaked 
 to your liking, and there is a surprisingly large list of facial hair for you to choose from. Whether 
 you want to look like Hitler or Hulk Hogan, there's a moustache and beard for everyone.
  Once you've got your mug shot nailed down, you're tasked with some basic control sequences to get 
 your bearings through the use of some clever little sequences. Then, in the blink of an eye, you've 
 grown up and ready to take the G. O. A. T. The G. O. A. T is a basic test that all vault residents have 
 to take when they've become of age. You'll be asked a series of questions, most of which are quite 
 humorous, and based on your answers you are assigned a career in the vault. This is just where 
 you get to mess around with your starting statistics, and you can change them if your results don't 
 seem to line up quite the way you hoped they would by talking to the teacher after the test. Shortly 
 thereafter, you're thrown into a scene where you've been woken up by a friend. You're father has 
 escaped the fault, and now the baddies are on the way to take their frustration out on you. Obviously 
 the next move is to escape the vault and go looking for pops, simultaneously saving your own behind 
  and so you do just that.
  You step out of the vault for the first time in your life, seeing the sun for the first time as 
 well. As you would expect, you're eyes do back flips as they try and take all that light in. Once 
 the glare dies down, you get to see the wasteland in all its gloryif you want to call it that. 
 For as far as the eye can see (or console/pc will allow, anyway) the wasteland is just that  a 
 wasteland. Debris and rubble from fallen buildings and blown over trees are everywhere. Dust blows 
 across the land almost constantly without much to stop it. Demolished cars and road signs sit where 
 they were right before the bombs went off, some of them miles from where they stood originally. 
 All sappy, descriptive language aside, Fallout 3 is a pretty bland looking game. That's not to 
 say the graphics are not technically impressive, because they are. However, you can only look at 
 so much wasteland before you start zoning out on your travels instead of being in awe of your surroundings. 
 From a design standpoint, it was obviously necessary, but that doesn't mean you'll notice it any 
 less.
  The PC is the obvious champion in terms of graphics, as it usually is. With Fallout though, it 
 seems to be a bit more noticeable than usual. The caveat amongst the three platforms here, outside 
 of aliasing and draw distance, is the lighting. The PC has the highest brightness, although to 
 be fair it can look too bright some times. The 360 is somewhere in the middle, but in some cave 
 instances you'll be hard pressed to find some things. The PS3 is just a black hole from what I've 
 seen. Whether or not it was the TV set up or not, the whole game was considerably darker than the 
 other two platforms. It didn't render it unplayable, but it obviously could be annoying when looking 
 for things in some areas.
  In other graphical news, Fallout 3 is a pretty generic looking game. Many people have given the 
 game the nickname "Oblivion with guns," and they're not far off the mark. Bethesda has used the 
 same engine that was used in Oblivion, and tweaked it for better performance. The running gag with 
 the 50's sty1e posters and setting are all well done, but the character models are far from super 
 distinguishable. Apparently the eating habits of post-nuclear war survivors allows for absolutely 
 no obesity. Score one for skinny people! The texturing and all things related are great, and the 
 bland palette looks about as good as you'd hope it could, but damn are the animations ugly! I for 
 one was hoping that during the transition from Oblivion, Bethesda would actually go out and look 
 at how people run. Fallout also suffers from Oblivion's horrendous AI path finding, although you 
 could say it's marginally improved. All around, Fallout is as graphically impressive as brown, 
 white, and black can look, with some problems scattered throughout.
  For as bland as the world looks, you'd hope you would have some sort of music to fall back on to 
 kill the monotony. You won't find much support though, just a very limited selection of 50's music 
 playing on one of the available radio stations still operating, and another that doesn't provide 
 much either. Turn the radio off, and all you have to keep you company in the wastes is the sound 
 of blowing dusthuzzah!
  Once you're done staring out into the wasteland for the first time, you begin the search for pops, 
 and that's pretty much what the first portion of the game is all about. Without going into much 
 detail, you'll be involved in some heavy political battles, meet up with some super cool personalities 
 and some not so cool ones, and find your way throughout the game's story line at your leisure. 
 Fallout has quite a large number of available side quests, and although some of them are dependent 
 on where you are in the main story line, most of them can be done whenever you happen upon them. 
 As with almost every game these days, Fallout has the whole good and evil mechanic tied into most 
 all of your actions. Every action has a consequence, yada yada yada  you know the deal. This system 
 isn't any different than the hordes of other RPGs that have adopted this mechanic, so no real explanation 
 is necessary.
  When you're not worrying about the wrath of an undetonated atomic bomb that may or may not be watching 
 your moral actions, you'll be blasting fools and foolbots with all manner of weaponry. Fallout's 
 world is populated with the remains of the weapons that were kicking around pre-war. That means 
 that you'll be doing a lot of repairing, or paying someone else to do it for you. You can also 
 build your own weapons too when you pick up some schematics. Building your own gear can lead to 
 some pretty random, but awesome, weaponry and so picking up some of the seemingly random objects 
 you'll come across in your travels may be worth picking up. Once you have your weapon of choice, 
 you can then choose how you want to take baddies out with it. You've got two options: kick it FPS 
 sty1e, or use the V. A. T. S (Vault-tech assisted targeting system) . Your Pip-boy (super high tech 
 inventory controlling wrist watch of the future) controls V. A. T. S, and is useable when you have 
 points built up to use it. The system allows you to pause the game and pick a limb, or limbs, of 
 your enemy to shoot at. Based on your skills which we'll get to shortly, and your distance from 
 the baddy, you'll have a certain percentage chance to hit your target. Generally speaking, V. A. T. S 
 is the way to go when it comes to battling in Fallout. Unfortunately, the system can make the game 
 way too easy after a while. Even so, this is forgivable thanks to the Bloody Mess perk.
  Your skills and what perks you choose effect your experience throughout the game in numerous ways. 
 Your basic stats you chose when you took the G. O. A. T provide your starting skill levels. Once you 
 level, you'll have points to allocate to a bunch of different skills depending on how you want 
 to play the game. Perks on the other hand, add a twist to just about everything in the game. You 
 can choose one perk per level, and each has its own characteristics. Some will let you boost your 
 stats further than you would normally per level, while others like the aforementioned Bloody Mess 
 perk add a unique twist to many a situation. Some of these perks have multiple levels, but most 
 of them are a one shot deal. These perks definitely add a special something to the game and are 
 a highlight of the game play.
  Fallout 3 will last about 12 to 20 hours for your first play through depending on how much you 
 make use of the fast travel option and how many side quests you undertake along the way. Stick 
 to the main story alone and you'll be able to blast through it pretty quickly. However, the world 
 of Fallout 3 is made much less dry by exploring and doing these side quests. Thanks to the new 
 expansion, Operation Anchorage, Fallout's play time has been extended. I can't speak to the expansion 
 too much, but based on what I've seen it would be worth picking up if you enjoy your stay in Fallout's 
 original world and need a reason to dive back in.
  As a whole, Fallout 3 is a great game. It provides some great moments and exciting game play even 
 though they may be few and far between. It's a solid entry to a series that has some of the most 
 die-hard fans around, and even if you haven't played the previous Fallout games, you'll more than 
 likely get a good understanding as to what all the fuss is about. If you can get around its bland 
 visuals, however technically impressive, and don't mind the constant sound of blowing dust, Fallout 
 3 will deliver up a hot slice of western RPG goodness. 
  
  Epic-O-Meter: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:24 am PT
Review:  Well let me start by saying that I have played fallout 1 and 2 and consider fallout 2 to be probably 
 the best game for its time in existences for its day. That's saying a lot. For most people you 
 wont understand what I'm saying cause most have not even played the originals. I probably have 
 quite a couple hundred hours invested in number 2.
  
  Well lets start with the perks. Well everything: huge map, lots to do and see. Stories not all 
 that bad too. Definitely game of the year material. So I'm not going to talk about what I like 
 rather then what I think of it.
  
  Well the shooter aspect is a little off. When you try to not use VATS everything just seems to 
 happen so fast. So your kinda forces to use VATS 99% of the time. So its still more or less to 
 me like a first person live strategic game that's coming across as a huge improvement in terms 
 of evolutionary development for the game series. Compared to say fallout 2 this game is still more 
 or less a 'killing only game'. You have to be trained with weapons and be able to defend yourself 
 cause that's a huge part of what the game plays all about. In number 2 you can actually get away 
 with a non violent path and beat the game. Now these games are different. The old one you spent 
 most of your time in town and such where you can talk your way out of anything and anytime you 
 were in a random battle out on the map it was not hard to run away. So the only major path differences 
 that I see for replay is how good or bad you are in the karma department. 
  
  Either way, this game is great and is a must have to play. Its an instant classic and I cant wait 
 for the future expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an undisputed masterpiece. A more interesting debate is where it ranks all-time, though 
 that is difficult as there are so many different eras of gaming. Suffice it to say this game would 
 make the top ten list of most gamers, unquestionably so for the past few years. 
  There are two elements that make this game remarkable. The first is the VATS combat system. Even 
 after 50 hours of gameplay, I am astounded at the variation of how my victims will end up. Fragging 
 has rarely (if ever) been this fun! The second is the brobdingnagian (I have never used this word 
 in a review, but one has to get across the point as to how big this world is to explore) game map. 
 After playing for a while (the first part of the game in megaton is boring) and realizing how cool 
 this game was, I had an intense desire to find every single area. 50 hours later, I have not deviated 
 from that plan.
  At times things slow down a bit; you may get bored of a certain area (subways, etc) , but the map 
 is so big and there is so much to do, you will simply go someplace else and return later at your 
 leisure. 
  The main quest is very good, but the surprise here is that the side quests are very good as well. 
 Take em or leave em, but the good ones will reward you with new weapons, perks, etc. and you will 
 be wanting that. 
  One of the best aspects of the game is character development. Customizing your style of play is 
 up to you. You start off pretty weak, but can level up fast and quickly specialize before branching 
 off at a later point. 
  A question frequently arising on this board is whether this is a "true" Fallout game, or an Oblivion 
 clone, or a hybrid. As a gamer old enough to have played and enjoyed the original, I confess I 
 do miss the strategic element of the original style of Fallout combat with action points. On the 
 other hand, it was very time consuming and you didn't always want to deal with it. IDEALLY they 
 would have incorporated some of that into Fallout 3. Perhaps this would have lead to me giving 
 it a perfect score. Some elements of the game ARE similar to Oblivion... particularly some of the 
 sound effects (wind, etc) , the way the sky turns dark, but it is in no way a clone. Mercifully 
 there is no endless series of boring towers to climb as in Oblivion. 
  Though there are patterns of indoor environments that are used quite a bit (subways, houses, sewers, 
 etc) there is still enough variation even within these to keep up the interest. And like I said, 
 if you get bored of sewers or museums, or whatever, you can avoid going into them for hours on 
 end while exploring somewhere else. 
  Along with the great deal of exploring comes another bonus: you can go where you want when you 
 want. You can go in practically any order, and explore places long before they appear on your map 
 marker as a quest. The feel of searching or even wandering about is well paced and immerse. You 
 will frequently just pause to marvel at the landscape or urban surroundings. 
  Gameplay IS a 10. Movement, combat, accessing information from your PIP Boy, etc, is all smooth 
 and nearly flawless. OK, so maybe I would just like to press M to see the map instead of toggling 
 my Pip Boy, and pressing V is a bit awkward initially to go to VATS, but those are minor complaints.
 
  Kudos to allowing your character to hold unlimited ammo (it has no weight) . Yes it is unrealistic, 
 but who would want to keep transferring ammo to a safe place every few minutes for fear of getting 
 weighed down?
  One could argue the game is too easy. Then again, I still have the difficulty at normal. Those 
 looking for a greater challenge should definitely notch it up harder. 
  The bottom line is I look forward to playing every day. While not as addicting as a Civ 3 or Rome 
 Total war, I find myself returning time and again, and will probably keep playing until every last 
 scrap of territory is uncovered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penacilen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is easily the best game I have ever played. It's gameplay is the perfect mix of action 
 and RPG. Perfect for anyone who even thinks they like RPGs. 
  This game features great voice acting, fights, side quests, side events, and is overall awesome.
 
  The online communities and mod sites are active and abundant. You will never ask for more, because 
 of the extra Downloadable Content packs, and huge game to begin with. I have played for about 30 
 hours and I haven't even seem half the map!
  I still love it, and I still want to keep playing. It will take a long time before this game will 
 bore me.
  The main quest is incredible but isn't even the butter of the game! The fact that you are in a 
 wasteland environment, free to do whatever, is the main draw of Fallout 3.
  Get this game!
  --  Love Smoglybilly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackener
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  Hey, wassup
  
  Fallout 3 is probably one of my favorite games this year. The VATS combat really makes fights extremely 
 gory, bloody and enjoyable. The leveling and skill progression system is very similar to the one 
 in oblivion which is stable and fun, the graphic of the game are amazing with a good or bad computer 
 and runs surprisingly well on my sisters old computer. The main story doesn't last as long as the 
 one in oblivion but is still extremely fun, plus, there are heaps of side quests, and, there are 
 also many user mods which make the game REALLY fun. Its really fun to have the freedom to wander 
 around and explore the wasteland which is filled with many locations such as metro stations, and 
 theer is a huge variety of enemies to fight along the way.
  
  Overall fallout 3 is a must-have game and im sure any one would like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quros
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 12:06 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  - VATS is a great innovation in Fallout 3.
  - Very addictive, interesting main story and great side quest.
  - Can create our own character 
 personality.
  - Allows variety of good builds from a wide choice of skills and perks.
  - Great game for mature players since the conversations are realistic.
  - Nice selection of weapons 
 including the custom weapons.
  - GECK allow players to expand the game themselves.
  - The patch from the official website really fixes most of the bugs in the game.
  - Interesting 
 DLC. Operation: Anchorage is a good expansion and hoping more to come.
  
  Cons:
  One thing that should be in the game is the ability to free roam the world and complete side quests 
 after finishing the main storyline.
  
  p/s: In my opinion, the game is still best played with XboX 360 controller even though I played 
 it on PC platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellifort
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a surprisingly good game. Bethesda software have done a great work recreating the 
 Fallout universe, unknown to some of the new gamers, and brought back the emotion of the series. 
 
  
  "You're the one who can change the world." Never before this phrase fitted so well in a game description 
 like this time. Every little decision you take in the game, will DEFINITELY change your future 
 giving this game a good reason to be played and played over and over again. But when you think 
 this game will only be role-playing at all, you take a battle and discover you were wrong. With 
 the V. A. T. S (Vault-tec Assisted Targeting System) , showing you the probability of hit and how far 
 you are from crippling a limb of the enemy, the gameplay becomes more exciting, with more action, 
 making not only the story the main attractive of the game. At all, you have so many options to 
 complete a quest, such as lying, kill everybody, use your stealth skills, and plenty more. 
  The game performance is awesome, assuming you have the recommended PC, you will have a great experience 
 of gameplay, where you can choose between keyboard and mouse or a xbox 360 controller if you have. 
 The graphics look really good, with so beautiful textures a nice designed radiated water an awesome 
 physics, were you can blow an enemy's brain with a bullet or turn him into dust with a laser weapon, 
 or even making the body of a jumping creature turn in the air with your shot, and the looks of 
 human faces are impressive.
  
  Fallout 3 has all the reasons to stay always on top, because anyone can enjoy this great game for 
 a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLICKViP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the highly anticipated follow up to Fallout 2, but this time with a change of developer. 
 Bethesda has taken the reins and while factors of Fallout 3 can be said in the same breath to that 
 of Bethesda's other big release, Oblivion, it does not do the game justice to call it 'Oblivion 
 with guns'. Yes people, this is Fallout.
  
  The story begins with you born as a baby, where your main features are created and the backbone 
 of the story is set. As you mature in your home, Vault 101, you suddenly find that your dad is 
 missing, and has left the vault and soon you embark on an adventure to find him. This is one of 
 the first opportunities to try out the combat system. You will soon realise this is not just as 
 straight up shooter. VATS, or Vault Tec Assisted Targeting System is used as a compromise to this, 
 but it also presents a strategic element which is very effective. Shoot an enemy in the leg so 
 their advances towards you are slower, shoot their gun off or just blast their head off with a 
 shotgun. By the way, the bloodied effects never get old. 
  
  As you leave the vault, you are suddenly blinded by light, which then gives way to a nuclear wasteland. 
 This sets the setting perfectly as it makes you just want to look around to see what you can find. 
 I am not going to spoil anything but I found some dark and disturbing things in this world. Normally 
 serene places like libraries are now strongholds for enemies such as raiders and the use of this 
 juxtaposing highlights the sense of almost fear within the game.
  
  The sound is another strong point of the game. It is used to create a great sense of atmosphere 
 within the world, and this ranges from the silence of the wasteland, emphasising the loneliness 
 of the area and the crescendo when you come across an enemy.
  
  Exploration is duly awarded; for example you might find a cool new weapon, of which there are many 
 (FAT MAN) . Experience points are even awarded and this neatly brings me onto the levelling system. 
 This system is more combat oriented, where you mainly get experience points from popping a yellow 
 guy's face; basically shooting stuff. As you level up, you add points to various attributes ranging 
 from repair if you feel like you want to be the engineer type guy, to sneak, if you prefer the 
 stealthy approach. It is a clean and easy to use system, but I feel that the level cap is a bit 
 small. 
  
  In conclusion, Fallout 3 is one of the best games to come out in a long time, combining RPG and 
 shooter elements to create a magnificent world which is waiting to be explored.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_ace3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I have this for the PC, and I must say that it is an incredible game. The graphics are Really sharp 
 and very well done, even at High settings.
  
  The game gives you a big world to explore at your convenience, and some cool weapons. Although 
 ammo can be hard to come by in the early levels. Also, Fallout's enemies are controlled by some 
 pretty impressive AI, which is a HUGE step up from Bethesda's previous installment, TES 4 Oblivion.
 
  
  It's easy to make your character and excel at his/her talents. At present I play a stealthy sniper 
 type character, and the stealth system is very good and engaging, which becomes almost overpowered 
 after level 12.
  
  The storyline could be better but I'm not complaining much about it, as it begins (spoiler) with 
 your father leaving the vault, and such (I'm not saying any more, find out for yourselves) .
  
  Now for the negative aspect: the technical problems, and there are a LOT of them. due to the 
 game being rushed. Bethesda's latest patch did nothing to solve the problem, while introducing 
 new ones.
  
  But if you're willing to overlook the problems, Fallout 3 will prove to be a great game, well worth 
 the money spent.
  
  Oh and one last thing, DO NOT PLAY THIS IF YOU HAVE A QUAD-CORE CPU AND/OR 64 BIT OS!!!!!! Fallout 
 3 isn't optimized for quad-core and 64 bit operating systems. Yet. Fortunately, I avoided this 
 problem by having a dual core and 32 bit Windows. But even that won't prevent the inevitable technical 
 issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepsen1977
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the long awaited sequel to the first two Fallout games made by Black Isle Studies 
 in the late nineties. This time it's Bethesda who has a go at a post apocalyptic wasteland. The 
 Fallout community is a rabid bunch and has expressed serious concerns over what they labelled "Oblivion 
 with guns". I loved Fallout 2 for its dark humour, gritty universe, turn-based combat, isometric 
 view and open world just waiting for you to explore. But I'm not a Fallout fan boy and the first 
 two games had their share of problems. So how does Fallout 3 fare as a game?
  
  You start the game by literally being dropped from your mum's vagina. You live in Vault 101 with 
 your dad who raises you. As a toddler you find a children's book and from there on you create your 
 character using the SPECIAL system known from the first two games. Vault 101 acts as a tutorial 
 much like the first dungeon in Oblivion. It works really well in Fallout 3 and you get to try out 
 various forms of gameplay like stealth, combat (VATS) , Pipboy etc. It's really immersive and it 
 pulls you into the game. The downside to this tutorial is that it hurts replay value a bit because 
 going through it again is not as fun and you can't skip it. Soon your dad (voiced by a brilliant 
 Liam Neeson) leaves the Vault and the main quest is that you must escape and find your dad.
  
  When you first leave the vault and step out into the sunlight the view is spectacular. The 
 wasteland has never looked better and the view distance is greatly improved from Oblivion. The 
 engine is the same from Oblivion but is optimized better to fit Fallout's setting. The graphics 
 look pretty good but they still have some of the "blockiness" from Oblivion. HDR looks good but 
 like many new games bloom is overused and it gives everything a "shiny feel" that's a bit out of 
 place in a wasteland setting. Faces are better but they still have that stiff stare that makes 
 them look unnatural. Character models also look good but there are some clipping issues and texture 
 pop-ins from time to time. For an RPG the game looks really good and the toned down colour palette 
 helps building immersion and running around in the wasteland will treat you with destroyed houses 
 and cars, ruins, burnt bushes and roaming monsters like rad scorpions, molerats, super mutants 
 etc. and everything looks appropriate.
  
  Sound is much better than Oblivion. Liam Neeson deserves special praise for his voice work as your 
 father. His calm and authoritative voice really brings the world to life. The only bad thing is 
 that he really doesn't have much "screen time" and is underused. Some of the same voice actors 
 from Oblivion show up in Fallout but they generally do a better job. They also hired more voice 
 actors this time so you will not hear many repeating voices. The ghouls of the game especially 
 are well done from a sound perspective. Guns and explosions sound epic and overall sound is well 
 done by Bethesda.
  
  The big question when it comes to gameplay is if Bethesda could recreate "the Fallout experience" 
 from the first two games and in some ways they succeeded and in others they failed. The first thing 
 you will see is the change in perspective from an isometric view to a first-person view. Some Fallout 
 fans feel this is a betrayal of the series and of the RPG roots but I personally like the first-person 
 perspective. It helps create immersion because it puts your right in the centre of action unlike 
 an isometric view where you, the gamer, are more detached from the game. Exploring the wasteland 
 around Washington DC is great fun and there are a lot to do. In the Bethesda tradition much of 
 the fun comes from simply running around this big open world and explore the setting, killing mobs, 
 solving side quests, collecting loot etc. This is where Fallout 3 is at its best. There are numerous 
 side quests ranging from disarming a bomb, making a wasteland survival guide, solving a dispute 
 between ghouls and humans in a tower, to collecting holotags or finding a home for a lost child. 
 The side missions are the generally good but the quality of the writing is subpar and often it's 
 downright appalling. Because everything is voiced the number of options you have in a dialogue 
 is limited and it gives conversations a disjointed feel. The main quest is the weakest part of 
 the game and is almost nonsensical. Suspension of disbelief can only take you so far and Fallout 
 3 oversteps this. To make matters worse the game has the worst ending I have ever seen in a game 
 and further more when the story ends so does the game. You can no longer continue to play like 
 you could in the first games. The game also continues the annoying trend in modern RPG's where 
 your actions during the game almost have no influence on the ending. The main storyline and ending 
 is terrible and I hope Bethesda will spend more money next time on some decent writers. 
  
  The core of the old Fallout games was the SPECIAL system (strength, perception, endurance, charisma, 
 intelligence, agility, luck) that allowed some true role playing. Fallout 3 also uses this system 
 (a modified GURPS) but it's much watered down. Charisma doesn't influence how many NPCs that will 
 follow you, intelligence doesn't give you smarter options in dialogues (intelligence only give 
 you the obvious facts) , luck only have a minor impact on critical hits etc. Another change is that 
 you now get a perk every level. A perk is a way to improve your character with specific abilities. 
 You can get perks like: better criticals, more XP, carry more weight, improve hit points etc. But 
 again Bethesda fails because everything is so dumbed down that your avatar can do pretty much everything 
 anyway. You will get lots of critical hits no matter what your luck is and you will do massive 
 amounts of damage no matter what. During the game you will also get plenty of ammo and medkits 
 (I ended the game with 215 stimpacks) and money that most enemies will not give you much of a problem. 
 You will also have tag skills like small guns, big guns, speech, barter etc. Just like in Fallout 
 1 and 2 you will pretty much end up with a small guns, speech, and something else kind of character. 
 But unlike the first games replay value is really not that good in Fallout 3. You can create a 
 different character but the experience will be pretty much the same. The game simply doesn't allow 
 much variety and the use of the more specialized skills like energy weapons, barter or science 
 is too rare to be of much use. 
  
  Combat in Fallout 1 and 2 were turn-based and in Fallout 3 they have tried to imitate that with 
 VATS that lets you freeze time and make targeted shots directed at certain body parts like the 
 head, torso, legs etc. Then the computer takes over and you see the shots in third person and if 
 you hit and kill the enemy then you will see some gory deaths. It works well and it uses your skills 
 in small guns plus luck (or whatever weapon you use) . But VATS makes combat seem disjointed because 
 it takes control away from you and changes perspective. If you try to fight in real-time like a 
 FPS then you will be frustrated. You can at close range empty entire clips into a super mutant's 
 head and not kill it. It's almost like the game is trying to punish you for not using VATS. So 
 VATS end up being the lesser of two evils and that's a shame. Let me say that combat in this game 
 is not really bad but it's not good either  it's adequate/mediocre. Role playing is also weak 
 in Fallout 3. Often people will not respond to what you have done. You can shoot people but if 
 they are essential to the plot they will just fall down and then get back up again and tell you 
 to don't do that. Often the moral choices in the game are so black and white that it becomes a 
 choice between Jesus and Satan. A middle ground would have been nice and the first two games had 
 that. As an RPG Fallout 3 is rather weak and there are always ways to improve your karma or decrease 
 it.
  
  I never buy new games but I made an exception with Fallout 3. Now I know why I wait and it's because 
 of bugs. This game (even with the 1.1 patch) has numerous bugs ranging from texture pop-ins to 
 CTD to stuttering and frame-rate drops. Sometimes when loading a save game your character will 
 freeze and you can not move him and you will have to load a previous save. None of these bugs are 
 game breaking but they are annoying. VATS can also be buggy if you come too close to an enemy. 
 You will then have to exit and step back a little and then re-enter VATS. So my advice is to wait 
 until more patches have been made before you buy the game. Its clear Bethesda used the famous "ship 
 now  patch later" mentality.
  
  All in all Fallout 3 is not a bad game. It just feels shallow compared to the classics in the RPG 
 genre. It's a much better game than Oblivion and doesn't have the annoying level-scaling system 
 from that game. Through the 60 hours it will take you to do most of the quests in the game you 
 are for the most part well entertained. It's a fun rump through the wasteland killing and exploring. 
 But the hand-holding that the game has soon becomes annoying for those of us who grew up with Baldur's 
 Gate, Planescape Torment, Fallout or even Morrowind. Fallout 3 is empty calories  its fast-food 
 for a lazy and overweight generation who don't want to work too much. Fast-food can be fun and 
 enjoyable from time to time but eat too much and it can kill you. Play too many games like Fallout 
 3 and it can kill the video-gaming spirit in you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the best game i have ever played. I don't like it much as an RPG, i mean with the 3rd 
 person camera, but as an FPS (first person camera) . It's plot is completely amazing and it has a 
 really satisfying longevity for me. The weapons are really cool and i believe they reflect the future 
 weapons and technology successfully. I haven't encountered so many glitches and from the ones i 
 detected ,none of them are so bad and annoying.
  
  The only disadvantage is that there are not any good expressions in the faces of the people but 
 i don't consider this as a problem because i don't care much about the graphics and stuff.... I 
 care most about the game play. And fallout 3 rocks in this factor!!!!! 
  
  I highly recommend it for everyone!!! i have played fallout 3 all night once and i didn't even notice. when 
 i stopped i thought it was only 23:00 or something. But IT WAS 6:00...!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac_ska
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most innovative and immersive game I've played.. It seems hard at the beginning 
 with so much to learn and read... It takes nearly 5 to 6 hours to get acquainted with the pip-boy 
 system. Once you get a hang of it, you know exactly what to do... Handling the various missions 
 (main and optional/ extra) does have an impact on the ending of the game... so watch out! I had 
 decided to play a 'Good' character, so I compromised on lots of goodies in the game... moreover, 
 how you respond to people also counts your attitude and 'karma'... The hacking and lock picking 
 system is also great, in someways different from 'BioShock' but was relevant in the settings and 
 environment of the game... Graphics and sounds are great... I must commend the music/ radio stations 
 that played through 'GNR station' were superb... (if you have the liking to songs of the late 40's) ... 
 It played pretty smooth on my pc (Intel C2Duo, 2.2GHz, 2GB RAM DDR, 512 MB NVidia 8500 GT)
  
  One disappointment for me was that there were vehicles to drive, though it is acceptable considering 
 the game environment and post-nuclear war setting... However, playing the game is difficult due 
 to the limit on the number of items you can carry... (similar to STALKER) Finally, if you are a 
 game freak... and want to get your hands on a really satisfying experience of really 'ageing through 
 the game' and moulding your character... then you will definitely enjoy this title.... But, if 
 you are the Rambo types, then, you will be disappointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clogdog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of Oblivion, I was quite excited to get Fallout 3. As I don't have much time to play games 
 at home, I played Oblivion for 2+ years... a little at a time... so I definitely got my money's worth. 
 I was really looking forward to having the same calibre of roleplay from Bethesda, but set in a 
 post-nuclear apocalypse world.
  
  After playing for a month or so now, I'm not disappointed. It's the kind of game I could spend 
 hours and hours playing (until my wife rolls her eyes and asks, "Are you STILL playing that stupid 
 game??")
  
  Bethesda has tweaked up some of the silly things from Oblivion; for example, when you exceed your 
 weight limit for carrying items, you don't suddenly stop - unable to move another step. Instead, 
 you're prevented from running and must walk until you lighten your load. A bit more realistic.
 
  
  Walking through the wasteland is brilliant. The graphics are exceptional, and you can really feel 
 the isolation standing in the middle of bombed-out buildings and stripped trees.
  
  Some negatives: You level too fast in the game, which can cause you to top out quickly. There's 
 a silly thing which tells you before looking in a container that it's empty. Also, like Oblivion, 
 there's no "reality" engine forcing you to eat and, especially to drink, to stay alive. However, 
 all of these can be remedied with community mods. In fact, I imagine almost anything you don't 
 like about the game can be improved with mods (hence, I'd recommend the PC version!)
  
  All in all, I think it's deserving of Game of the Year. I'm looking forward to downloadable content, 
 and to playing this for some time to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Too start off, this game is amazing, its like playing a whole new oblivion.... This game does not 
 let down and it is one of my favorites. 
  
  When I popped the game into my drive I started a new game (obviously) . Immediately I was amazed 
 by the graphics, they were great. So I chose my race, customized my character and played on. When 
 I obtained the BB gun, I instantly loved the combat. VATS (Vault-Tech Assisted Targeting System, 
 for those who don't know) is incredible, nothing else like it. So I kept going, as soon as I got 
 a real gun, I was even more amazed, even the 10mm pistol (at first) was very fun to shoot. The 
 enemies are well built and fun to fight. There are a large variety of weapons, from pistols to 
 mini nuke launchers. There are also a variety of enemies, from fire ants to enormous super mutants. 
 If your looking for a new action or role playing game then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:39 am PT
Review:  Take in the sights and sounds of the vast Capital Wasteland! See the great monuments of the United 
 States lying in post-apocalyptic ruin! You make the choices that define you and change the world. 
 Just keep an eye on your Rad Meter! 
  Vault-Tec engineers bring you the latest in human ability simulation  the SPECIAL Character System! 
 Utilizing new breakthroughs in points-based ability representation, SPECIAL affords unlimited customization 
 of your character. Also included are dozens of unique skills and perks to choose from, each with 
 a dazzling variety of effects 
  The wizards at Vault-Tec have done it again! No longer constrained to just one view, experience 
 the world from 1st or 3rd person perspective. Customize your view with the touch of a button 
 
  Feeling like a dastardly villain today, or a Good Samaritan? Pick a side or walk the line, as 
 every situation can be dealt with in many different ways. Talk out your problems in a civilized 
 fashion, or just flash your Plasma Rifle 
  At Vault-Tec, we realize that the key to reviving civilization after a global nuclear war is people. 
 Our best minds pooled their efforts to produce an advanced version of Radiant AI, America's First 
 Choice in Human Interaction Simulation. Facial expressions, gestures, unique dialog, and lifelike 
 behavior are brought together with stunning results by the latest in Vault-Tec technology 
  Witness the harsh realities of nuclear fallout rendered like never before in modern super-deluxe 
 HD graphics. From the barren Wasteland, to the danger-filled offices and metro tunnels of DC, to 
 the hideous rotten flesh of a mutant's face. 
  Even the odds in combat with the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System for your Pip-Boy Model 3000! 
 V. A. T. S. allows you to pause time in combat, target specific body parts on your target, queue up 
 attacks, and let Vault-Tec take out your aggression for you. Rain death and destruction in an all-new 
 cinematic presentation featuring gory dismemberments and spectacular explosions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a special videogame. It's an open-world role-playing game that delivers an experience 
 unlike anything on the market right now. It's a gripping and expansive showcase of how much depth 
 and excitement can be packed into one videogame, and it does justice to the Fallout franchise. 
 This sequel is the first made by Bethesda, the developers responsible for The Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion. You don't need to play any of their past games or any previous Fallout games to enjoy 
 this one. It stands on its own as a memorable and well-crafted videogame. 
  
  The Fallout universe paints a picture of a dystopian future. It exists in what people on the cusp 
 of the atomic revolution in the 1950s saw as the sci-fi world of tomorrow... if several thousand 
 nuclear bombs were dropped on it. It's a quaint sci-fi view of a future filled with atomic cars, 
 robot servants, and incredibly basic computer terminals. A nuclear war has taken away most of these 
 technological comforts, providing the backdrop for a game with a dreary, desperate atmosphere filled 
 with glib and dark humor. It's a world that is both fantastic and somehow believable. And it is 
 one that's exciting to explore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought it in late october, and before the game is patched it crash crazy on my computer and crash 
 sometimes 2-3 times in an hour, with the patch, I'm able to finish the game 4 times along with 
 all sidequests and explore all the location wth about 150 hours of gameplay.
  
  It's hard to describle, you can get addicted to it really soon, with its amazing storyline and 
 exploring, it definitly worth the wait and live along some of the factors of fallout and oblivion, 
 tactically it's a fallout version of a oblivion, which is good.
  
  I love the perks choose and your own decision to be bad or good guys, as I played them both, you 
 can even become cannibal or the best hope of humanity, it's all your choices.
  
  Sadly, the main quests life ends along with your story. So it's a must for me to recommend you 
 to ignore the main quest (after vault 87) and explore the entire wasteland before you finish the 
 game in the main quest.
  
  Because it was a real disappointment when I finished the game in 13 hours if you focus entirely 
 on the main quest. 
  
  The capital wasteland is radiated, full of deaths and explodion. However, the feels of death can 
 get too much.. it's fulled of hostile creatures and enemies that hunt you on sight. The radiated 
 feels haunt too much for thats are almost no friendly zone, at all.
  
  The people are real too few, and not too much survivors. All vaults residences are dead except 
 your own 101. 
  
  Even for the largest settlement like Rivet city or megaton are around 40-50 people.
  
  The 
 sidequest are too few, in memorandum of oblivion that can have a lots.
  
  The washington D. C area, most of the places are inaccessible that roads are blocked by fallen concrete.. and 
 sometimes you are forced to go one route underground.. which is a way I dislike.
  
  Presentation:9/10
  Graphic:8/10
  Gameplay:9.5/10
  Sound:9/10
  Overrall:9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikaserge
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  The game gets you really involved in the story. It really grows on you as you play and keep discovering 
 new skills and features. It's well played with a controller as well, which I find best. The VATS 
 system is really cool and helpful. It is quite clever in the way you have different ways to achieve 
 the same thing, with different levels of difficulty. You can accept or refuse missions by selecting 
 your answer during a dialogue. I've noticed most dialogue give you at least three response types: 
 Positive, Neutral and Negative.
  The major score of the game is in the way it makes you feel in control and makes the story yours; 
 with the way it lets you customize your character's looks, skills and decisions.
  You can play in first or third person shooter, but first person is definitely built for it.
  
 Nice one Bethesda!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynam3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a Masterpiece, I highly recommend this game to anyone, it is a must have.
  
  The Story is driven by Mystery, set in the post apocalyptic future but in strangely familiar 1950s 
 feel, You live in vault 101 and escape because of your father, you are to explore the wasteland 
 in search of your father. The Story is average and I wont get into details but it was a bit disappointing 
 especially at the end. But the gameplay just holds it together and makes the game amazing nevertheless 
 .
  
  It is very clear that the game is very similar to Oblivion because of its animation and feel. Your 
 best friend in Fallout 3 is your pip-boy, a thing you get at the start of the game, it holds your 
 inventory, objectives and leveling up status, basically like an organizer. As you travel the wasteland 
 you will find locations. There arent alot of buildings in fallout 3, but basically all buildings 
 you can enter and all items you see you can literally pick-up. The controls are great and like 
 a normal first person shooter, the 3rd person veiw is terrible so dont go in that mode.
  
  You have a currency in the game which are bottlecaps left from the pre-war era. The weapons are 
 exceptional ranging from a chainsaw sword to a Laser Rifle. The main enimies you encounter range 
 from rangers to radioactive animals.
  
  You can only go up to lvl 20 bit the new DLC makes you go to 30, Overall this is a top notch game 
 and a salute the genre of RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenSanctum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Not being one of those people familiar to the Fallout series, I had not idea what I was getting 
 myself into. I DID NOT watch any trailers, look up what it was about or anything. All I knew was 
 it had good ratings XD. I have to say this game is extremely similar to S. T. A. L. K. E. R. The format 
 is of a RPG with customizations that I did not expect, but its also a FPS with a large variety 
 of guns and other weapons.
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  The graphics are really nice in this game. When you first start the game it will find the optimized 
 graphics settings by itself. (and its pretty damn accurate) It had me at medium quality. I never 
 bothered to change the graphics and the game played beautifully. There was no lag at all. The graphics 
 of this game is decent. (and its not like I want a detailed picture of peoples guts flying everywhere 
 anyways -.-) There are occasional glitches where people get stuck in the middle of walls or start 
 flying in the air. Or sometimes when you fast travel into a new place, the bodies u killed in the 
 past suddenly are still standing then fall back down from mid air.
  
  Gameplay 9/10:
  This game starts out with you being born. It allows you to customize many things including gender, 
 face shape, eyes, hair. All the components of a typical MMORPG. This was very unexpected in most 
 FPS.
  When you get into the real game (after the "prologue") it starts to get confusing if you are not 
 used to these type of games. Since the world is basically free world, you have to know how to get 
 around. After a couple hours of playing I got used to reading the map and how to get around. There 
 is also a wide selections of weapons and a customizable 1-8 weapons slot for you. Ammo and money 
 is kind of hard to come by. Money or caps (literally bottle caps) is usually earned by selling 
 loot or finishing quests. One of the coolest features of the Fallout series is its Vault-Tec Assisted 
 Targeting System. Basically it helps you aim at targets. You pick where to shoot while showing 
 you the percentage chance of hitting it. When you are down selecting its shoots in slow motion 
 and is extremely accurate. You can get one shot kills many times (depending on enemy and weapon 
 used) The leveling system is similar to that of a MMORPG, there are "skills" that you can choose 
 every time you level up. It is extremely hard to level though.
  
  Plotline 8/10:
  The plotline is a basic post-nuclear world. You are in the area of Washington D. C. trying to survive 
 and trying to find "someone" (not gonna spoil who) and figuring what is going on in the area. This 
 game was extremely interesting to me cause I have been to the D. C. area and everything was literally 
 where it was suppose to be. The museum of air and space was literally where it was. Although the 
 buildings looks different and inside wasn't the same, this helped me a lot since I knew where to 
 find stuff.
  
  Sound 7/10:
  The sound of this game is decent, most of the time you are listening to the few radio stations 
 left in the area. Sometimes they get really repetitive and the music is always the same. The music 
 played from some of the radio stations are really really bazaar. I remember one about shooting 
 someone's head off.
  
  Value 8/10:
  I have to say this is an extremely interesting game. There is plenty of stuff to customize and 
 there are many places in the D. C. Maryland area that you can explore. But one word of advise, be 
 share you have enough ammo and stimpaks before you go anywhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LetMeGetSniper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up because oblivion was an utter masterpiece and they're supposed to have similarities. 
 I was wrong, I mean when in Oblivion have you been running to a city with low health backwards 
 while nervously firing sawed-off shotgun blasts at mutated mole rats hoping you would come upon 
 a scavenger that could help bring 'em down? NEVER, but other than that they have plenty of similarities. 
 This game is pretty much open world, with some impassible rubble here and there but you can just 
 find a way around. This game much like Oblivion has a very wide range of weapons, long range, short 
 range, medium range, kind of long-ish but not medium range guns. Well you know what I mean. Well 
 if you people are so used to playing Oblivion and couldn't shoot a feral dog 3 ft away from you 
 for your pitiful lives, they have V. A. T. S a target assister. This thing can save your rear in many 
 situations, and then brighten up your day as eye-balls, brains, blood, and other parts of a head 
 rain down upon your character as their headless body trembles to the ground with a messy blood 
 fountain shooting from their torso. Well that brightens my day. Anyways, much like Oblivion this 
 game is immersive with it's open world-ness, and I actually felt attached to some of these people 
 until my darkest bastard who ever lived personality kicks in for example when some guy wants me 
 to save his mother from rad roaches. I reply HELL No and laugh as his mother is eaten alive by 
 roaches and the pansy goes and cries in the corner, or when a kid came to me while I am in the 
 wasteland and asked for help as fire breathing ants invaded his city and killed his family and 
 the neighborhood cats. Being as I said earlier the darkest bastard ever to grace Washington DC, 
 well almost (I shall not go on as some people might be offended.) I told the kid to not bother 
 me or I'll place a bullet between his eyes and scared him away with bullets (would have blown his 
 face off but Bethesda thinks it's not okay to kill kiddies but you can blow a woman's head off 
 with a freaking bazooka and loot her corpse. I personally think if they are going to stop you from 
 killing a kid then at what age are they legal to kill in game?) I love this game, I did the Oasis 
 quest accidentally while exploring, you meet this guy who is part tree and some idiots think he's 
 a God and make a cult. Needless to say I wanted to burn the freaking place to the ground, but then 
 I met the tree-man and I actually felt bad for him. So I go down (SPOILER) Chop his heart into 
 pieces and his blood got on me so now my skin is as hard as bark and I get damage resistance. Sweet! 
 So I go back and the cult was enlightened to the fact he was just some mutated tree-man. They stayed 
 there but I don't think they'll be worshiping him again. (END OF SPOILERS) This game has blown 
 my mind and taken everything I loved about Oblivion, shot it up with steroids, and gave it an assault 
 rifle and said "here's some goddamn bullets now go kill things". With a few glitches here and there 
 and maybe a game crash or two, but with amazing visuals, and a great soundtrack this game is ALMOST 
 perfect. This is a definite must buy for any gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidreza64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game offers alot. First of all i have to say that this game is very addictive specially for 
 people who are patient with quests and love doing them. Second, the graphics are outstanding. You 
 feel like you are part of the game and it really sucks you in. I personally love the story and 
 the ending but many people dont like the ending. Some quests are really fun and you enjoy doing 
 them specially at higher levels. You can hire other fighters to join you and give you a hand but 
 you must spend to get help! The VAT system is revolutionary in my opinion and its just fun to see 
 a slow motion of killing stuff. I am not fan of FPS games and most of the time just use the VAT, 
 but if you are a FPS fan then this game is a must. This game will have expansions in future and 
 i will definitly buy them. There are some powerful weapons in the game and you must try them. This 
 game definitly worth a try and If you dont like doing quests then this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:55 am PT
Review:  So first off, I won this game at christmas time. No really, I won the lunchbox limited edition 
 copy and it has been the best award I ever won. I simply could not afford this game and Left4Dead 
 when they came out at the same time so luck had it that I would eventually own both.
  Therefore playing this game was a privledge not something I HAD TO DO because I spent my money 
 on it. If it was terrible I could have just unregretfully thrown it aside and played something 
 else. As it stands today however, I have clocked well over 130 hours on this beast of a game.
 
  
  I think it is safe to say that I love this game.
  
  You all know about Fallout and it's predecessing games on the PC aswell as you know about the plot 
 and basic details of this game so I won't talk about that, again as in all my reviews I will talk 
 about WHY this game is AWESOME.
  
  GAME SIZE MATERS:
  To start I will say how huge this game is. Ok there I said it, this game is HUGE. Ok well to get 
 into more detail, if you took your nearest city, surrounding areas and general nearest towns. Imagined 
 a post apocalyptica tone, placed yourself as the main character. What would you do in that situation 
 with that square footage. Exactly. Anything you damn well wanted with enough space to do it in 
 while still having miles upon miles of places to hide when it all goes wrong.
  
  I have played through 3 times fully and I am on the 4th time now, I still have about 1 quarter 
 of the places to discover, some places I have discovered but have had no interaction with them 
 or very minimal. There is just not enough time to absorb everything in one run through and give 
 it the credit it deserves. If you were to run around and fully complete 100% getting every detail 
 out of that area 100% it would take you about 2 months to complete the entire game and you would 
 feel like you actually did it all. Not to mention the fact that your immersion would be ruined 
 and it would feel more like a slog rather than a pleasure. 
  
  That is why it requires a few run throughs to get at everything and pay attention. of course the 
 more you run through the easier it becomes and the more stuff you get done. The repeatable value 
 however, is emmense. It is that HUGE you could always find something you have not seen before, 
 seriously.
  
  SKILLS, PERKS AND COMBAT:
  Combat involves a mixture of what you normally do in an FPS (running, shooting from the hip, crouching, 
 aiming) and what you normally do in a turn based RPG (pause, think, act) . It can eitehr be a nice 
 mixture of both as you see fit or you could lean more towards one way.
  I refer of course to V. A. T. S. which is freaking awesome.
  Usually in an FPS, where you point 
 your crosshair is where the bulelts fly to with perhaps a slight miss rate. In FAllout 3 your skill 
 with said weapon affects how the bullets fly. If your skill is low your spread is larger. With 
 VATS you get the chance to pause the combat and select a body part to shoot at, and the game gives 
 you a % check towards each area depending on the range, weapon and your skill level.
  
  I think this is a smart great way of introducing something new into a game. FEAR did it with the 
 'slow motion super reflexes', Crysis did it with the 'bodysuit o'drugs' and Fallout 3 does it with 
 'Vault-tec Assisted Targetting System'. Combining your characters traits in various skilled areas 
 with the right weapon, the proper amount of thought in a combat situation and Fallout becomes less 
 of a mindless shooter and more of a tactical fresh approach to FPS games. If you are looking for 
 something that is above the standard shoot-em up, Fallout 3 has your answer.
  
  Leveling up each weapon class is a joy, testing out tactics is a joy, seeing the result of a well 
 played out ambush against greater odds is an orgasm of self marvel. You will love VATS and you 
 will wonder how you ever got by without it.
  Some reviewers comment on how it removes the immersion, I say it gives you valdidity on your kill 
 and lets you savour your thought process.
  Besides, if you don't want to use VATS you don't have to, jsut level your skills and fire the weapons 
 like any other game.
  
  IT'S IN THE DETAILS:
  So much to talk about, this review would be gigantic if I went on about the thousands of tiny things 
 this game presents. Small parts like seeing a pair of burned skeletons spooning on a bed caught 
 in a nuclear blast, finding a note from somebody trapped in a closet, holotapes about the conditions 
 in a mine, emails on computers from loved ones, rooms upon rooms of stuff. The game has more detail 
 in than any game I have ever seen.
  The people responsible for this deserve recognition because without these layers, the game's soul 
 becomes less.
  
  As if the game is not big enough, it has to toss a bunch of bits into your face to peek your curiosity, 
 to find out why that is there, why it has been done. Sometimes it can be distracting because you 
 are always thinking if the love letter, for example, will lead to something now or later or never. 
 Is somebody looking for this dead wastelander with the slaver note? Should I seek out this person 
 mentioned on the holotape?
  It gives the game so many more layers that you can not possibly see them all with clear eyes. Overwhelming 
 is another word for all of this. Your curiosity and senses get so wired in that you find it hard 
 to maintain focus on your objective, even if that objective was minor, you can lose track of what 
 it was you were going to do.
  
  IN CLOSING:
  I would like to write more but it is hard to think of everything, the game really is just massive 
 and will keep you occupied for aslong as you want it to. There is no call for you to look into 
 every book on the shelf or find every toy car in the game but it is there if you want it. The details 
 and layers and absolutly stunning action moments are worth your money alone, we hardly EVER get 
 a game like this which is why you must buy it so please do. Oblivion is great yes, the original 
 Fallout games are also great but this stands alone from them and needs your attention.
  
  Best game of 2008 for the vast majority of mainstream AND indy gamers out there, that is saying 
 something, but don't go with the masses. Go with your own sense of adventure, this game will deffinetly 
 appeal to you no matter the type of gamer you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_Gamer_94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  200 Years Later...
  
  Fallout 3 is an action role-playing game released by Bethesda Game Studios. The third major game 
 in the Fallout series, it was released in North America on October 28, 2008, in Europe and Australia 
 on October 30, 2008, and in the United Kingdom and Ireland on October 31, 2008.
  
  Fallout 1 & 2
  
  Ah, I remember my first day playing Fallout. It was a couple of years ago, 
 when gaming just started to become more popular. Seeing a game like Fallout really delighted me. 
 The story was magnificent, the sounds were just perfect and the gameplay.... just amazing. Atributes, 
 skills, combos and many more. This was really a great game and a great RPG. 
  A year later, Fallout 2 came around my house. The game was the same as its predecessor, which is 
 a good thing because it kept the same atmosphere and gameplay. Plus, there were improvements to 
 it. A lot I would say, but it's not the right time. With my hand on my heart I would say that Fallout 
 is one of the best game/series in the history of gaming, but then I would lie.
  
  Heil Bethesda!
  
  Bethesda, a famous company for its well acclaimed games called Elder Scrolls 
 decided to take the control of the project "Fallout 3". That's great because you can trust them, 
 not like EA. Anyway, when I heard the news I was jumping all over in the house. One of my favourite 
 series was coming back due to Bethesda's decision. Thank you Bethesda! After a period of time, 
 I finally bought the game. I installed it, no problems so far, it ran smoothly and voila! The game 
 was installed, ready to be played by one of its No.1 fans (me) and be tested (also by me) .
  Fallout 3 takes place in the year 2277, 36 years after the setting of Fallout 2 and 200 years after 
 the nuclear war that devastated the game's world. The game places the player in the role of an 
 inhabitant of Vault 101, a survival shelter designed to protect a small number of humans from the 
 nuclear fallout. When the player's father disappears in mysterious circumstances, the player is 
 forced to escape from the Vault and journey into the ruins of Washington D. C. to track him down. 
 Along the way the player is assisted by a number of other human survivors and must battle a myriad 
 of enemies that now inhabit the wasteland. Ah, isn't it that great? Just like he old Fallout games.
 
  I haven't played any Oblivion games, therefore I can't compare Fallout 3 with them, but I have 
 to say that was disappointed with this game. 
  
  "I gonna be a boss"... POCK..."Ha, you're dead!"
  
  The story is kinda weird. Your father runs 
 away from the Vault and you decide to go after him, to track him. You, a noobie who has just seen 
 the first light rays of the post-nuclear Washington D. C., will venture in a world where there are 
 no rules and bandits, monsters and robots rule the world. And guess what? You (again) , who never 
 touch a pistol or a laser gun, will kill from the weakest bandit to the strongest machine created 
 on Earth. It doesn't fit. I mean how can someone like you be a killing machine? I remember when 
 I exited the Vault and the got my first quest. I had to go to kill some bandits who lived in an 
 abandoned school. I got a gun from a old man and went there. It didn't take too long to find the 
 place, I was already surrounded by 6 bandits who were armed and got high-tech armours. Using just 
 a few shots, I killed them all. Wow! That was easy, I didn't even beak a sweat! Oh well, that was 
 the first quest therefore it supposed to be easy (that what I said then) . Taking more quests, I 
 found out that you can kill even a boss with some weak weapons and armours. Also, I found out that 
 there are not restrictions for you Level in this game. I mean, you ca have a Level 5 character 
 and venture in quest where you need at least Level 7, although you wouldn't have any problem killing 
 all the enemies. The game is very easy. Even a kid can handle it. I was shocked. F1 and F2 were 
 far more difficult, they had a better storyline and there were restricted zones. This game really 
 is laughable compared to its predecessors.
  
  The radiation affected their brains
  
  I don't anything to complain about the AI. I didn't find it too smart nor retarded. Although, I 
 have some bits to complain. Let me tell you, Fallout 3 uses Stealth. Yes, if you're a Stealth fan, 
 then you should try Fallout 3 because there's a lot of Stealth in it. But, if you are a Stealth 
 fan who played games like Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six series or Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, then don't 
 try this game. Why? Well, while I was in a underground tunnel/base I used all my stealth skills. 
 I found two room full of bandits and I tried to come nearer them. I trew a grenade in one of the 
 rooms, and I loved all the scenes with the blood exploding... and here the AI comes, in a retarded 
 and unrealistic way. I killed all the people there, but in the other room, all the bandits were 
 stand-still. It was like didn't hear the explosion. Maybe the walls were made of a material that 
 stopped the noise of the explosion. That's really unrealistic. What kinda AI is that?
  
  The game uses the formula geography=copy+paste
  
  The geography of the game is just beautiful. 
 It really resembles the old Fallout games and the post-nuclear Washington D. C. It's like a paradise, 
 well it isn't, but I meant that is great. But there are downsides to it. Sometimes you feel that 
 you went on that zone so many times. You didn't, but that is a copy. If you want to know, when 
 the producers said that the game will be big, they really meant it, because they used a lot of 
 copy+paste. Why can't they make unique zones? What a pity.
  
  Are you deaf?
  
  Another downside of the game is the sound. It's just null. Nothing actually. You don't even hear 
 the wind, your steps and other stuff. That's uncool and unrealistic. Hey, cheer up! If you love 
 the music from the 50s, then this thing is not any more a downside. The music is just perfect. 
 Bethesda did a great job with the atmosphere, the mood and the 50s music. Sometimes I wish to stop 
 doing quests, go under a try, turn on my radio and listen to the cool music. Ahh!!!
  
  "Use the Force, Luke!"
  
  One thing I really dislike in F3, is that how boring are the dialogues. 
 Speaking with people is fun at start, but after 3 hours it gets very frustrating. It could've been 
 greater if their facial expressions weren't the same. I sometimes felt that I was talking with 
 old people if you judge their facial expressions. Where was I? Oh yeah, dialogues. They are boring 
 and pointless really. Let me tell you, in F3, if you have a high intellect or a lot of points in 
 speaking, dialogues change based on those points. But what's great about that? I made a character 
 with high intellect, and I was expecting better dialogues. I turned on radio and what I got was 
 the DJ saying something like "Use the Force, Luke!". That's not even that cool. That's nothing. 
 Check later, the dialogues get even worse and it makes you laugh at them. Geez, if you know how 
 much I laughed that day.
  
  I'll be blind due to radiations
  
  Well, I talked too much about the downsides (there are more but then I would be biast) . There are 
 two things Bethesta succeeded. Some of the gameplay and the graphics. They are just great, no, 
 wonderful. It's like a playing Crysis and/or HL2. Excellent I would say! Plus, it doesn't need 
 a high tech PC. If you have 256 MB video memory, it's just enough to play to its full potential.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  Playing a lot of Fallout 3 is getting very boring. The quests start to become more repetitive, 
 the difficulty gets even easier, no sounds at all, and you can smell from a distance places where 
 copy+paste was used. Overall, F3 is a great RPG, but it doesn't even compare to F1 and F2. They 
 beat F3 in many ways. Again, F3 doesn't have to be ignored because of its many downsides. It's 
 a great RPG, maybe the best RPG that came up this is year after Mass Effect. No, I recommend the 
 game with my heart to all the people who love RPG games. But I must aware you, if you played F1 
 or F2 then you might be shocked after playing this game. You might end up with a heart attack.
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 6
  Gameplay:8
  Multiplayer: -
  Storyline: 7
  Impression: 7
  
  Score: 7.4
  GS Score: 7.5
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fw190a8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  In case you don't feel like reading a lengthy review, I can sum up Fallout 3 in a sentence: Oblivion, 
 with guns, set in a post-apocalyptic near future. In case that doesn't quite do it for you, allow 
 me to elaborate.
  
  I played Bethesda's Oblivion extensively. Fallout 3, also developed by Bethesda, is very clearly 
 influenced by Oblivion. It's a first-person "shooter" with very strong RPG ties. You shoot enemies, 
 you level up, you choose which points to assign to which areas to develop your character. I put 
 the word "shooter" in inverted commas because, if that were all Fallout 3 tried to be, it wouldn't 
 make for a strong game. You can find much better gunslinging action in Half-life 2 or World at 
 War.
  
  The game opens with your mother giving birth. Giving birth to you. You are born in the first person 
 perspective, complete with sound effects. Has this ever been done before in a computer game? I 
 have to award marks just for that.
  
  You are introduced to your character and the control system by quite literally "growing up". From 
 a baby right up to adulthood, you're guided by your father (Liam Neeson, whose voice acting is 
 excellent) and several other characters to show you the ropes. It's immediately clear that this 
 is inventive gaming, and the characters you meet all feel human, with a real believability about 
 them that is often absent from this type of game.
  
  If you've played Oblivion for more than about an hour, you'll remember the part where you emerge 
 from the dirty, dank sewer system into the outside world for the first time. That was one of Oblivion's 
 most defining moments, and perhaps one of the more profound moments in gaming as a whole. There 
 is a similar, but no less striking, moment in Fallout 3, but in reverse. It's very easy to say 
 "the game is set in a post-apocalyptic Washington DC" but until you experience it for yourself, 
 a textual description falls way short of doing it justice.
  
  The visuals are incredible, and the huge play area, which encompasses a portion of the ruined US 
 capital and its surrounding area, is finely crafted. The game's style pays homage to the stereotypical 
 1960s image of the "perfect future", where everyone lives in a modest new family home with a white 
 picket fence, a trimmed green lawn, and their own car on the pristine driveway. Only, everything 
 has been ruined.
  
  Strangely, this brought about quite a sense of despair within me, despite being fully aware that 
 this was not real. The level of immersion is achieved through attention to detail. The huge stained 
 billboards advertising cars and supermarkets add nothing to the plot of the game. They aren't required 
 in any way, and you cannot interact with them, but they're cleverly placed to make you feel like 
 you are a part of this dire world. Countless other little details only enhance this sense of immersion.
 
  
  As a shooter, as previously mentioned, Fallout 3 does fall short of the mark. Your character's 
 skill in different categories of weaponry determines accuracy, so even if you achieve that perfect 
 "BOOM! Headshot!" with your $100 laser mouse, it won't always strike home. That said, the range 
 of weaponry, from the lowly pistol up to the futuristic plasma rifle and gatling laser, is entirely 
 convincing and most are fun to use.
  
  The VATS system, which allows you to pause the game and choose which parts of an enemy to fire 
 at, comes into play more and more as you begin to build up your weaponry skills. Each shot is an 
 extreme slow-mo and takes you out of the first person perspective, so you get plenty of time to 
 absorb the gory detail of your firepower hitting home. What surprised me most is that VATS really 
 works. You'll find yourself using it in some situations, and foregoing it in others, but it really 
 is seamless, and becomes like second nature. I had some initial doubts concerning the sense of 
 achievement being absent or diminished while using VATS, but these turned out to be unfounded.
 
  
  While there is undoubtedly a lot of shooting in Fallout 3, its main draw is the expertly written 
 plot. As with Oblivion and other Bethesda games, the main plot progression is supplemented by countless 
 side plots and storylines, all of which are entirely optional. Whether it's disarming a nuclear 
 bomb or tiptoeing through a town full of land mines, each quest is sufficiently different and interesting 
 to keep things fresh.
  
  The real power of this masterful storytelling is the moral side of things. This is represented 
 in the game as "karma", so the more good deeds you undertake, the more favourably good characters 
 will look upon you. On a more human level, some of the moral questions are very provoking. Should 
 the human community allow the mutants to live side by side with them, or banish them to the dirty 
 sewers? Is it a mere question of racism or are there genuine concerns about overpopulation. Elsewhere, 
 should you help the slavers to capture more slaves in exchange for access to something you badly 
 need, or should you attempt to kill them all, which will no doubt be far more difficult?
  
  This kind of moral choice reminded me a lot of Bioware, and the likes of Neverwinter Nights. Although 
 your actions have an effect on the grand scheme of things, you're never made to feel like the game 
 has judged you or that one particular course of action is right or wrong. Some of the characters 
 will love you for a particular action, while others will hate you. Do you make decisions using 
 your own set of morals, or do you act up to the role and do something you wouldn't dream of doing 
 in real life? Empowerment like this is at the heart of a great RPG.
  
  There are some niggles, however. I chose to play as a female character and more times than I could 
 count, I was referred to as "sir", "mister" or "son". The game crashed inexplicably about 5 times 
 during my 32-hour romp. Cars explode (because they have nuclear engines) , but nobody told me. Having 
 watched a great deal of action movies and played more FPS games than you could shake an MP5 at, 
 I naturally wanted to take cover behind the cars, only to be blown to smithereens.
  
  Also, although "fast travel" is very useful for quickly moving about the enormous map, it often 
 ditches you straight into combat with no warning and a total inability to find cover. The way Washington 
 DC is structured, certain roads are conveniently blocked, forcing you down predefined routes, which 
 negates the fun and satisfaction of exploration somewhat and makes inventive combat more difficult. 
 Thankfully this is only an issue in the city itself, which occupies just one corner of the map.
 
  
  It quickly struck me that the map was absolutely littered with places to explore and things to 
 do. It would be quite possible to complete the main storyline within 20 hours, and I thought I 
 had completed a good chunk of side questing, having spent 32 hours total within the Capital Wasteland, 
 but once the entire map was unlocked, I was bewildered by just how much I hadn't seen. There must 
 be enough for 100 hours of play here, and only a small portion of it is mandatory!
  
  It's in this way that Fallout 3 really does fulfil its role as a freeform RPG. You can pick and 
 choose at what you want to do. If you don't want to pick and choose, and you don't enjoy the freedom 
 of exploration, you can concentrate on the main storyline and not be punished for it.
  
  The game's conclusion will be a bone of contention for many. Of course, I'm not going to spoil 
 it for anybody, but suffice is to say that when you complete the main storyline, that's it. The 
 game ends right there and then. You cannot then go back and complete all the side quests you have 
 remaining. I quite enjoyed the ending and felt that it was a suitably fitting way to leave the 
 game. Having read other reviews, I can appreciate that not everybody will feel this way. The only 
 way to find out which camp you fall into (without reading a spoiler, which would be highly unrecommended) , 
 is to see for yourself.
  
  Fallout 3 is an absolute masterpiece of a game, with enough small niggles that I believe it will 
 never achieve true stardom, but few enough that it is a thoroughly entertaining (and chilling) 
 trip into one possible future for humanity. I was gripped by the characters I encountered and I 
 genuinely felt like I wanted to do something to better the miserable "existence" with which Bethesda 
 have endowed them. It's not the best shooter in the world, but who cares? Games of this quality, 
 whose attention to detail are so acute, whose atmosphere are so tangible, and whose sense of humanity 
 are so well conveyed, are truly few and far between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  I admit that I was quite apprehensive of having Bethesda pick up the pieces of Fallout after the 
 fall of Interplay, I am also glad that it turned out differently from van Buren (the so-called 
 original Fallout 3) .
  
  I have always loved the setting, stories, characters, creatures and technology in the Fallout series. 
 Yet, I confess that I am very averse to how combat is played out. I still can remember the times 
 that some bast*rd's Minigun managed to bypass my Power Armor totally and killed me outright, when 
 it should have only dealt below decent damage. This happened in just about every Fallout game that 
 still used the turn-based system.
  
  Therefore, I am quite happy that it was ditched in favor of a more real-time approach. The first-person 
 shooter convention suited combat in Fallout 3 well, especially the option to run for cover if exposed 
 to heavy fire (whereas in the previous games, one is pretty much screwed if caught in the open) .
 
  
  Initially, I had some worry that this game would be like Oblivion with a sci-fi setting. And it 
 turned out to be so. On the other hand, Fallout 3 stayed so true to the post-apocalyptic setting 
 that made Fallout unique that this worry melted away effortlessly like someone being offed with 
 a plasma weapon.
  
  To detractors, the V. A. T. S. would probably be a lame attempt by Bethesda to retain the Action Point 
 system. However, this feature is so darn useful that like the other initial seeming drawbacks of 
 Fallout 3, it was pretty much forgotten as well.
  
  If Bethesda is to be assessed in its effort to instill some progress in the Fallout series, its 
 biggest contribution would be the introduction of the weapon and armor degeneration feature. It 
 is very in tune with the desperate hand-to-mouth life in the Wasteland, and emphasizes the fact 
 that resources like spare parts can no longer be expected to come straight out of assembly lines 
 like fresh water from a pipe. Speaking of which, fresh water is a precious commodity too.
  
  Graphics-wise, it does a pretty good job. Even on low-end PCs, much of the game still manages 
 to convey the feelings of a life in the Wastes. Sounds are very good, especially the music (the 
 "creepy place" soundtrack scores high on my list) .
  
  My verdict is that Bethesda has done a very good job with this game, and Fallout 3 deserves to 
 be crowned "RPG of the Year". It has many opponents, but it beat them all with fun gameplay, tight 
 story, great presentation and most importantly, memorable, worthwhile characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write good reviews.. Sory : (
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that i just try to give my own opinion those games whitout many words.. 
 
  and i think many player just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding me and good gaming
  
 
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Graphic 9/10
  
  
  Sounds 9/10
  
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  
  Time Spent Playing 
  10-20hours
  
  
  Difficulty 
  just right
  
  
  Gamevalue 8/10
 
  
  finaly we got great Fbs game... When u start the game its Realy Realy Amazin.. but i hope theres 
 got biger map and biger citys.. but if u dont have it yet.. go buy it Now! this is realy great 
 game and worth every $ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a awesome game and one of the best I've ever played, The Story is set in the barren 
 wasteland of a post-apocalyptic society called Washington DC the story begins when you are born 
 then you can choose if your a boy or a girl and eventually also name yourself. You grow up in a 
 vault that is protecting you from the wasteland that is outside, when you turn 19 your dad escapes 
 from the Vault which is nearly impossible so you go out into the wasteland in search of your dad. 
 Along the way you get quest's from other citizen's of Washington DC and your also gonna have too 
 fight your way to victory with enemies like mutated animals, Gang's, Mutants and a whole lot more! 
 The gun's in the game is amazingly good and also fun to use like the Fat boy (which allows you 
 to shoot mini nuke's) Shotguns, Mini-guns and nearly the funnest to use baseball bats but you're 
 guns don't last forever so you are gonna have to repair them but Fallout 3 is not a game for kids 
 with the age rating 18 the reason to this is there is a lot of gore which I didn't find good at 
 all and also swearing which also may disappoint some people but Fallout 3 is a must play ( If you're 
 18 ) and if your not step away from the the pc or game console before the police is coming too 
 arrest you
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinto20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  What can I say? this game is just awsome, there's no dull or boring moment in it, the sense of 
 realism that the free open world gives you is just unbelievably good, the skill system, the dialogue, 
 how big the wasteland is, the weapons, the graphics even if the engine is old they look good, great 
 voice and all the stuff Fallout 3 is 'bout. 
  But there's one thing that I think it's not up to the other great features of fallout 3, the story. 
 It just feels too rushed and does not always makes sense, the ending is also not that great (even 
 though it's not bad) even if the main story is over I would still like to play a little bit more, 
 
  Even with that little bump in the ride Fallout 3 is still one the best fps/rpg out there and should 
 be played by anyone even if you don't like those genres
  Graphic:8
  Sound:8
  Gameplay:10
  Story:7 (weakes link in the chain)
  Mouse + WASD = rock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  EDIT (Feb 12, 2009) : I have bought a new display card since this review and even finished games 
 like GTA 4 & COD4 on it. I have been able to play Fallout 3 on MAX (yes, all AA/AF, all sliders 
 maxed) on this PC for at least 38 hours now without a single crash. So yeah, ignore this review, 
 I will write a new one when I am done playing this game (like GTA 4 review) .
  
  = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 
  
  First of all, lemme just get one thing out of 
 the way. I love the game. Compared to boring world of Oblivion, Bethesda actually managed to make 
 the quests interesting in F3. The combat is boring, until you engage VATS when it becomes entertaining 
 no matter how many times same animations are played or how many times a raider survives a shotgun 
 blast to his face from 3 feet..
  
  BUT, the game is broken. I have NEVER, NEVER and lemme repeat that, NEVER, played such a broken, 
 over-hyped, AAA game in my life. I was playing Prince of Persia (2008) and Dead Space before I 
 started playing Fallout 3. Both of those games are ports but neither of them EVER crashed or even 
 slowed down for me on the same display card that Fallout 3 managed to FRY. That's right, overheated 
 it, crash the system over and over again and simply destroy the card in the end.
  
  I am not alone. A look at their 'PC Issues' section on the forum reveals cases where people have 
 actually had their WHOLE HDD CORRUPTED. This game crashes for people when pressing start, it crashes 
 when you enter the same area you have cleared before without any problem, it crashes when you try 
 to fast travel, it crashes because of integrated (and with the latest 'patch') forced GAMES FOR 
 WINDOWS LIVE! feature. Hell, the game even has the worst random damage balance going on (I mentioned 
 the raider bit at the start, expect 1% damage on highest skill level to cockroaches in the game) .
 
  
  The visuals in this game are ok. The textures are incredibly blurry, something I was not expecting 
 (entirely) . How pathetic is a company like Bethesda who knows that PC modders have created countless 
 texture update mods for their previous title and still come out with a blurry mess of a game? Top 
 it all with incredibly low poly models (yes, even lower than Oblivion) and you are just wishing 
 this game never happened. Luckily, like I said before, the gameplay is actually fun and you stop 
 thinking about the incredibly f***d up visuals.
  
  WARNING: Play this game ONLY if you are willing to loose some major PC hardware. Or just play it 
 if you like random Windows reboots or crashes to desktop. The funny part? Their first priority 
 with patch was to fix Alt+Tab issue. Their second patch, which came after MONTHS OF WAITING, managed 
 to actually bring up issues for people who were NOT having all above mentioned issues. Only few 
 lucky bastards have managed to run this game without a single crash. Actually, no one has claimed 
 that they have run this game without a single crash. So take a wild guess..
  
  STAY AWAY UNTIL PATCHED. WAIT FOR PATCH TO STABILIZE THIS GAME. Read the PC Issues section on their 
 forums to see if the problems disappear with any future updates. This game isn't worth destroying 
 you PC. I will come back and update the review with better rating if I ever manage to play this 
 game properly. I only played it for like 13 hours before this game destroyed my display card. 
 
  
  Oh and the latest patch made Games for Windows Live installation necessary because only then can 
 you buy their DLC which will use GFW only. That's what the new patch actually was for. Last game 
 I buy from Bethesda.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyDoYaThang
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  If you like open world games like Morrowind or Oblivion there is a lot to enjoy here. One thing 
 you might want to avoid is the main quest which ends up being nothing less than a huge letdown. 
 Not only is it short but the game also ends when it is completed. Fortunately there are mods to 
 get around this.
  
  A big selling point of this game might be the G. E. C. K. which allows you to mod the game. It is 
 rather easy to use once you spend a little time with it. If you are one who finds this game boring 
 then there is a chance that some mods could change your opinion.
  
  The worst problem with this game is that it seems not to have been put through a QA process. This 
 game is full of bugs and there are many experiencing CTD's. You should not have to tweak and troubleshoot 
 your system for a week just to be able to get it to run.
  
  Fortunately most games run just fine for most people right out of the box. If Fallout 3 is a sign 
 of things to come then PC Gamers might be in for a bumpy ride. Games like Fallout 3 will end up 
 hurting PC sales if customers have to worry if a game they have purchased will run or not.
  
  Tech support at Bethesda seems to be little more than a joke and the programmers either do 
 not know what they are doing or they simply do not care. Neither of which reflects well on PC Gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruist22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  After Action Critique of Fallout 3:
  
  It took me roughly about two months to finish the game, spending sleepless nights and weekends, 
 quest after quest, and I wanted to share my opinions on this amazing game. Being able to keep me 
 playing for such a long period, you must be guessing already that I have enjoyed it a lot. Of course 
 it was the end game frustration which prompted me to write an overall critique here. 
  
  The Good: 
  
  - Loyal to Fallout Storyline: I think it was important that Bethesda remained 
 loyal to the original Fallout storyline and concept. There were many references to the original 
 story as well as many other easter eggs which added to the games taste.
  
  - Interesting Plot: Major plot was cleverly designed to connect the whole post nuclear atmosphere 
 with the vault concept which lead the main character to wander the Capital Wastelands in pursuit 
 of the main objective. As you discover the map, you gradually learn more and more about the main 
 story as well the history of the wasteland for the past 200 years.
  
  - Original Side Quests: I must admit most side quests were more interesting and fulfilling than 
 the main plot. Some of them, like the Tenpenny Tower Quest, were fascinating and made me question 
 my own decisions time after time. There are almost infinite amount of interactions based on quests 
 and unmarked quests. With time, I adopted certain missions myself and felt the satisfaction of 
 achieving them without the bottlecaps.
  
  - Soundtrack: One of the most brilliant aspect of Fallout is their great selection of soundtrack. 
 I just couldn't get enough of it. Basically there are two major radio stations which you can tune 
 in (signals gradually improve based on certain game factors) ; the patriotic tunes and the 1949 
 era popular tunes. I already have the latter station picks in my Ipod for my daily commute. You 
 can also pick the daily radio drama shows if you are a good listener.
  
  Little non spoiler tip: If you ever run into an old lady named Agatha, please don't kill her. You 
 will be pleasantly surprised and fulfilled when you receive her quest reward. 
  
  - Graphic Details: Whether if you enjoy romantic sunsets, gazing the stars or just enjoy seeing 
 the eyeballs of your victims fly in the air, the graphic details are just amazing. If your computer 
 can support the high end graphics of the game or if your X-Box is connected to your HD TV, you 
 will be thrilled. 
  
  - Non Linear Storyline: You have total freedom to explore the world at your own pace and you can 
 literally go anywhere you want on the map, save a couple main quest related hidden or inaccessible 
 locations. There are over a hundred different sights of interest to explore including cities, national 
 monuments, refugee camps, slave markets, vaults, caverns and plenty of underground subway tunnels, 
 all with rewards and hidden dangers around every corner. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Shallow NPCs: Aside from their eerily similar facial features, they simply respond either friendly 
 or hostile towards you. There are a few cases where a third neutral approach is possible but don't 
 expect a deep meaningful conversation with any of the NPC. The followers that you are allowed to 
 recruit are even worse. They have a few select lines which they will keep repeating over and over. 
 They will have zero interaction with your character other than trading equipment and providing 
 fire power.
  
  - Repetitive Objects: How many wonderglues or abraxo cleaners could possibly have infested Washington 
 D. C. before the bombs fell in 2077? You crave for ammunition early in the game which is understandable 
 but you will never fall short on unnecessary junk items that litter every single metal box. 
  
  - Limited Soundtrack: The quality of music you are tuned in makes you crave for more, but it 
 just starts to get repetitive after a while because there aren't many songs in that radio stations 
 inventory. You can even find rare historic documents in the city, but not a single long play which 
 you can hand the radio. What's more annoying than the repetitive music, is the DJ Three Dog himself. 
 His broadcast starts interesting no doubt, but if you are a wanderer and an explorer like me, who 
 prefer to walk instead of fast travel, then you are going to listen to the same jokes over and 
 over again. Brace for the "good fight". 
  
  - Lack of Action Choices: Just like dialog options you have with NPCs, you simply have two or three 
 action choices in most of your encounters: Save them, kill them or ignore them. Sometimes, this 
 comes down to only one option. I find it hard to believe every single raider in Wasteland would 
 start shooting at you like a rabid dog at first sight. You are expected to walk among feral ghouls 
 (who are like mindless zombies) with a simple mask, regardless of your potential unmasked follower, 
 but even if you dress or act like them, they wouldn't hesitate an instant to attack you. Same goes 
 for enclave soldiers who attack you even if you are wearing the exact same uniform and your face 
 is covered with that power helmet. It wouldn't have hurt if they asked you an id, or said hello 
 from a distance at first until you talk to them at least. 
  
  - Lack of an Open End: As much as the game provides you a non linear endless exploration opportunity, 
 the main plot follows a linear story and only offers you a good and a bad choice. There is no way 
 you can finish the game by achieving any other possible course but you must strictly follow the 
 main course. By doing so, you do the exact same actions at the exact same locations, but under 
 a different purpose. Your encounters, options and available actions don't change based on your 
 choices.
  
  And The Ugly:
  
  - Abrupt and Shallow Finale: This is the single most annoying feature of the otherwise beautiful 
 game for me. I have spent months enjoying the game and I have (my character of course) developed 
 a certain connection with the story leading to some expectations. I mean I knew the story was coming 
 to an end from the unfolding of the events, but you are still playing excitedly and the adrenaline 
 is rushing, until all of a sudden, BANG, you read the credits on your screen. Yes, there is a less 
 than a minute empty narration in a deep voice telling you the game is over with a couple black 
 and white snapshots, but that's it. You end up wondering was it worth it. You simply have no idea 
 what happens to your followers or the friends you have made over the course of your adventures 
 and most importantly, you don't hear any of their comments. After such a great game, it isn't too 
 much to expect a proper end scene but all you are left with is a sense of emptiness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy216b
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it is the best of an RPG and FPS making it almost a hybrid but better then that 
 makes it sound. This game has the best parts of an RPG, the selecting armour, weapons and power-ups 
 but not having turn based combat and all that junk. By adding FPS they bring the freedom to shoot 
 or use VATS making the combat very effective.
  
  The story is bang on. It starts at your birth and then progressing through your life in the underground 
 bunker called Vault 101 that was built to protect citizens from the nuclear fallout of the war. 
 Later on in your life your father leaves and you must follow him using a trail of crumbs to find 
 him.
  
  Basically, great story, great combat and other great features means GRETA GAME. If you haven't 
 picked it up for any reason, there is something wrong with you because you must own this game. 
 If you like just FPS games then you'll still like it. If just RPGs then you'll still like it. Especially 
 if you've played the other games in the series then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was fun, immersive, interesting, and just a very good game overall. There were some oddities 
 that stood out though, like the very slow pacing of the first 1/4 of the game. i only did 1 side 
 mission, the Power of the Atom. Besides that, i did all the main story missions, and i dont regret 
 doing so.
  
  The gameplay in Fallout 3 is pretty fun, once you get to the combat with good weapons. i will warn 
 you though, the trek to Vault 112 is the hardest part in the game, as i had to go AROUND the enemies 
 just so i would live. I imagine you have already heard of the VATS system, which is really fun, 
 and i love the slow motion decapitations. overall, its fun, and the dialogue is intriguing.
  
  The graphics are very good, except for a few parts. the character models for one, look real 
 bad, and there are some funny graphical bugs that are on my userpage. Good looking game though. 
 
  
  The story is alright, but is also pretty good because it provides some great plot twists and is 
 overall very interesting and fun.
  
  The atomosphere, visuals, and story make up to a very fun, interesting game. But this game did 
 have its faults, and got over praised a bit. Have a good time in the wasteland, bow-bow-wow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eragon55
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  This was an easy game, but one heck of an experience! I was sad when it ended. I may play it again. 
 The key factor in this game is freedom. Freedom to roam where you want to go and freedom to be 
 who you want to be. You can be good, semi-good, semi-evil or just pain evil. Your choices in the 
 game change how things unfold. I'm looking forward to any expansions to the game if any, but I'm 
 really looking forward to whatever this team is making for the future. This team made Oblivion 
 and this game. Both are benchmarks in RPG's. I wish other programmers would play these games and 
 try to beat them instead of churning out the dumb boring turn based stuff we keep seeing. Unfortunately 
 someone keeps purchasing that poop and fueling the flames. There are quirks in the game that get 
 annoying that other reviews have pointed out, but the overall game was great! After I finished 
 Fallout 3 I started Far Cry 2. Not even in the same class. By the way, they should have named Far 
 Cry 2 something else because it has nothing to do with the first Far Cry. Random thought... if one 
 of the gaming companies could blend the action in Gears of War with Fallout 3's or Oblivion's eye 
 for details, we would have the future of gaming. Maybe throw in a little of BioShock in as well 
 for good measure. I'm sorry. It's probably too much to ask. I would be happy with a Thief 4 instead 
 of another Tomb Raider. Big hint to the corporate machine out there. (Am I the only one wanting 
 another Thief game?) Everyone else... Have fun gaming out there no matter what game you play! This 
 is 3 dog Awooooo!!!! Signing off!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spamin76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of fallout games. They were fun, but they tended to be a bit on the short 
 side in comparison to other RPGs out there. Fortunately there have always been enough character 
 building options to make additional play throughs fun.
  
  If you play through the main quest without taking any detours, this game is really unforgivably 
 short. I think you could beat it in 8-12 hours if you never did any side quest or exploration. 
 If you explore the map and do side quests, this length moves into the 20-30 hour mark, but this 
 still seems short to me for an RPG. I have played through twice for both the good and evil ending, 
 but my second play through felt more like a chore than fun.
  
  For a game where a central element is exploration, this game is shameful in recycling environments. 
 The over world is fairly interesting and diverse, so it does not feel too recycled... but the second 
 you go inside, the game is a different beast. You have the subway stations (an environment you will 
 be extremely sick of by the end of the game. You have the factory, the house, and the large building... 
 there are a few museums and landmarks, but these building for the most part only have a few rooms 
 that really give them any different flavor from the generic big building. The difference between 
 a hospital and a hotel is almost non-existent. The difference between one subway and another... 
 virtually none. And once you have seen one house you have seen them all. This is really the most 
 disappointing thing about the game. There are tons and tons of places to go... but really the only 
 difference between each place is a few enemies, different kinds of ammo, and a different skill 
 book or bobble head.
  
  The worst part about exploring is so often you run into an arbitrarily impassable point. For a 
 game that goes for realistic environments, I found myself frequently thinking "Why can't I climb 
 over that or squeeze through?" Answer: Because Bethesda programmers would rather have me go through 
 non-descript subway tunnel number 11... it's pretty much the same as number 10, but this one has 
 mutant ants instead of ghouls.... At first I could tolerate the arbitrary "You can't go this way" 
 mindset, but it really ruins the exploration because it make certain parts of the pathing feel 
 really forced. I mean sometimes there was a 4' wide alley with a dirt pile and I could clearly 
 see the other side... but my character was apparently 700 pounds with a 75" waste...
  
  There are some really interesting places to go... but 80% of them are extremely recycled.
  
 
  The combat felt kind of awkward because so many guns are fairly unreliable - even when they are 
 well repaired and even if you have a high skill (even 100 points which is the max) I found myself 
 missing torso shots to super mutants at medium range. In a full fledged fire fight, this isn't 
 a big deal, but if you try to use the sneaking mechanics... it makes sneaking feel broken. If the 
 shots vere off and miss headshots, that one thing, but torso shots? There is hardly a gun in the 
 game that can shoot straight, even with VATS. This means that sneak attacks, while good, are fairly 
 unreliable, and that be ready to be shot at and hit before you have a reasonable chance to do the 
 same back. Combat seems fun, but it is kind of broken in a lot of ways. I have tried playing through 
 with melee weapons, but it seems almost like more trouble than its worth (you get shot 3 times before 
 you can deal damage, and half the time the enemies run when you get em below half life) . The game 
 seems to be a FPS/RPG, but under the surface it is more of an RPG because even with high skill 
 at relatively short distances, bullets just go anyway they feel like. By the end of the game you 
 have so much ammo though that it really doesn't matter if only 30% of your shots actually hit.
 
  
  The quests were good for the most part, but even with patches, some were still broken.
  
  The karma system was alright, but the difference between the good ending and the bad ending 
 seemed pretty superficial considering how good I was in the good path and how bad I was in the 
 bad path...
  
  The end of the game leaves a lot to be desired, which I guess is good for sequels and downloadable 
 content, but it was pretty unsatisfying.
  
  There were some memorable moments and locales, but most of it felt pretty bland.
  
  I am hoping 
 the downloadable content fixes some of the problems, but I am not gonna hold my breath.
  
  All in all, the game is fun (the first time through at least) and I would recommend it to anyone 
 who enjoys a solid RPG. Unfortunately, the game was extremely disappointing because it had so much 
 untapped potential. This game does not really deserve a 9.0 rating. An 8.0 maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suratharajan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  it all starts from our birth then 2 years old and then 13 years and teenage the story is interesting 
 after a half an hour of game play only u are about to experience the outside world till then you 
 are locked up in the vault 101 where no one leaves or no one goes inside once you go outside the 
 world is in a disaster you should change it the things whatever you see is having a problem and 
 the solution lies in your hands as you are able to fix it through each battles and each work even 
 if you are about to travel a lot of places the pitboy 3000 will make your ride faster that's one 
 thing you will never worry about the story is very big because finding your father itself takes 
 a long time and you come to see a lot of allies and enemies the decisions you make reflects on 
 your story and at the first stage itself you must defuse an atom bomb but to do that you will have 
 to have your skills higher so battle reflects on your skill and skill reflects on your activities 
 the world and the story behind it is so big that playing the game never bores u......... if i were 
 the programming director of this game then i would have made more than 1 city and let the ending 
 be happy ......... at the end we finish it totally either ways at the end we die there is no way 
 we will be spared that's what it hurts me very bad .......... well thats it the short glimpse of 
 describing the game is it's awesome and let's hope that fallout 4 come's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vano083
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  This really brings you into the Fallout atmosphere so much that I just love it.
  
  The background radio is pretty cool and I love the music. 
  
  V. A. T. S. works well for those 
 times your reactions are a little slow. And it doesn't allow you to just kill the enemy, you need 
 to use your AP wisely. I love that I don't always have to have super excellent reactions and I 
 am not just randomly shooting at things. Management of my ammo resources is something to consider 
 at all times as well. 
  
  The quests are great, letting me slowly explore outwards at my own pace. They feel like part of 
 the overall story as well and are interesting. The environments are interesting to explore and 
 there is a slightly creepy feel to them, which adds to my enjoyment of the overall game.
  
  Graphics are great, even on my older system and it runs smooth as well.
  
  I gotta find more 
 time to continue to play and may have to buy a new computer just for this, so I don't have to share 
 with anyone any more...
  
  Overall this is highly recommended by me to anyone that enjoys a little slower pace than the a 
 regular first person shooter, and anyone that likes RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegeek222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I finally found a reason to turn on my PC again, other than to browse internet. I thought the days 
 of a great game were long gone. I found a diamond in the rough. I have to tell you about it. Great 
 RPG, im already looking forward to Fallout 4. (hoping there will be one)
  
  To date I have spent more than 20 hours on this gem. And unless the game breaks tomorrow I will 
 spens 100 more. If you are like me and have been dissapointed in most games of all genres the last 
 few years, you should like this one. There are so many ways to change the gameplay by the choices 
 you make. Decisions and exploration of the world make the game replayable.
  I loved the game the minute it was loaded. I was put right into making choices for my character. 
 Welcome to Vault 101. The game does a great job showing you the ropes in the beginning, and a superb 
 job of keeping you interested along the way. I felt like I wanted to learn more and I just know 
 there would be great things to come outside of Vault 101. I was not dissapointed. Keep in mind, 
 my review is only 20 hours deep of gameplay. I love the AI in this game, smart enemies, my father 
 in the game sounds alot like Liam Nieson. Hes likable. You can Trade, sell, Buy, find loot and 
 weapons, ammo, clothes, medical supplies, and bottle caps. Fallout 3's version of $$. 
  
  Without spoiling the game I say, BUY IT! You can do much worse than this game, and probably not 
 much better. I have not enjoyed a game like this for a few years at least. Especillay one of the 
 RPG genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scientist8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Some may think fallout 3 is oblivion with guns or may not even look at the game because its so 
 different from fallout 1 and fallout 2 but it is a real shame to pass up this video game for how 
 good it really is and immersive. Fallout 3 brings back the post apocalyptic universe we all knew 
 and loved from the previous fallout games but makes it into a live-able, open ended world from 
 which you are free to roam anywhere you please. Fallout 3 begins where you can create your own 
 characters looks, attributes and skills he or she will start out with. The skills you choose to 
 rank up with each level really determines how you play your character and destroy any adversary 
 that comes in your way, if you want to become John Rambo you can throw your points into big guns 
 and get the nearest mini gun to lug around and rain terror on your foes, though, I chose the small 
 guns, sneaky route with some lock-picking so I could break into areas and get much powerful weapons 
 even if I couldn't handle them very well because I had about 15 points to "big gun" skill points. 
 After you are pretty happy with your character you begin your adventure as you first step out into 
 the wasteland that is Washington D. C. From here you can go anywhere you wish or just follow the 
 main quest line all the way through. The enemies level with you so you need not to worry about 
 straying too far from the trail though some enemies will have some pretty powerful weapons and 
 you may accidentally run into a deathclaw which are always bad news no matter what level you are. 
 Fallout 3 has a great story following your dad through the wasteland but I don't want to spoil 
 any of it but it will keep you hooked until the very end, sometimes it's hard to go off and do 
 side quests because you want to see what will happen next in the story. The side missions are fun 
 and there are plenty of them which will get you extra gear to help you and you may even stumble 
 across bobbleheads which you can collect for extra skill and attribute points. I may be praising 
 fallout 3 too much which could be boring to some but fallout 3 does have its down points. The people 
 you interact with seem a bit robotic at times and don't around too much when they talk to you, 
 they mostly just stare through you with those 1000 yard stares as they are explaining to you a 
 quest they want you to complete. When I found and acquired my pet dog even though he was a help 
 sometimes he seemed to hinder a lot of my sneaking abilities as he would leap to attack before 
 I would have hoped him too and out in the wasteland sometimes he'd get hung up on something I'd 
 have to go look for him, but I suppose that's how real dogs could be, for all I know he might have 
 been sniffing a radiated fire hydrant. Fallout 3 was my favorite game of 2008 and is a must try 
 for any fans of fallout and action RPGs. The V. A. T. S. system where you can carefully pick what 
 limb you want to blast or slash with your weapon is strategically placed and you never really feel 
 overpowered over anyone which makes it a great game and always challenging until the end. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord0thief
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Who hasn't heard of the Fallout series? The popular franchise that depicts a nuclear war ridden 
 world has now been taken into the hands of Bethesda after going through some serious complications 
 in developing. Based on the engine the same as Bethesda's earlier released "The Elder Scrolls 4: 
 Oblivion", Fallout 3 along with Oblivion packs a RPG Punch that's sure to knock out many and most 
 competitors on the game shelf. The game itself offers immersion that has only been countered in 
 my opinion by Bethesda's Oblivion. With exceptional graphics, Fallout 3 also brings to life the 
 wasteland like players have never experienced before. Along with the graphics, the innovative leveling 
 system, The "Pip Boy" (which is a wrist watch like object that acts as a stat meter) , and VATS 
 (the amazing slow motion targeting sytem) Fallout 3 really is a unique RPG. It's done so many things 
 that no other RPG has done before. However, the only setback is that the lack of content compared 
 to Bethesda's previous release really killed it for many players. With a short main-storyline and 
 very minuscule side quests, Fallout 3 had a chance to be one of the top RPG's next to (I say again) 
 Oblivion. However it's shortcoming in quest-content and variety (content wise) really hammered 
 it down from what it could've been. Fallout 3 Deserves a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  Well, the game didn't look at all like I thought it was going too, but it isn't or wasn't all bad. 
 The sound is great, music is good and the effects are all what I guess most expect from Bethesda, 
 great. What I mean by, "They did it again," is, the game is very fun to play and draws you in the 
 more you get into the game. The open ended exploration is great and there are enough items in the 
 game to keep it going and from getting or becoming boring, BUT the repetitive environments are 
 still a drag. When you enter a cave, station or building why do they all have to look the same! 
 Is it too difficult to change them? Who cares if it takes up resources on your computer, do it 
 anyway! The bridges, stations, stores etc. are mostly all the same which is a huge let down. When 
 will the day come when you can enter a tunnel or building and not really know what to expect, or 
 encounter? Other than that complaint, the game rocks. It's fun, and worth picking it up. I'm dropping 
 the rating 10 points, because, I feel that Bethesda again made a great game, but made the same 
 mistake again. For replay value and for the love of God, please make a game that has more unique 
 environments within the same game, and random items, preventing the game from becoming dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filmflam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. I've spent a good long time playing it and I'm just now getting to the point where 
 I can leave it alone for a few days without having withdraws. Perhaps that's not healthy... I don't 
 know. The only major flaws within this game are that the main quest is almost laughably too short, 
 and the weapons system is a bit clunky. However, these setbacks really aren't a big deal considering 
 you can explore and perform as many quests as you want, (after about 50 hours with the game and 
 lots of exploring, I'm still finding random tasks to complete) and it isn't a shooting based game 
 so the clunky weapons systems can easily be forgiven. The graphics are great, the game play is 
 fun, and the fact that you have to walk everywhere you haven't been before keeps you hooked for 
 hours and hours exploring the wasteland. The nuclear holocaust concept is pretty neat too and, 
 in my opinion, very well executed. A lot of people say it feels exactly like Oblivion, and I think 
 this is only slightly true. Although you can tell it was made by the same people and a lot of the 
 graphics look similar, the game really has a lot of key differences. The concept is much darker 
 and the environments are crafted with quite a bit more grit. Also helping make it feel different 
 is the way Bethesda has made it seem much more simpler than Oblivion and slightly less expansive. 
 Instead of having countless spells and swords and horses, you have guns and bombs and power armor. 
 Personally, I'd take the experimental MIRV over a Flare spell any day. Overall, Thumbs up Bethesda! 
 Please make a sequel or an expansion and keep up the awesome work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonanza35
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  A marvelous game play. Controls are excellent with either first person view or alternating over 
 to 3rd person view the visuals and coordination are excellent. The game allows player to map ones 
 own preferences for controls. Fallout 3 sets the standard for the PC game industry, just as Oblivion 
 did so. It is wonderfully enjoyable to be able to play a game at ones own pace amd own choices 
 for transversing the play map. The player is not overwhelmed with rediculous number of npcs moping 
 out from everywhere making the play frustrating. Fallout 3 has all the excitment of exploring and 
 shooting ones way through an ever ongoing adventure. The game has very high re-playable value, 
 due to the various and numerous ways of completing specific game tasks. The visual and music are 
 completly enjoyable without over repedious of the same scenes over and over. I spent over $200 
 dollars to find this fifty dollar game, wasting my money on other games which fall way pitifully 
 short of anything close to Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpjazzman220
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, while they're not Crysis, they are pretty amazing. It has HDR 
 and Bloom, dynamic shadows, dynamic lights, clouds, beautiful special effects, pretty much Oblivion 
 with makeup. 9/10
  
  Sound: It sounds amazing, you can hear dogs barking, the wind blowing, you can hear gunfire in 
 the not so distant distance. If you turn on the radio, it gives you company while you are travelling, 
 the voice-overs are at sometimes cheesy, but this game likes to cheese it up sometimes, but when 
 it needs to be serious it can be. The weapon sounds are appropriate for the a 50's futuristic movie. 
 9/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay feels recycled, but it is also innovative. For the most part, it feels like 
 Oblivion, which is understandable because its built off of a beefed up version of the same engine 
 that Oblivion was built with. The V. A. T. S. system was the best part of the game. It changed gameplay 
 completely and really made it feel more like an RPG. 9/10
  
  Story: The story is pretty basic, and the side quests are interesting enough, but its nothing to 
 call home about. The conversations are some of the most entertaining I have had in a while, with 
 the exception of Mass Effect. 8/10
  
  Multiplayer: There is one, I haven't used it, sorry. N/A
  
  Overall: This game is amazing. 
 It's not Fallout of yore, but it's Fallout allright. I really enjoyed this game, and alot of the 
 people I have talked to liked this game. Just don't go into it expecting Mass Effect, Neverwinter 
 Nights, or Fable. It's nothing like those games. I recommend it to all. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  I have:
  Nvidia gtx260 w/896mb of ram.
  4g of ram
  2 core AMD 2.6mhz processor.
  -----
  I ran this game at maxed "ULTRA" setting no problem at 
 all. It is quite an impressive (if overwhelming) world. It is MASSIVE, and beautifully created. 
 The landscape is well designed and not to repetitious for a nuclear wasteland. It feels very alive 
 and even has the occasional "waste lander" walking around randomly selling junk or being chased 
 down by raiders and mutants, choose to save them or kill them, its your choice!
  ----
  The enemies are well detailed and the VATS targeting system makes for an awesome display of gore 
 and violence when taking down foes.
  -----
  The cities are great, well detailed and feel "alive".
  ----
  I suggest playing the this game 
 in HDR bloom effect. The lighting with this enabled is stunning.
  ----
  Sound:
  Awesome! all NPCS have a voice and can be engaged. The radio channels are a great addition. All 
 of the important characters are well done. Liam Nealson as your father does a great voice job for 
 the story.
  -------
  Gameplay:
  Holy crap - Great easy to use interface. And the targeting system helps make evening the odds more 
 balanced (you can choose not to use it if you like and just target enemies manually) . And VATS 
 is well balanced only giving you a certain amount of action points and a short regen time.
  
  Quick travel - Ok, i started the game out forgetting this existed and HATING the game because 
 i was walking everywhere, then it hit me, I can fast travel! Now its like a new game. I'm such 
 a moron. Dont forget this happens.
  
  NPC interface - selling items is kind of a hassle and its very necessary, so its burdensome, making 
 the words smaller would have helped greatly, why did they have to make them in 36 point font!!!!!! 
 Most gamers are not 90 years old!
  
  Cons- Controlling companions. You need to talk with them every time you want to give them a command. 
 Some kind of interface would have been nice. Talking to your dog is retarded hard to do and hes 
 like the best NPC there is, he makes a great tank even if he is squishy.
  -----
  Story:
  First of all, consider the fact that your in a nuclear wasteland 200 years after a nuclear war 
 living in a metal hole in the ground. Outside is desolate wasteland covered in terrible mutants 
 and immoral slavers and raiders. Everyone is out for there own personal gain in a very non- Ayn 
 Rand type of way. then place my character into it, I played the part of the good guy and helped 
 everyone I could to the best of my ability (ya I'm lame i know) . You follow an engrossing wonderfully 
 detailed storyline with AWESOME side quests that actually feel good accomplishing and you can always 
 choose to do it as a BAD GUY or a GOOD GUY. The choice is yours.
  -----
  Overall:
  If you like an RPG and also p [lay FPS's and want a great storyline with very open ended game play 
 that is set in a wonderfully detailed world, this game is for you, its worth every penny you pay 
 for it. Great job Bethesda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unduepains
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is just one of those games....
  
  One that includes most all of the aspects that one would want for a Action RPG.
  
  Just here 
 is to hoping that a few of the bugs are fixed, especially with crashing, in the patch.
  
  I just noticed that the patch information included a vast number of bug fixes toward the occasional 
 crashing that occurred.
  
  Here is to Bethesda for a quality and very fun to play action role playing game.
  
  Blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah...
  Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah... Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah...\
  
  Had to get past the 100 word thing... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhavik_baba
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the best game I have ever played in the RPG genre. This game is must have for 
 any person, I mean anyone. Even if a person does not like the RPG game he should still have it..
 
  
  The best of the best : Awesome game environment, (which made me kept thinking what if the nuclear 
 Holocaust really took place, would it be the same scenario?) Awesome game play with the beautiful 
 V. A. T. S system. Amazing A. I. what else should i say... The game is perfect.. I just can't stop 
 playing it. It so immersive.
  
  You totally get into the character that you play... there are, I don't know, innumerable number 
 of quest apart from the main storyline. Player upgrades and perks are so many that you can tweak 
 your character in any way you want... 
  
  The audio is very nice (freaky at times. Especially when the Ghouls are around.) You can listen 
 to the radio channel of your choice and you receive transmission of the channels as per your location.. 
 and the old English tracks are amazing to hear.. Sometimes the silence in the environment would 
 make you uncomfortable. But some of the sounds are very similar to Oblivion (of course) .
  
  My score: 10/10.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reynaldo_123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a truely masterpiece.
  I have been playing it for a very long time now, it must have been around 35 hours so far and im 
 still in the lvl right after you help the DJ, whose quest is REALLY hard wowww (HAD NO AMMO AT ALL) . 
 I love to play it, even though i cant play it as much as i want because of college.
  
  The game will truely involve you into it, and you will worry a lot about your character. Ive seen 
 myself with no ammo at all in multiple occations but have managed to get out of it (with a fatman 
 i save for this occations lol...)
  
  It sure give way much more than 100 hours of gameplay with all those funny/enjoyable side quests 
 it have, i have done a lot of those so far and im enjoyining it a lot.
  
  On the game im being the kind of Neutral guy, you can be either good or a bad guy. Neutral is just 
 perfect to me, while im good infront of others i steal/hack/lockpick what i shouldnt (which lower 
 my karma and makes me Neutral) .
  
  GIVE THIS GAME A TRY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Ive played this Game for exactly 48 Hours, 8 Minutes and 51 Secs. (this is noticed in the Savegame-Stats 
 ^^)
  Ive completed all Sidequests and almost finished (just have to follow the giant Robot) the Mainquest 
 too.
  Ok, 48 Hours isnt so Bad... Although i needed about 1 Year and over 350 Hours in Oblivion (+Knights 
 of the Nine and Shivering Islands) to finish everything. 
  
  Cause its a little too short, im not giving a 10. (I WANT MORE! ^^)
  
  But still this Game 
 is Amazing wide open. Im not gonna complete the Mainquest, cause the Game is over then. 
  There is much to explore even if youve completed all the "official" Sidequests. 
  
  And its 
 fun to play the same Game with a different skilled Charakter. For example, if you Skill to Charisma 
 and Speech. These Talents are not useless most of the Time like in other RPGs. Of Course you still 
 need to fight sometimes, but believe me, you ll have great advantages. 
  Even if you like to play with Melee Character in this World, which is filled with Weapons, its 
 well balanced and u can knock down Enemies pretty good. 
  Not only Balancing... The Gameplay (especially i like the V. A. T. S.) and Atmosphere with its Sound 
 from the 50s and the Retro-Futuristic (XD) Look are great too.
  In my Opinion this is one of the Best Games in 2008
  
  So, design your Face, take a 10mm Pistol, 
 some Armor and get out... to the Wastelands ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvguima
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  When i saw the first trailer of Fallout 3 i just dont know for sure What kind of game it will 
 be , but when i take a look of it here on Gamespot i knew it that it will be a Awesome game
  When i have the game on my hands i and when i installed it , when i play it the game turn into 
 my personal drug , it was so good to play it that i forget thinks like eat or go to the WC i was 
 in love with the game i spend hours of my life playing it and i dont will think twice in spend 
 more hours its just incredible unbelievable Awesome
  The think most interesting, in the game is Unlimited Freedom , you can explore the entire Capital 
 Wasteland and the War zone (DC Ruins) at your own
  of curse is better have ammo when you go to explore the world because in this game the ammo can 
 get to Zero very quickly but you can buy ammo if you need 
  I think that Bethesda Software do a very good job on this game Worth the wait for it 
  
  
 
  Thanks for reading this and if you ar planning to buy it it wont let you down that is for sure 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooper25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:00 am PT
Review:  There are three words to describe Fallout; Good looking, Long & well.. boring.
  Remember ,im talking about the pc version. This is one of those games that managed to drop your 
 jaw; but that's it, its an okey sort of a game. The RPG elements are unfortunately lame and you will 
 find your self in a repetitive manner. You will talk to someone and that someone asks your help 
 on his or her work; you finish it and you will have to come back for more. Even worst, the sandbox 
 element hasn't been nailed properly; fundamental things like weapon selection, opening a map, first 
 aid suppose to be straight forward. Opening the pitboy for those purposes and finding what we need 
 is so hideous and complicated. RPG games are mend to focus on missions and game play.
  But, fallout 3 contains lots of promising elements like the VAD combat system, good character building 
 and well the apocalyptic future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampire96_blood
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  Updated: 12:11 AM 1/16/2009 Corrected a few grammar and spelling errors
  
  Fallout 3 has the ability to be what you want to be in-game 
 just like the previous Fallout's as long as the game permits it.
  
  The game has a feature called V. A. T. S. or Vault-Tech Assisted Targeting System. That enables you 
 to pause the game to asses the situation and act accordingly. Like making a head shot to aiming 
 at your opponents weapon.
  
  The problem with this feature is you suddenly turn god mode in a few sec, if your lucky enough 
 to hit with successive critical hits. But enabling VATS in melee won't give you the chance to target 
 body parts... "how sad, when you want some one to be punched in the eye, or a kick to the groin." 
 
  
  Note: Targeting the eye & groin is no longer available in Fallout 3.
  
  The game also features Fast Travel when using your Pipboy 3000. This will allow you to move from 
 one place to another safely. Though I still want the game to have a chance encounter when using 
 fast travel to make it even more realistic (That's where the outdoorsman skill used to come in, 
 but they removed it) .
  
  Skills:
  Barter - affects the prices yo get for buying and selling items.
  Big guns - determines your 
 effectiveness with all oversized weapons (from mini-gun to gatling laser) .
  Energy Weapons - determines your effectiveness when using laser or plasma based weapons (rifles 
 to pistols only)
  Explosives - determines your effectiveness when using grenades and land mines and also disarming 
 traps.
  Lockpick - can be used to unlock doors and containers
  Medicine - determines your effectiveness when using stimpak, Rad-X & Radaway.
  Melee Weapons 
 - determines your effectiveness when using close combat weapons such as police batons to super 
 sledge
  Repair - used to maintain your gear and determines the starting condition of custom made weapons.
 
  Science - represents your scientific knowledge, and is used to hack computer terminals.
  Small Guns - determines your effectiveness when using pistols to sniper rifles.
  Sneak - your 
 ability to sneak past a foe and pick the pockets of NPC's. It also is an automatic critical hit 
 while your undetected.
  Speech - grants you speech options and gain access to information they might not share.
  Unarmed 
 - determines your effectiveness when using your fists & weapons like brass knuckles to power fist..
 
  
  Note: Throwing, Outdoorsman & Gambling skill is no longer available in Fallout 3. 
  
  First Aid & Doctor skills now combined in Medicine (good skill)
  Explosives used to be these 
 two skills below
  Throwing - for thrown weapons & Traps - for arming/disarming explosives)
  Throwing - determines the effectiveness of thrown weapons (from throwing knives to grenades)
 
  Both throwing and traps now combined into explosive skill.
  
  Perks: are purchased when you level up. It helps the character in many ways. They can be purchased 
 from level 2 up to level 20 (Level cap) .
  
  Patch
  The game has still bugs to be fixed even if the Fallout3_v1.0.0.15 patch has been released.
  
 Bethesda patch site 
  G. E. C. K. 
  
  When omparing 
 Fallout 3 to the other previous releases by Interplay & Black Isle. Fallout 3 is lacking a bit 
 more of the "Fallout experience." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 for the PC is the best game i have ever played. The graphics are outstanding and the 
 storyline was great! Theres not one bad thing i could say about Fallout 3. The map was huge and 
 the wide weapon choice was great. I just love seeing Alstar Tenpenny head geting blown off in slow 
 motion. from the great graphics to the great storyline i would rate this game a 10. Also i will 
 suggest a couple websites to help you throught the game. GREAT GAME!!!!!! 
  
  heres a website that will give you all the info you need to complete this game.
  
  http://fallout. wikia. com/wiki/Portal: Fallout_3 
 
  
  heres a map that shows locations of almost everything.
  
  http://planetfallout. gamespy. com/maps/1/Capital-Wasteland 
  
  I hope you got some use out of 
 this short review of fallout 3!! 
  
  and dont forget to click those links if you happen to buy the game. they are complete life savers!!
 
  
  please exuse my horrible spelling. im only 13 =] hope oyu buy the game you will love it!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolezz
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Fallout3 .... i really expected more to it and i also expected it to be a lil more longer... 2 days 
 b4 i wrote this review i was talking to a co worker of mine and i told him that i really think 
 that i only scratched the surface after playing it for almost 20 hours but when i go back home 
 i was done with the game in 20 minutes. i really expected it to be a lil longer. maybe be cuz i 
 stuck to the main objective a lot but to have a maximum level of 20 and the whole thing wasnt connected. 
 i dont wanna say that i dint enjoy the game but i really did but i was surprised to know that i 
 was done with it so sooon . i also expected to see more enemies of differnet types and more huge 
 enemies and bosses. in other words i wanna say that i wasnt a challenging game. i hope if there 
 is a fallout 4 then it would be a more challenging game and be more creative one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:45 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is a game that many people have been waiting for a long time.
  both the fans of the game "The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion" and fans of the Fallout series.
  It wouldn't 
 be right to call the game "Oblivion with guns" but it sure does remind you of the game a lot then 
 it will remind you of the original fallout games.
  The game looks quite good (The pc version is the better looking version and the ps3 version is not 
 as good as the xbox 360 or the pc version) . The enviroments look great, the weapon models look 
 great too. The character models look and the facial animations are also good but the could have 
 been better.
  The game is set in an open world washhington DC. you are free to explore, and do sidequests and 
 ignore the mainquest and you could also follow the mainquest which is quite short and very boring 
 especially towards the end. there are some interesting sidequests though that will keep you running. 
 the funny thing about the quests is that there are also a number of unmarked sidequests which you 
 can do but you wont be getting any XP or achievments for, and this is so far one of my biggest 
 complains. why should there be quests that you wont get any achievments for?
  the game also introduces VATS which is quite fun and it works quite well, the gunplay isn't really 
 that good if you want to rely on real time combat. there are also a number of perks whic aren't 
 really as good as the original perks but some of them are still fun to have (child at heart, lady 
 killer, gun nut) .
  as for the music, well, its not bad but it really isn't suited for this kind of game. The game 
 has some orchestral score which is more suited for a fantasy themed game.
  overall i must say that the game is quite fun you will spend a lot of time exploring the ruins 
 and outskirts of Washington DC looking for special items, armors, weopons and sidequest. the game 
 is definitly wort purchasing but somethings really could have been better:
  Characters Voice acting (you hear some voices over and over and over again)
  The Music (some horror 
 ambient music would have been nice)
  Better story for the Mainquest (The story really wan't as good as the orginal series, it wasn't 
 that dark and mysterious)
  
  overall i must say that this game is one of the better RPG's released in 2008.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_rider95
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Another fantastic game of the year 2008 is Fallout 3, a game full of violence and drug use. Well.... we 
 all know the story about the drug use and Australia.
  It has great graphics , great characters design and a really good atmosphere. 
  A great story 
 and amazing world makes you fell like you are there, you are that guy, good or evil, or as I 'm: 
 neutral. 
  I will say that for this game I have only good words, it ran on my old computer and it has all the 
 good staff that I mentioned it. Seriously I don't have what to say I mean what can you say of a 
 game that is perfect. 
  OK , NOW FOR REAL : THIS IS THE BEST GAME OF 2008, no matter what people says , only games like 
 Crysis Warhead or Gta IV can try match with Fallout 3 and that is why I 'm so glad to have this 
 game in my collection.
  So as I said it is perfect , I will give it a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_JoNNo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  This is my second review of fallout 3. First time round, i was a bit harsh and a bit quick to judge 
 and whine after my purchase and first couple of hours in the game. 
  
  However, it seems after spending days hooked to the damn game, that it was my play style and not 
 the game which was at fault.
  
  Fallout 3 requires you to lose yourself in the environment, to let go of the linear ways of thinking 
 that so many other games restrict you with. Im not saying fallout 3 doesn't contain linear plotline 
 elements, or that linear games can't be fun too, but to fully enjoy fallout 3 you need to be the 
 architect of your own fun.
  
  Do a mission, but then just wander out into the wasteland - check that ruined house, that burnt 
 out diner, that church with bodies pinned to it. In this way you'll start to place values on the 
 things important to your style of play. Like to blow things away? You're gonna need to raid and 
 search for ammo, scavenging when you can and weighing up which weapon to focus on for each fight; 
 a nice tactical nod to previous itterations of fallout. The game does a great job of giving you 
 the freedom to explore and scale up the difficulty as you level whilst walling off areas too challenging 
 for the first hours of play. 
  
  Interesting moral choices are at the heart of the immersion, and contribute to the feeling of being 
 a survivor in a ethically ambiguous setting. I find myself in a ruined museum, on a mission to 
 retrieve an important historical document, and also looking for items of value so i can buy some 
 medical supplies. i run into a mercenary who offers to team up who has a very unique and powerful 
 weapon. Do i outright murder her on the spot thinking she may betray me at a later point anyway? 
 As a do-gooder i decide to let her assist me, but when i notice her health falling i do not intervene, 
 letting her fall i take her weapon and ammo forfeiting anything she may have had to tell me or 
 give me and pressing on alone with her weapon in my hands. This is just a small example and there 
 are much larger and interesting choices to make throughout the game. But exploration is necessary, 
 as the main story line could be completed very quickly if you desired.
  
  The Pip Boy is a great way of accessing all your information, if a bit clunky at times. VATS isnt 
 as much of a I WIN button as you might think, and it certainly loses some of its power as you find 
 yourself facing against groups of raiders or super mutants armed to the teeth. The importance of 
 information in the game and the considerations you have to make when trading and scavenging are 
 all meshed beautifully into the gameplay.
  
  Fallout 3 is a great game, infused with great atmosphere and humour. It certainly has been hyped 
 alot, and i failed to understand how this was true initially, but alot of care to detail has been 
 paid. Slight drawbacks are briefly - slow run speed, some empty expanses of the map on the way 
 to locations (but there are loads of these) , not as much random combat / npc encounters as i might 
 have hoped.
  
  BUT with the release of the modding tools and lots more content for support planned, you would 
 be missing out not to enjoy this game in your own way. there is something for every style of play! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_death78
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Having spent several days playing Fallout 3 only recently, because of my fear of its failure having 
 being a long time fan of it's "predecessors", i've come to some frustrations despite an initial 
 sigh of relief when i started the game.
  
  Initial - it started of promising, great opening into the game, what looks like good graphics, 
 and a big open world to explore, with a nice array of unique sidequests.
  
  The bad emerges - 
  
  Graphics: No shadows, makes it seem so console, day night cycle is a 
 nice touch though. Graphic quality becomes more apparent now that focus shifts into detail.
  
  Open World - Not so open, cities filled with what should be passable barriers of rubble, cannot 
 traverse from one end of the city to the other without taking "conveniently blocked off subway".
 
  
  Interavtivity - Indestructible world, words cannot express the dissappointment that i can't blast 
 a teddy bear, let alone a door, lock, or god forbid make a hole in a wall that's obviously just 
 plaster or brick with a good amount of explosive.
  I thought open world meant freedom to do as you please... not to be guided through it. For a post 
 apocalyptic wasteland, there sure is a lack of destruction.
  
  Inconsistency - perhaps this isn't so much of an issue i just found it interesting that cars and 
 busses that look like they came from the 70's still have enough fuel inside them to explode after 
 a few bullets....
  
  What i liked - currency in form of bottle caps from cola bottles hahaha. Oh, and happening across 
 Meat-dog, who i found to be quite fun to have around.
  
  
  If i kept listing things i'll get looked down upon even more so than i already am by people who've 
 never heard of fallout or played its predecessor games... Even from reading the official reveiew 
 i have a feeling the reviewer may not have played the original games by the way they were commenting 
 so much on the brilliancy of Fallout 3... I've been wrong before.
  
  Side-note - the thing about the PS3 v. s. XBox360/PC version, obvious Microsoft discrimination much? 
 anyone? no? well, like i said, i've been wrong before, i mean how could a non-microsoft related 
 platform (PS3) do worse than a microsoft product (XBox 360) when it came to a microsoft supported 
 game (LIVE feature on 360 and Windows based PC platform) , no way they should be of the same quality 
 and features :) (note sarcasm due to obvious rhetoric i'm rendering for those unwitting enough 
 to notice) .
  
  
  P. S. to game developers, please stop being so lazy! please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigroo
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Having immensely liked the first two Fallout, I was much impatient, if a little anxious, to get 
 my hands on the third installment.
  The first two Fallout were outstanding, but certainly not flawless; there was room for improvement, 
 and given the time and the effort put into Fallout 3, I was pretty confident that Bethesda was 
 up to the task.
  
  On that point Fallout 3 met all my expectations: everything that needed fixing Bethesda fixed. 
 The ugly 256 colors isometric world became a believable, challenging post-nuclear 3D landscape. 
 The painful interface was brought to today's standards-today's console standards anyway. A compass 
 was implemented-although it could be argued that having to actually *think* in order to complete 
 a quest was not really a flaw.
  All the rest I took for granted. All that made Fallout 1 and 2 such great games in spite of their 
 flaws: the gritty, witty dialogs; the bigger-than-life NPC; the character development system; the 
 constant sarcastic undertone; the countless pop references; the feeling to be constantly struggling 
 for dear life in a harsh, lawless world where man is not the foremost creature anymore.
  
  Alas, that too Bethesda fixed.
  
  The first casualty of the company's fixing spree is without 
 a doubt the saddest: whereas the writing of the first two games often had me laughing out loud, 
 the flat, monotonous waffle that passes for it in the third only managed to make me grit my teeth. 
 And since everybody in the god-forsaken wasteland seemed to want to be my friend, invite me for 
 tea and pour the uninteresting story of their petty lives into my complacent ear, it lead to no 
 small toothache.
  
  The NPC also suffer from bad writing: baring a few, the characters are one-dimensional and forgettable. 
 It's hard to feel anything for someone who bores to tears (at best) simply by greeting you.
  But what's most lacking is fleshed out villains: although you'll mash through hordes of enemies, 
 it feels pointless and unchallenging because none of them really stands out.
  
  As for the character system and the rpg mechanics, they feel uninspired at best and downright broken 
 at times.
  None of the different perks you can choose from brings any significant change to the gameplay, 
 the skill caps are too easily attained and the different characteristics don't really matter aside 
 from giving access to more terrible dialogs. Some skills are even useless: science's only use, 
 for example, is pirating terminals in order to open locks you could have picked or to disable turrets 
 you already got past. And of course inflicting upon you yet again some painfully dull writings.
 
  But these mechanics flaws don't matter that much: since you'll hit the level cap at about one 
 fourth of the game-provided you explore the world you set out to see-, you'll pretty soon forget 
 about the rpg mechanics anyway.
  At which point you'll be left with a very monotonous and verbose FPS with awkward controls. In 
 which you have to repair your weapons and deal with aiming issues.
  
  All that being said, I did enjoy some of my time spent in the post-apocalyptic world of Fallout 
 3: some landscapes and settings are wonderfully immersive, and exploring the nuclear wastes fraught 
 with mutated danger is an addictive pastime. But no menace was more frightening than those friendly 
 people intent on drowning me under cheesy lines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazen_24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:48 am PT
Review:  That is a game that could be played for ever.. great graphics great gameplay.. shooting, killing ,slowmotions.. that 
 is really amazing... all we need now is FALLOUT 4,,, really.. but this time we need some greens,, blue 
 water blue sky.. and landscaping, not all but at least a place or 2 with clean land... hope my wish 
 come true.. we r really waiting a new fallout game with the same gameplay because it is great enough 
 to be made again... the only thing that was bad in fallout 3 is that the end should have been longer 
 and harder.. because the ending was a lot weaker than the whole story of the game.. Anyway it is 
 a game that cannot be forgotten,, and hope everyone will enjoy playing it like  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I've subsequently been sucked body & soul into the post-Apocalyptic world of Fallout 3. Never have 
 I experienced a game so absorbing, immersive, and addicting as this. It starts off slow but gradually 
 draws the player in unlike any game I've experienced before. Truly a Virtual Reality for even the 
 most jaded of FPS/RPG aficianados.
  
  True, it has a few quirks & drawbacks. An irritating crash bug for one, that Bethesda should have 
 addressed by now but hasn't, & an inordinate amount of cellar & tunnel-crawling type locations 
 that drag the flow of the game down in parts. Also a problematical ending that disallows further 
 playing or exploring after the completion of the Main Quest portion of the game, except by going 
 back & reloading old Save points. Don't let these relatively minor annoyances though..... deter 
 anyone from the experience of one of the truly great shooter games of all time.
  
  I won't rehash what's already been said in innumerable player & professional reviews. Suffice to 
 say FO3 is a beautiful, immersive, violent, funny, & wonder-filled experience that has to be played 
 to be understood & fully appreciated. It got my vote for Best Game of the Year, & possibly Best 
 Game... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfvert
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is probably the most immersive and large scale game to be released in 2008. However, 
 having just finished the game, there were many problems that should have been fixed pre-launch. 
 
  
  1) There is a LOT of texture pop in. It seems with every step your character makes, something in 
 the background just magically appears. Some of it will fade in/out, but most just pops into existence. 
 This can happen even if you are of a relatively short distance from your destination. Barns, houses, 
 silos, etc. all will magically appear before your eyes. It really detracts from the overall experience. 
 
  
  2) Sometimes the game will not recognize walls, rocks, or even the floor and your character or 
 your enemies will get stuck. For example, when I was wondering the halls of vault 87 I would see 
 the tentacles, head, and legs of centaurs sticking through the walls. It was quite disconcerting. 
 Worse, when I was battling a Super-Mutant in these same halls, once a centaur just appeared (magically) 
 right in front of me. It was supposed to be released later when I unlocked all of the cells, but 
 it just popped through the walls. There were several times when I would even pop through walls. 
 It was really annoying. I had to restart the game more than a few times due to getting stuck on 
 objects. 
  
  3) The third person view is the worst I have ever seen in ANY game period. It is HORRIBLE. I tried 
 to use it once and laughed so hard at how bad it was I had to stop playing. It looks like your 
 character has anti gravity boots on. I have no idea what they were thinking even including it into 
 the game. 
  
  4) Characters at times do not recognize others around them. You should watch two NPC characters 
 interact with one another. It's quite amusing. Generally one will be talking and the other will 
 just walk off leaving the speaking character carrying on a conversation with herself. They will 
 also run into each other and stop each other from moving. It looks like they are both walking in 
 place, and it will keep going for several seconds before one of them turns around or it glitches 
 one of the characters to a different location. 
  
  5) The VATS camera is pretty fun to watch, but sometimes the angle gets messed up so badly that 
 when you exit VATS mode, you have no idea where you or your enemy is. 
  
  6) There were several times the game wouldn't let me level up. It would tell me I leveled up, but 
 then it wouldn't let me spend skill points or choose a perk. I would have to restart the game and 
 try again. 
  
  7) This is the last problem. There were a few instances where I would pick a lock, enter a home 
 and there would be an NPC just standing there. She/He would come over and start a conversation. 
 Hell, once I traded with someone for like 20 minutes: dumping supplies, repairing equipment, purchasing 
 ammo, etc. However, when I walked back outside I would get mobbed by the townspeople. This happened 
 multiple times. I would talk to a guard outside a location only for he and his friends to attack 
 me when the pleasant conversation was over. If I reloaded, the guy would just go for my throat 
 instead of having the conversation.
  
  I say all of this, but I still give it a 9. When you think about how huge this game is, and how 
 immersive it is, any score lower would be a disservice. However, they REALLY should have had this 
 game in beta testing longer than it was. One more month of development could have made this game 
 a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antisma08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  i had heard so much about this game that when i got my christmas money i immedialy went out and 
 bought it and i'd have to say it is worth every penny and then some... 
  
  starting off in the game it may seem like there is a lot going on but just let it run and you'll 
 figure out everything just fine, there isn't any tutorial but the controls are pretty basic for 
 such a complex game which is definitely a plus. it is an extremely deep RPG style game where every 
 little thing you could possibly do effects a lot of the story, keeps people from joining/not joining 
 your party; determines what you can and can't do in the game and the rewards for leveling up are 
 definitely worth the work.
  
  at time the game can take the form of a thriller game like dead space or f. e. a. r. because of the 
 mutants in the game so be prepared to be on the edge of your seat through some of the parts of 
 the game but every moment of terror is well worth the end enjoyment. 
  
  the music.... in my opinion the one radio station you can listen to in the game called 'galaxy 
 news radio' is definitely something i have to give props to the creators for. there's nothing like 
 killing mutated creatures left and right listening to old 50's style barbershop music with lyrics 
 like "i don't want to set the world on fire" sometimes i get a good laugh out of the irony. 
  
  you can choose to follow the main story or you can go on your own path until you think you 
 are ready to pick the main story back up later on. the environment on the game is truly believable.. 
 most post apocalyptic games (in my opinion) don't seem as believable as this one, this game shows 
 the desperation for struggle in the wastes and also, with the aid of the radio programs, allows 
 the player to hear about new developments in the problems all over the D. C. area and even reports 
 on some of the things you as your character does. 
  
  graphics... if you have a descent video card you'll love the graphics in this game... but by saying 
 descent i mean something like an 8800 gt because that's what i have and on several occasions it 
 began having problems dealing with the environments (might also have something to do with me playing 
 the game for 12 hours straight.. oops) but whatever the case... you'll enjoy how the game looks 
 everywhere you go in the environment, the lighting, the textures, the buildings.. it really makes 
 you feel like you're living in a real post apocalyptic world.
  
  all-in-all i loved every minute of this game, from the music to the ghouls, to the awesome bullet 
 time action in V. A. T. S. mode with a sniper :) the story line is very deep (in an epic but heartfelt 
 way) and may leave you speechless at the end but don't worry you can always play it again because 
 every time is a new experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunken_munki
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I was a very keen Fallout fan, played both the originals 10+ times each, and the second one with 
 some various mods which was awesome. Needless to say I awaited in heavy anticipation for this game 
 to come out.
  
  I have mixed feelings about this game however if you want the quick recommendation I would say 
 it is worth every penny for the purchase. It hit so close to the perfect mark but not quite. Though 
 be warned it doesn't really play or feel like the originals.
  
  The best bits:
  
  Graphics are gorgeous, the world seems very fitting for the post-apoc setting- everything just 
 feels right, even down to the exploration and rummaging around for equipment.
  The side-quests are interesting enough and will keep you exploring - there is SO much to do.
 
  
  But the main problem that really annoyed me with this game is the main quest / ending. It is just 
 too short, with nothing really interesting going on, apart from two memorable moments - I think 
 you'll all agree (both involve some things which are rather large) .
  
  But then suddenly everything ends and you wonder why... why would they do that? I don't know, maybe 
 Bethesda wanted to go for some kind of different approach.. or maybe they just ran out of time, 
 who knows?
  
  The combat is a bit bland, that thankfully the VATS pause system is incredibly fun and believe 
 it or not doesn't get boring. I see this kind of system being fully exploited in future games, 
 well I hope any way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nenn88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a game that I had high expectations for. Being a fallout series fan and oblivion fan 
 at the sametime.
  
  Fallout 3 could of been alot better, but hey, every game could be !
  
  Even though if you look at it from adventuring/roleplaying perspective, it didnt really give 
 much. Lack of places... was rather dissapointed that there was only 2 actual cities, megaton, and 
 the Rivet city. Atleast they were the ones worth calling cities... well ok paradise falls was a 
 city-alike place, but thats about it. 
  I mean im fan of running around doing side quests, and just like adventure around. Fallout does 
 have alot of sides quests, but there could of been more!
  
  I was rather dissapointed in the lack of adult stuff in the game. Like in Fallout 2... there was 
 prostitution, adult film star, and so on. I do know that you could... uhhh sleep with a girl in 
 fallout 3... but well it didnt give any message of anything that your actually doing it! and where 
 were the male prostitutes!? *cries*
  Sure sure, game doesnt NEED to have those but, its what the previous ones had :)
  
  Also the 
 whole character in 3d perspective looked so wrong, well the way it ran.. so had to play as first 
 person :) 
  
  Other than that, the game was just purely amazing!
  The graphics, the places, and the athmosphere were awesome! I really loved the voice acting, it 
 was greatly acted, and it gave great feel to the whole game.
  The whole Karma system was greatly made, and all the things that changed in the world if you did 
 something bad, or something good.
  Also, the radio rocked! What more could a girl wish for than butcher pete song while slashing down 
 zombies! 
  
  My 2 cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:45 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3. Hmm. I had watched the trailers and the interviews, read all about it, but the game 
 never really caught my attention. But a friend lent me his game, so I could try it, and so I did.
 
  And all I can say is this: WOW.
  Such a long time has passes since I played a game like this. Maybe no games since Bioshock came 
 out. I write this review imagining that the reader already knows all about the game and its aiming 
 system and so on. This is my opinion of the game, and not a revision of everything that's on it.
 
  
  PERSONAL EXPERIENCE:
  Now there are only a few games out there that make me say WOW, and I'm going to tell you one of 
 my experiences in the game just to tell you how much fun it is (no spoilers, I promise) .
  So I'm out in the "Wasteland" searching for my father when suddenly I find a supermarket ("Super 
 Duper Market" it's called) . I decide to go inside and see if I can find any food or ammo.
  I'm inside, it's all dark, not a sound. I find a lot of food, but not much ammo, so I decide to 
 explore the rest of the building. But suddenly, I see the shadow of a person walking on top of 
 the furthest shelf. I run and hide, and stealthly walk towards the man only to find about ten "Raiders" 
 (murderers and robbers) . I kill them off one by one and take all their stuff. It was all set up 
 in such a way, that it seemed I was watching a movie in which I decided what happened.
  Such scenes happen very often in the game, and keep you playing until the very end.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  I've heard the gameplay was "easy" or simply "boring" but I found the game pretty hard. I'm normally 
 the type of player that puts every game on the easiest difficulty because I don't enjoy having 
 to look at GAME OVER screens over and over again. But I chose to put the difficulty on Easy (being 
 Very Easy the easiest option) . On "Easy" mode standing next to a super mutant, and shooting him 
 twice in the unprotected face only takes half his health points away. Later on I discovered that 
 in the main quests you barely encounter any "strong" enemies until near the end, so apparently 
 going for the side-quests to early into the game is a bad idea since you're not strong enough. 
 Many say the game's like "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" with guns. I agree to a certain level. 
 Many situations reminded me of Oblivion, but the game has its own touch most of the time.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Well, they're not "Crysis" or "Assassin's Creed". It's an improved version of 
 the Oblivion engine. The atmosphere is splendid and the game reminds me of the Mad Max movies and 
 the game "Bioshock".
  
  SOUND:
  Voice acting is wonderful and the music is very immersive, with radio stations that talk about 
 the things you've done or simply playing old music. Some of the songs reminded me of "Bioshock's" 
 atmosphere, and I think there's even a couple of songs they both have.
  
  STORY:
  Interesting, it just sucks you in with intriguing side-quests and twists. The endings are great, 
 too.
  
  I hope you liked the review. I've left many things unsaid but I don't want to bore you.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmiedeaner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly all it is cracked up to be. Bethesda always puts out quality games, so it is 
 no surprise that Fallout 3 is great. They did well on every aspect of the game. The story-telling 
 is very good, there is a ton of content aside from the main story line, the action is very fun 
 and will make you say "WOW!" over and over, and the game runs great on moderate systems. It is 
 a must play.
  
  This game achieves a very hard task in that the game is both very accessible and at the same time 
 deep enough to satisfy hard core RPG players. This game will be loved by all types of gamers. People 
 who love to strategize and carefully plan there moves will love the VATS system and the ability 
 to make weapons. Players who simply love action will also find all of the action they need and 
 will love the amazing death animations.
  
  
  Advice for anyone about to play this game: don't just rush through the main quest as there are 
 so many other cool things to see, use the cool weapons as you get them because cooler ones keep 
 coming and I won the game without having used the coolest of the weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I was one of those folks who called Fallout 3 "Oblivion with guns" before its release, after playing 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion I wasn't exactly expecting what we ended up getting. Fallout 3 is 
 actually a very good, no I mean great continuation of the series even if it departs from the gameplay 
 mechanics of its predecessors.
  
  Set over three decades after the conclusion of Fallout 2, on the east coast of the United States 
 as opposed to the west coast. Fallout 3 stars you as an all new Vault Dweller. When your father 
 (voiced by Liam Neeson) leaves the Vault with no word, the Overseer marks him, his associates, 
 and you for death fearing exposure to the outside world. Fleeing the Vault's security forces you're 
 forced out into the wasteland in a quest to find your father.
  
  Unfortunately, like most Bethesda games, the main quest is a colossal disappointment. It feels 
 like a rushed afterthought as it's extremely short, and has more holes than a mile of Swiss Cheese, 
 and a lackluster ending. Fallout 3 manages to mostly make up for its poor main quest with an extremely 
 well detailed game world for you to explore, many varied side quests, and the freedom to do whatever 
 you please.
  
  The setting and lore remain true to what was set down by the first two installments in the series 
 for the most part. With the exception of regular old rats, and floaters, nearly all of the classic 
 Fallout creatures return in full 3D glory.
  
  The gameplay is radically different from the first two installments, and this has lead to a rift 
 in the Fallout community. Fallout 3 being a first person, real time RPG as opposed to an isometric 
 turn based RPG like its predecessors feels very different, but I personally didn't mind. The game 
 world is very detailed if you take the time to explore, with unique abandoned buildings spread 
 throughout the wasteland. I started to see the first person perspective as a nice change, as I 
 for one have an interest in exploring old, abandoned structures. The game also features two radio 
 stations that add to the atmosphere, one is Galaxy News Radio which is hosted by "Three Dog", an 
 over enthusiastic liberal disc jockey who gives updates to the wasteland on what is happening, 
 including actions you perform throughout the game. GNR also plays three of twenty classic 40s era 
 American songs in between Three Dog's news reports. The other radio station is Enclave Radio, which 
 is the polar opposite. A propaganda radio station where President John Henry Eden tries to sway 
 people to his side, and in between his rants you've got classic American marching music.
  
  Bethesda did attempt to add in a pseudo turn based feature with the V. A. T. S. system. Essentially 
 VATS allows you to enter a screen where you can aim at an enemy's specific body part, and get a 
 percentage on your chance of hitting it similar to the target system of the first two games. Once 
 you queue up your choices you can accept, and the game switches to a slowed down cinematic view 
 of the action. It's a cool feature, but it's also broken as I've encountered numerous bugs with 
 the system. The most prominent one is after accepting your attack order, the camera switches to 
 the front of your character and ignores your attack commands. Essentially the VATS system freezes 
 leaving you open to attack for a good minute or two.
  
  Visually Fallout 3 is fairly stunning, and characters aren't as hideous as they were in Bethesda's 
 previous game Oblivion. Generally the textures are of a high resolution, and the environment looks 
 detailed with a wide assortment of dead plant life. If you've played Oblivion, then you know what 
 to expect in the graphics department.
  
  In terms of audio Fallout 3 does a great job. Along with the aforementioned radio stations that 
 can be accessed through your PipBoy, there's ambient music composed by Inon Zur which fits the 
 game's depressing mood. The voice acting is also well done, and not as generic and bland as Oblivion's 
 voice work. I can't for the life of me figure out how your father has an English accent when he's 
 been surrounded by Americans with American accents his entire life, though.
  
  Fallout 3 is a great game despite what some of the more... zealous, old fans would lead you to 
 believe. It has a great atmosphere, and a good deal of freedom and is far above Bethesda's own 
 Elder Scrolls series. If you have your doubts give it a shot, you may be pleasantly surprised like 
 I was.
  
  Overview:
  +True to the Fallout Setting and Lore
  +Atmosphere
  +Attention to detail
  +Varied side quests
  +Large scope with a great deal of freedom
  +V. A. T. S. 
 offers some great cinematic views
  +Excellent visuals and audio
  
  -Poorly designed main quest
  -V. A. T. S. is broken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ali_P30
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Losing the comfort of the Vault was one thing but coming into the huge, wide world of the Wasteland 
 was something I'll always remember. First because the actual setting was something I'd expect to 
 have a shed-load of loading times and secondly because even the detail in the horizon was striking. 
 The missions were interesting and I felt like I couldn't turn the game off until I'd accomplished 
 my quests. I grew attached to characters, especially my own as I had the choice to be good or bad. 
 This opened the door to so many different dialogue options and different ways to end quests, or 
 create new ones. I loved the graphics, and even the two-minute stint crossing the wasteland was 
 enjoyable, despite the baron atmosphere. I would play it again and again, and even now when I play 
 I discover new destinations and a huge array of choice for how to proceed. Brilliant game, loved 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xero1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, a few things, actually. It was boring. Honestly, I don't know why I played it as much as 
 i did. Once I finished the main story, I just quit. It didn't feel very "any path you want" to 
 me. Sure, it let you do whatever, but the game makes it abundantly clear what the "correct" choices 
 are. You can be a thief, but you lose karma every time you steal something. You can murder people, 
 but there's no real satisfaction from it. 
  
  The graphics are ok. People have gone on for months about how breathtaking the graphics are. To 
 me, the graphics seemed bland and washed out. The water looked good, even from a distance, and 
 that's about where the glory ended. The textures look reasonable, and the view distance is rather 
 impressive for an Xbox 360 game, but otherwise, meh. There are ways to make a game not look all 
 shiny and hyper realistic like Halo 3 without making it boring to look at. The lip syncing is bad, 
 but aside from Half Life 2, there really hasn't been a game that's had truly great lip syncing. 
 It has the same hiccups as Oblivion, particularly with the laughs. Sigh...
  
  Sound is good. Things sound good over all. The voices are good, but for some reason they sound 
 fast. Like the actors were speed-talking through the recording sessions.
  
  Combat-wise, the game feels odd. The VATS system is awesome, but it has no real strategic value. 
 Additionally, the guns feel weak. It's hard to describe, but the gun sounds, models, everything 
 just doesn't feel right. If you play Call of Duty 4 or Left 4 Dead, and compare it to Fallout 3, 
 you'll understand what I mean. They just don't have that kick to them, which overall detracts from 
 the immersion. 
  
  But wait, there's more. Despite all these flaws, Fallout 3 does manage to keep you going for as 
 long as it goes. The personalities of the people you encounter are genuine and believable. Characters 
 can actually win you over and make you WANT to help them. The main story is simply very well done. 
 It gives you many options to go through it, while generally ending the same way. However, at the 
 end there is a custom ending montage and speech about your life, depending on what you did in the 
 game. It's pretty cut-and-paste, nothing like "whoa, they made it just for me!", but it still pleasant. 
 The art design in the game is top notch, as Bethesda is known for. Boy, when they need to make 
 an epic world, they do it. While the game does look overly bleak, certain moments will catch you 
 off guard. Just staring up at the fragmented Washington Monument with the sun shining behind it 
 sends shivers down your spine. 
  
  In the end, Fallout 3 was a good game, and certainly worth playing. The biggest irk would just 
 be that it doesn't have the kind of side-motivation to keep playing once the main quest is over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Do we have any LoTR fans in here? Thought so.... I bet you've read the books then. And I bet you've 
 seen the films as well, at least once.
  
  I think no one can say that the LoTR films were bad, but as you know there's a lot more to the 
 famed Tolkien universe than could ever fit into a film, even into three films.
  
  And that's how Fallout3 feels to me, Fallout1 is an all time classic with superb writing and atmosphere. 
 Fallout2 didn't quite match the story telling genius of Fallout1 but compensated with improved 
 game play and graphics.
  
  Fallout3... well.... in a strange way you could say it continues this trend. It's very very pretty, 
 one of the best looking games of all time. And the combat, with its big guns and slow motion cams, 
 will probably make your jaw drop a couple of times.
  
  However - unfortunately - these superlatives can't be used to describe the main quest of the game. 
 In some ways it also reminds me of the film Armageddon, huge budget, AAA aspirations, AAA marketing..... 
 but how much sense did that movie really make?
  
  (SPOILER WARNING! Just to mention one problem the main goal of the game is essentially to make 
 seawater drinkable by removing fallout particles... well... great.... but maybe we could start 
 with the inland freshwater supplies instead? Also - why the h*ck was the Jefferson Memorial a good 
 place to convert for this job? You'd think a water processing plant would be a better place to 
 start....)
  
  With Fallout3 you'll have a great time but as soon as you activate your brain for just one split 
 second the main plot crumbles and falls to pieces. And that is not Fallout.
  
  Fallout1 had a very grimy, brutal and twisted story, but it made logic sense in its context. The 
 main story in Fallout3, towards the end, doesn't make any sense at all.
  
  It's really painful because after all the good side quests, and all the amazing exploration in 
 this vast world, all it adds up to is a big anticlimax.
  
  The classic Fallout universe is about story, about right and wrong, about context, about moral, 
 about hope, about tough decisions that will stick with you.
  
  So even if Fallout1&2 can't even begin to match the graphical awe fest that is Fallout3 they had 
 something else. They had the power to change your outlook on life, and what makes a human being. 
 They really were that good.
  
  Fallout3 on the other hand is a great thrill ride until you begin to ask too many questions. Then 
 it crumbles to bits and pieces and all you're left with is a hollow feeling that you've been robbed 
 of something that could have been truly epic.
  
  All this being said I really look forward to Fallout 4, but this time around we don't need better 
 graphics or combat. Bethesda has proved that they have a very able, and competent, art department 
 but they shouldn't be allowed to run the show. Games created by art departments may look fancy 
 but seldom turn out "just right". Get the story right first - THEN you make it.
  
  I don't know who's responsible for the main story ending in Fallout3 as it is right now, but I 
 feel like spraying them with the Fallout3 "FEV antidote virus" and see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  After reading about Fallout 3 for many, many months I was genuinely ecstatic to play it when it 
 FINALLY came out in October. I have waited so long for a review so that I could be absolutely certain 
 about the remarks that I am about to make. I like this game; don't get me wrong. But there are 
 a few issues with it. 
  
  Story: Fairly good. The main issue I have here, and with the game as a whole is that if you follow 
 the main quest series, the game is extremely short. I easily completed it in a few hours (total, 
 not in one sitting) . There are plenty of side quests to keep you busy, but once you complete main 
 quest the game is OVER! What's worse, is that there is absolutely no way to know that it is the 
 end. The story, without giving to much away, does end in a proper way, but the final quests do 
 not give you the indication that the game is ending until it happens. Therefore, if you get this 
 game, I would consult a game guide and get the name of the final quest so you know when you get 
 to it; this way you won't complete your game before you want too. 
  
  Sound: GREAT! One thing that I love in a game is constant in game music and dialogue when interacting 
 with NPC's. I think it really brings the game together and allows for a more immersive experience.
 
  
  Controls: Just okay. The PC version allows for some very good control, obviously, but if you like 
 a third-person view, this game is not for you. The game is meant to be played in the FPS perspective 
 so the Third-Person appears very awkward.
  
  Gameplay: Good. You can really equate it to Elder Scrolls Oblivion in this realm. The Karma system 
 is an excellent addition to the game and worth highlighting. Based upon your actions, you receive 
 Karma points which point your character toward the good or evil end of the scale (there is also 
 a neutral setting should you desire) . Each of these three "sides" of the coin allows you access 
 to different privileges and areas, which you may not necessarily have access to otherwise. The 
 best part is that the outcome of a particular action is not immediately apparent to the player 
 at the time the action occurs, so you never really know where you'll end up. 
  
  On the whole, gameplay is fairly good.
  
  Graphics: VERY nice. The environments are very very 
 nice to walk through and explore and in particular, the buildings of the Capitol Area are simply 
 beautiful. In the Wasteland (the area outside the city) , the environments do become repetitive, 
 but it's a Wasteland... what else is there?
  
  Overall: So, you may wonder why I'm not ecstatic about this game? Personally, I got bored with 
 it very very quickly and I didn't feel it was worth the $50 price tag. Between the exceptionally 
 short main quest and the repetitive nature of some of the quests, I simply didn't LIKE the game 
 THAT much. Some view the game as groundbreaking. I did not. This certainly is not one of my most 
 objective reviews, but take it for what it's worth. If you want an immersive game that has completely 
 endless replay value, I'd steer for one of the online Massive Multiplayers. However, if you don't 
 want to get wrapped up in a game and want something you can come back to again and again every 
 once and a while, this would be your answer. Still a great game... But just above great. Don't believe 
 ALL the hype.
  
  Available at your local game store, Steam, or Direct2Drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabriel92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  As I took this game and installed in my head I thought this is gonna be like Oblivion but i could 
 not be more wrong. Of course this takes after it's predecessor but its nothing you would have tought. 
 This game offers so much depth that i did not find a game yet to match it up. As you come out of 
 the vault u just see this immensity of land just waiting for you to be discovered. As you walk 
 around the whols waste ''playground'' you can discover soo many places that you would have never 
 thought about. The action that you can get is amazing and the quest are very fun but also hard 
 to find. This is not your any kind of game that once you lvl up you get like 20 quest that you 
 can do, no this is like a real life game you go and search for them by talking to people and saying 
 the right things. This is deffinetley the game of the year and even if you wont like the style 
 of game play you still may be able to have tons of fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommoz0r
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Damn. Where do i begin. I mean. Wow.
  
  This game, my fellow gamers. Is nothing short of a masterpiece. Seeing people give this game an 
 abysmal score of 1.0, sincerely and utterly horrifies me. I'll be keeping this review short and 
 sweet, but playing over 70 hours of this game and leaving me wanting more, and also the fact i 
 need to explore more, is astonishing. I haven't played a game like this in years. Starting with 
 the graphics i have to say they are fantastic, sucks you in completely. Reviewing the PC version 
 i can say there are small graphical glitches and bugs, but very few. 
  
  I've never been so immersed in a game, that quite frankly looks worryingly real (If there was to 
 be a nuclear war that is) . From the character models and the blades of grass in the wastes, to 
 the cracks in the dark destroyed buildings in the destroyed streets of DC, everything looks amazing. 
 Heck, even the metro system is bar none the best i've seen. The character animations on the other 
 hand, the way they interact with the world sometimes, or the way they move can be a little sluggish, 
 not the best i've seen to date but it's something i can live with; But then reading that in O: A 
 DLC, the animations are getting re-done to look better and interact to the world better put's the 
 subject to rest.
  
  The sound is amazing. The player uses a small computer called a pip-boy, which is like a huge bracelet 
 thats attached to the left arm. This will help you all through the game, and is also used as an 
 inventory menu too. Heck, it even plays the damn radio. With such voice acting from Ron Perlman, 
 Liam Neeson, and Malcolm McDowell, the game has some great voice acting. Some of the dialogue throughout 
 the game can be a little off, which breaks the hold a bit, but the sounds of the explosions and 
 everything in the environment from the creaking of doors opening to the abandoned ruins of hotels 
 and haunting corner shops, it really does suck you in.
  
  The gameplay and story are also fantastic, you start life (literally) being born, from the womb 
 of you're mother, in you're home, called Vault 101. You can change you're appearance in any way 
 possible, like Oblivion, and also choose a set of pre-designed faces, but not as monstrously ugly 
 Oblivions. There is then the cleverly calculated S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system; Strength, Perception, Endurance, 
 Charisma, Intelligence, Agility, and Luck. This system was used in the previous Fallout installments, 
 and still to date is one that i've always remembered well. You then have you're skills such as 
 Small Guns, Sneak, and Barter, which are governed by S. P. E. C. I. A. L. Also, once you level (A max 
 level of 20, which is also being raised in DLC) you gain a perk. These perks can help the player 
 greatly, they are like special attributes or abilities you can aquire, but seeing as you can choose 
 1 per level, you'll have to be careful on spending that perk point. 
  
  Moving on you slowly grow up, taking tests at school, and even celebrating you're tenth birthday 
 where you're given you're own Pip-Boy. As you turn 18 you're father goes missing, leaving the vault, 
 which is a crime to it's inhabitants. Probably as bad as murder in thier case. So you're left on 
 you're own, but hell no are you staying in the vault. This is when the journey truly begins, and 
 you embark into the unknown wasteland, for answers to finding out where he went and why he left. 
 I won't spoil the story too much, seeing that i've been blown away by whats been thought up here.
 
  
  The game plays great, some minor bugs, which in later DLC there are major bug fixes included, which 
 also greatly makes me happier that such a great game can be made better. The V. A. T. S system is 
 also one of the best combat systems i've ever seen in this generation, those new and old to the 
 Fallout series will be blown away by this one. It holds the RPG element of turn-based combat, as 
 it allows you to target an enemies body part, but the accuracy and damage of the shot is determined 
 by you're skill, such as in Energy Weapons or Big Guns etc. But if you're willing to stick to you're 
 FPS roots in this Hybrid of a game, feel free to blast away!
  
  There are also PLENTY of different enemies and factions in the game, spanning from the much remembered 
 Enclave, Super Mutants, Slavers and Raiders to friendly allies such as the Ghouls and the Brotherhood 
 of Steel. On a side note, even watching the random battles between these factions are pretty insane, 
 the explosions and destruction they create are both ruthless and fun to watch, unless you want 
 to get involved that is! There are also cool random encounters in the huge wastes of DC, such as 
 a runaway Super Mutant who disbanded from his brothers, having different views from thiers, and 
 doesn't want to fight anymore, to an Alien Ship that crash lands, which you can go to it's crash 
 location, and see what Phat Lewt it brought with it. The map is huge, not as big as bethesda usually 
 like to make it, but a fair size indeed. Also one thing i love about the game, are the companions, 
 such as Dogmeat, the canine all Fallout fans love, this one being somewhat a descendant of the 
 dogmeat from the first game.
  
  Crap. I've written too much, if you can be bothered to read all of this, i must say, if you don't 
 have this game, buy it. Worth the money, worth the wait, worth the hype, and worth the hours upon 
 hours of playing it. Playing over 70+ hours of the game i'm still not bored, and still have locations 
 to explore, also starting up a second save to do everything i've already done, in a different way, 
 and trust me, the multiple ways to complete a quest are insane. With the 3 upcoming DLC, i won't 
 get bored of this for a while. 
  
  This game is an utter masterpiece in it's own right, Bethesda have done it in creating a new world 
 for Gamers to explore, love or hate, and cherish. This is game of the year people, and one i will 
 remember for years to come. Hands down 10/10 (Upcoming DLC has helped this a little, from what 
 i've read will have to see if they stay true to thier word!) . 
  
  Finally this review has come to an end, i've written all i can possibly be bothered to write, so 
 to the people of Gamespot, i'm off to the wasteland! Godspeed. 
  
  TPJ McGinnes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  When a game is released with the Fallout name in the title it brings with it a certain level of 
 expectation, now finally after 10 years we have the chance to see if Bethesda has cooked up something 
 worth the wait.
  
  For those that cannot remember, or simply weren't gaming when Interplay began the series in the 
 late 90's you can rest easy that Fallout 3 doesn't require any prior knowledge, but as a bonus, 
 let me fill you in a little back-story to save you checking the World Wide Wikipedia. Fallout 3 
 is set in the Post apocalyptic wasteland of the United States, specifically around the Washington 
 DC area. The events that lead to the fall of mankind began after the world nations started squabbling 
 over the remaining resources left on the planet, finally an unnamed country went nuclear in 2077 
 causing many people to retreat into underground vaults while others perished or mutated on the 
 surface. Fallout 3 begins in 2258 with your birth not far away from downtown Washington DC.
  
  Previous Fallout games have been all viewed from the isometricperspective, naturally Bethesda 
 has taken the series into 3D with the same Gamebryo engine seen in Oblivion. This caused many people 
 to scream "It's just going to be Oblivion with guns!" which on the surface seems quite accurate 
 as it's quickly apparent that Fallout 3 and Oblivion share many commonalities along with the shared 
 graphics engine. Oblivion with guns may not be a bad thing though, depending on where you stand, 
 and if there's one things that video games teach us, is that guns are cool. You'll have your first 
 brief taste of combat before you leave the vault, this will give you change to try the new combat 
 system that separates Fallout 3 from Oblivion and indeed any first person game that's come before 
 it (at least in my memory) , V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tech Assisted Targeting System) .
  
  A quick tap of the V key on your keyboard and the game will pause and take you into a targeting 
 mode so you can plan your attack so long as you have the necessary action points. This doesn't 
 replace your ability to just point your gun at your target and pull the trigger but since combat 
 is all variables and calculations, real-time combat doesn't feel particularly great. Once you select 
 your targets in V. A. T. S. you'll not able to move until your sequence is complete, this seems a 
 little off putting at first should you realize your tactics are woefully inadequate, but when combat 
 slows down to show your perfect head-shot connect with the back of a mercenary's head, the troubles 
 of the wasteland quickly fade away. The V. A. T. S combat doesn't get old as quickly as you'd expect, 
 however it can be frustrating to unload 3 shotgun blasts to the back of someone's head just for 
 them to turn around and fire back, as this can make the weapons feel underpowered one moment and 
 devastating the next, but since we're talking about an RPG here and not a first person shooter 
 these 'problems' are to be expected. There's no shortage of variety; plasma weapons, mini guns, 
 sledge hammers, buzz blades and sniper rifles are just some of the joyous weapons you'll scavenge 
 and having a lot of variety helps when you're struggling to keep your weapons filled with ammo.
 
  
  Your weapon accuracy is governed by six of the thirteen available skills, the others are the usual 
 affair of healing, sneaking, bartering etc. and as with previous Fallout games these skills are 
 just part of the statistics that control your character. The S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system (Strength, Perception, 
 Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, Agility, and Luck) returns and should feel pretty familiar to 
 anyone who's got any past RPG experience, the perks system however is a little unique. These perks 
 include the traits of previous Fallouts so naturally you'll have access to the "bloody mess" perk, 
 which causes "characters and creatures you kill [to] often explode into a red, gut-ridden, eyeball-strewn 
 paste". Some perks, including bloody mess give you a skill bonus, others may change the gamely 
 slight by allowing you to feast on your victims or befriend some of the wasteland creatures. The 
 character advancement system feels very true to the Fallout universe and the Bethesda designers 
 thankfully resisted the temptation to include their Elder Scrolls system of advancing only the 
 skills you use. Fallout 3 also has a great many reasons to play through a second or third time, 
 one of those reasons is that your different skills will open up new paths through the game, perhaps 
 you can talk yourself out of a situation rather than fighting, plus having higher skills in certain 
 areas will unlock different traits for you to choose from.
  
  It's not just your skills that create new paths through Fallout, your actions can also drastically 
 effect the wasteland which will in turn effect the reaction of other characters towards you. It 
 seems as if no RPG is complete without the player going through a slew of ethical choices, but 
 Fallout 3 gives you some rather large choices early on that can change things so much that you'll 
 feel that you've missed out on a large portion of the game no matter how you choose to go. Dialog 
 trees fortunately feel a little more fleshed out than Oblivion and although combat is often the 
 showpiece of Fallout 3, you're going to spend a fair amount of time talking to the rather wacky 
 gals and fellahs in the wasteland. Conversations and missions often go beyond the usual fetch and 
 assassinate quests and sometimes you can adjust the lives of others by talking to a few people 
 without any quest being attached and no rewards given, besides perhaps a little karma. Most of 
 the people you'll meet feel very three dimensional, with very separate personalities as if they'd 
 each have their own back story to tell. The believability of these characters is only helped by 
 the rather disturbing feeling of accuracy you'll get from the wasteland you're crossing.
  
  It's a rather unique feeling when you find an untouched house out in the wasteland, you enter the 
 house and see a suitcase by the door next to some human remains, more remains are in the kitchen 
 next to the food in the oven, traveling upstairs you see a bedroom with toy cars on the floor and 
 a doll in the toy box, there are more human remains on the bed. These simple touches created more 
 emotion for me than any other recent game in memory, so it feels rather creepy when you're rummaging 
 around the belongings of this deceased family so you can find some items to sell to a trader. Sadly 
 though, Fallout 3 suffers from the item packing as the Elder Scrolls series, although not as severe, 
 often you'll find that the world seems to be overly flooded with filler objects, but the areas 
 are arranged and objects placed with such meticulous detail that it's easy to forgive a little 
 time saving. So you may find objects at least in locations that you'd expect, but you have to wonder 
 how many people eat squirrel pie and only drink one brand of soda. Fallout 3 has some big shoes 
 to fill and it has tried hard to grant good fan service, with a couple of returning characters 
 (even 100 years after Fallout 1) and the amazing way that Fallout 3 manages to nail the feeling 
 of the first Fallout games, while also feeling completely new. You're not going to see the crazy 
 pop culture references you found in the second game however, as the humor here feels more mature 
 and tries not to break the atmosphere of the experience, even the hacking mini-games aren't some 
 Pipemania puzzle that breaks the atmosphere every time you activate a computer. The atmosphere 
 is deepened even more so by tuning your Pip-Boy 3000 radio to a station and checking out the news, 
 where you'll likely hear about your adventures from Three Dog, who's one of the larger than life 
 personalitys in the game who you'll get the chance to visit.
  
  There's no shortage of places to go in Fallout 3 to meet these unique individuals; underground 
 tunnels, museums, supermarkets or cities are all great places to meet, greet or kill depending 
 on your disposition. However there's a fundamental problem with exploring the landscape of Fallout 
 3, it's a wasteland. Fortunately Bethesda have done a great job of giving the feeling of a wasteland 
 without actually having you go too far before you encounter something of interest. Quick travel 
 also takes the potential repetitive travel away, however the repetitive nature of the locations 
 isn't something that can be solved so easily. Oblivion, Morrowind, Daggerfall, all allowed Bethesda 
 to get creative and build wondrous beautiful structures, however when you're designing a post apocalyptic 
 wasteland, your hands are rather tied. Most buildings are the same shade of gray, held together 
 with battered stone or with whatever scrap has been found. Clearly though a lot has been done to 
 stretch the limits of variety without going too far and it should be applauded. 
  
  Although Fallout 3 has a whole lot going for it, re-playability, moody atmosphere, detailed environments 
 and great voice acting for every line of dialog, the engine does set it back a little. While the 
 visuals have been improved drastically over Oblivion, such as the detail on faces, many people 
 you meet all look rather the same facially, but fortunately Fallout 3 does include one of the most 
 robust mustache selection systems to date. Other issues also revolve around the engine, such as 
 terribly jerky and unnatural animations, the occasional failure for scripted events to activate, 
 or an NPC becoming stuck behind an object while their cut-scene plays, forcing you to wait while 
 they navigate their way around like a drunken Roomba. Of course getting stuck doesn't just effect 
 the NPCs, a couple of wrong jumps and you can find yourself stuck someplace without hope of freedom 
 so you'll once again be reaching for the quick load. Quick save and quick load will your new best 
 friends before long and the over anxious amongst you might find themselves hitting quick save before 
 every corner. Most of these problems fortunately are just nit-picks, like the fact that you can 
 loot a corpse just by finding a fragment of remains and the fact that the inventory system is still 
 as clunky as Oblivion, perhaps more so since you can no longer sort items. 
  
  The problems with Fallout 3 are rather minor, however it is frustrating that some of the issues 
 that effected the 2006 game of the year haven't been rectified. If you can look past these foibles 
 then you'll find a truthful sequel to a great classic series that has many great qualities and 
 can provide more than its money worth in game play hours. Hey, at least we didn't just get a multi 
 player only cross-platform shooter *ahem*. It's easy to recommend Fallout 3 as long as you're not 
 expecting a fast paced FPS, anyone else with some PRG experience should bunker down with Fallout 
 3 and prepare for the apocalypse. 5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devil_delta
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  all ads give the illusion that it is a great game, with a great storyline. but waht no advert mentios 
 mentions that it is basicaly runescape with good graphics.
  This is because you have to 'level-up' and gain 'experiance' and apply it to fields such as 'repair' 
 or 'bargaining'. It has lost all realism because of this and does not entise me.
  also, the graphics are realy glitchy and the ai can bairly walk, constantly glitching and 'spagging-out' 
 when faced wth a sharp turn.
  If you like strong RPGs like WoW or runescape, and like 'leveling up' than fallout 3 is the ultimate 
 RPG. But if you wanted a great graphics, fps/3ps, great storyline, and great scenery. Then try 
 Assassins creed or Farcry 2 or something else although i am well aware that the storyline is nothing 
 alike.
  One last point, i tried the game with both a keyboard and a xbox 360 pad. The game was only realy 
 playable with the xbox 360 pad because on the keyboard, the keys were numerous and spread out and 
 bcause of this were very uncomfortable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revan05ms
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3... Where to begin. This game currently has me in a gaming "torture rack" and is aggressively 
 destroying every bone in my body!
  But never fear, this is a good thing. I recently broke the 100 hour mark on my first play-thru 
 and am still finding new and exciting things in this game. It is so deep and immersive, it almost 
 feels as though I'm playing an mmo-rpg at times. Some days I begin to play and decide I'm just 
 going to scavenge the wasteland for items or to discover new territory, and other times I will 
 head out to complete a side mission or to further the story by completing more of the main quest. 
 Regardless of how I choose to play each time, I am very satisfied and left wanting more when the 
 time comes to quit (usually only to eat or sleep currently) .
  
  The graphics are astounding and perfectly portray the idea of a post-apocolyptic Washington D. C. 
 I truely feel as though I am exploring what a bombed-out DC would be like, thanks to the well-done 
 artwork and geometry of real-life locales.
  
  The sound effects, as well as the music, are top notch, and add greatly to the atmosphere of the 
 wasteland. I cant count the number of times I will be running along, only to hear the unmistakable 
 growling/breathing of a Yao-Guai at the last second before I get mauled, or in the best case scenario, 
 I blow its head apart.
  
  The controls are simple to master, and can be customized to your liking which makes it even easier 
 to learn/master. Also, the optional use of a controller is a great idea, as I think I may use one 
 on a future playthrough.
  
  There are not too many things I disliked about the game, but when a game is as great as Fallout 
 3, even a handful of flaws cannot bring it down.
  The game does have a few bugs, but most notable is the CTD (crash to desktop) problem - which hopefully 
 can be fixed in a future patch.
  **After extensive online research, it seems as though the CTD is a problem with the game-engine 
 itself, and not a problem that can/will be corrected with hardware drivers or other software.
 
  There are a few video anomolies at times, but these are all minor and usually can be overlooked.
 
  There were a handful of spots that I have found thus far (100hrs. in) where my character got stuck. 
 Unable to move out of that spot, forcing me to load up an earlier save. Again, just slightly annoying, 
 nothing drastic enough to warrant a less than perfect score.
  
  I suppose the only "real" qualm I have is with the experience/leveling system.
  With a game as 
 large as Fallout 3, to have your character only gain 19 levels seems somewhat underhanding it. 
 Again, I have played for over 100hrs. and am maxed-out at level 20.
  The thing is, I have yet to even scratch the surface of the main-quest of the game, and still have 
 many more sub/freeform quests that I want to complete. I will do so while at level 20... for the 
 rest of the game - never gaining another experience point regardless as to how many quests I complete 
 or enemies I kill. This could have easily been fixed by increasing the amount of experience needed 
 to gain levels, or by decreasing the amount of experience gained for kills/tasks.
  I could have just gone with the flow of the game and ONLY completed side and main quests. This 
 probably would have me on track to reach level 20 just as I'm nearing the end of the game. But 
 this would defeat the purpose of having created such a huge and expansive world to explore and 
 countless enemies to fight. Also, since the game ends when you complete the main quest, you MUST 
 do any side/freeform quests beforehand. This is what I have done, and because of the experience 
 gained from all these misc. quests, I will be maxed out for every step of the story-based missions/quests.
 
  
  This is not an issue that will keep me from playing though. I doubt there are many things in this 
 world that could! I have since looked at this as another reason to play the game again after beating 
 it (when and IF that happens) , so that I can attempt playing a different way, with different skills/perks 
 and choosing different options and ways to do things.
  I am also looking forward to the announced expansions, which from what I've read, will solve the 
 experience issue - allowing me to continue beyond level 20... and with new abilities and perks 
 as well.
  
  Fallout 3 is one game that feels as though it is going to just keep on giving, and giving, and 
 giving. And then just when you think its over, it gives some more. Which for anyone who has been 
 fortunate enough to play the game, should not cause too much of a problem.
  I almost feel as though enough cannot be said about this game. But to sum-up this review... go 
 out and buy Fallout 3. Not only will it be one of the best games you'll play in 2008-2009, but 
 could just be the best game you'll play your entire life!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gFog34
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  I like the game. It has a nice storyline and exploring the game world is really interesting and 
 involving. I like character design. I like a gameplay . It's nice to have an RPG styled game with 
 a point of view that makes you feel you are there, in the game world, instead of old isometric 
 "bugs on the screen" style.
  
  The only thing that ruin pleasure for me is graphics. The game has nice designed and picturesque 
 world with its own unique mood and impression. What I talk here is how everything is realised visually. 
 Why everything has so artificial unnatural look? Why everything so props like? And I don't mean 
 texture resolution. I mean how the textures are performed. And why all that normal bump looks so 
 unnatural? And why things do not cast shadows? Ok. It should be total overcast and a nuke winter 
 but if so why I see overexposed over-lit spots on the ground? I am sitting next to my window right 
 now. It's a grey cloudy day here. But why I see a lot of warm and cold colour nuances in the real 
 world and don't see them in the game. Why everything so heavily brown, gray or green tinted? I don't 
 understand it but seems it's a kind of a fashion in modern games. I can understand shadow issue. 
 It's a technical problem but everything else looks like a bad taste.
  
  p. s. I have just started original Half-Life2 game. It looks a bit dated now in regard of polycount 
 but what a beautiful art it has. Everything so tasteful. Nothing is exaggerated. Everything is 
 just spot on. I don't know who is behind that masterpiece art but it should be a truly genius person. 
 Even scene lighting looks very real. I wonder why other games do not try to follow that style. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off with a disclaimer of sorts. I never played Fallout 1 & 2, and I greatly enjoyed 
 Oblivion. So if you're an old-school WRPG purist you may as well stop reading here. I also got 
 this game for free. No, I didn't pirate it. My friend installed his copy on my computer and you 
 can play the game without the disk thankfully. Anyway, contrary to what some may have you believe, 
 this is Oblivion with guns. Wether or not that's a bad thing is soley up to you. I'd also like 
 to quickly say I find this to be a far better overall product than Oblivion.
  
  Visually, the game stands out as one of the best I've seen. It's very detailed, the textures, lighting, 
 and shadows are great. The physics are solid, but the animations are terrible. This game has the 
 best looking people of any game I've ever played. It's the only game that has actually made humans 
 really look human to me, and I've never seen such well rendered eyes before. The landscapes are 
 vast and beautiful in their own right despite being barren wastelands. All that being said, this 
 is by far the biggest mess of a game I have ever played. I thought Oblivion was the worst until 
 I played this. The level of polish missing from this game is unexcusable. I feel like I'm playing 
 a beta of the game, an unfinished product. It's riddled with glitches and bugs. You need to save 
 often, really often. This game crashes more than any other game ever. My laptop with Windows Vista, 
 3 GB of RAM, 2.4 Ghz Core 2 Duo cpu, and a 256mb 8600 gt mobile runs the game on mostly high settings 
 at about 20 frames per second. I've heard from numerous people with the console versions of the 
 game that the problems I mentioned aren't nearly as bad on those versions. 
  
  The soundwork is fantastic. The soundtrack itself is dark and ominous, with the exception of the 
 radio stations which play some music I'm sure some will enjoy, and it fits the setting, but it 
 just wasn't for me. I wish there was an option to play an MP3 program like itunes through a radio 
 station in the game, it would have been very much appreciated. The voice acting is some of the 
 best I've heard. 
  
  The game-play is a lot of fun. It's set up like an extremely open ended shooter with no specific 
 direction and a heavy amount of RPG elements. Don't expect to just be able to blast your way through 
 the game, you must make good use of the V. A. T. S. system and make smart decisions about who you 
 want to be in the game. I love the new V. A. T. S. system, it makes the game a little easy but it's 
 so fun to use that it's excusable. This game is really, really gory, one of the goriest I've ever 
 seen. There's an abundance of blood, and limbs or heads are removed relatively easy. This combined 
 with the dark humor and mature subjet matter of the game really and truly make it not a game for 
 kids. I'm all for kids being able to play whatever games they want, but there are certain exceptions, 
 like this game, that I feel truly deserve the mature rating and therefore shouldn't be played by 
 anyone under 17 years of age. A mature 16 year-old could probably handle it as well. The story 
 is awesome, different than your usual save the world bit that gets thrown at you time and time 
 again. 
  
  This is a truly amazing game. I would easily give it a higher score if it wasn't for the horrible 
 programming that makes the game close to unplayable at some points. I'd highly recommend it if 
 you have the patience to get past the glitches and bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clowser24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the best games i have played this year, if not, in my life. It has a beautiful 
 world with countless hours of exploring to do, ( the map is so large that it could take almost 
 an hour walking from the bottom to the top, or from the left to right) great replay ability with 
 multiple dialogue choices and multiple game paths ( pretty much it is oblivion after technology 
 and a massive nuclear war) , great weapons, armors, items, and customization. This game literally 
 throws you in a crazy post apocalyptic nuclear wasteland and lets you do practically anything that 
 you could desire doing. The targeting is a little spotty but vats is incredible, small bugs but 
 nothing that is worth taking away from the overall game value. Definitely a must buy, what can 
 i say simply amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Honestly when I saw the previews for this game I was like: WOW I have have it-looks amazing and 
 fun and would offer plenty of gameplay hours.
  Well, turn out I was wrong, only the long gameplay hours maybe was right.
  The game start out 
 boring and continue that way for some time. I couldn't really get into it at all. Being a child 
 you grow up in some kind of bunker and then go out and kill everything that is on your way, while 
 rasing levels up and abilties.
  The whole combat system is wayyy screwd up. It is the most awkward thing I have ever played. The 
 graphics itself is nothing special either. There are a lot of glitches and if you try and play 
 the game from third person perspective you will laugh you a** out. The characters looks like they 
 slide when they walk and the combats are rediculius.
  I am sorry-it looks like the Bethesda Softworks really tried-but didn't do it right.
  Rising 
 up levels and gaining experience is kind of cool but that's about it.
  The weapons suck, the aim system sucks too. I cannot really thing of any good reason why would 
 I play this game.
  I am sorry, I do understand that this game has fans too, this is just my personal opnion.
  Mediocre 
 stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of these few games that are still worth being a gamer for. Bethesda really knows 
 how to make Rpg games. Seriously. Bethesda and Valve are my two favorite game companies. Fallout 
 3 is a game set in the post-nuclear ruins of Washington D. C. called "The Capital Wasteland". There 
 are these vaults scattered throughout this wasteland used for shelter during a nuclear attack. 
 You are a resident of Vault 101 where no one ever enters and no one ever leaves. Until now. Your 
 father decides to escape the Vault and you follow him to find out why. The storyline is great and 
 it's really immersive, the characters are wonderfully done and thank god this time they have voices 
 that vary, unlike oblivion where the emperor sounds the same as the beggar in the corner. The quests 
 are considerably less than oblivion's but they make up for it with their length. There are of course 
 some minor flaws here and there but overall this is a game to remember and play again and again. and 
 maybe yet again :D.
  
  Gameplay:
  This whole FPV/TPV thingy is really just a bunch of crap. You can't play the game in 3rd Person 
 View. Of course you can try but for me it is a pain in the ass to try and shoot someone from that 
 view. The First Person View on the other hand is wonderful. Of course you won't spend much time 
 shooting but using V. A. T. S. instead. This VATS is an auto-aim system that freezes time and lets 
 you choose parts of the body you want to hit and then hit them. There is a catch though. You have 
 Action Points that determine how many times you can shoot with the preferred weapon at any given 
 time. They replenish pretty fast but at times you will have to shoot manually at the target. The 
 world in Fallout really feels HUGE and you never will manage to uncover every mystery there is 
 and every funny and exciting thing. That's why this game has an unlimited replay value. Seriously. 
 For a month I've finished the game 2 times and I'm thinking of starting a 3rd one. The real-time 
 gunfights are not very good and exciting but the melee compensates for it. It reminds me so much 
 of Oblivion. I found a Chinese sword in the beginning and all the combos are just like in TES IV. 
 I kept this sword until the very end in my inventory and I cut to pieces every mutant I had the 
 chance to. Of course here I must note the huge crash problems this game has but hopefully Bethesda 
 will release a patch soon to fix them up. Finally the atmosphere in this game is enchanting and 
 fascinating and really makes you believe that you actually ARE a resident of Vault 101 going out 
 in the wastes searching for adventures.
  
  Graphics:
  For an RPG game of that magnitude the graphics are more than satisfying. This time around Bethesda 
 did a great job with the facial design and that way the people in the world feel more realistic 
 than before. The guns oh the guns. You can't get enough of them. There are so many of them and 
 everyone has its own traits. I really liked the Rocket Launcher and the Atomic Bomb Launcher (hell 
 yeah!) , also called Fat Man. Nothing more to say here. Buy this game to see for yourself.
  
  Story:
  Great Story, Great Characters, and Great Good-Evil balance. You can be whatever you 
 want at any given time. I started the game as the good Samaritan then I decided to blow up the 
 atomic bomb, did some more bad deeds and I became the super-villain. Then again at the end I wanted 
 to be good and save humanity so I became a saint and everyone lived happily ever after :D. Also 
 there are great rewards for being good or evil so don't hesitate to try 'em out both. The side 
 quests in this game are reeeeeeeeeeeeeealy long. Well not all of them but most are. For example 
 I started a quest at the very beginning of the game and I finished it a little before completing 
 the main quest. That's about 30 hours mates. Well I was doing different stuff, but still this quest 
 was holding up pretty well. Finally all I can say is that the Quests in this game are the best 
 part so be sure to complete as many as possible :) .
  
  Overall I'll say again, this game is worth every penny you spend for it and even more. Buy it, 
 you won't regret it.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Story: 10
  Final Score: 9,7
  
  I hope you liked this review (my English is not the best I know) and check my profile for more 
 of this year's top games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This was my first time playing a fallout game, so I went into this without the pre-Bethesda ideologies 
 and oppinions, but even then, I don't think this game lives up to what everybody else seems to 
 be praising it to be. Its strange how sterile Bethesda managed to make an apocalyptic, radioactive 
 wasteland. Granted, there is only so much you can do with ruble, but still, I have the feeling 
 that this was done nowhere near as well as it could have been.
  
  That said, it did feel post-apocalyptic, so I guess I have to give them that, but I am still disappointed. 
 When I heard Bethesda was doing this, I was hoping for a great game, as Morrowind and Oblivion 
 were two of the best "sandbox" games Ive played in a very long time, but Fallout 3 doesn't stand 
 up to them. In-fact, it doesn't even kneel before them.
  
  I don't know... maybe its the fact that theres something SO unsatisfying about being able to shoot 
 the sherif of Megaton 4 times in the face in V. A. T. S., killing him, before he can even draw his 
 gun. Maybe theres the fact that I could walk into a dungeon of sleeping ghouls and shoot each one 
 in the head with an assault rifle while they slept, clunking around in power armour, and nobody 
 waking up.
  
  "Fantastic, intricate quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying ways" Kevin VanOrd says. 
 I didnt encounter this once. To me it felt more like "go here and either kill everything to be 
 evil or talk to them to be good." "Enslave the child to be evil or find him a home to be good." 
 "Blow up the town to be evil or disarm the bomb to be good." Fantastic and intricate? This game 
 was predictable and simple. Its also a LOT easier to build negative karma than it is to build positive 
 karma. I played my good game and it took a very long time to reach "very good" status. I played 
 my evil game, and I was "very evil" within 20 minutes of leaving the vault.
  
  Maybe I'm being a little hard on it. Maybe I've been jaded by what I was lead to believe the game 
 was going to be.... Peter Molaneaux syndrome, as it were. Or maybe, the game just isnt incredibly 
 fantastic as most people seem to believe. Personally though, I found the characters boring, the 
 main story a big letdown, sidequests too few and predictable when they did come, the environment 
 too sparsely populated (I don't know if the map was as big or bigger than that of Oblivion, but 
 I'm certain it was populated with barely a fraction of the number of places to visit) . Id like 
 to complain about some certain aspects of the story, but I don't really want to ruin it for anybody 
 who hasn't played it and is reading this... which seems the most logical type of person too read 
 this, but there was a lot of the story I want to complain about.
  
  The V. A. T. S. system feels like a cheat to me. The ability to shoot each limb off an enemy before 
 they can get off a shot, or get 5 shots into their skull and blow their head up before they can 
 react just seems really overpowered, especially since you do extra damage in it. Sure, its a nice 
 change from the standard FPS or TPS, and it is severly limited to about 4 or 5 shots as a maximum, 
 meaning you can basically only take out one enemy with it before Ap runs out, but it is still overpowered.
 
  
  I havn't said anything good about it yet have I? "What makes it worth the 7 I'm giving it if its 
 so bad?" you might ask. It absorbed 15 hours of my life for the good game, and 2 before leaving 
 it for the evil game, and despite the criticisms I am giving it, I didn't feel like I wanted to 
 stop playing. Which brings me to my oppening line: "Don't get me wrong, it IS a good game, but 
 "profoundly engrossing" is going too far." Overrated is what I say, but that doesn't by any means 
 say its BAD. It just isn't brilliantly fantastic, as others would lead you to believe. Well..... not 
 in my oppinion at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_snipper8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best FPS games I have ever played, 
  I think its awesome, keep up the good work Bethesda! 
  
  
  BUNNIES!
  
  (\_/)
  ()
 
  (  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuculand2008
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  the story is tipical for U. S. A., there goes the bomb u have to hide. beside it is quite interesting, 
 anyway not verry hard to follow.
  
  interesting characters, to bad that that u can't edit verry presisly your own one. the begining 
 is fantastic, u start as a little baby, literarlly u are just born and u have to chose differnt 
 thing for your charcter just wonderful how the makers put it, i loved it. along the way u grow and 
 u get out finnaly from that vault.
  the graphics are just great, not going to extreme but u can't consider them outdated. 
  the atmospher 
 is well made really envolving. the sound not bad at all
  the action depends ; if u wanna play like a bad guy o boy u will have enemies, dont worry.
  the 
 goods: u dont have to walk from places to places after u made a visit in one location. u can buy 
 a house, u can save the game verry often dont worry. finally u can fix weapons from the begining 
 u dont have to see any weapontrainer or fixer
  the bads: u can't drive a vechile there isnt any... so at least i havent seen one... your laser beem 
 will evaporate enemies from time to time but not that often as eniemies will evaporate u. the game 
 is to short
  overall the game is close to Oblevion but in the future, if it would have been that complex and 
 long it would have been the best in the industry og gaming and hard to detronate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipervvviii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I'll begin with saying that this is not simply "Oblivion with guns." This issue will be addressed 
 later in the review. It is, however, extremely immersive. As soon as you hit the wasteland and 
 leave the protective womb of your "vault", Fallout's dark and heavy atmosphere weighs down upon 
 you, punctuated by a few cinematic encounters and the occasional mutated wildlife attempting to 
 make a meal of you.
  
  The combat in this game is... experimental, and in my opinion is very innovative and well worth 
 the risk taken by Bethesda. Real time firefights and brawls meld well with the V. A. T. S's cinematic 
 approach to a number game. If you don't like the odds of getting a headshot with that Mauser of 
 yours in V. A. T. S, feel free to take the shot in real time. Fallout's body part damage system is 
 the real jewel, however, and adds a sense of realism and opens up several options not available 
 in your average RPG or shooter. I once suffered the effects of a concussion in-game; my vision 
 blurred and I took a hit to my "perception" stat.
  
  What gives this game the common misnomer of "Oblivion with guns" is the common texture usage. The 
 faces look and are animated the same, that rock over there in the distance could've been teleported 
 straight from Cyrodil for all we know, and there's a distinct similarity in the music. Nonetheless 
 Bethesda has learned from it's mistakes and made the correct adjustments to birth a stellar game. 
 The impassioned appeals of President Eden punctuated by the fissionable material in a nearby car 
 cooking off after a brutal firefight definitely puts a bullet to whatever beliefs you may have 
 about the similarity of Fallout 3 and Oblivion.
  
  Overall, this game is a must play for PC gamers and Xbox 360 fans alike. It's immersive, challenging, 
 humorous at times and dark during others, and overall built well. PC users may have a problem with 
 Fallout 3 crashing randomly and a framerate drop when using V. A. T. S, but I believe this can be 
 fixed in upcoming patches. If not, it's nothing to regret spending $50.00 over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jphill05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  It took me about 40 hours to beat this on 360 and I can bet this was still about ten hours or more 
 left in quests that I didnt do! Amazing game value on PC, 40 dollars on Steam compared to 60 for 
 360. Only downside seen so far from me is a few bugs like getting out of the vault after spending 
 about an hour in there and saving the game multiple times only to restart the game later and find 
 NO saves! Had to start over, might have had something to do with me playing it at the start without 
 signing into live. Dunno. But I really like being able to get guns you cant get on the console 
 versions! Of course they're cheats but still cool but they do look like all the other guns but 
 with different stats. Running the game maxed out on everything at 1680x1050 with a q6600 and a 
 gtx 260. Runs smooth with no hiccups. Love it! All in all, AWESOME GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firepire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is EASILY a 200+ hour game, unless you try and beat this game as fast as possible. It truly 
 is an open world where you can explore to your hearts content and then beat the crap out of the 
 end bosses and whatnot.
  
  What can I say... if you already know about Fallout 3, I assume you have some expectations.
  
 
  Story: Stays true to the fallout 3 genre, the atmosphere of the game is simply amazing, you truly 
 feel like you're in a post-nuclear blasted world where technology is... limited. 
  
  Gameplay: Awesome and easy to play game mechanics, controls are fluid and you'll have tons of fun 
 watching people get blown away in slow motion with the VATS targeting system...
  
  Graphics: Graphics are FANTASTIC, beautiful scenery an game...
  
  Instead of running through 
 all these nitty gritty details, let me give you my overall impression. This is one solid game that 
 can keep you up all night getting items and going around killing people. It plays like an RPG where 
 you can gradually collect items and level up, but it's not tedious in that you have to fight the 
 same monsters over and over again. What makes this game amazing is the variety, I have not even 
 explored even 1/4 of the map and I beat the game. I'm positive there are a billion places to explore 
 and different very unique types of story line fillers, but I got to level 20 (max level) and decided 
 to beat the game because there was no point in playing more. However up until that time, it's totally 
 a blast. 
  
  GO GET IT!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh25ep
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Like I said, the best game ever. And I don't say that lightly. It takes a GREAT game for me to 
 play it and hold my attention. And to bother writing a review for it.
  
  I haven't played fallout 1 or 2 so I cannot comment on how it intertwines with those two games. 
 People are complaining that it's not really a sequel but it clearly states on bethesda's fallout 
 website that "the story in Fallout 3 is a different story unto itself and isn't directly connected 
 to any of the other storylines. Obviously it builds on the lore and history of Fallout, but you 
 don't have to have played the previous Fallout games to know what's going on in this one." So what 
 do you want? A sequel or not? Is it or isn't it? YOU have to figure these questions out BEFORE 
 you buy the game. The game is simply mislabeled and should instead be called Fallout 3: Capitol 
 Wasteland or something similar.
  
  Whichever you decide it is, it's still a great game to explore. If exploration is your thing.
 
  
  The graphics are great but you'll need some decent power to make it run and look good. The good 
 news is there is hardware available today that will run this game at max. Unlike when Oblivion 
 came out, there was NOTHING that would run that game right. And by right, I mean RIGHT. People, 
 back when Oblivion came out, claimed that, with a properly tweaked .ini file, they had good frame 
 rates of 25-30 fps at max settings. They wouldn't tell you that when they got into a battle outside 
 that their fps would drop to 5-10 at max settings. And that was after spending over $1000 for video 
 cards just to get it that good. That's not right. But now, if you spend $300 for 2 8800gt's and 
 have a dual core processor, you will enjoy this game on max settings and it will play RIGHT. I'm 
 talking about a constant 60 fps with vsync with dropping to maybe 30-45 during fights with NO tweaking 
 of the .ini file. It should be noted also that max settings for loaded terrain and detail are extremely 
 different between Oblivion and Fallout 3. Fallout 3 has far more loaded terrain and detail so things 
 don't just appear a little ways in front of you like they did in Oblivion, they appear WAY out 
 there on the horizon. Nice.
  
  I'm obviously comparing the graphics in Fallout 3 with Oblivion. They are built on the same engine 
 and look similar, but it is better suited for Fallout 3 than Oblivion. Fallout 3 is a brownish 
 nuclear wasteland and Oblivion is a lush green environment. A pile of dirt, sand, and rubble has 
 no clear definitive properties in our minds, but we all know what trees, grass, and green meadows 
 are supposed to look like. With that being said, Fallout 3 looks more authentic than Oblivion. 
 It looks EXTREMELY like what you would expect a nuclear wasteland to look like. 
  
  I want to note one graphics fix that I did in case anyone else is having this problem. If your 
 game randomly starts stuttering, especially near Rivet City, turn the water multisampling to low 
 using the options in the launcher. That fixes that and you won't see any difference in the water. 
 Not unless your comparing screenshots with a magnifying glass. There's not a lot of water in Fallout 
 3 anyway.
  
  The sound in Fallout 3 is amazing. From the spoken dialog to the atmospheric music to the gunshots. 
 There are even some in-game radio stations to listen to if you want. It all sounds great. It should 
 also be noted that the game DOES support surround sound, even though there are no options pertaining 
 to that.
  
  The gameplay is great with lots of decisions to make and different ways of accomplishing your goals 
 with different rewards accordingly. It kind of has a Deus Ex feel to it. And LOTS and LOTS to explore 
 and people to talk to (or kill) .
  
  While I was playing Oblivion, I often wished that I just had a machine gun or a rocket launcher 
 to blow the monsters away. This is, in a nutshell, what Fallout 3 is. Oblivion with machine guns. 
 And it feels good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Okay, so to play this on the pc, you will need some serious hardware but it is worth it. Before 
 i start the review, i'd like to say that i ran the game using a NVIDIA 9500 GS with 1 gig memmory 
 (using two 512 mb sticks) . I have an Intel Core 2 Quad Processor @ 2.33 Ghz. I'm running 4 gig 
 DDR Ram (using two 2 gig sticks) . I'm also playing on vista and it tells me that the recommened 
 system rating to play the game is a 4.8. With that hardware i can comfortably play it with a 5.4 
 rating.
  
  Okay so now to the review.
  I finished the game on the ps3 and it is a wonderful game. immersive story and there was never 
 a moment where you felt bored or that the game had last track a bit.
  I bought the game for the pc, and it certainly does'nt disapoint. No real no content in-game but 
 Bethesda have brought out a mod tool, similar to the one wih Oblivion, called the GECK (Garden 
 of Eden Creation Kit) and it is on free download. It does take a while to get used to but there 
 are many informative tutorials around.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game runs smoothly throughout gameplay. I have completed the game on the pc 
 also, and there have been no laggy moments.
  Graphics are very sharpe, assuming you can play at high quality. Textures look nice and player 
 models are fantastic. However, put the game to Very High detail and you are in for a treat. It's 
 immaculate.
  
  On a final note, the replayablility of the game on the pc is huge. If you take the time to add 
 additonal content using the GECK then it can seriiously be endless, even though you might not need 
 to considering the size of the game.
  Also, if you are interested in a bit of fun, there are many cheats for the game. I do stress that 
 you only do use these for fun though, as many may have unintended effects on your current save 
 game.
  
  Overall Fallout 3 is a fantastic expirence, no matter what platform you run it on. It has dilevered 
 more than i could have hoped for.
  
  
  Ratings:
  
  Gameplay : 9
  Graphics : 10
  Sound : 9.5
  Lasting Appeal : 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyte_byte
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Great game and very immersive. If you enjoyed Oblivion, you will love this game.
  
  It has a huge world to explore, a good storyline, great gameplay and good graphics.
  
  It's 
 obvious that this is a well thought out and carefully designed game. You get sucked into the story 
 very quickly and like a good book, you can't put it down.
  
  The game had no bugs that I found and performed very well, even on my older, slower rig. The controls 
 are fully customizable and it has a true in-game save feature. It works and feels like a high quality 
 PC game should.
  
  If I had one gripe it would be that the game was somewhat short, especially compared to Oblivion. 
 Also, once you complete the final mission, the game ends and you can't go back and keep exploring 
 like in Oblivion.
  
  Hopefully there will be some good add-ons for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i74i
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Love it played it through 3 times X360 and PC. Pc version class as usual beating the Xbox in every 
 way possible, Gameplay was fast but also still had the original feel from the original games.
 
  Graphics were very sharp, PC version was clearer, thanks to the higher definition.
  
  The story was gripping, not too long if you wanna play through without tempting the side missions, even 
 though there are so many extra misions you could be busy for days finding and exploring different 
 places, and the map is huge really gives you the feel that you are in the world.
  
  The different factions where great the only complaint I could say was the armour was not as chunky 
 as I would have liked as in the original games the Brotherhood armour was alot more Battlesuitish 
 with Massive leg and arm coverings but thats getting pretty fussy about the game. Good job not 
 a game thats been raped like EA loves to do these day cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dare
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the Fallout games and was a bit nervous about Bethesda renewing the franchise, 
 the implications were; either a tainted Oblivion experience or a broken Fallout game but after 
 playing the game neither of those two scenarios are true and it has enriched both franchises. There 
 is some truly innovative stuff here (think V. A. T. S. and the PIP Boy 3000) and the world is huge! 
 The quests are setup so they don't come at you in a rapid fire manner, and tend to have some relevance 
 to the world (not just fedex missions) and you always know where your current objective is. I must 
 say however I am disappointed in the length of the main quest, but that said if you simply advance 
 the main quest slowly and continue to wander the wastes and discover all it has to offer you will 
 have a satisfying experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roninf117
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  when you want to start another roll playing game you should edit your character at the first and 
 playing, but in his game you growing up and really know very things. you can choise to be a good 
 or bad person and it's very amazing that how you want complete the game. by which person that people 
 had love him/her or person every one hate him/her. now when you complete this game what are you 
 thinking about yourself? you were good or bad? and really you know that it was your choise and your 
 personality.
  i don't want to writing about the game, i am speaking about many ways that you can go on through 
 them.
  it's was very good idea for this game that you can choise, in another game the same as GTA4 you 
 must be a bad person or in the COD series you haven't any other way just be a good man.
  thank you for reading this text. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luopijggy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is original, and the employment is great, but it seems too similar to Oblivion. Don't 
 get me wrong, I love The Elder Scrolls, but you think that Bethesda could make a game that differs 
 from one they released several years ago. The graphics are better than Oblivion, and the game play 
 and story are great. The freedom of the terrain in the inner city was confusing at first and I 
 hated how I had to go through the sewers to reach any location in the inner city. Also, once I 
 acquired power armor, I was a little disappointed because I thought it would be extremely overpowered 
 or something. I was at first surprised that the game merely ended and that I could not continue, 
 and that made me quite mad. I also thoroughly enjoyed employing Liberty Prime to destroy stuff. 
 In the end, it just feels like an oblivion mod that adds in post apocalyptic D. C. and guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_prince123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  when you simply want to play RPG game mixed with a FPS game you have to play Fallout 3 this game 
 is aswome i droped GTA IV Prince of persia and Far cry 2 to play this game it's endless and the 
 graphics is great with great sounds and the acting is terrifiic Shooting is not boring thanks to 
 The V. A. T. S. System man this is awsome this game is must buy even if you don't like RPG games I 
 playde Oblivion and it's quiet Boring but Fallout 3 has a great story ever but it has a few glithces 
 crashes and focus in little because i just had one crash in my pc and to be honest until now i 
 diddn't beaten the game yet i fisnished the storyline but i still alot of loacation to finsish 
 and complate you can have a friend like The dog and the super mautant i can't remember his name 
 Which you can kill him or not so this game deserve 9.5 and i can't wait for the DLC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerpig
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  For the past few years ive been looking for a good role playing game but all was very very lame 
 and the minute i say the cd case for fallout i thought "O this might be fun". I was expecting it 
 to be another lame game but i was wrong good graphics fun gameplay simple leveling 
  
  
  
  
  
  This game is extremly fun just with high graphic setting it looks very good. The game 
 has a feature to switch between 3rd person and 1st person which makes it better
  
  
  
  
  It has alot of cool features, weapons, armour and many more.
  This is so far the best of the 
 best very addictive game ive ever played after so many years .
  
  It also has the option to play live for xbox and pc users that makes it even more massive.
  
 
  
  
  
  So i suggest you stop doing what youre doing now and go to the gameshop and buy this game now 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redgarl
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  As a die hard Fallout fan, seriously I was thrilled at first when I heard of the making of Fallout 
 3. It was great for the first few weeks, until I understood that we will never see a real Fallout 
 game anymore. Don't get me wrong, this game got many great technical points :
  
  -Awesome graphics that are easy to run
  -Inclusion of radio shows
  -Nice atmosphere
  
  
 But that's it... it's a technical achievement over an artistic one. I am upset to see that this 
 is not a Fallout game and it will probably recognize as the flag of the series. A lot of things 
 that made the first 2 games such gems aren't included in that package of super graphics and poor 
 gameplay. Here are the reasons why Bethesda failed :
  
  -The gameplay... a FPS? I didn't know that Fallout was action oriented... it was a strategical 
 RPG with guns, not a shooter with RPG elements.
  
  -Lack... and lack... and lack... of guns...
  
  -Repair crap from Oblivion... Fallout was about 
 luck, your lack of luck was influencing your reload and your gun handling.
  
  -Misuse of the luck criteria. Due to the sandbox universe, one of the most intriguing aspect of 
 Fallout is dead. Man, did I laughed loud when I came into a UVO crashed into the wasteland with 
 the most powerfull pistol I could find in the game. You could kill a deathclaw with only 3 shots... 
 or 5 rockets  :P
  
  -The main quest is too much present and doesn't give you much freedom. The main quest in the 2 
 first Fallout games was really small in the background to give you a maximum of freedom.
  
  -An open world sandbox doesn't fit well into the Fallout universe. I got the feeling I was losing 
 my time travelling between the map and while fast travelling was a must, it kills a part of the 
 game since Bethesda put much effort into creating the main map than anything else.
  
  -The level cap is way too low for such a big game. I spend 10 hours at the level 20.
  
  -The 
 quest are boring and revolve around 'Kill this' 'Bring that' 'Do this' 'Do that'.
  
  -The dialogs are so much boring! The guys at Bethesda didn't played the first Fallout games it 
 seems... Where is the Funnay? Why so serious? Why can't I blow up a toilet and spread crap all 
 over the town?
  
  -The choices... The whole morality thing is really badly done. To be bad, you need to steal, to 
 kill civilian or to be plainly bad. You are prisoner of your choices and you can't do the opposite 
 of what you said. Let's simply put it that way, this game has nothing to compare itself with something 
 like The Witcher. The Witcher and Mass Effect raised the bar in term of dialog actions while Fallout 
 3 seems to be nothing less than Oblivion (which fade pale in comparaison of many RPG) .
  
  You got the idea, this game is an impostor and simply ripped the name of the franchise for a quick 
 buck over some die fan like me who saw their favorite PC RPG franchise becoming mainstream console 
 WRPG. If it wasn't for CDProjekt and Bioware, the WRPG genre would have died this year.
  
  Do yourself a favor and get The Witcher EE and Mass Effect over this, this game is nothing else 
 than a tin empty can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  First, don't worry no spoilers or something.
  Fallout 3 is about a child that was born, in Washington DC..........
  wasteland, you grow up 
 from a baby then a two year, a 13 year old, 16 year and then a 19 year old which is the year you 
 leave, because your father is leaving for some reason that you don't know, so you leave also......... 
 I'll explain everything later.
  
  I want to start at the moment you were born, at that exact moment you choose how will you look, 
 which is pretty cool because you usually see yourself in third person, when you use the V. A. T. S 
 system.
  
  When you turn into a two year old (or three, I'm not sure) , you choose your stats, in a cute baby 
 book called SPECIAL, and you choose the number of your stats, like:
  Strength, agility, charisma and more. (which I don't remember because I wasn't playing the English 
 version)
  
  When you turn into a 13 year, well.............
  You don't do much but you get your new Pip-Boy which is very cool but I won't explain it because 
 there's too much too cover,
  but most of you probably know what's in there.
  
  When you turn 16 years old, you take a special test called G. O. A. T, (I think) and this test will 
 decide your other stats, which are more detailed, like heavy weapon, light weapon, hacking skill 
 and MUCH MUCH more.
  
  When you turn 19 years old, BAD things happen and you need to get out because your father left 
 and you WANT to find him and find out why, so you face giant bugs and a few guards, 
  and when you leave....................
  you have a WHOLE world explore, but I don't recommend 
 it because your are still in level 1 or 2 and your MAIN quest is to find your father, and from 
 here I'm not going to tell you anything because everything else is a giant spoiler, what I told 
 you, is already ENOUGH, so......... yeah.
  
  In conclusion it's a fantastic game which has a great story, awesome gameplay (especially the V. A. T. S) 
 and what I'm trying to say is:
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viridae
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Yeah, it's very much like Oblivion - it runs on the same graphics engine (although the graphics 
 have been toned up a lot) , it has the same weight management for your inventory, it has the same 
 dialog feature, it uses the same physics, hell, it even has the same poorly designed 3rd person 
 view. But, what makes this game so much different from an Oblivion with guns? Well, the huge amount 
 of ways you can effect the world is astounding. When you first leave the vault, any action you 
 make will have a direct impact on what happens later on in the vault. You want blow up a town? 
 Sure - sounds like a laugh, but do you really want to loose a valuable place to shelter from the 
 harshness of the wastelands? Some of the choices the games gives you is incredible, it's sometimes 
 hard to differentiate from the good and evil choices, and some of the evil decisions can be really 
 be quite difficult to do without feeling some kind of remorse. Once you really get immersed and 
 begin to understand the characters around you, is it really worth selling them out for some extra 
 cash? The dialog options has also been greatly improved, you can now try talking your self out 
 of a sticky situation, or in fact, talk yourself into one. The voice acting is also an improvement 
 on Oblivion, although the voices are reused for different characters like in a Oblivion, they at 
 least try to but themselves a bit in-character.
  
  The quests are also more fun and immersive, with twists at every turn. How you complete the quests 
 are up to you, with a variety of conclusions that will affect you and others around you.
  
  A classic example was when I tried to get into an underground village for a quest I'd stumbled 
 upon; the guard wouldn't let me in because they didn't trust me! So I decided to see how I could 
 go about getting inside. It seemed pretty impenetrable from front, maybe I could try going round 
 the back? No, can't find any other way inside. Out of options I decided to chat to the guard about 
 recent gossip. Luckily he let slip that some of their people had been captured by slavers. I immediately 
 set out to rescue the slaves to win their trust so I could get inside the village. But how do I 
 go about getting into the slaver's compound? Do I bribe the guard to let me in? Do I go capture 
 a few slaves of my own in the wilderness, so that the slavers willingly accept me into their ranks? 
 Do I go Rambo style and leave a trail of dead slavers in my wake? Or go incognito and get the captured 
 slaves out by stealth? Or maybe I could convince them to let me buy the captured slaves, if I have 
 enough caps to buy them with (slaves don't come cheap! But you can buy one for your own protection 
 or amusement if you want) . Overall I could have played the same scenario many different ways, with 
 very different results. Maybe if I was a bit better with my speech skills I could have convinced 
 the guard in the underground village that I was a friendly, and saved myself the trouble of having 
 to go rescue the slaves... Ah well, next time round I'll know better.
  
  Overall a great game that only falls short of the mark because of tedious things like a lack of 
 quest hubs, being a bit too easy and for having an abrupt ending that you can't return from once 
 you complete the main quest line. But now that the G. E. C. K modding package has been realised we 
 can hope the modding community turns this game into one of legends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokmakr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Can't stop playing it. The combination of strong storyline with great possibilities to form the 
 gaming experience in any desired direction based on your actions makes it interesting to replay 
 at least a couple of times. Good or evil, strong or smart, ranged or close combat. Combining these 
 and trying to explore the entire world requires you to play more than once. The humor is still 
 there although I think the cartooney style of the predecessor's were more suitable for the humorous 
 feeling than the 3D style. THe 3D style shows its most obvious advantage in the slow motion scenic 
 cut scenes that are desplayed during battle. I find myself surprisingly amused by the repeated 
 blowing out of brains. Play Fallout 3, I don't think you will be disappointed. I've waited for 10 
 years to play this game, but it was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a beautiful and well though out RPG. The story and the quest's are fun and the game 
 will take a long time to complete with all of it's quest's.
  
  The first part of the story goes like this: Your in a hospital. You have been given birth to by 
 your mother. You choese your Sex. Then your father tells your mother about how excited you guys 
 are. Then, you put in a name. Finally, you now have the chance to choose on how your going to look 
 like when your all grown up (Or 19) . A year will then past and your in your room with your father 
 teaching you how to walk. Then he leaves you in your playpen, so you have to get out and read a 
 book that says on the cover, "You're SPECIAL!". SPECIAL has each of it's own attributes: S - Strength, 
 P - Forgot, E - Endurance, C - Charisma, I - Intellegence, A - Agility, L - Luck. 
  
  After putting your attributres on, your father will come back in, read you your late mother's favorite 
 passage in the bible, then will take you to your friend, Amata. Nine years will pass and it's your 
 10th birthday. You get your Pip-Boy. Then everyone except three people will give you a present. 
 A NPC named Butch will try to take your Sweetroll that a lady at your party gives you. If you don't 
 give it to him, he will try to start a fight. Your father will then take you to the Reactor level 
 in the Vault where you will get a Special present. It will be a BB Gun. Six years will then pass 
 and you have to take a GOAT exam. It will decied what your job will be. 
  
  Finally, three years will pass and you will be woken up by Amata. She will tell you take Jonas 
 is dead and your father has escaped from the Vault. Amata will tell you how to escape from the 
 Vault. When you get to the entrance, you will have one more chance to change any atributes or apperence. 
 Then you will be taken from the Vault to the Wastelands. 
  
  The cool thing about this is, you don't have to follow the main story line when you get out from 
 the Vault. 
  
  The Graphics in the game are just amazing. They make it look real with the monsters and the broken 
 houses and cars. The NPC's could be a little better, but it's still amazing.
  
  The sound of the weapons are great and there is a wide selection of weapons and clothing to choose 
 from. 
  
  There is a fun little system in the game called the V. A. T. S system. When there is an enemy near 
 you, you can coose to enter in the V. A. T. S system and everything will freeze and you will have 
 a close up on your enemy. You choose a body part and either hit or shoot at the person. So, Headshots 
 are now more fun. ;)
  
  Overall, The story, Gameplay, Graphics, and almost everything is perfect in the game. Notice that 
 I say almost. There are some glitches and some crashing problems in the game, so that drops it 
 from getting a perfect 10. 
  But, I still recommend this game to everyone. It's fun and will leave you playing the game for 
 hours and hours. 
  
  PS: Sorry about the lenghty beginning. I wanted to explain the beginning of the story. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyranasaurus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was to be expected as an Oblivian with guns. Well it kind of is Oblivian with guns but 
 the whole experience is entirely differnent story wise, world wise, even if they do use the same 
 engine they used for Oblivian, the game IS DIFFERENT to Oblivian in mor eways than just giving 
 RPG players guns. 
  
  This game is huge, its immersive provided you play it as a story driven RPG. If you play it as 
 an FPS you wont get any enjoyment out of it and you'll get bored very quickly because it isnt really 
 an FPS or ever intended to be an FPS like Call of duty or counter strike or anything like that. 
 If it was I wouldnt play it or want to.
  
  1 of the best Intros to start an rpg out there , you start off as a baby and grow up in the vault 
 choosing your skills as you grow up in the vault. Then after all that your unleashed into this 
 massive , expansive wasteland where you practically can play it however way you want to play it. 
 You can be as evil as you want and blow up the first town or as good as you want and give water 
 to all the homeless people , its up to you how you play the game. Very much like Oblivian but with 
 more Karma (good or evil) involvement. 
  
  The game itself is as short or as long as you want it to last. If you did every mission it could 
 last a hundred hours if you want it too. I actually played it for 70 hours and didnt even do the 
 second main mission, lol, till after 70 hours of playing. You could just get into it and only do 
 the main missions and be done with it in 15 to 20 hours.
  
  Now unfortunately Bestheda chose to ham up the voice acting accept for your father played by Liam 
 Neeson of all people, who does an amazingly serious conforting job, its unfortunate that Bestheda 
 to do cheesy acting for ALL other characters. Dont get confused with the script being bad its not, 
 the script itself is awesome its the voice acting itself that destroys the realism of the experience 
 within such a horrifying landscape. 
  It was a deliberate decision by Bestheda to make the game more light hearted in amongst pure depression, 
 personally i would of prefered "the Witcher" approach where the voice acting was as harsh as the 
 environment, buts it not, it treats the landscape as a joke, which in turn makes you believe the 
 script is bad , but it isnt. 
  
  The best thing to do is just turn off the voices and read it, then you'll get a more serious approach 
 and even more of an oldschool rpg game out of it but with better graphics and amazing gameplay 
 and an unbelievably insane hiroshima bomb story line.
  
  You can get schematics all over the world to make custom weapons, unfortunately they are pre determined 
 on what objects fit the schematic. So if you want a custom made rocket launcher you cant just grab 
 a lead pipe, a bit of wood , some elastic and some scissors and make a launcher out of it. The 
 launcher requires specific items that you have to find out in the wasteland to make it, at work 
 tables scattered throughout the game world. Its not a bad system it works really well, it would 
 of been nice to grab any old thing and make whatever you want out of it, like a gun made out of 
 sht and crap that shoots pencils at people at 1000 miles an hour, lol. But its all pre determined.
 
  
  This game by far IS one of the best games to bless the PC for a very long time and bless the consoles. 
 They watered it down a little because of complaints by stupid government organizations that still 
 believe gaming causes people to commit crime under complete false information, as if most gamers 
 are criminals, most are nerds and have been playing frogger and pitfall and have now advanced to 
 fallout 3 gaming instead because of advanced technology. But as Fallout 3 stands , and how big 
 this world is , just sit back relax into fallout 3 and enjoy the insane amoun tof detail from Washinton 
 monument to the Abraham Lincoln Memorial, to the jefferson buildign oh and of course the white 
 house itself and the pentagon. This game you must at least give a go , UNLESS you want just an 
 action fps , because you're looking in the wrong place.
  
  If you want a huge world, amazing story , and lots of big GREEN MUTANTS scattered around the landscape 
 play it, youll be mesmerised if you can get passed the cheesy voice acting. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erictheripper
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  I first experienced the fallout series with fallout 2 back in 1998. I always thought, that instead 
 of being a red dot moving across the map, a 3d rendering of the wasteland (even if the graphics 
 sucked) would be awesome. When I heard that Bethesda was working on fallout 3 I was pretty exited. 
 Since 1998, 3d graphics are pretty common place in video games, but I still appreciate what the 
 Bethesda has done. Some of the changes Bethesda has made to fallout are kind of questionable but 
 overall the game is spectacular. My one complaint is that enemies never run out of ammo and they 
 have a fixed amount of lootable ammo. This seems like a simplification of the older games where 
 enemies could run out of ammo and would have to charge at you or flee. Being pinned down for an 
 eternity kind of sucks!
  This game is pretty big. I've heard some complaints about the size of the towns in fallout 3. I 
 am finding the towns to be just the right size. they are more like small settlements, but each 
 one usually has the basics as well as side quests. some settlements have have only 2-8 people in 
 them. the pathetic size of some of these places made me wonder how they would protect themselves, 
 but it seems fitting to have smaller settlements instead of a thriving metropolis. so far this 
 game is a lot of fun. I have read a lot of reviews on this game and there seems to be a lot of 
 criticism. most of them are petty and biased. one person referred to fallout 3 as "junk food video 
 gaming". i can see why someone would refer to fallout 3 as junkfood but it doesn't necessarily 
 mean the game is bad. Fallout 3 is a great game that is a little too short and in no time you will 
 find yourself wandering the waste with with very little purpose. the only reason i found my self 
 wandering aimlessly was because i played the hell out of the game and passed it very quickly. I 
 would bet that many of the a lot of complaints are coming from people who passed the game and wanted 
 more. if the game was bad they wouldn't want more of it. Also the complaints could stem from the 
 fact that the game has a different focus that lends to more exploration driven gaming with less 
 narrative. This is what Bethesda does, and it should not have been a suprise to people picking 
 up fallout 3. its a sandbox game. If people want to play a game with a strong narrative focus they 
 should play something like the witcher (great game as well) , anyway, Fallout 3 has a funny addictive 
 effect (like junkfood) that keeps you coming back for more (even if you know you are not accomplishing 
 much) . You will spend days and probably weeks wandering taking in the sights and sounds of the 
 wasteland. Currently I have developed a love hate relationship with Fallout 3 (like oblivion) . 
 I know the game is shallow, and more a visual treat than anything else, but strangely enough I 
 can not walk away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverTheKillv6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm on my third play through now and plan on at least 1 more after this one too. The replayability 
 is endless. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is great, I love the combat system and the ability 
 to truly do what you want and pick your own fate is simple fantastic. It is a rarely buggy.
  The ending of the game was a let down though and the max level of 20 made me want to cry at first. 
 Once you are over that though you go and make a new character or load a saved game.
  This game is fantastic overall, well worth the money and will keep you entertained for a LONG time.
 
  The first play through I just made the choices as I, as a person would do and learnt the basics 
 of the game, it was fun and the outcome reflected me well. The second character I made was godly, 
 having the highest karma and biggest ego I could and the results were so much different! The things 
 I missed in the first play through were enormous not to mention the thousands of things I hadn't 
 even touched on. The character I am on right now is a female pure evil character that is extremely 
 stealthy and once again the difference is out standing and the fun never stops. There will still 
 be the a time when I'll make a neutral character and probably a few other times where I'll just 
 want to try different outcomes for the quests.
  I really like the voice acting as it's really well done and there isn't the generic voices that 
 are used over and over like in previous RPGs. 
  
  Worth the buy, what are you waiting for? BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_T_S
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The best current RPG on the market, maybe of all time. While smaller than oblivion, I believe it 
 to be of better quality. Nothing is repetitive, and it draws you into the story and atmosphere. 
 While at first oppressive the art design gets, well... pretty after a few hours. Endless weapons, 
 perks, armor variations, NPCs, quests, random encounters, and enemies make the capitol wasteland 
 fun to explore. Hint: If you want to keep playing, just save before going into the Jefferson Memorial 
 in the Endgame. 
  Unfortunately the friendly AI can be qwerky, and the polish just doesn't compare to a FPS, but 
 VATS in ridiculously satisfying. In summary, Good mechanics, a great story, innovative art design, 
 and endless items and enemies make the Wasteland and a load of fun to explore. 
  The karma system serves its purpose, but certain acts felt just plain overweighed in the system. 
 Ex: Flooding Tenpenny Tower with Ghouls equaled the sixteen hours of quests I had previously put 
 in. It's really easy to become evil, but relatively easy to redeem yourself too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dykunas
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  The game that is supposed to be a sequel to the best RPG's of all time - Fallout 1,2, actually 
 has nothing in common with the former games.
  
  Now, while Fallout 3 is a bit an improvement over Oblivion, that really doesn't say much here. 
 The story (again) seems to be written by a 12 year old kid. What's worse is that beth decided to 
 trample down the canon and added the factions that were supposed to be in the west while completely 
 changing them, hooray for the paladins of the wastes!
  
  The dialogues? Well, while brachning dialogue trees and choices and consiquences were totaly unexpected 
 from bethesda, but it all turns to rubbish when you hear the poorly written lines and laughable 
 voice acting.
  
  But maybe it's good as a FPS? Well, no. The ragdoll phisics, idiotic A. I, disastrous animations 
 makes shooting stuff a real bore and to add to that, you have a win button, that let's you pause 
 the play and shoot things to oblivion, while only reseving 10 % damage yourself....
  
  If you like to run around like a stupid idiot in big open spaces, this is probably the game for 
 you. However if you want a good RPG, or FPS game look elsewhere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killlalot0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  With fallout 3 Bethesda showed us they can learn from their mistakes. I was a fan of morrowind 
 and personally didnt like the babysitter that was called Oblivion. The world was big, uninteresting 
 and the level system broke the immersion of the game (bandits in deadric armor xD) . Playing a thief 
 character would reward you with a lettuce in a very hard lock chest. The game was a let down and 
 I didnt expect much from the game they where working on
  Fallout 3.
  
  I bought the game without much expectations. This game pleasantly surpriced me how good it was. 
 All the things wrong with oblivion seem to have been improved. Better dialogue options, quests 
 that are fun to complete and have multiple endings (not the random I need 5 hides, go kill a rat) , 
 F3 has interesting 'dungeons" not the computer generated crap, but places that actually have their 
 own little side story/quest. In fallout 3 you WANT to explore. Just the other day I was scrouging 
 a metro station wandering into the toilest where I find a skeletion with a teddy bear lying next 
 to it. Things like this make you think about the world. It's the level of detail in this game that 
 makes it so believable, the world trully seems alive regardless of how dead it is :P. There is 
 much more to the game than this little write up, but ill let you find that out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  At this point I am sure that everyone has already given details about Fallout 3, so I will cut 
 it short and just give my two cents.
  
  Graphics - Strong, but not revolutionary. Scenes and backdrops makes the game, and the open ended 
 Oblivion like world is near perfect. Only one or two minor crashes while running at full tilt gives 
 this game a bonus for being well put together.
  
  Gameplay - This is where Fallout 3 stands out among the crowd. Open ended, vast, and seemingly 
 never ending areas to explore made the game seem to flow, even when I went off course, or off of 
 a quest. The attention to detail for the areas of D. C. was outstanding, and also made the game 
 that much more believable. Although limited, the music was catchy, and reminded me of Rapture in 
 Bio-hazard. The new targeting system was ambitious, not perfect, but it still stood out none the 
 less.
  
  Storyline - Well done, although the voice acting was so-so, and I seemed to have some game issues 
 with lack of voice overs (or it might just have been the game) .
  
  Overall - An absolute buy, and my vote on Gamespot for game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dervisher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3, nice game. To me I feel it's an innovation of Oblivion. Get rid of swords and magic, 
 replace it with guns, lasers, and plasma.
  
  The first I liked about the game is the connection between You and your Dad. It's one of the games 
 where you actually feel something for the characters. Extra bonus for allowing me to make Gordon 
 Freeman.
  
  Second of all the weapons, who doesn't like flamethrowers, Gatling guns, the "Fat Man". Even better 
 are the schematics, Rock-It launcher right up their with the gravity gun. Adding a steam punk weapon 
 like the rail way rifle, just awesome! 
  Bonus points for the *SPOILER* Easter egg weapon the alien blaster. *END of SPOILER* 
  
  Finishing 
 it off, with the beauty and architecture of the wasteland. !950's pre- war life style, check. Radiation? 
 check!, Epic armor's? Check. 
  
  Sum it all up it's S. T. A. L. K. E. R. meet Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copkill
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When the people at Bethesda make a game with the Oblivion engine, being an RPG, too, you can expect 
 people to compare the two to each other. This is not wrong, since the games are much alike. Though, 
 the grandness and fairy-tale like setting of Oblivion has made place for a, though ingeniously 
 designed, scrapyard, being something on a smaller scale, though everything has been made more intense.
 
  
  You play as the character you'll set up through the course of the beginning of the game, giving 
 him/her a name, an appearance and skills and abilities, up to a certain degree.
  The game starts off when you are born in one of the Vaults set up to protect people from the nuclear 
 war and lets you play bits of being a baby, a ten year old and a 16 year old, fastforwarding in 
 between, until you reach the age of 19. then, things go wrong and you'll end up leaving the Vault 
 in search of your father. 
  
  As noted before in this review, the grandness and fairy-tale like setting of Oblivion has made 
 place for a, though ingeniously designed, scrapyard, being something on a smaller scale, though 
 everything has been made more intense. In Oblivion, for instance, there were the beautiful, colourful 
 and fairytale-like environments, full of mysticism, magic and fantasy.
  Fallout 3 is a much dirtier and grittier experience. This'll turn off quite a few fans of RPGs 
 like Oblivion, though fans of the original Fallout series shouldn't even think anything negative 
 of it. It's probably a matter of taste, but it certainly feels far less enchanting, if not at all 
 lacking. It does still make you feel immersed, only now immersed into a huge garbagepile without 
 any real luxury. Its dirty survival theme may be appealing to quite some people, though, but won't 
 keep you going on for as long.
  
  Then there's the scale of the game. For example, in oblivion you had more then at least 75 different 
 kinds of drinks, of which you probably wouldn't consume more then 2 of about 20 of the kinds, at 
 most. this was because you didn't need it at all. In Fallout 3 this number has shrunk a lot, only 
 this time you'll actually want to use about everything there is. This is the same for weapons and 
 everything, really. This does really make you feel less immersed, though ofcourse, you're not in 
 a world where you'll have the luxury of having a lot to choose from. Bethesda has really made logical 
 choices, but the setting was just never really suited for anything as grand and enchanting as Oblivion.
 
  
  The developers took the VATS targeting system from the original Fallout and its sequal and enhanced 
 it. If you want to battle in real time, that's completely possible and works just like any standard 
 shooter's combat system. You'll still want to try using VATS, though. VATS uses an actionpoints-based 
 system, which lets you freeze time and switch targeting between enemies in your vicinity, your 
 range depending on your skills. when you have selected a target, you can target a body part and 
 the game shows your percentage chance of hitting it with your current weapon, as well as the damage 
 you'll do upon hitting it. this way you can chain together attacks until you are out of action 
 points, or at least have not enough of them left, to do another. these points recharge when in 
 realtime.
  
  The game also ships with little, though still seriously frustrating, bugs, like frequent crashes, 
 for no reason. One of these has luckily been fixed in the patch.
  
  Bethesda has recently released, as has become tradition at the company, a free edtitor for PC owners. 
 Fine tutorials exist for these tools and will probably have skilled modders shoot some excellent 
 mods out of their minds to lengthen and enhance the player's experience.
  
  Fallout 3 will have you being immersed in the dark, post-nuclear Washington, with many kind or 
 corrupted characters and quests, lots of weapons and creepy, irradiated foes, though the smaller 
 scale of it downs the replay value that was so large in Oblivion. The setting has made place for 
 a dark and dirty one, but this is largely a matter of taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I somewhat enjoyed this game. I mean, its good and all but ever since i started in the vault it 
 felt like an oblivion mod. I was hoping for something else to be honest. I loved oblivion and played 
 that game to death and more of the same game in a different context really wasn't what i was planning 
 on.
  
  Yet the beginning was pretty amazing i thought, a really nice way to blend in character creation 
 rather than just you starting somewhere after managing all your initial stats from a menu.
  
  I'm also really glad they added the VATS system, it makes the game that less frustrating considering 
 guns are used as a primary weapon. I did aiming with my mouse only when i felt like i was pulling 
 off an easy shot, so props to that. If there was a way to integrate the VATS system into oblivion, 
 i think a lot of gamers wouldn't be dissapointed, primarely for using the bow and arrow of course.
 
  
  The primary aspect that kept this game's score up was the variety of quests and locations that 
 are involved. Washington DC's wasteland was pretty cool and the locations that you have to go to 
 to complete some missions are unique and entertaining at the same time.
  
  Overall its not a bad game at all, but i cant help to notice the "recycled" feel the game has when 
 playing through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QSplice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The fps shooting without vats is a bit problematic. Then again vats is ok at the very least.
  A bit short. Suffers from the perspective that you're either good or bad. The neutral alignment 
 has been lost in modern times.
  It bothers me that there are often only two alternatives, may do them in diffrent ways. But still 
 one is good the other bad. Kind of like Kotor.
  
  To much Oblivion from time to time, but Oblivion would have been a good game if it were'nt for 
 the **** up leveling system.
  They should have spent more time making it a third person game.
  
  Nevertheless it's entertaining.
 
  
  The enviorments are superb mostly, and that's a big bonus. It looks like Fallout 2 would have if 
 it were a close-up. 
  I like the idea of post-apocalytica. But why would they ever choose DC. It would've been more feel 
 to it if they had chose NY or similar.
  
  Betshsda softworks is the plague of the industry. They are not very gifted at substance. If black 
 isle would still be at large things would have been quite a bit more exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics - 8/10
  2. Sound - 9/10
  3. Bugs, Glitches & Exploits - 7/10
  4. Story - 7/10
  5. Gameplay - 8/10
  6. Multiplayer - None.
  
  
  1. The game looks really 
 well. The post-apocalyptic atmosphere Bethesda create is terrific and you really feel like you 
 have survived a nuclear apocalypse. Unfortunately, Bethesda still haven't fired the guy responsible 
 for the facial animations in Oblivion, so here he strikes us again. The situation is a little better 
 the it was in Oblivion but still... Another problem is the lack of good third person view. 
  
  2. The sound is awesome too. In a wilderness where everything is so quiet you can hear only 
 your own footsteps even the slightest noise makes you turn around ready to start shooting and everything 
 that moves. There is a number of radio stations you can listen to while playing, but after a while 
 (at least for me) they have started to glitch and eventually lead to forcing you restart the game 
 as the sound became laggy.
  
  3. Quite a few I must say. Like the one which allows you to get 2 companions instead of one, and 
 quite a few bugs allowing you to skip large parts of the story leaving you looking stupid and wondering 
 - "What the hell had happened?"
  
  4. The main story is quite short. As i mention it can even become shorter as you can skip 5 chapters 
 of it if you go directly to the location mentioned in chapter 5, wondering what had happened. The 
 main story is more for color. The real fun is exploring the Wilderness and doing the side quests 
 which are really a lot more funny. 
  
  5. As a gameplay the game is pretty well. The most interesting thing is the V. A. T. S which allows 
 you to aim into certain parts of the enemy body resulting in spectacular kills (especially with 
 Bloody Mess perk) . Otherwise you will mostly be playing Fallout like a First Person Shooter. There 
 aren't any drastic innovations though. Just a very polished old ones. The biggest problem is the 
 20-th level cap. Really annoying. I had explored only like 1/3 of the whole and i was level 20. 
 After that you feel like you are pointlessly wasting your time with the game as you don't need 
 more weapons or ammo. Still I've spend over 60 hours wondering around Capital DC and I have a lot 
 of fun. But... it is my gaming style - I want to do every quest possible at every place possible. 
 People with less free time which don't want to explore a lot may not like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowltz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game, to me anyway, touched me in a very special way. And I haven't had time to get too far 
 yet either. Right from the beginning you are thrown into a post-apocalyptic feel in a kind of a 
 1950's cold war era way. It would have been interesting to see it from a recent history feel, but 
 nonetheless interesting twist.
  
  Once you are out of the 'bunker' you realize the true depth and almost perfectness of the 'if it 
 ain't broke don't fix it' advanced Oblivion graphics engine. Just spectacular scenery. It also 
 gives you a 'road warrior' mentality, which in a scenario portrayed in Fallout 3 would be very 
 realistic, if not worse. I could go on and on, on how Bethesda really did their homework when it 
 came to giving the gamer a real post-apocalyptic feel.
  
  I recommend this game to ANYONE, regardless of genre. This game will most likely leave you with 
 some good memories and sleepless nights. Enjoy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  
  The plot begins :-
  The world has turned into a barren wasteland as a result of nuclear War. The worlds population 
 has taken refuge into special secure bunkers made by Vault-Tec. The player grows up in one of such 
 a bunker trained by the father and his friends. After the player grows up one day it happens his/her 
 father escapes the Bunker to chase a dream. You decide to find out what he's up to. When you escape 
 the bunker (which was considered impossible until you and your father did it) you soon realize 
 that the world out side is nothing but a dusty toxic wasteland dominated by mutated violent creatures. 
 Continue your journey to find out whats going on meeting new people through out the quest and making 
 friends and foes.
  
  As you can guess most of the environment is barren wasteland, dusty and grey. Graphics are good 
 though. You'll also come across over all kind of "outlandish" items through out the game which 
 you can use to make life a little easier (including a radio tuner with strange audio stations) . 
 You receive points for how you complete quests : positive karma (good) or negative Karma (bad) . 
 Fallout 3 being an RPG you won't the speciality of level ups, skills points and some special talents. 
 The game also include an great way to design the character which has been nicely bound with the 
 players growing up stage. The real job begins when you become and adult however.
  
  There are few things I did not like about the game however. 
  Firstly the Music : The game lacks 
 good music. The radio is very irritating.
  Secondly: You find your self walking huge distances to get to your objectives. You'll be told to 
 travel to a certain location, After traveling for miles you'll be given the real objective from 
 someone else and its sort of boring. The game would have done better with vehicles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastcoastskater
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game boasts great graphics that can run on older systems and newer systems alike. Following 
 the main story lines can result in a short run-through, but taking the time to explore and reign 
 down shells on those mutants, robots, and bandits will result in many tens and hundreds of hours 
 of gameplay. I personally love this game, and have invested a lot of time in wandering around trying 
 to discover new places to check out and new people and mutants to kill. The depth of the game is 
 unparalleled since Oblivion and it does so in a much more convincing and consequence free way, 
 though that is not to say that certain actions will not have consequences. If you're good or evil, 
 you'll almost certainly find your place in Fallout 3. 
  
  
  I would suggest this game to anyone who loves spending time with their games and being happily 
 surprised when things are going well and when things are getting tough. This game is well worth 
 the money, Steam or hard copy. 
  
  
  Fallout 3 is the last, best hope for 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VisiblMan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Wow. What can I say? As a long-time follower and fan of the Fallout series and world, Bethesda 
 did justice to Fallout 3. The open-world environment is incredibly entertaining as well as visual 
 stunning. The graphics blew me away - they are loaded in such a way that the gameplay is very fluid 
 and not interrupted by a lot of unnecessary loading time. The architecture and graphics of the 
 game are astounding, and the replay-ability of this game surpasses every other game I've ever seen. 
 Bethesda did well in creating the V. A. T. S. System - it is a welcomed addition to the gameplay. 
 The custom weapons were an excellent add, as well. The lunchbox and bobblehead that came in the 
 collector's edition are the coolest "perks" to getting the collector's edition version of any game 
 I've seen yet!
  
  If you only buy one game this year, make it Fallout 3.
  10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Overall, the game is awesome. The mass land to explore, the typical father son story, and the opportunities 
 that curves player's destiny. In this game every action has a reaction, every answer you give or 
 any assassination you attempt, you will find the game progress differently. There is a little about 
 this game which may disappoint you: The graphics is a little cranky and you may get frustrated 
 travelling a long distance for a single mission. If you are a busy person, it will be time-consuming 
 to complete this game whilst patiently listening the person blah blahing away. 
  
  There is some technical glitchs but dont worry, it will not humper your game-play. Saving the game 
 often will be a good idea. 
  
  Health bar is seperated all over the player's body, eating healthy food will rehailitate health 
 including with many other aids (medicines, spells, first aid kit) 
  
  This is a much buy game if you have Xbox 360 or a medium configured pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Two-Cans-short
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Ever since minute one of playing this game I was in love with it. This game has so much replayability 
 that once youve finished it you want to start all over and explore what would happen if you would 
 have played your cards a little bit differently.
  This game is so alive and in your face that you cant wait to get out there and explore all the 
 wonders and horrors out there.
  Wether you want to spray super mutants brain on the capitol buildings steps as a guy or a girl, 
 a saint or a villain, almost every action has its concequences and the story branches respectively.
 
  This game is not too hard or too easy, just... plain fun. Enemies are smart and aggressive and 
 they understand when they are about to get their head blown off and flee while pleading to you 
 not to kill them. 
  This game is the perfect blend of role playing and first person shooter and bursting in a building 
 guns blazing is (to me anyway) just as fun as having conversations with the inhabitants of the 
 capatal wasteland and learning about the environment.
  This game is definately worth playing again and again and again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviroz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  If you played oblivion, you will be familiarised, however, this have a nice history unlike oblivion.
 
  
  U will have tons of armors and wepons and the posibility to edit it.
  
  You can select the diculty since very easy to very hard, and it dont have autolevel like oblivion.
 
  
  Also you can use the game editor G. E. C. K., that can be downloaded in the oficial game page. And 
 there are a big modders comunity.
  
  In my oppinion this will be the game of the year, its better than the nintendos smash brawl, GTAIV, 
 and dead space.
  
  If you liked oblivion, you will like it, if you like half life, you will like it, if you like farcry 
 you will like it, if you love the gore you will like it!
  
  The replay value in this its greater, with the modder comunity check in google "fallout 3 nexus" 
 to see one of the betters mod pages.
  
  YOU WILL LIKE IT!
  
  Its violence, interesting and fun!
  
  The Game Of The Year!
  
  MUST HAVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshock122
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game could be the best games for years to come if they weren`t those nasty stupid bugs , crashes 
 , freezes. Bethesda should have made a better test before they launched the game. Well to experience 
 it fully some people will have to wait for the patch.
  
  Lets come to the game.
  
  Sound/Music/Voice Acting : 10
  Presentation: 9.5
  Story:8.9
  Gameplay:9.3
  Animation:6 
 : (
  So as you can see the animation could be better. Fallout 3 could have been a lot of better if the 
 animations would be more fluid like in Half life 2 or other games. And i also want to add something 
 else. It would have been a masterpiece if Bethesda would have worked on it more detailed. Like adding 
 some wheater effects ( Radiation rain , sandstorms..) or make the companion AI better a deeper 
 story. And please you should have made it a bit more for adults. I mean this game isn`t for kids. There 
 should be nudity , more gore it should be more brutal, it should show how bad the wastelands are.
 
  
  Well even if i told you these things Fallout 3 is still an awsome game in which you will get lost 
 for a long long time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zkc4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  you will love it if you enjoy RPGs and shooters. 
  
  I will confess that I never did play the original Fallout or even Fallout 2 but that makes this 
 review completely about 3 so it is unbiased.
  
  The beginning of the game is somewhat slow but that is not uncommon for RPGs. It is the usual tutorial 
 mixed with the explanation of ths story and why you are doing what you are.
  
  Once you get out into the real world the first thing you will notice is that it looks amazing. 
 The graphics in this game are astounding! At this point you have the option of sticking to the 
 story and following the main quests or you can just walk around and explore the huge land around 
 you. Either way you are going to enjoy yourself.
  
  Numerous people have said this game is just Oblivion with guns. I cannot completely disagree but 
 I played both and think they are vastly diffrent. Both are great games and both deserve to have 
 time spent on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999realthings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an amazing game with a great world to explore. 
  There is plenty of people to see and things to in Fallout 3 with several side-quest and plenty 
 of little quest you can do that's not even considered a quest by your pip-boy. The gun fights is 
 very fun especially with your VATS to target and hit your enemies in their weakest and most vulnerable 
 spots. 
  The Capital Wasteland is a huge place with several interesting locations. There's towns and city 
 and little communities everywhere with interesting inhabitants who needs you to do their dirty 
 work. 
  The dialogue is very interesting with a few very humorous answers. The Karma system of Fallout 
 is average with ability to be evil, very evil, neutral, good or very good. 
  The graphics of Fallout and design of it is way too similar to Oblivion with the same characters 
 model. It's almost like playing Oblivion 2000 later in Wasteland. Some of the characters even sound 
 identical to several Oblivion characters.
  Fallout 3 is a great FPS RPG with a lot of options I can make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstrekkid
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me first frame my anticipation of this game: I had to ship this game home instead of to me 
 at college because it could ruin my life. I enjoyed Fallout and Fallout 2 immensely, so when I 
 got home, I immediately started playing.
  And it's good. It's very good. It, however, isn't Fallout as I remembered.
  There are definitely 
 options in how to do things. Like RPGs with choices, however, the choices mostly seem fairly contrived 
 as good, evil, greedy, contrived, and so on. And the options are fairly straightforward with brute 
 force, stealth, speech, etc. The good news is that the quests are still interesting enough to be 
 make it fun.
  The engine feels very much like Oblivion with guns. Normal gameflow feels like Oblivion so much 
 that I even unconsciously started jumping everywhere to up my acrobatics. And the combat feels 
 like a shooter when played in real-time. VATS is fairly well-integrated, though the very specific 
 nature of it means that the combat choices aren't as tricky there.
  The graphics look fairly nice on my macbook pro, and it runs smoothly. The environment is really 
 well done, and the music does a lot to add to the feel.
  So yes, it might not be what I remember, but it's still awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AAKH
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I played Fallout 3 on the PS3. It wasn't as good. I got it on PC. It was amazing. I like the mouse/keyboard 
 set up a lot better than the controller. I haven't spent 100 or more hours yet but I definitely 
 am going to. This game is worth every single penny you spend. I even bought the collector's edition 
 and got the lunchbox, bobblehead, making of, and art book! Its a great game. I never thought a 
 game would be better than fire emblem but here you go, Fallout 3. It's my favorite game and is 
 amazing. I love it. The story is great. The visuals are beautiful to see. Explosions looks great 
 on my computer. There also is comedy in this game, which is always awesome. I doubt the game will 
 be as good if you try to be a good guy, try not to kill anyone, don't steal anything, and don't 
 do any side quests. It'll still be good but not as good. I mean come on, who can resist putting 
 that grenade in their pocket and watching them blow up? Who can resist taking that weapon or ammo 
 just because you lose karma? Pffh. Either way, this game is a must buy. I'm not a fan of RPGs but 
 this is my favorite game now so I guess that says a lot, now doesn't it? GO BUY IT. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is awesome for a lack of a better word. I played this game in a different way but will 
 difinitely go back to blast some mutants. The main story is very good and worthy of another play 
 through. The dynamic nature of the Gameplay is different and engaging and just plain fun.
  Perks certainly propel the gameplay to another level but sometimes felt that I did not choose the 
 right perk for some reasons. Perks are tricky and I feel like the shooting part was a bit weak 
 and some weapons did not feel right but this is not a straight shooter because you can easily get 
 out of a tricky situation by chatting up. The storyline is the strongpoint of the game and it works 
 extremely well as an RPG. There are other storylines in the game that is so worth checking out 
 and the best thing to do with this game is to be EXTREMELY PATIENT. Patience. Patience. Patience. 
 Take the game slowly and indulge yourself and you will certainly enjoy this game. There is certainly 
 a replayable value here because Im going back to capital wasteland soon. Achievement points makes 
 you want to go out there and em... achieve
  
  This game is not Oblivion and the restrictions are noticable. The graphics engine is more like 
 Oblivion but better and thicker.
  
  Technically, Fallout 3 is awesome overall and my computer chews up this game with the following 
 specs: 
  AMD Phenom X4 9950BE, 4GB RAM and ATI HD4850, Windows 7 64-bit. Sound is very good with 5.1. Best 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 12:58 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately I have never played any of the prior Fallout games.
  
  Fallout 3 is made by Bethesda Softworks, the same company for a very popular Elder Scrolls series 
 especially the fourth installment "Oblivion."
  
  Pros
  
  Graphics/Environment - 10++++/10 - Simply stunning. The area you traverse, also known as The Wasteland, 
 is very detailed. Its artwork and design makes the aftermath of a nuclear holocaust feel horrifically 
 real. Lighting effects, really add to the scenery outside and the dark areas and buildings you'll 
 have to explore, while not knowing what mutated foe awaits.
  
  Dialogue - 10++++/10 - Fallout 3 really improves upon the dialogue. Oblivion had maybe 10-15 different 
 voice actors for ALL the characters. Fallout 3 however has over 40, and that list includes Liam 
 Neeson, and Malcom McDowell. All the characters you encounter are voiced very well, and have very 
 memorable dialogue.
  
  Story - 9/10 - The story starts out slow, and with the question "why did your father leave you, 
 and the vault, and everything you've ever known behind?" That slowly unravels into something on 
 a much bigger scale.
  
  Combat - 9/10 - Combat starts out slow too. Until you level up then you get to see how much fun 
 V. A. T. S. are and how much destruction you can inflict upon foes.
  
  Cons
  
  The game ends. No seriously. This ***MIGHT SPOIL***. When you finish the main story line quests 
 the game actually goes to a cutscene and ends, and then goes to the main menu. Not like Oblivion 
 where its like "oh ok time to go quest some more." This really surprised me and p*ssed me off to 
 say the least because i had so much undiscovered territory, and all of my saves left me unable 
 to go off and adventure.
  
  Overall, the game improves upon the Oblivion formula, but the insane amount of character creation 
 flexibility, and massive array of equipment found in Oblivion makes the character creation and 
 array of equipment in Fallout 3 look incomplete or limited.
  
  The game did give me that Oblivion like game with guns, and not only that, but TREMENDOUS graphics 
 and a surreal environment to explore.
  
  Overall a must play for any RPG fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerdrake
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Oblivion meets mad max (with a little bit of Bioshock thrown in too.)
  I like it. 
  I have only been playing the game for a few days but it is immediately obvious it will be a classic. 
 First observations is that it is not Fallout as we know it, with the hexagonal move play pattern 
 and turn play style of the original two games. This style of play was never a favourite of mine 
 but that is a personal opinion.
  I love the music with the DJ three dog and the 50's music reinvigorated (OK I am showing my age 
 here but what the heck) .
  Game play is easy with no complicated key moves to memorise and therefore no serious learning curve 
 to undergo.
  Graphically the game is very scalable. My computer ( a Sony Vaio because I travel a lot, is below 
 the minimum spec but I can still run the game on medium selection.) I have heard reports of crashes, 
 etc of the game I have also experienced these when I have tried to be a bit more adventurous and 
 raise the settings beyond my computer's capabilities. So those who experience crashes and so on 
 should consider lowering their graphics settings. After all it is the game that counts not how 
 pretty it looks.
  Going back to the game, there are a few bugs which may be ironed out with a patch or two. For example 
 (Spoiler here) trying to find Moriarty after the quest involving Silver was impossible with the 
 world map showing him north of Springfield School and the local map showing him back in Megatron. 
 I had to resort to hacking his computer.
  As I said this game is growing on me and I have spent too long on this mini review and need to 
 get back to it. When I have further progressed in the game I will update later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dl5852930
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the beginning was very good (even it was somewhat boring) . If you're a hardcore FPS 
 gamer you're love this ,if you're RPG freak (sry) you're look this. The story of fallout is extremely 
 good, because you are immensed in with a open world with so much but too little time. This game 
 achieves in the RPG characteristics ,revolutionary V. A. T. S ,open world ,story ,and over around 
 fun. Unfortunately nothing is perfect, Fallout 3 fails at more information about the story (I really 
 know what happen before you were boned in that game) , pretty broken shotting without V. A. T. S, not 
 the best ending , and clearing up the back story. This game is so good ,that I will torture myself 
 if an expansion doesn't come out . This game wins my awards of Game of the year, Best story, and 
 Most recommended game to buy. I was crying at the ending ,becuz it ended. So there's my review! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAOS100
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  As much as I was disappointed by other games released recently, I have been entertained by Fallout 
 3.
  
  I normally don't like RPGs that much. I played Oblivion but got bored of it, and didn't finish 
 it. However this game has managed to keep my attention so much that I have managed to get to the 
 max level. The shooting portion of the game is not completely like an FPS, as it does have rpg 
 elements in it. You can't hit someone from long range if you don't have the right skill at a higher 
 level. The VATS element, aka the stop-time aimbot device, is fun to use and makes the game easier. 
 
  
  Possibly the best part of the game that makes me play this fps-rpg over Oblivion, Morrowind, etc, 
 is the fact that there is no "magic" and restrictions to hack and slash swords. I really hate the 
 run of the mill RPG with fantasy themes and medieval times that cannot be without witches and mages. 
 Finally I have the ability to just pick up my combat shotgun and blow peoples heads off. It sticks 
 more true to what a post-apocalyptic world (with mutants and weird creatures) would be. 
  
  This game is definitely a long awaited change from all the other RPG games I have played and is 
 one I can play, because to most people 'rpg' means medieval period with horses, dragons, swords, 
 and magic. That isn't me. This is an fps-rpg game that I can actually play. Come on, how many other 
 games let you go into the bathroom and decapitate a chick and leave her head lying in a toilet 
 (as disturbing as you think that is) . 
  
  I did play fallout 1 and enjoyed it, but never finished it. I see some fallout fans complaining 
 that this is not true to the series and such, perhaps it is true. But as a game, not counting its 
 past or the series, it is fun. Lets be honest, the original developers are small, probably dying, 
 and don't have the budget to make a game like this again, at least to the extent bethesda made 
 it.
  
  There are some bug problems with the game. The game crashes to desktop sometimes for no clear reason 
 so stability is an issue. Also there are framerate issues. I have no problem playing Crysis but 
 this game has parts where the fps goes very low when outside, and the graphics still havent changed 
 much since oblivion.
  Also the AI has not changed much since oblivion. I found myself babysitting AI a lot, which is 
 a hassle. AI following you can get caught up or stuck on walls, and sometimes have pathfinding 
 issues and end up running around right into a hoard of super mutants trying to get to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValveGrinder
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  This is not yet a review. I just bought the game and only played it briefly so far. I give it a 
 9 already. 
  I held off buying it, not knowing if my ATI X700 card would work, since it is not listed as supported. 
 But it works for Oblivion, and so I took a chance that it would work for Fallout 3, and it DOES 
 work. 
  The game chose a default resolution is 800x600, which is not tops but just fine, and some of the 
 features have to be turned down or off, but the game still looks great. Not bad for a 6-year old 
 video card.
  
  My computer meets the other specs:
  
  HP Media Center Edition, 2002, Service Pack 3
  Pentium 4 3.00 Ghz
  1.5 Gb. RAM
  ATI Radeon 
 X700 graphics card in a PCI-E slot.
  Driver version 8.541.0.0 (9/23/2008) 
  Probably a good idea to get this driver update from ATI. (I had to get it in order to play Left 
 4 Dead)
  Hope this helps someone out there who was wondering if they could play the game with the X700 or 
 if they would have to upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinn_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I havent played the earlier versions of Fallout, but this one is amazing. Its a game to every 
 taste!
  
  The only problem with this game is that it is highly addictive, you wont see time going by as 
 you play. This same phenomenon happens with Oblivion. There is much to do and dozens of surprises. 
 
  
  As you leave the vault, the whole devastated world is ahead of you. You can explore the world the 
 way you want, doing pretty much anything, developing your character to be good or evil and watching 
 out for the radiation. Talk, discover, walk and fight. Giant fire ants, scorpions and ghouls are 
 just some of the specials! 
  
  The history is good, as well as the gameplay. Easy commands and the VATS combat mode is amazing, 
 especially if are not much into the action stuff. For you that does not know what the VATS is, 
 get the game a see it for your self, its worth the time spent.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulraider_2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  An ambitious effort by Bethesda Software. I first played it using twin nVidia 7800GT-OC's and it 
 looked good. I recently installed nVidia GTX-280's in SLi and it looks and runs exceptionally good. 
 The better your system, the more you will see in the landscape (obviously) , but it is still very 
 engaging in the lower graphic modes. This is a game you will play over and over to experience the 
 different outcomes depending on your "Karma".
  NOT A TRUE FIRST PERSON SHOOTER!!! If you need that real-feel, I suggest you go for Far Cry 2 or 
 Crysis Warhead. The V. A. T. S system is a lot of fun and is my preferred killing method. Attaching 
 the head of a Super Mutant to the demolished wall behind him with a railroad spike has its appeal. 
 
  The blending of the post WW2 with the 2077 timeline is a bit strange at first. I have not fully 
 completed the game, so I can't spoil that for you if I wanted to. And what other game lets you 
 have your own dog and semi-skinless body guard.
  
  The cons for the game are a short list. You really need to purchase the Prima game walkthrough 
 book if you want to get the most out of the massive world. I ended up with both versions (hard 
 cover and soft cover) , so I have the pull-out maps on my wall to help me find various areas quicker. 
 
  I have had some crashing issues, I'm sure they'll get patched soon enough. I'm running Vista 64 
 bit with 4GB of RAM, so I'm not convinced the problem is my system. 
  
  Overall, Fallout 3 is a must have game that should keep you busy over the long winter months. I 
 also understand that expansions are in the works, so keep an eye out for those as well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duanejake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  I played Fallout 1 back in the late 90's and Fallout 2 on the box but this game is so not even 
 compareable i mean come on those were pretty good, and when i sayy tht i mean strictly gameplay. 
 There were some shortcomings in F3 which i thought were good but not great, not immersive. And 
 i also found that the novelty of this game runs pretty thin fighting the same old enemies... oblivion 
 made it soo much better but F3 i dunno i jus felt that it came a bit short. But this game was one 
 good lookin game... beautiful textures and lighting.. loved that aspect, however. Another huge and 
 big disappointment and the main reason why i didnt like the F3 experience was the big crash bug.. How 
 are you even supposed to play a game that keeps crashing on you every hour or maybe 2-3 if your 
 lucky. If youve already played it you know what i am talkin bout and for any of you that havent 
 already please.. update video and audio drivers and defrag ure hard drive (s) , coz this is one annoying 
 crash bug. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petros957
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, Fallout 1&2 nearly ruined my life ten years ago. I had never played a game with, what I felt 
 was, an original theme. So yes I love this game. And I can easily see myself spending lots of time 
 with this game. Which is rather refreshing. But here's what I think...
  
  Gameplay - Excellent (though at lower levels it can be hard)
  Graphics - Excellent (as long as 
 you have a decent PC)
  Audio - Excellent (the music really adds to the drama)
  Controls - Excellent, with one exception... which is understandable since this wasn't developed 
 exclusively for the PC. But "R" puts a melee weapon away, but not other weapons. I wish that was 
 different. But I understand the reasons.
  
  I also love the RP elements of this game. The SPECIAL, skill tree, and the "Perks" are all well 
 balanced. Though you have to experiment to figure out how to build different types of characters. 
 Other elements like Karma and Drug Use, with the possibility of addiction, add an element of Role 
 Playing that set it apart from other games.
  
  I really only have one problem with this game. I can't stop playing.... And sleep deprivation is 
 starting to set in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Already it imagined as the world would be from today to a little more than the 270 years in the 
 future? Therefore its imagination can gain wing in Fallout 3, the new heading of the Bethesda Softworks. 
 This heading follows the line of the surmounting of RPG world-wide known as Fallout, that still 
 had its success accented in as game of the series, produced especially for PC for the dead people 
 Interplay and Black Isle Studios has 10 years behind. Of this time, the game arrives in the versions 
 for PC, 360 Xbox and PlayStation 3, showing a great fan of new features for the series, using of 
 the potential of the new platforms. Whenever we have the return of a great series as this, it is 
 sufficiently common the fans if to liven up, but it always exists that diffidence if in fact it 
 will be a rescue of the main qualities that had motivated the previous success, or a simple exploration 
 of a name of weight in a game of limited quality, to only gain money. In this in case that it could 
 not be different, still more for having moved for a different development studio of the that created 
 Fallout and today does not exist more, however, if treating to the Bethesda, recognized for a wide 
 experience in sort RPG with the success The Elder Scrolls, the expectation was enormous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphine_OD
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's start from the good things. FO3 is quite a looker, I must say. But, only on a mid-distance, 
 because the hi-res textures are flawed and LOD is also a big problem. Oh, where I were? Ok, quite 
 a looker. A beautiful scenery, the most immersing atmosphere, artistic design is a state of art 
 (you get this? artistic - state of art? aw, cmon its funny!) Everything from wrecked cars to tables 
 and chairs were thoroughly reworked from their 2D ancestors. And they look good. The soundtrack 
 is kinda moving and raises patriotic feelings, but its just the thing you could expect from Bethesda. 
 Dialogs are better written than the ones in Oblivion, but who cares, they still feel a bit awkward 
 sometimes. Gameplay is as addictive as it was in Oblivion, though it just doesn't make sense sometimes. 
 I speak about the shooting mechanics. There are some issues with VATS system, when you aim at someone 
 and make a shot, but poof and he magically gets behind some cover, before you even started firing. 
 Say goodbye to your ammo and action points.
  
  Now bad. It's not Fallout3. It's not a sequel. It's a spinoff. Well done though, but still just 
 a spinoff. The game is not an RPG/FPS. It is FPS/RPG. It's shallow, nothing to plan about, nothing 
 to think of. After 2-3 hours of playing, you can start over and create a perfect character. The 
 game can only be finished in one fashion. Shoot there, talk here. I say there is a plenty of options 
 and choices to make, but there are always a better ones and a stupid ones. Thats not Fallout. No 
 freedom = No Fallout. Remember FOT BOS? The same thing here. It is the biggest problem of the game. 
 And one more frustration ahead: you don't actually see the consequences of your actions. All of 
 them are so unimportant, so you often receive only thanks, when savin someone. You want to see 
 consequences? Play The Witcher. That's the game that had rpg elements done properly.
  
  But all bads I've sounded are darkening when being compared to the ENDING. To say it's disappointing 
 is to stay silent. Where is an old good epilogue?
  
  Overall:
  Design - 9
  Soundtrack - 9
  Gameplay - 4 as rpg 7 as fps
  Sounds - 5
  Graphics - 7
  Aftertaste = bitter 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faks
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Most Epic Game Of Year 2008 I Will Nominate Game For What It Deserves.
  Game Suck You In It's Story You All The Time Wanna More Even After Complete Game You Feel how it's 
 ambitious have created with real hero and hero Lives Once game story is about his dad witch working 
 on project Purity Witch Will Help People for next generation with clear water .
  His Son Sacrificed Him Self For Better Future .
  Well In Game Was Some Couple Things Witch Was 
 Missing Like Wear Gloves Wear Sun Glass With Armor Or Helm some times it was restricted but game 
 after modding i believe will bring all what game engine can handle any way i love this game and 
 recommend for others to play it after all this is game of year.
  
  I Enjoy Playing This Game And Modding It's Is Epic And I Will Play Some Day It Again !
  
  I 
 Am Alfa And Omega : The Begining And The End ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  The last Best PC Game i played was Half Life 2 - Episode 2. After that its been an Year and seriously 
 none of the PC Games have been EXCEPTIONAL. Its all been a Year For Consoles.
  
  I really thought of giving up gaming after playing games like Assassin's Creed and Far Cry 2. AC 
 was simply Terrible and Abysmal. Far Cry 2 was good but really made me lose all my Stamina.
  
  I never liked Fallout games. And I Simply was Turned off by Elder Scrolls IV - Oblivion. RPG 
 in First Person? WTF? Just can't stand that and the Third Person in Oblivion wasn't good. I Personally 
 find Oblivion very Overrated. But its my personal taste and i know oblivion is a Great Game hence 
 didn't give it 1's like i did to Far Cry or Assassin's Creed.
  
  Fallout 3 which is made by the same guys who made oblivion just CORRECTS the mistakes they made 
 earlier and its no longer Silly Sword Fighting game with no combos. Its now a gun fighting game.
 
  
  The start itself was very innovative. You begin as a Just Born Baby and you can see slight blood 
 on your screen that has come out of your Umbilical Cord. Damn Realistic. Actually Fallout 3 happens 
 in 2200 year and its a Post Apocalyptic Situation. A Nuke has cleared all of the US and you are 
 safe, most importantly your DAD is safe as you all are locked under a vault.
  
  You get to choose your sex, Face, Hair etc. The character Building may not be Great but having 
 it as a feature is itself Amazing. Meanwhile your MOM dies which is a bit sad.
  
  You go fast forward one year and your dad calls you to cuddle you Sweet! Your dad puts you inside 
 a gate and then leaves for some work. You have to leave the gate as its the Main Quest. You have 
 attributes called as S. P. E. C. I. A. L!
  
  After 10 years old you celebrate your Birthday and people stuff you with gifts. You have a Girlfriend 
 and also a Bully named Butcher who teases your Girlfriend. Anyways your dad gives you a gun and 
 you get to experiment the VATS system. You go 2 years then 3 years ahead till you are a Teenager.
 
  
  Ahh, the VATS system without which Fallout 3 would have been NOTHING. Its true because the aiming 
 in Fallout 3 just plain sucks. So if you are playing a First Person just don't expect a Half Life 
 kind of AIM. I would suggest playing this in THIRD PERSON Mode. Its simply more fun and sensible.
 
  
  The VATS system is one of the Best Systems in any game. You can choose the body parts and shoot. 
 Yeah i also agree with some of the Hater of this game that even the VATS system in sometimes buggy. 
 You aim for the Head you have the best Shot. Aim elsewhere you really have to WASTE a lot of bullets 
 for getting the enemy down. Especially the Super Mutants are too powerful.
  
  Yeah Aim for the Hands and Legs if its a GHOUL - a Simple Human Flesh Skeleton. But if there are 
 Super Mutants, then simply use VATS over their Head.
  
  I played this game using a cheat for Unlimited Bullets and trust me, it makes the game MORE Fun. 
 Unlimited AP, Unlimited Bullets and really makes VATS much more fun as you really now can WITHOUT 
 FEAR aim anywhere you want.
  
  You have these SPECIAL Points one of which increases the Gore. Do choose that point as it immensely 
 INCREASES the gore are really makes Fallout 3 Even More Fun than a God Of War game.......... Seriously.
 
  
  Here is where your story picks off, your DAD runs away and you also have to follow suit.
  
 
  From here the game starts off. Graphics are great for PC but the requirements are really HIGH. 
 Graphics are lagging even on my 8600GT and there is this RANDOM CRASHES which is little frustrating 
 at times. But thanks to Autosave its great.
  
  
  The missions are NEVER Boring. Also this must be the first RPG where the Side missions are MORE 
 FUN than Main Missions.
  Don't get me wrong. The Main Missions are Superb and Masterfully done, but the Side Missions are 
 Just Plain Fun.
  
  It must have taken me atleast 40 HOURS to complete the game. Its such a WASTE that i only did most 
 of the MAIN Quests and have Left Side Quests. Now i am doing the Side Quests which are PLAIN FUN 
 which just proves that this game is ENDLESS FUN.
  
  The Ending is possibly the GREATEST Ending Of The Year atleast on the PC and TRUST ME you have 
 over 40 Endings in this game. Awesome.
  
  My only little points which can actually make this game get a 10/10 like MGS 4 is to IMPROVE the 
 platforming a BIT and also their Aiming. That being said i just cannot wait for Fallout 4.
  
  Overall, this is easily the BEST PC Game Of 2008 replacing my Favorite DMC 4....... no Doubt 
 about it. Story was EPIC and so smooth. You never really get bored and you are constantly involved 
 unlike Oblivion where there were Some Boring Parts. The gameplay is just TOO Superb. If you are 
 a PC gamer and love Shooters, RPGs etc. GET this DAMN Game.......... Its for EVERYONE. The only 
 people hating this game will be those having NO Patience. 
  
  Fallout 3 PC GOTY.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  In the future, civilization survived nuclear warfare by relocating into underground vaults. Fallout 
 3 begins as you the player are literally born in Vault 101 into the arms of your father (Liam Neeson) . 
 As a child you are introduced to the games character creation system where you are able to increase 
 a number of your personal traits such as Luck and Strength. You are also given an electronic device 
 called the Pip-Boy 3000 which tracks your health, skills and objectives. On your nineteenth birthday 
 however, your father escapes the vault and you are sentenced to death by the vault's overseer. 
 It is up to you to venture out into the Wasteland and relocate your father. The outside world of 
 Washington D. C. has been transformed into a post apocalyptic catastrophe of destruction, where 
 mutants lurk, bandits prey and townsfolk struggle to survive.
  
  Fallout fans will be relieved that the opening exchanges of Bethesda Softworks' new RPG game, represent 
 a vast improvement over their previous project, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Humorously scripted 
 sequences, such as a moral choice quiz test and cleverly disguised tutorial sequences, which signifies 
 your growth from a new born baby to adult, demonstrate that Bethesda has grown in terms of its 
 storytelling and scripting. Vault 101 has been compared to the opening dungeon of Oblivion, but 
 it feels like a much tighter and more interesting introduction. It also delivers the players to 
 Fallout 3's most impressive display, which is the outside world. Exiting the vault you are rewarded 
 with the sight of the Wasteland. It is a truly open world, with an incredible draw distance that 
 allows you to see the vast planes ahead of you. Burnt out cars, telegraph poles, shacks, cliff 
 faces, little robots and shanty towns populate the world. You can hear the sound of the wind sweeping 
 across the barren wasteland. The attention to detail is simply impeccable.
  
  Significantly, unlike STALKER, there are no load screens across the planes  only when you enter 
 buildings  offering a highly immersive experience. As the game is a FPS and RPG hybrid, you are 
 free to explore the world, uncover missions and slay enemies, which will earn you experience points. 
 These experience points can be spent on skills such as Sneaking, Small Guns, Lockpicking and Speech. 
 You will also be able to gain special abilities called Perks, which are unlocked as you level up. 
 Perks such as Lady Killer, allow for abilities like additional dialogue when talking to women, 
 while an entirely different one like Little Leaguer increases your melee weapons skill points. 
 
  
  With such diversity to many of these skills and abilities, it is a shame that many of these skills 
 were not put to better use. Many of Fallout 3's main mission quests feel very generic and conventional 
 and underuse many of these skills. Stealth for example  particularly at low levels  is virtually 
 useless. You are not rewarded with stealth in anyway apart from conserving ammo. Only killing your 
 opponents with your firearms, will earn you experience points. Why would you stealth the game with 
 such diverse firearms either? Stealth is therefore reduced mainly to pick pocketing, which might 
 be used once or twice in the main campaign. Other skills like barter and unarmed, which increase 
 your melee damage with your fists, will not be of much use to most gamers, other than to merely 
 experiment with. 
  
  The very nature of the skills and stats system is overly contrived too. You start off with 15 points 
 for each skill and then increase them with additionally given points. The problem with this though 
 is that if the player has 49 points for lockpicking they will not even be able to attempt to crack 
 a lock because it is set to a 50 point skill level. The entire system feels extremely unbalanced 
 and rather unsatisfying. Sometimes it completely gels and you will be able to either bribe someone 
 for information, or alternatively pickpocket him to steal a key and then break into his computer 
 to find the information you need. Yet at the same time this merely reminds you of the way a game 
 like Deus Ex - a far superior RPG and FPS hybrid - offered this level of freedom on a much more 
 consistent basis. 
  
  
  As stated many of the main quests feel highly generic, offering objectives such as rescuing captured 
 townsfolk, retrieving items such as a satellite dish, exploring experimental facilities (of course) , 
 and searching through caverns and shanty towns to solve people's problems. After you have played 
 forty hours of a game like The Witcher, you cannot help but feel a sense of dj vu for many of 
 these tasks. Megaton for example  one of the first towns you visit  is filled with people requiring 
 your help with various tasks. Typically you  the voiceless player  are the one tasked with walking 
 in and solving many of these problems. The AI of the civilians in these towns and villages is fairly 
 decent. They do have some impressive display of a routine. At night for example, they will sleep 
 and their shops will be locked. During the day you might even see some store owners having breakfast 
 before going to their shops. It is also impressive how NPCs will take to heart what you say to 
 them and react different. If you are kind they will offer you rewards such as money or if you are 
 rude to them, become unpleasant. It just doesn't quite have the charm of a game like The Witcher 
 though. This is mostly likely because the animations of the NPC characters are fairly poorly and 
 just not quite as fluent as they should have been. They have excellent lip synching, but their 
 facial animations are nearly non-existent and their movements are stiff. The Gamebryo engine has 
 been powering games since 2001 (Dark Age of Camelot) and despite much of its excellence, in regards 
 to lighting and draw distance, it lets Bethesda down in their storytelling and depiction of the 
 people, in what is an otherwise terrific and interesting world. 
  
  One of the more interesting aspects of the game is the combat. Body parts can be blown off enemies 
 with a large assortment of weapons such as machine guns, laser pistols, hunting rifles and bazookas. 
 This is a very bloody and brutal game. What makes the combat unique is a system that is known as 
 VATS (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System) . When you enter a certain range in combat you can press 
 a button to enter this system and the action will freeze on screen. It will bring up on your nearest 
 target the percentage at which you can hit their individual body parts. You have a number of action 
 points which is the equivalent of how many shots you can take to hit your enemy. The results at 
 times can be spectacular, especially when you manage to blow the head clean off a mutant with your 
 hunting rifle. It can feel very satisfying at times. The combat just needed some minor tweaks though. 
 A faster running speed for the player would have added a greater sense of urgency, while lean keys 
 as well as prone may have added to the diversity and dynamics of the combat. The AI also needed 
 far more hit animations in real-time, as well as improved scripting. Enemies and NPCs will often 
 run around in circles, sometimes bump into each other, and into the level geometry. Most enemies 
 are not particularly tactical either and will merely stand in the open to fire upon you, or just 
 try and rush up to you to outgun you. You might be able excuse them given most of them are mutants 
 though. There are not that many enemy types throughout the game, mainly bandits, mutants, scorpions 
 and soldiers. 
  
  The main campaign is likely to last most players between fifteen to twenty hours. This might seem 
 short for such an open world game, but there are a number of side quests that can be explored during 
 the game. It is quite frustrating that the games finale does not allow players to continue to explore 
 through the open world to complete these quests. This means that you have to either load an older 
 save or restart the game over to find these quests. Similarly the game's final decision does not 
 quite reflect the games entire emphasis on Karma. Throughout the entire game your actions will 
 give you either good or bad Karma. If you steal something or break into a computer you will receive 
 negative Karma. Give a man some clean water and you will have positive Karma. The games ending 
 very, very briefly touches on what you've done, but it feels like the last choice you make almost 
 overrides everything else you've done, which is disappointing given what an interesting idea Karma 
 is during the game. 
  
  Fallout 3's story is quite competent in terms of its dialogue and arc  it's bearable but it never 
 reaches the sophistication of Mass Effect and is never quite as satirical as it would like to be. 
 There are little references to the previous Fallout games and some comic touches, but elements 
 like the experiments lab and the warring factions are nothing we haven't seen before. There is 
 however a very disturbing moment  similar to Cohen's Masterpiece from Bioshock  that takes place 
 inside a virtual reality simulation program. I am still trying to work out what the point of it 
 was  but it is a terrifying sequence all the same. The campaign could have used more variety like 
 this, perhaps just not as gruesome. 
  
  Even if the main campaign is not all you would expect, Fallout 3 still offers excellent replay 
 value in going back through the game to complete many of its side quests or to merely experiment 
 with some of the perks. It is a very well optimised game that runs well without lag, though there 
 are problems that just wouldn't expect from a blockbuster title like this. Frequently the game 
 may stop responding upon starting or it will tab you back to desktop during game time. The games 
 arrow system can also be very annoying flickering back and forth when you are tantalisingly close 
 to your objective, but still unsure of where to go. These are minor complaints but they really 
 should have been ironed out. It is a good game, a very playable one, but you cannot help but ask 
 what could have been with a less generic and conventional campaign. It is just thankful that the 
 unique setting and atmospheric world save the game from the gates of oblivion. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShimmerMan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  
  The game has "too much of the same" in terms of content. Oblivion before Shivering Isles suffered 
 from the same thing, and so did Daggerfall. There's not enough new gameplay elements introduced 
 into the game to keep things interesting. And the environment is not diverse enough to really qualify 
 for all the content in the game. And the story element of the game is not up to par. Some of the 
 side quests are good. But the problem with side quests is that they're not long, maybe a 1 or 2 
 hours tops to complete each one. So instead of becoming engrossed in a long 40 hour story line 
 you get short bursts of various and different stories which is not as effective at keeping the 
 player "hooked". For a RPG, Fallout 3 unfortunately becomes more of a pick up play type of affair 
 instead of engrossing story driven game with plot twists that will keep you playing until the end.
 
  
  Technically the game is sound. Graphics are above average and atmospheric. But diversity in the 
 environment is unfortunately not there. 60% of the game is wasteland, 30% sub way tunnels, 10% 
 interior buildings. It would of been good if there was more new environments to unlock instead 
 of simple wasteland for most of your journey. high hopes were held for the Undercity, and I was 
 expecting a vast underground network of ghoul civilization. But instead all you get are six or 
 so rooms with a few quests and a dozen or so NPCs... disappointing.
  
  Sound and Music.. Is all good. The GNR radio station has some good sounds, but the music does become 
 repetitive.
  
  Gameplay. The leveling system is decent. There's a level 20 cap, which will disappoint some. But 
 I found it a good move from the uncap leveling system in The Elder Scrolls. Gunplay is well done, 
 there's loads of weapons to choose from. Bethesda scores points for implementing sound action elements 
 into a RPG. And the crap scaling system from Oblivion has been toned down to good effect.
  
  All in all a good game, but the weakest link in Fallout 3 is the story. Which is unfortunate because 
 the story should be the strongest link in a RPG. The game has loads of content, but I think most 
 players will find that the story and the game in general is not good enough to hold up the content 
 it has. There's not enough diversity and so the more you explore the more boring the game becomes. 
 And the end result is that the game started off better than it ends.
  
  score 8.0
  Realistically 8.4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedCanHurt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the basics. Bethesda has taken their proven Gamebryo engine, made famous by their 
 Elder Scrolls series, updated it, and then applied it to the Fallout series. The result? It's like 
 playing Oblivion with guns, only better. Many have remarked that Fallout 3 is what STALKER should 
 have been.
  
  Firstly, this is a role-playing game, not a shooter. While it has many elements of the latter, 
 you'll be bitterly disappointed if you buy it thinking otherwise. In fact, one of the main methods 
 of killing enemies in this game is to press 'V' and go into VATS mode, which allows you to pause 
 the game and select a number of different areas to fire at in succession. The likelihood of hitting 
 depends on your weapon and character skill, and how many shots you can fire in VATS depends on 
 your 'Action Points'. And, when those shots are fired, you get impressive views where the camera 
 tracks the bullet to your target in slow motion. So, you're probably thinking combat is going to 
 be completely turn-based and boring. Wrong.
  
  You can also participate in real-time combat, which is, admittedly, more difficult than using VATS. 
 It is also much more exciting, and will appeal to those who like to do things themselves. Of course, 
 the more laid-back, technical gamer will probably prefer using VATS, and you're given complete 
 choice of whether or not to use it.
  
  Which brings us to what is most common complaint about Fallout 3: combat is far too easy. Even 
 on the hardest difficulty, most fights are incredibly easy. Every now and then you'll find yourself 
 challenged by special circumstances brought on by quests, but, for the most part, it feels like 
 you're just along for the ride. Luckily, there are ways around this. You can simply choose to use 
 lower-quality equipment, or, as most do, download a difficulty mod to up the ante.
  
  As for the rest of the gameplay, it is pure magic. The plot is original and draws you in, making 
 you really feel like you're doing the work. Being able to choose whether you're good, bad or neutral 
 also allows you to do whatever you want, though the main quest is somewhat linear.
  
  Graphics, while nothing special, are easy to run. Even the most modest machines will be able to 
 run this game on maximum quality with ease, and while it doesn't look as good as other games, you'll 
 get a much better frame rate. Bundle that with the distant landscapes and buildings first introduced 
 in Oblivion, and you should be kept fairly happy on this side of things.
  
  Reliability is good, especially compared to most of this years releases. There have been a few 
 reports of glitches and crashes, but these are few and far between. Personally, I am yet to see 
 a crash actually caused by the game itself.
  
  The bottom line? Fallout 3 is destined to become a role-playing classic, along with the likes of 
 Morrowind and Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwatch28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Awesome. RPG/FPS set in the ruins of D. C. of the future.
  Installed easy enough, looks stunning and runs as smooth as a moose. I loved the way it starts 
 (you get born) and follows you through childhood until your big enough for the outside world. When 
 you get out theres lots to do and see, find and explore (Abandoned supermarkets, factorys, towns, 
 cities plus all the major landmarks (or whats left of them) as well as some humorous choices (wheither 
 or not to dissarm the towns nuclear bomb or activate it) . If you find it too easy or hard you can 
 adjust the differeculty at any time. 
  There's lots of kit and weapons to pickup and specialise in, you can even make your own weapons 
 once you find the schematics (normally one per town, buy them in the shop) . Again they've given 
 you a choice between good or evil and depending how your karma level is depends on how different 
 people react to you, some will run, some my want to be your friend. The games just plays on and 
 on theres also extra content being released after chrismas.
  The only real downside on this type of game as it is only single player so if your a major online 
 COD4 player this type of game may not be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  The very first post-apocalyptic RPG was a small title called Wasteland, which I played through 
 three times on my Commodore 64 back in the 80's. When the first Fallout was released, I was so 
 excited to have a chance at role-playing the same sort of setup again, and luckily I wasn't disappointed. 
 I've been a fan of this kind of game for a long time, so when I heard Bethesda was taking on the 
 project, I was both excited and nervous. I played both Morrowind and Oblivion, and loved them to 
 a point - Oblivion's auto-leveling of creatures made the later game ridiculously difficult if you'd 
 experimented with your character and chosen non-combat skills. I heard the same mechanic was going 
 to be in Fallout 3 and almost cried. Well... my fears were unjustified.
  
  Let me just start by saying I've played the game for almost 30 hours, and I've only completed two 
 legs of the main quest. I am having so much fun just wandering the wasteland discovering towns 
 and blowing raiders to pieces, that I have a hard time heading towards the end of the game! I just 
 don't want to miss anything. I love the loot system, the weapons, the experience gain, the leveling 
 up, and the little mini-games, like picking locks and hacking computers. They all come together 
 to create an experience like none I've experienced. This is what it would have been like to experience 
 that Commodore 64 title firsthand! The graphics are insanely detailed, the sound is excellent and 
 necessary, the landscape is bleak and disheartening, but at the same time hopeful, and the auto-leveling 
 is barely noticeable. It's a bit hard to describe, actually, and if all you've seen are the gameplay 
 movies on a site like Gamespot, you should do yourself a favor and experience them for yourself.
 
  
  From the beginning as you create your character by reading baby books and listening to your father, 
 to the first time you actually level up, you are completely vested in your character. I actually 
 started a second game to see how different things would play out if I chose to play a female and 
 stick to the more ethically questionable decisions (which are many) . As a role-playing game, Fallout 
 3 does an incredible job of giving you choices and making you really think about it. Even though 
 it plays like a first person shooter, you'll never be under the illusion that it isn't a true RPG. 
 This game is all about character, reputation, skills, loot, and story, and what a story! The conflicts 
 in the game between characters feel tangible and real, not incredibly far fetched, and sometimes 
 it makes choosing sides very difficult. Do you go with the abused ghouls living in the sewers or 
 the fancy pants people in Tenpenny Towers? Do you blow up Megaton and lose a great questing hub 
 and loot dump or keep it around and go against the organization that wants it gone? Even smaller 
 decisions become difficult to choose; I wanted to save at every conversation. This is what immersion 
 in a game SHOULD be like! The radio stations will give you clues as to where you could go to help 
 resolve some current crisis, the people always react appropriately to you based on your reputation, 
 and the dialog choices are fitting and varied enough to make you pause before answering "always 
 good".
  
  Combat is one of the highlights of the game and surprisingly doesn't detract from the old Fallout 
 turn-based system. With your VATS, you still have the chance to slow things down, take aim and 
 fire, and then watch in spectacular slow motion as your enemies fly apart in meaty chunks. Having 
 said that, it does make the game a bit easier than I thought it would, though I have died more 
 than once trying to make my way through the wasteland. Running out of action points when fighting 
 multiple enemies is a bad thing, and I found the real-time combat less satisfying than using VATS. 
 Stick with VATS if you can, it makes it all a ball of gooey fun! Oh, yes, don't play this game 
 in front of your kids, it's M rated for a reason.
  
  The only complaints I have are these: the game occasionally crashes on loading in my Windows Vista 
 64-bit OS (but only on loading a game, never in a game, as far as I've experienced) , and the animations 
 of characters are a bit stiff. Regular people walking around look good enough, and the lip sync 
 conversations are excellent, but when raiders start running away from you, there is a lot of "gliding" 
 over the landscape. And don't bother to play in the third person view, it just isn't as immersive, 
 and actually detracts from the game in my opinion.
  
  I'll just conclude with this: Mass Effect up to this point was my choice for Game of the Year and 
 RPG of the Year, but as it stands now, I'm afraid Fallout 3 may have just taken one, if not both 
 of those away. Sorry Bioware - you created an incredible game with one of the best stories of the 
 year! But Bethesda just stepped it up a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all i willingly admit that i have not played Fallout 1 & 2, nor do i plan to in the future. 
 i am sure that they are fantastic, but the nagging condescending fanboys of the first two fallout 
 games make me sick, and i don't want to bend to their wishes. Plus those games are at least 10 
 years old, and i have been gaming since 2002 or thereabouts, and would find it difficult to get 
 in to a such an aged game. 
  Now onto fallout 3. To be honest, all the pre-release hate had affected me, and i was not very 
 excited about this game. i bought it after it's relatively warm reception, thinking i might have 
 been wrong. And oh, how i was wrong. Fallout 3 is probably the second best game i have played this 
 year, coming very, very close to Mass Effect, my favorite game of the year. 
  I must say, i was not expecting a lot from the story aspect of this game, and to be honest, i was 
 a little disappointed in this aspect of the game. It was at least original, but it lacked depth, 
 and didn't draw me in as much as other games in this genre have. luckily, it had a fantastic atmosphere, 
 and really allowed the player to do as he wishes. Total freedom of play, and to a point attitude, 
 really add to the overall quality of the game, and bring variation in what could have been a repetitive 
 game. 
  Visually, this game was artistically amazing, but technically lacking. While the landscapes were 
 suprisingly varied, ranging from desolate, open, rocky terrain to the middle of a urban ruin. Unfortunately, 
 all of this fantastic terrain is rendered in low resolution textures, with limited shadowing and 
 pratically non existent parallax and bump mapping (i played on ultra high settings with 4xAA and 
 1280x1024 res) . still, this is nitpicking, and does little to detract from the overall experience 
 in this game.
  The voice acting was vastly improved from Fallout 3's spiritual predecessor, Oblivion, but still, 
 the character models were rather stiff in the way they went about doing, well, everything. The 
 combat could have been rather bland, but VATS saves this. I'm sure anyone reading this already 
 knows what vats is, so i won't go into a description. Overall, this game is much better than the 
 sum of it's parts, and should be played by shooter and rpg fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slharbron_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Only just got this yesterday, so this is pure first impressions.
  
  Loved the first 2 in the series, so it had a lot to live up to.
  If you have played any in the 
 series you will have a good idea what to expect.
  And it delivers it in Spades.
  
  So far the only issue is the ability to switch from pure 1st/3rd person to an Action Point (AP) 
 basis, in effect turning it into a turn based game at the press of a button. Very useful in complicated 
 combats, but takes some getting use to. Do not let this put you off, after a few fights you will 
 get the hang of when to switch if needed.
  
  As with others in the series, this is a completely free game. There is a final goal, but how you 
 get there is up to you. The idea of karma is back, how you treat others will affect the game.
 
  Play as a b*****d, get treated like one.
  
  A worthy new episode in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gualtercamboias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I dont understand the people which claims the game sucks, i just love it and im not even a big 
 fan of rpgs. So it doesnt have the perfect graphics... so what, for me they are pretty cool, the gameplay 
 is amazing with the new vats system which makes the game a breath of fresh air among shooters and 
 rpg games! The story isnt that bad.. well its not a oscar script story, but suits the job of suck 
 you into the game very well. It has a long durability of play, ive played for almost 80 hours and 
 i didnt discovered half of the map, it has bunch of quest to make, character creation is sweet, weapons 
 that you can make yourself... a very good game in overall! To the people who think the game is crap.. well 
 i really dont know what is a good game for those people, if its to demanding on graphics, they complain, if 
 its more light so most of the people can enjoy it... they complain (for the record my pc costs 2000) . For 
 the peole who think that of a game as good as this one... maybe they should stick up playing pacman, thats 
 the most suitable game for peole like those! Nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slong
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a tribute to the earlier games in the series, as well as to the design and programming 
 abilities of Bethesda. The game is a great deal of fun and has provided me a lot of enjoyment.
 
  
  The strong points in the game stem from the story and quest design. While creating the stories 
 and the quests, Bethesda paid close attention to the area the game is set in and included things 
 that would be familiar to natives of the Capital area, if only by name. This touch of authenticity, 
 even in places where the scenes are changed because of the game premise, goes a long way towards 
 immersion. For those not familiar with the Capital, Bethesda still did a good job of creating interesting 
 and engaging quests that would pull in the player.
  
  In many places there are references to the older games that do a lovely job of paying homage to 
 two of gaming history's great influences. In other places the humor, some related to pop culture 
 and some related to the game itself, had me laughing out loud.
  
  The game misses a few things, but only because it doesn't quite go far enough. 
  
  The combat, 
 for instance, quickly becomes repetitive, regardless of what skills you take. As much as I like 
 how true they were to the original Fallout games, I think that some "mix it up" in the combat and 
 the combat related skills might've been a good idea.
  
  The lack of 'involvement' for the character in any of the sub-plots also put a bit of distance 
 between the player and the game. Involvement might have come from romance, as so many are clamoring 
 for, or from leadership roles or more in-depth dialog based on the character's actions. That involvement 
 would have sucked me in even deeper. The game is already good, as mentioned, but the lack of involvement 
 sometimes left me feeling like I was only touching a very shallow piece of the life of the wasteland.
 
  
  Options for dealing with people were also somewhat lacking. People are grouped into two categories, 
 good or evil, and your karma determines their view of you, in most cases. Having some more options 
 for interaction... i. e., taking a prisoner, reforming a bad guy, corrupting a good guy... could've 
 added more depth.
  
  Overall, lots of fun, regardless of falling a bit short of a 10.
  
  Sj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chromeonacar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  fallout 3 is just a master piece of a game. it has everythign a great rpg has but so much more. 
 the graphics of the game are stunning expesialy for a rpg and the gameplay is jsut perfect. this 
 game is a must have for all rpg lovers and even shooters. talking about shooters fallout 3 is probaly 
 the greatest shooter rpg ever. the story of the game is just brilliant and the whole 1950s theme 
 is done beautifully this game sits proudly with all the other fallout successes. the way the game 
 is played out over the united state of americas capital really adds to the theme of the game and 
 tells you the you are still in the us but it will never be the same. this there are the enemies 
 you face these are classic from the other games but work brilliantly with the modern look of the 
 fallout game. peaple will be playing this game for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yb202
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Been waiting for a fallout game for some time now. Was a big fan of the original series, even liked 
 fallout tactics. However I was disappointed in this game. Its not a bad game, but certainly not 
 a great one either as all the scores would have you beleive. The game isnt really a fallout game 
 as it doesnt represent what the first two episodes did. The fallout series concentrated on atmosphere 
 and narrative. Fallout 3 has an ok atmosphere and a completely rubbish narrative. I quite liked 
 Bethesda games as I allways thought they had a lot of ambtion and great potential. When I heard 
 they where going to make fallout 3, despite all the other fans' objections I wasn't dissapointed. 
 I thought here was Bethesda's chance to work on its narrative skills and finally create not just 
 interesting worlds but interesting characters instead of their standard fare of info kiosks. 
 
  
  Well, that didn't work out. I realized that Bethesda's designers have their heads so far up their 
 own a$$ that they can't be bothered to make the effort. Once again , the narrative is $HIT. Makes 
 me wonder why the hell they bothered purchasing a brand that they had no intention of exploiting. 
 No offense to all the people here, but its obvious most people here don't play games for a good 
 yarn, or just wouldn't know one when they see it. The same goes for the movie industry, people 
 like all flash and no substance. Its the Junk food culture, feed people $hit and they will love 
 you for it. As for the people like me who would like something else, who want something more? We 
 are branded as snobs and fanboys whist our most beloved brands are turned into mass market crap. 
 Just my rant about the games and movie industries. 
  
  Getting back to the game though. It is better then oblivion in some ways. People who want a nice 
 dungeon crawler won't be disappointed. For anyone looking for a fallout game, BEWARE! its NOT what 
 it says on the tin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godshalomaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This seems like a copy of Oblivion but Fallout 3 has is own unique flavor. Starting with the quirky 
 character creation to the bleak world once you leave your vault you find yourself almost lost in 
 an infinite land of death and decay. Bethesda has armed you with the Pip boy 3000 which acts as 
 a map and inventory list as well as logging all of your quests and stats. RPG/FPS combat mixed 
 together in this game seems iffy at first, but you can use a targeting system called V. A. T. S. which 
 lets you auto-target any part of your enemies bodys. The area outside your vault seems almost endless. 
 Your able to travel and pick up quests along your travel and meet new people. To make it easier 
 to travel, you can auto-travel to any place you've already visited so exploring isn't a waste of 
 time anymore. With a system that lets you create your own weapons and crisp looking graphics, Bethesda 
 seems to have another Triple A game out and this one won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is just a hard copy of oblivion , mixed with Bioshock. 
  
  Isn't a bad idea , but hey , as soon as you start playing you feel like in oblivion, seriously 
 ! I am a fan of the Elder Scrolls series and I know what I am talking about.
  
  Anyway , the story line isn't great , is very linear , no suspense at all, you are in search of 
 your father who mysteriously disappears. The combat system is funny but it get old and boring quickly, 
 its repeating the same and the same. Personally I don't like that much the skills and leveling 
 system , Oblivion was far better in this.
  
  And the big surprise is the graphics , its the same Oblivion graphic engine , but instead of making 
 it better they downgraded it in order the people with old machines can play the game at max settings, 
 this is where I say this is very bad and at the same time is good, why? For these two reasons:
 
  
  1- People with strong PC (like me) cannot enjoy graphics as they are bad , the textures are awful 
 and make you feel like you are playing an old game from 5/6 years ago, its so disappointing.
  
  2-People with old PC can enjoy this game at max settings as graphics are old fashion/awful.
 
  
  I heard many people saying you need a better PC in order to get the best graphics and textures 
 of the game , that is a lie , I have a 9800 gx2 Quad SLI + Intel Quad Core 2 Q6600 + 4 GB of RAM 
 and can play Crysis all at very high settings, and when I run Fallout 3 all at very high settings 
 including AA it sucks ! the bad texturing still there , its very bad. Don't listen to people that 
 say this, don't think that buying a top PC will increase graphics quality of this game. At the 
 moment if you search in google. com a lot of people complains about this and are requesting a Texture 
 Mod in order to "like" this game graphics.....
  
  About gameplay , what can I say , did you play Oblivion ? Well if your answer is yes , fallout 
 3 is pretty much as Oblivion , run , explore , kill enemies, gain level , get skills, solve quest 
 etc, nothing new really, and I must say it , Oblivion is 10 times better than Fallout 3, I own 
 both games and I uninstalled Fallout 3 already but I still have Oblivion + Expansions installed 
 , funny right ? even the graphics in Oblivion are better lol.
  
  I really don't understand how this game has a good review score, in my opinion this game does not 
 cross 4.5 .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was one of the most anticipated games of 2008. All I can say is that Fallout 3 is worth 
 the hype. First of all, forget everything you know about the previous Fallout series. When you 
 step into the game, your actions will reflect on the world.
  
  The map is massive, it takes you quite a while to get from one place to another. The details are 
 great, the feel of post-apocalyptic chaos can be felt by the player. As a player, you choose what 
 you want to be good in, whether it's hacking computers to using melee weapons to smash some skulls.
 
  
  Whatever you do in the game can affect your surroundings. If you kill a certain person, then you 
 may have killed someone who would have been important much later ( it depends how important you 
 want him/her to be) .
  
  If you haven't got Fallout 3 yet and are still deciding whether to buy it or not, buy it. You will 
 not be disappointed. I give Fallout 3 a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Alexander
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Hey there.
  Fallout 3 is a 1st person RPG that is very similar to Oblivion (Same engine/developer) and Morrowind. 
 This game is set in the year 22xx after a nuclear war which happened in the 1970's, the scenery 
 is amazing, it's a very unique and an extremely fun game overall. 
  
  Coming from Bethesda I expected it to be a bit longer... Morrowind had like 400 hours+ of game 
 time, Oblivion had 150-200 while Fallout 3 had a disappointing... 30... I've done every single 
 main and side quest, I played it on the hardest difficulty the whole way yet still too easy. I'm 
 using a mod so I'm way over the level cap, I have the best armor, the best rifle, the best sniper, 
 the best melee weapon etc. etc. So there's pretty much nothing left for me.
  
  They are going to release modding tools for the game this month (PC only) though and I can't wait 
 to start playing the game again, they should have had some more content in the original game or 
 atleast the tools to make more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netmot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about some other company making Fallout 3, I just knew it would suck, badly. 
 But, surprisingly it did not.
  
  Like stated, I didn't give this game a thought during the development, I even forgot about it for 
 a year or so, until a few weeks back. The moment I layed my eyes upon this game I became addicted, 
 addicted like I was addicted to the great Fallout and the other great one Fallout 2.
  
  The beginning of the game is awsome, it's a fun and new way to create your character, and it brings 
 more life to your character as well in my opinion. And the first moment the sun hits you in the 
 eyes when you see the outside for the first time, just beautiful. The world of Fallout has been 
 brought back to life once again, and it feels just right. Bethesda did I great job on this one, 
 it feels like they really gave it their best shot, and they succedded as well.
  
  The story of this game, without revealing anything, is good, maybe not so good that it is great, 
 but still. The main problem with it is that it is a bit too short, even though this is a sandbox 
 game, it could have been a bit longer and not feel so rushed.
  The story aside, the world is what is great about Fallout, as it has always been. The main story 
 is just there for you to be able to "complete the game", but you really haven't "completed" the 
 game without having been to all the places in the world and slaughtered mutants, raiders, slavers, 
 slaves, ghouls, innocents and ofcourse rad scorpions. 
  Let me just say that the game is huge. There's tons of things to do and tons of places to discover 
 and explore. I've played for over hundred hours and I haven't explored more then 30-40% of the 
 map yet. 
  
  Now, a Fallout game wouldn't be any fun without a cool combat system now, would it. Look no further 
 cause Fallout 3 has got one of the most satisfying and fun combat systems I have ever seen. It 
 might not be the greatest FPS experience and all that, but the combination of the turn-based-like 
 V. A. T. S. system pwns the hell outta any other FPS I have played. There's nothing more satisfying 
 then blowing the head, an arm, a leg or hell, choose the bloody mess perk and blow it all away, 
 right on!
  
  I don't know much about reviewing games and what to look at etc, but I think that anyone who likes 
 FPS and RPG games would be able to enjoy this game a whole lot. Bottom line, this game is just 
 great. It's fun killing things, it's a rich and hazardous world and you've always got places to 
 go. 
  
  Hope you try it out, and hopefully you will like it. 
  Cheers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majwalrus
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I have still yet to play this game for mor than a few seconds, as the game crashes rather ineligantly 
 and I have to shut it down manually using task manager. I can not even get past the opening sequence 
 of choosing the gender of my character.
  
  When doing further research on the internet I find this is not an isolated problem. Despite multiple 
 driver updates, windows updates, codec updates this game still remains unstable.
  
  I cannot believe Bethesda of Oblivion fame released a game in this state. There also seems to be 
 little support out there for anyone that has had the misfortune to purchase this game, and even 
 worse if you buy this on STEAM they state you cannot get a refund.
  
  Personal advice?
  
  Either buy the XBox or PS3 version or steer well clear of this game. Bethesda have destroyed 
 their previously well earned respect in one quick action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I had to upgrade to play it when my card stopped booting my OS. I've been waiting patiently but 
 now that I have a good PC again the first thing I did was install Fallout 3.
  
  Let's begin. Know that I am giving this a personal rating of 10. That is what we start with before 
 we start subtracting points for the things that bother me, and I say that here because they bother 
 me... I would prefer not to see these things in future games. It disrespects intelligence.
  
  When I installed the patch I was kind of confused. The installer was going forward and patched 
 it but then it just sat there... very confusing, and they used a cheap patching tool that they 
 didn't make themselves. I take half a point away for that. It wasn't a big deal but I was peeved 
 about it none the less.
  
  Other than that I had no hitches with crashing or bugs. The graphics look nice, but without HDR 
 things are pretty dark sometimes so I had to enable it. It personally didn't bring down my performance 
 very much but I was expecting it to.
  
  I haven't played FO1 or FO2. With that said I have trouble understanding why music from 1940s is 
 packaged into the game. A lot of fans are saying that it fits with the story but I really don't 
 understand how it can possibly fit into the story. If it at all fits into the story, given the 
 time frame the game takes place in (2077+) I find it extremely difficult to understand how suddenly 
 everything cultural for 120 years just simply doesn't exist... never existed... how is that possible? 
 In the story the US is nuked in 2066, give or take, leaving a gap of 120 years of culture that 
 simply doesn't exist, not only in the game itself, obviously, but in the time line of the story. 
 
  What I am a fan of is music; all music. This music honestly makes me want to cave my skull into 
 a wall. It's absolutely, hands down, the most horridly worst distasteful atmosphere-breaking music 
 I have ever heard in my entire gaming life. It is so absolutely horrible that I take away an entire 
 point in this review just from that one thing alone.
  Culture doesn't simply go away... even if people aren't being marketed there are thousands, if 
 not millions, of people across the world, in almost every country, who write and make great music 
 that never sees the light of day... if even 5 of these people secretly making music and writing 
 lyrics for themselves, friends and family, survived then they would likely release that music, 
 go loot a guitar from a music store, and try to make something of themselves; it's a complete opening 
 for fame and fortune in a world that has only 2 radio stations; I repeat -- HOW IS IT POSSIBLE THAT 
 PEOPLE SUDDENLY LISTEN TO 120+ YEAR OLD MUSIC AND NEVER AGAIN WRITE ANY MUSIC ___EVER___AGAIN__???????
 
  
  In fact, I think I will take away another 0.5, for a total of 1.5 points taken away from being 
 so severely disrespectful to music and those who write it, work it or have anything to do with 
 it.
  
  
  Another thing that peeves me is how nice everything looks... sure, there is ruin all over as you 
 would expect, but how did that statue survive the blast?! And that statue, and THAT statue... it 
 just goes on and on, outside of rivet there are 3 or 4 statues just standing around... somehow 
 a carrier got split in half from a ____NUCLEAR BOMB____ yet a good 80% of the ship is in tact but 
 simply falling apart from age and misuse.
  
  Look, it's a great game, possible one of the best RPGs I've ever played, but it is so severely 
 imaginative and unrealistic... Do you know how many Thermal Nuclear Bombs it would take to destroy 
 the USA? The USA is 3,794,066 square miles. A thermal nuclear bomb, AKA the H-Bomb, detonates an 
 impact of roughly 400,000 square miles. It would take 9 Thermal Nuclear Bombs to completely destroy 
 the United States of America, and if ever such a thing would happen, I assure you there would be 
 no leafless trees, there would be no "ruins", there would be rubble, and not 1 brick would be left 
 standing.
  
  That itself raises the question of how CHINA could afford 9+ Hydrogen Bombs, let alone any other 
 bomb of greater magnitude... and it does get "greater", especially, one would assume, in the year 
 2066. We aren't talking about building a stadium here...
  
  Minus half a point for insulting my intelligence.
  Minus half of another point for people not 
 complaining about this more often.
  
  
  Other than that the game is a great game that is completely and utterly unrealistic. To quote one 
 of my favorite movies, Every single person who plays this is now dumber for having played it.
 
  
  With that said 7.5 isn't a bad score at all... Morrowind was a clear 10, Oblivion was a clear 5, 
 this is somewhere in between... but Bethesda has definitely not hit the sweet spot just yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChosenLord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  The long awaited Fallout 3 has been worth the last 4 years, switching over to FPS may not be in 
 keeping with the cult classics but never the less this game does not disappoint.
  
  Set in post-apocalyptic Washington US the desolate wasteland is awe inspiring, Bethesda have done 
 well in making the characters of the game feel more alive and in traditional Fallout sense they 
 have kept the wacky humor. 
  
  All in all this seems like a game that could consume you and your life if you allow it, with some 
 scenarios scaring the hell out of me and the balance between RPG and FPS works well albeit a little 
 one sided when it come to the fighting, Your side. What ever character you choose to be in this 
 vast game you're sure to find it a thrill to play and me personally will be playing this till my 
 eyes fallout...... Fallout 3 that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLinux
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a very interesting game. The story is quite good and mysterious at first and continues 
 on to be great. Cannot complain about the graphics either, Far more improved than Oblivion. The 
 Oblivion engine has been modified and although some people say that Fallout 3 is like Oblivion 
 with guns, They're wrong, It is much, much more than that. 
  
  Starting off with the missions and storyline as well as how this title stands up to the 'Fallout' 
 series. As I mentioned above, the story is interesting and sometimes mysterious BUT it's just too 
 damn short, that's why I can't wait for the DLC and Editor (more mods) . There are a great deal 
 of missions and a huge map to explore. It also is keeping with the 'Fallout' series while not retaining 
 the boring and darn right awful combat system of the predecessors. (I can remember in F2 at the 
 very beginning trying to kill a radscorpian and having to attack once before moving away and repeating 
 50x)
  
  The artillery and aperal is extensive and shooting things never gets boring, especially with the 
 Flamer and the awesome blood and gore effects. I like the pip-boy inventory system as well. Repairing 
 items and stuff can also be fun.
  
  Speech is a lot better than Oblivion and the choices you make can affect far more than just a different 
 quest reward. One example of this is the option to blow up 'Megaton', this city can have a house, 
 many quests and more but you can choose to destroy it and reap the rewards.
  
  Fallout 3 is a great game with fantastic visuals and a compelling story (although the main story 
 is quite short) . It is a must play and play again, maybe as a good, bad or neutral character. This 
 game can only get better once the arrival of the DLC and the editor which will open up a universe 
 of possibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceCowboy892
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Well let me start off by saying that I have never played any of the other Fallout games, I have 
 played Oblivion however. (I know, I know, I'm going to start soon) Since I have never played any 
 of the other Fallout cannon I wasn't sure what to expect. Let me tell you I immensely enjoyed this 
 game! 
  
  The Plot - This game has so much to offer you! The choices you make effect such a wide area in 
 the game you will find yourself questioning your choices long after you finish playing. I see myself 
 replaying this game many times just to see how thing could turn out different.
  
  The Quests - There are about 60 quests in the game; some of them are major and are marked, and 
 some smaller ones that are not. I was wondering how the small quests were going to be, because 
 some games really make them a chore. However I found that I didn't mind the small quests at all, 
 I actually really enjoyed playing them.
  
  
  The Game Engine - The graphics are beautiful, even for a post-nuclear world. The gore is very ... 
 well, gory. The sunsets, radiation pools, people and buildings are very well rendered. Some of 
 the textures are lower resolution for sooth game play, but its nothing to gripe about. The game 
 interface seems to be a little clunky for a PC game. Its obvious that this was designed as a console 
 game, but its not unbearable. The game can be played in either 1st person or 3rd person angles. 
 Actually playing in 3rd person would be rather difficult, the game is geared to be first person 
 shooter style. 
  
  All in all this is a very fun game in itself. I can't compare it to the rest of the Fallout cannon, 
 but as a stand alone game it holds up well. I see a lot of replay value, especially when the G. E. C. K 
 (mod tools) comes out. 
  - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mexxico
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Like i said, best in series. the game is almost perfect, it have all the condiments that a game 
 like this need. History, graphics and more. Maybe gameplay is not perfect but is just what you 
 need to play the game without any problems. The map is confusing but it has to be, i mean the world 
 is completely destroy the map cant be much cleared. The feeling of actually been in a world that 
 had been destroy by the radiation is absolutely fantastic. The buildings, the water and the refuges 
 are impressive. Another thing that is nice are the voice acting, maybe there aren't great but good 
 enough. 
  The only thing that it not as good as the game in general are the variation of monster mutation, 
 there 4 o 5 of them and when you play 4 o 7 hours you have seen them all. But the game is addictive, 
 the variations of guns, the armors, all the characters and the enormous possibilities that the 
 world of Fallout present are things that you definitely cant miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theconsciousss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  When I first heard Bethesda was going to be behind the long awaited Fallout 3, I was a little apprehensive, 
 considering Bethesda's tradition and Fallout's setting, I was way off.
  It seems Bethesda took the best of Oblivion after a healthy amount of time listening to its customers 
 comments, and then took a long hard look at the Fallout universe. Right from the start you can 
 tell that a lot of thought and work went into this game, and it has paid off.
  The game is every bit as engrossing as Fallout 1 and 2 coupled with hours of free exploration Oblivion 
 style, and rounded off with intricate quests and multiple conclusions. The art direction is fantastic 
 and though the graphics aren't quite as good as I would have expected they are still this side 
 of excellent. 
  It runs quite smoothly within the recommended requirements which I found much more realistic than 
 those of other games.
  
  Fallout3 is wonderfully immersive and you really can get lost in the wasteland for hours on end, 
 whether exploring, or hunting for enemies and loot. The combat system though mildly clunky at times 
 is very rewarding, especially with the VATS system which can be rather gruesome; not for the faint 
 of heart. 
  The enemy AI is a refreshing change, and mostly works very nicely, with enemies ducking for cover 
 when you attack or when they reload and also employing a certain degree of basic tactics like flanking 
 and in some cases surrounding you, they also make better use of taunting during combat and their 
 frustration at your attempts to avoid their detection is quite gratifying adding a lot of life 
 to the experience. The towns and cities and cleverly designed despite being difficult to navigate 
 at first, most characters appear to be deep and interesting, and depending on their disposition 
 towards you will offer additional dialogue and quests. The music and ambient sounds are absolutely 
 fantastic and even at their default settings complement rather than intrude.
  
  All great things aside Fallout3 is not without its drawbacks I encountered some stability issues 
 with VATS, which I found to be caused by the Anti aliasing settings in game, with those disabled 
 there was no further trouble.
  I approached Fallout3 with certain expectations, and while it shone in some of them, a fair few 
 left me scratching my head, though the in game NPC's are a lot deeper and more interesting than 
 those of oblivion they still appear to be a little one dimensional, it seems that this is something 
 Bethesda never really managed to address and despite the improvements the animation could have 
 done with a little more tweaking. The Wastelanders' attitudes is the most noticeable flaw for me, 
 they mostly appeared to be too gentle and polite rather than the hardened suspicious people who 
 survived a Thermonuclear war, its not a deal breaker, but it does feel a little odd at first. 
 
  The Character Creation options for appearance are a lot more limited compared to Oblivion, which 
 makes it that much more difficult to create truly unique looking characters, which for me was an 
 issue as I like my Avatar to be exactly as I choose in game.
  
  
  The Verdict
  Aside from a few minor points this game is a true masterpiece, immersive, deep and intricate, with 
 great replay value it will have you coming back for more over and over.
  
  
  Another thing not so much a drawback as something that could have been a great addition is the 
 lack of vehicles, unlike Oblivion where you could buy a horse to traverse the wilderness, in Fallout 
 3 you are on foot. Not necessarily a bad thing given that the Fallout gameworld is smaller than 
 that of Oblivion which makes sense. But the possibilities could have been limitless.
  
  All in all I found 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemas10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. I believe it had just the right amount of everything. I think they finally 
 got the right level of things. The shooting mechanics were good, and worked. I was surprised how 
 it did work as a good rpg. Maybe not as extensive as an rpg as most would like but good. I felt 
 like it lasted long and had a good amount of materiel. Though i just kept wanting more and more 
 but there just wasn't enough for me. I guess i just got to wait for the downloadable content. But 
 that it aside the game was just fun walking around looking at things and looking at all the buildings 
 and finding all the little Easter eggs and nice surprises. I just after awhile lost focus and started 
 wandering around killing anything and everything that attacked me that came in contact with me. 
 Then I realized oh yeah i have a quest to do. All in all it was wow simply wow. And i don't mean 
 world of war craft wow. I mean what wow use to mean, just wow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmodrive
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Yes you've spent hundreds of man-hours and millions of dollars on the engine, on graphical and 
 sound resources, but has anyone considered is the game worthwhile to a player to play, other than 
 a technical amusement view?
  I found it wasn't, the story is highly predictable, setting is depressing (as opposed to intriguing) 
 and gameplay didn't feel rewarding. I remember the exciting feeling of finding something new in 
 original fallout... wasn't present here...
  and most irritating
  !! Story spoiler, don't read on if you don't want it spoiled!!
  Was there a point in forcing you 
 to watch you father's death? the airlock is next to you, all the guns and armour you got is enough 
 to take out a battalion of enclave, and yet your controls are locked?!?!? Very childish! I'm pretty 
 sure any real life character would scratch their way to hell to save their father...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincer556
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The best game i played since i've got my new computer
  Is the perfect convination of: Amazing graphics, Awesome Story, Simple and powerfull gameplay.
 
  
  Fallout 3, is the game im playing around 3 hours per day, i have a playtime of 25 hours and still 
 a long way to go, The difficulty is very amazing, is a hard game, wich you have to make the best 
 way trough the Wasteland madness.
  
  The RPG simulation allows to make the game change in severe way's, my brother is playing it also, 
 but the things he's doing inside the game, whell im doing others things completely different than 
 he's doing...
  
  I dont have enought words about this game... is awesome...
  Best game i've ever played! And i will play more time around this game.
  
  I've never played 
 Fallout 1 or Fallout 2, i've hear them mentioned before, but never played, Fallout 3 bings me back 
 to the oldschool and now, im going to my local store to get Fallout 1 and 2, to play the rest of 
 the story!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  I'll get this statement out of the way first: I have never played Fallout 1 and 2 before. When 
 those two games were out I was more interested in Half-life and its mods like TFC, CS, DoD, and 
 a bunch of others. Now that I have played this I am willing to buy the first two, hopefully through 
 digital distribution.
  
  Fallout 3 begins with a soldier in a power suit overlooking post-nuclear holocaust Washington DC 
 with the Clinton, I mean Washington Monument in the background almost reduced to a skeleton structure. 
 Ron Perleman announces the timeless Fallout line "War. War never changes." A line more powerful 
 than Patrick Stewart's "Close shut the jaws of Oblivion". You start the game in Vault 101, one 
 of the hundreds of Vaults all over the wasteland where the remnants of humanity were sheltered 
 after the nuclear apocalypse 200 years ago in 2077. This nuclear war has reduced the country to 
 wastes and ruins. There are no green leaves on the trees. The water is dangerously irradiated. 
 Mutated dangerous animals roam the outdoors. Cities are dominated by Super Mutants and violent 
 anarchist Raiders. The underground tunnels are populated by nuclear blast survivors known Ghouls. 
 And regular humans struggle day to day to find food, water, and shelter just to get by. 
  
  After going through your childhood, you leave the Vault to search for your father who bolted out 
 the front door looking for something or someone important. From there you can either continue the 
 main storyline or explore anywhere you want to go and dive into various secondary stories and side 
 missions. Heck, you can do both at the same time! 
  
  This game takes a long time just to complete the main story. I would say about 15 to 20 hours on 
 your first playthrough. Easily twice that if you do everything else before the first add-on content 
 becomes available. There might not be multiplayer but there will still be tons of mods coming over 
 the next few months. 
  
  Graphics are very similar to Oblivion since both FO3 and it shares the same engine. No textures 
 are shared between the two but the presentation is similar in significant ways like perspective 
 and character interaction.
  
  The voice acting in FO3 is much better than Oblivion with more voice actors and characters that 
 all don't sound like Baurus if you know what I mean.
  
  Combat is a lot more exciting with VATS which turns an average firefight into a sensational show.
 
  
  Get this game. Seriously. I have had it for a month and I regularly find new things to do in Fallout 
 3.
  
  100% in all possible areas.
  
  Get it!
  
  Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sci_fi_boy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  I was very ambivilent about a fps-ish rpg based on the Fallout series. I am a huge fan of the original 
 games and had to go back and replay them all in the months leading up to F3's release. That being 
 said there are several things great and not so great about the game (unfortunately more of the 
 latter) .
  
  The Good... Looks great, mos def has the Fallout vibe, huge area to explore
  
  Not So Good... clunky controls that take very poor advantage of both game pads and mouse/keyboards 
 (one of my biggest issues with F3, possibly one of the worst I've played for a major release) , 
 not nearly enough quests for the amount of npc's and areas you come across, level capped way before 
 you reach the end of the game if you do any side quests, VATS accomplishes nothing unless you like 
 headshots, 
  
  And The Whats... voice acting (what voice acting? sounds like the "actors" were all doing a dry 
 read before auditioning) , writing (what writing? very little plot or development, only a couple 
 npc's rise above the bottom of doomsday cliches) , humor (what humor? you mean the previous Fallout 
 games had humor?)
  
  Basically, while the game manages to capture enough of the spirit of the originals, it can never 
 look any aspect of the previous games in the eye except for the graphics (and what would you expect 
 this many years later and an fps update?) . Its Oblivion-Lite with every single one of the flaws 
 of that mostly good game with some new ones thrown in. 
  
  Its worth playing, just don't expect greatness. If you're a fan of the originals, you'll love the 
 first 5-10 hrs until you realise that you've seen it all and still have hours and hours ahead of 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2277 and you have been living in a vault which is a nuclear bomb shelter your entire 
 life. Later when you are forced to leave everything including safety behind, you take your first 
 steps into the unknown wasteland and start the search of your lost father.
  
  Fallout 3 is a sequel to the legendary Fallout 2. The game series has a very loyal fan base, and 
 Fallout 3 has faced lots of skepticism and critique because it eschews some aspects of the previous 
 games and introduces new. It appears that at least some of this has been justified.
  
  Unlike its predecessors Fallout 3 lets you play from the absolute beginning meaning you start the 
 game as a baby and the game lets you play through various events until you are an adult. This might 
 sound like it's got a lot of depth but all you really do is select what kind of character you want 
 to become, and this is done through answering various questions. It's exciting at first but all 
 that excitement quickly fades away although it's a cool concept and with a little tweaking it would 
 have made a bigger impact.
  As a baby however you place your points into various attributes. These will then change your character 
 depending on what you chose. Later on you get to answer questions in the so called "G. O. A. T" test, 
 this also serves as a character building event which is a rather clever way of implementing this 
 into the game without actually making the game come to a halt.
  After answering the questions you are given a job at the vault which represents what abilities 
 your character has - if you are not into roleplaying you can just change it to whatever you want 
 and custom pick your skills like the previous Fallout games.
  
  The gameplay is best described as a first person shooter game with some roleplaying elements mixed 
 in, which is most unfortunate since the previous Fallout games was very heavy on the roleplaying 
 aspects. This change isn't automatically a bad one, it gives a completely different pace and it's 
 much easier to get into as it's much more user friendly. While the game still relies on the various 
 roleplaying elements such as how good of a shot you are or how much of a smooth talker you are 
 - it's all there but much more in the background this time around.
  
  While wandering the wasteland you often encounter various wildlife but also various factions and 
 gangs. Most of them want you nothing less than dead however. The game has an excellent exploration 
 feeling to it despite the fact that it seems that you are constantly being chased by something, 
 there is a ton to explore and discover which is definitely something that makes the game last longer.
 
  
  While exploration is a huge part of the game the biggest part is the combat and in Fallout 3 it's 
 played in real time like any other first person shooter - however you are given the "V. A. T. S" which 
 is the "Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System". This allows you to freeze the game and aim at various 
 body parts on your target, and when you are satisfied with calling the shots, the game pretty much 
 plays by itself and as this happens you are given cinematic camera shoots of your character and/or 
 whomever you are firing at in slow motion as you take the shots. It looks cool and it's very useful 
 and even helpful most of the time but it can slow down the gameplay a little and it sometimes tends 
 to get annoying and long-drawn-out, but at least you are given the option not to use it and it's 
 great how they worked in the targeting system from the older games into this one. However the famous 
 groin shots are taken away. The combat feels a little unfinished at times but for the most part 
 it's fluid and smooth. Something that does work in this game unlike its predecessors is the way 
 your character becomes crippled in combat as your body parts have their own health bar. These rules 
 apply to everyone meaning you can cripple others as well. This is a nice and welcomed feature and 
 it works very well in Fallout 3
  
  Another well polished aspect is the dialogs which play out flawlessly and they work similar to 
 the previous games. You choose what to say from a given list and you get an answer which leads 
 to you asking more questions and so forth. It's been done before but it works, but what makes it 
 more interesting in Fallout 3 is the fact that you can get additional questions and options to 
 choose depending on how you play. There is an attribute called karma, and whether it is high or 
 low is taken into account as well as your charisma and speech skill when speaking and socializing 
 with others. This part of the game works wonders and makes characters that focus on just these 
 attributes and skills much more interesting to play.
  
  Graphically the game really stands on its own but it could of course have been better. The game 
 mostly looks wonderful and it's not dragged down by hundreds of inordinate shader effects. The 
 level design is definitely something that captures you from the very beginning as it's what later 
 becomes the one thing that keeps the game interesting.
  
  As expected from a game developed by Bethesda, it's got a lot of voice acting which is well done, 
 while a bit stiff at times it's still a great addition to any game. The sound effects enhance the 
 game even more as they are also well done, but what didn't make an impact this time around was 
 the audio tracks as they felt too generic and forced onto the game rather than being carefully 
 worked into the game.
  
  What this game offers is a different take on the Fallout series, but this time around you get to 
 explore the wasteland to a much bigger extent. The game has a couple of flaws and it's got a whole 
 bunch of bugs that makes the game crash etc, but the flaws are easily overseen however as the game 
 is very enjoyable over all.
  Though the game is extremely short and does not have any replay value. But it tries to make up 
 for these weaknesses by having side quests, and those in turn can keep you busy for several hours. 
 In short this is an all right game with some great features and some flaws. The ones that enjoyed 
 the previous games in the series this might be a bit disappointing solely due to the reason that 
 it's not as roleplay heavy and the feeling is different. But even then it's something you want 
 to play through and judge later rather than miss it altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apolloooo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  with fantastic graphic, gameplay and story is just amazing. i prefer this than mass effect because 
 both are great rpg but i see this game is better. but still i haven't finished it yet the hardware 
 spec is quite good i even can play it with my old GeForce 7300 GT in high graphics in 800 X 600 
 resolution (i dont think how small is resolution can make me satisfied but its still goood :) ) 
 even tough i stil love this game and Better than the great Oblivion. Fell free to explore anywhere. 
 Not your typical RPG with good humour throughout it's a damn fun game. The game begins with your 
 character's childhood, going through the early teens, and beginning the game-play proper with your 
 19th birthday (this is a trend that I am going to discuss in my next blog post) . Your character 
 is anything you want him/ her to be, from a guns-a-blazin badass to a stealthy assassin. The core 
 gameplay of Fallout 3 is either a basic FPS, or a more turn-based shooter. The turned base gameplay 
 is used through the V. A. T. S. system. V. A. T. S. isn't particularly deep, but it is very accessible 
 and does it's job very well. Finally; the graphics are amazing & very detailed. Every object has 
 been carefully crafted as would've expected from Bethesda. You can see far off into the distance 
 like you would expect in real-life. Its great that all this doesn't make your PC slow down or crash 
 at all - the level loads are relatively quick & the quickloads / quicksaves are nearly instant. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champmanfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I would say this surpasses even the great Oblivion that Bethesda Softworks also worked on in 2006. 
 The thing with most RPGs/FPS is that people want to rush it to the end & not try most of the side 
 quests in which you get the most out of these types of games. Your free to explore & its not your 
 typical RPG with good humour throughout. You can even get addicted to drugs, if you do, go see 
 the Doctor. To add to the difficulty & spice things up, you'll also get bounties on your head. 
 
  
  Just to remind you, it uses a V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tec Targeting System) that can be active by pressing 
 "V" instead of just shooting normally. When activated, it pauses the game so you can decide which 
 parts of the body to aim for. Each body part has a percentage of how likely you are to hit it, 
 but early on you'll find this hit n miss.
  
  In Oblivion you'll get a typical 200+ hours doing all the missions, maybe even 300 hours if your 
 running around killing enemies to level up your character. Fallout 3 is different in that you'll 
 not be bored to death doing the same stuff over & over & has been wisely condensed into a high 
 quality 50 hour game if your a veteran. Say you want to talk to every NPC & do all the side quests, 
 100 hours would be your tops.
  
  You have to make careful consideration early on to shape your character (you see yourself being 
 born & quickly growing up) like whether to be good or bad. This is decided on your interactions 
 with NPCs, outcome of tasks, stealing from people/houses, etc.. This good/evil stuff reminds me 
 of Bioshock, with different outcomes. For my game I'm playing it like a Saint.
  
  To start off, I choose my stats as this (high Intel. means more skill points & governs other skills) : 
 Strength 5; Perception:7; Endurance: 6; Charisma: 6; Intelligence: 8; Agility: 7; Luck: 1. There's 
 other stats to consider, as well as various perks. Too many to list here before boring you. 
  
  Finally; the graphics are amazing & very detailed. Every object has been carefully crafted 
 as would've expected from Bethesda. You can see far off into the distance like you would expect 
 in real-life. Its great that all this doesn't make your PC slow down or crash at all - the level 
 loads are relatively quick & the quickloads / quicksaves are nearly instant. You shouldn't expect 
 to play Fallout 3 on the highest settings unless you have the latest offering (this is what I used 
 to play it) in ATI 4870 512Mb in CrossFire (this gets you an average of about 70fps) with AA 2 
 samples + AF 10 samples @1680x1050. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toastwaffels
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Let me get it off my chest Fallout 3 isn't that much more unique then oblivion which I personally 
 hate so much you can write down every last thing about the game that I despise, and send it to 
 the moon and you will still have enough left over that you'll be in your room wondering just how 
 much more propane you have left after you burn about five.
  
  BUT ENOUGH ABOUT THAT LETS GET ON WITH THE REVIEW, SHALL WE?
  
  good good.
  
  Fallout 3 
 begins you off in your vault and you get to go through all of your childhood moments until suddenly 
 boom boom kablam everyone wants to kill your daddy you exit the vault but not with out a little 
 violence and you eventually begin your quest to find your dad, now I haven't completely finished 
 the story scrap that i did about four missions of what appears to be the main story before I left 
 it for level up points and other places. The open world map is great just everything is so painful 
 to move from, you walk pretty quickly from the start and you can quick travel to places you already 
 visited which is great however whilst you are walking about the game doesn't seem to recognize 
 that if you are at a low level then you should be faced against lower level creatures, within second 
 upon my arrival to a city just at the beginning of the game (this was apart of the main story so 
 don't get started on how i probably wasn't supposed to be there) that i encountered a super mutant, 
 and if it wasn't for hunters did i not survive, however the moment they killed the super mutant 
 they went on there way and they must not have had enough bullets to kill the other mutant charging 
 at me from a distance, though i learned that to be a lie when i quickly got my ass handed to me 
 after i shot one of them.
  
  i digress.
  
  The Vats is a system that is unique to the way the game runs, this is where the more "traditional" 
 RPG element comes into play and you're going to need it if you want to survive since shooting without 
 it is about as useful as walking into traffic. 
  
  While all the above ran through for my first couple of hours I still found the game to be really 
 fun and the more I played it the more I got into it, and the more time I put into the game the 
 more options I had. 
  
  So basically if you really want to play fallout 3 buy it, and if you don't like it at first give 
 it some time because it will eventually grow on you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_mcguire
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely want to love Fallout 3: trust me, there's nothing I'd like more. But I just can't 
 bring myself to honestly say that this is a GREAT game. No doubt, Fallout 3 is one of the best 
 games of the year, and one of the better western-made RPGs to come out in recent years. Despite 
 this, I personally got the feeling that this game was just missing something.
  I may sound negative about Fallout 3, but trust me it's a damn fun game. The game begins with your 
 character's childhood, going through the early teens, and beginning the game-play proper with your 
 19th birthday (this is a trend that I am going to discuss in my next blog post) . Your character 
 is anything you want him/ her to be, from a guns-a-blazin badass to a stealthy assassin. The core 
 gameplay of Fallout 3 is either a basic FPS, or a more turn-based shooter. The turned base gameplay 
 is used through the V. A. T. S. system. V. A. T. S. isn't particularly deep, but it is very accessible 
 and does it's job very well. 
  The world of Fallout 3 is very impressive, in that it is massive and highly explorable. Also, there's 
 a LOT to do in post-apocalyptic Washington, D. C. I honestly had the most fun just wandering around 
 finding locations and fighting random Raiders. Also, the soundtrack is very fun, as are the other 
 50s homages, although the retro theme was pulled off better by Bioshock. 
  All of the things I mentioned above would make calling Fallout 3 not great seem like blasphemy, 
 right? Well... wrong. All of the parts of Fallout are great, but they just don't mesh together to 
 feel like a great experience. V. A. T. S. works very well, but it felt as if it were a tacked on addition 
 in order to keep the traditional Fallout turn-based gameplay. Also, the traditional FPS combat 
 is playable, but very finicky. I'm not sure if everyone else will feel this way, but it was my 
 impression that the world of Fallout 3 wasn't alive. Yeah, it is the apocalypse, but couldn't there 
 be more interesting locales and more unique individuals inhabiting the wasteland, and not just 
 the towns? Finally, the gameplay of Fallout 3 allows yu to be stealthy, but it also makes this 
 to be a very unexciting, frustrating experience. I suggest you avoid stealth at all costs.
  All-in-all, Fallout 3 is great fun to be had. However, the issues I found in it detracted from 
 the overall fun factor of the game, and thus I can't dub this a game to sit along side Oblivion 
 and Bioshock (games I feel Bethesda was aiming to have this game compared to) . SO checkout Fallout 
 3, but don't be expecting a masterpiece on the scale the hype may have lead you to wish for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_mozilla
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  As an old Fallout 3 fan I had my doubts about Fallout3, afterall it was being made by Bethesda, 
 best known from their pseudo-RPG Oblivion. But I'm glad I gave it a fair shot because it improves 
 all the RPG aspects seen in Oblivion while even retaining some of the charm of the from old Fallouts.
 
  
  Now the game is not without flaws. The animation is choppy and last gen at best, characters are 
 quite bland, bugs and illogical quests do appear, the character editor is old fashioned and the 
 beginning of game involves lots of running around that can get boring. However the good far outweights 
 the bad. 
  
  The graphics while not stunning do contain some charming effects and do an aquate job in bringing 
 Fallout's gameworld to 21st century. The gameworld is vast and loading times quick, combat offers 
 plenty of gore and the character models are detailed enough even if the animation leaves them a 
 bit lifeless.
  
  Voice acting has been improved since Oblivion quite a bit, and luckily this time the dialogue offers 
 more than agree/disagree choices. There is room for improvement, but I was glad to see your skills 
 actually affecting dialogue options even if not quite on the same level as in old Fallouts. I was 
 also pleasently surprised by having rude and even crazy dialogue options in a true Fallout fashion.
 
  
  The gameplay while rather uninventive makes good use of what it has. VATS system while not revolutionary 
 has great charm in it thanks to overblown violence. Heads will roll right from the start... literally. 
 Normally the game plays a lot like your standard FPS, but VATS system gives you the opportunity 
 to line up your attacks in a paused mode and attack specific body parts, you can go for a critical 
 head shot, cripple a melee opponent or even shoot the gun off the enemy's hand. Same can be done 
 the old fashioned way too but the fast opponents can make it difficult especially if you're playing 
 on a gamepad.
  
  The old Fallouts had perhaps the best character development system, while Fallout 3 simplifies 
 it somewhat it's still very addicting and varied and leaves room for replays with another type 
 of characters. The skills might not be anything special, you put points in your small weapons/repair/sneak 
 and other skills as you level up, but the charm comes from them actually having a great effect 
 on your gameplay, a high speech skill will open new dialogue options and ANY new skill will offer 
 new ways to complete quests. The main appeal of Fallout's leveling comes from the perks tho, everytime 
 you level up you get to choose one unique perk that can give you special skills or improve your 
 current ones.
  
  The main story is not that amazing and it only took me about 15 hours to complete the game 1st 
 time around, however the game does offer plenty of replay value thanks to different moral choices, 
 varied skill system and a large map to explore. Unfortunately many of the side missions are a bit 
 generic, however there are some that spice up the experience with choices like whether or not you'll 
 blow up a city build around a nuke.
  
  The NPCs, and especially NPC companions are rather unimpressive, it really is an area where RPGs 
 have hardly evolved at all. You can make your companion carry stuff and change his combat approach 
 a bit, but that's about it. All in all most of the NPCs including your companions give you a plastic 
 impression which won't make you care for them.
  
  Speaking about last gen.... the character editor, it's needlessly complex and almost all characters 
 end up being unattractive, they should had taken a lesson or two from Bioware's Mass Effect. Animations 
 are horribly dated as well, there's really no excuse for NPCs who look like they're made of wood 
 in 2008. And some of the quests and events simply make no sense whether it's up to bugs or design 
 flaws. You can't for e. g. sleep in an owned bed even if you murder the owner. You can have a quest 
 to deal with an aggressive gang and after doing so have the quest givers turn hostile to you for 
 no reason. Sometimes the NPCs will magically detect your crimes from distance, there's also some 
 occasions where enemies go through walls or the game crashes.
  
  But all in all it's one of the best RPGs of this gen. It starts off a bit slow, but once you get 
 into it Fallout 3 can become extremely addicting experience which won't let you go untill you've 
 explored every nook and cranny, and Bethesda had made sure there are plenty of nook and crannies 
 to go around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordvalek
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  ok so it's been a while since i reviewed a game and this is prolly why. i have kept getting sucked 
 back into this one. i dont know if its just that i miss my hometown of the dc metropolitan area, 
 or if its great story telling on bethesda's part. so far i think its both. i keep finding things 
 that just keep me going and exploring in the game. besides some few technical problems (i. e. no 
 multiple auto-saves) the only real complaint i have is that unlike other fallout/bethesda games, 
 this one actually has an ending that ends the game. i would have liked to see it open up so that 
 when you "finish" the main mission that you could keep going and do all the endless side missions 
 and maybe help (or hurt) restoration efforts. all in all this is a good game and i highly recommend 
 it, but only if you have atleast a halfway decent pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malcymal
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Never been a great fan of RPG stuff until i played Oblivion. Well, as probably said before, its 
 Oblivion with a shed loads of weapons and fantastic slow motion guts and gore action. I cannot 
 fault this game, makes all the latest PC games seem pathetic in comparison. You just dont want 
 to come out of this immersive world.
  
  The graphics are amazing, you just dont care if you arent carrying out the quests, its just bundling 
 into a new location, searching everything (and boy is there a mass of articles to search) . Just 
 being on Tenpenny Tower and looking at the sun rise forced my eyes to squint, amazing to get such 
 ambient realism. Just get the game now, its something you have to experience. Anybody who marks 
 this lower than a 9 has something seriously wrong with them... An absolute classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomonger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Just finished playing one of the best games in years (to my opinion) . After approx. 50 hours I 
 completed the game as "humanity's last hope" -good karma.
  Bethesda simply thought of everything while making this game. It is challenging, diversified, thrilling, 
 gory, funny, dark and the illusion of freedom for the player is simply perfect. 
  Graphic wise, I played on PC with Ultra settings and I must say that this game runs smooth and 
 looks beautiful. It also loads insanely fast! 
  The only let down: the level cap at 20.
  Not that I would have liked to necessarily attain a higher level, but I would have love to have 
 the level cap fitting with the amount of side quests and XP you can gain during the game.
  Actually, after exploring approx. 50% of the map, I easily reached level 20. So what it did for 
 me: it killed a bit the motivation to explore everywhere, find every bobble head, every book to 
 read (at level 20, most of your useful skills are all in between 90-100) complete every side quest. 
 It would have been interesting Im sure, but not as much as doing it making XP and increasing 
 the stats of your character.
  All in all it was an amazingly great 50+ hours. Might play it again in the future, but going totally 
 evil that time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutantant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  An excellent 3rd game in the Fallout series. I am sure some did not enjoy the Elder Scrolls game-play 
 that is mixed in and many purists will clamor endlessly.
  
  However this is not Oblivion. This is Fallout in universe, feel, and dialog.
  
  I, like many, 
 have waited a long time for the next Fallout and this game does not disappoint. I will say that 
 I think Bethesda made a better Fallout than the old Fallout 3 demo may have turned out to be if 
 it kept being made.
  
  Graphics: 10 - My old ATI 1900xtx runs it well enough at 1600x1200 and the game looks great. Not 
 that anything else could be expected from the Oblivion engine.
  
  Sound: 10 - Voice acting, explosions, gunfights - all very convincing. 
  
  Gameplay: 10 - Sneaking? 
 Check. Run-and-gun? Check. Quests out the wazoo? Check. Nifty hacking and lock picking mechanics, 
 VATS targeting system, collectibles, various moral paths to take. All good stuff.
  
  My only true gripe with the game is the main storyline quests are shorter than you may expect. 
 Some more length there would have been nice. But when you add in all the other quests and interactions, 
 caves to explore, old office buildings to ransack, etc. the game has some considerable length. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefencemarv
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Been waiting for 3 years. I played the first two Fallout games and had expectations. I have not 
 been disappointed in the least. I have had the game for less than a week and I play it daily, When 
 not playing, I am thinking about what to do when I get to play again.
  
  There is a unique character building opening stage. Birth to nineteen as a learning/trait selecting 
 level, then into the fire. You have to know your limitations or it's certain death in the wastes. 
 Then it's your world. Do what you will, good or bad. Level science so you can hack security pcs, 
 level strength to carry more loot, whatever you want. RPG heaven with FPS action and exploration, 
 what more could you ask for?
  
  There is a 20 level cap, so levels do not come easy. It is hard work that can be frustrating just 
 like real life. Using up half of your ammo and a bunch of stimpaks to kill a monster only to receive 
 22 experience points when you need 900 for your next level is maddening. But that is how it goes. 
 You get nothing for free in the Capitol Wasteland. 
  
  How many more hours can I play before I tire of the game? Who knows? I bet it is more than a hundred.
 
  
  This review was written for the xbox 360 version of the game and put here in the pc section by 
 accident. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEANMCAD
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Not really as open ended as they suggest geographically. In the city it often apears as if you 
 can go places but you really cant. In fact the entire city is pretty much closed off aside from 
 the subways and tunnels which all look the same.
  Outside of the city is a bit better but given the context of the game all areas again look pretty 
 much the same.
  Although the attribute system for your character is really pretty good to the point of implying 
 this is a good RPG its worth pointing out that its far for of a shooter then an RPG when it comes 
 to what you actually do hour for hour.
  This is most likely the last game I ever buy based on non-user reviews and very well may be the 
 last shooter I ever buy.
  Given the reviews I really wanted to score this as a 6 but I am trying to be fair to the game itself 
 regardless of mainstream reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an amazingly immersive game, grabbing you by the scruff of the neck and slamming your 
 face into its sheer depth. At the beginning of the game you witness your birth and get to create 
 you character with such amazing detail. You give yourself a name, choose your race and design your 
 facial features with such a depth it's almost ludicrous. You then jump ahead and learn to walk, 
 also applying your main skills; Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, Agility 
 and Luck. It's then another nine years and you get your very own Pip-Boy, which becomes your best 
 friend in the game, letting you keep track of and repair weapons and armour, miscellaneous items, 
 tells you your health and condition, and any radio stations or current quests. You then pick your 
 secondary skills via the Generalised Occupational Aptitude Test, and then it's another 3 years 
 and you learn your dad has escaped the vault. You go after him and realise just how huge and enthralling 
 this world is. You meet loads of NPCs, all with a different attitude and style, viewing you in 
 their own way depending on how you have acted throughout the game. You can help towns become prosperous, 
 or wipe them off the face of the earth, and each time you're confronted with these crossroads you 
 can either act out your deepest twisted fantasy or become a shining example that there are is still 
 good in people.
  Ranged combat is fun, with you just mindlessly spewing out bullets in real time mode, or slowing 
 things down with V. A. T. S and watching the enemy fly apart in many different camera angles. Once 
 you get the gatling laser or the minigun and your stood there in power armour the camera shows 
 you as a true badass with bullets spewing out ripping enemies apart. Melee combat isn't the greatest 
 in real time, but enter V. A. T. S you get some very satisfying strikes, and if you're using a baseball 
 bat it's common knowledge you have to yell "strike!!" or "home run". 
  Throughout the game you constantly meet people, but you can have some people following you, chiming 
 in but most importantly helping you if you're attacked. There is Jericho, who is a former mercenary 
 (I think) and all around badass. Star Paladin Cross is a member of the Brotherhood of Steel who 
 hates evil-doers. Two of my favourite followers are Fawkes, an intelligent super mutant who goes 
 mental with his gatling laser, and Dogmeat, out little pooch friend from the previous one. 
  I do have some major grievances with this game though. You seem to get addicted to chems (the games 
 version of drugs) so easily that it takes the micky. Also, while your followers are helpful, they 
 can get in the way in combat, or most annoyingly they can just stand in a doorway completely blocking 
 you off, which is infuriating. Also, I have gotten to the point in the game where all the enemies 
 I kill drop boring weapons that just make me think "oh boy, another gang of raiders, or super mutants, 
 I wonder what weapons they will drop"? The saving grace of all this though, in my opinion has to 
 be Wadsworth, the robotic manservant you get in your house. He tells you jokes, mumbles about his 
 work and gives you free drinks. 
  All in all, Fallout 3 is an amazing game that will have you playing it for hours once you get hooked 
 in, despite some minor annoyances. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: billaboy69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm spent so much time playing this game since i got it. it's very addicting. The game has a very 
 deep story like in morrowind. love that. always motivates. game has lots of interesting side missions. The 
 winner in this game is the environment. They did a great job in a believable world after a few nuclear 
 bombs have gone off. graphics are great. everything is evenly spaced to the time u pick up weapons 
 that u might need to ingredients u might need and bethesda does this very good, not obvious. just 
 enough monsters while roaming around outside. not too much. each enemy is different. i love the way 
 u can cripple people. don't take my word. u should definetly buy this game, u won't regret it. the 
 only thing i say keeping this game from being a 10 in my opinion is the exactly what gamespot says 
 is wrong. the characters don't really reach out to me and the combat system is, clunky, not perfected. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrtecdev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for it since 1998. So, too much expectations...
  
  As a fan of the series, I could say that Fallout 3 is the best, the most, THE GAME! But as a reviewer, 
 all I could say is Fallout 3 is really loyal to the series, very beautiful, and FUN! It's a good 
 game not just because of the superb visual and sounds, but mainly because of the series' original 
 combat system and interesting story.
  
  Bethesada's Gamebryo (the same game engine used on Oblivion) was fully expanded and adapted to 
 bring Wasteland to life. It's not just "Oblivion With Guns". It's an intelligent, robust game that 
 makes it own path through the hall of fame. Fallout 3 does a great job mixing up the intesitivity 
 of first person shooter combat, with the clever VATS mechanics, RPG elements (such as skills, and 
 all that stuff) and an compeeling story.
  
  Either if you are a Fallout fan or not, this is for sure a game worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixxard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  I have to admit firstly that I have not played the first two Fallouts, or in fact any previous 
 Fallout game in the series. I was even dubious about buying this game as I had already bought Red 
 Alert 3 that came out on the same day. I suppose I was swayed by the reviews on the game and Gamespots 
 video review. 
  
  The game itself takes place in an alternate Earth in which the war between the USA and China which 
 ended with the apocalyptic situation the player is thrown into. The story begins when you wake 
 up as a baby and then proceed to grow up at various stages before reaching adulthood. This part 
 is mainly back-story and character development. The back-story involves vault 101, closed for 200 
 years, you are born into the vault, no one can ever enter and no one can ever leave.. till now. 
 As far as character development is concerned there is a range of stylish haircuts and various tinkering 
 facial bits. The only real surprise is when you explore the world of the Capital Wasteland, there 
 just is not that vast difference in characters that was there in Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Granted 
 Oblivion did have more races but one criticism that can be levied is the lack of real scope and 
 variance in human characters, however that aspect aside the whole process of character development 
 is solid. 
  
  It is like Oblivion a very easy to pick up and play game, there are a number of tutorials when 
 you are starting that game and is very easy for anyone to really pickup. The magic comes with the 
 introduction of the V. A. T's targeting system, basically being able to slow pause the game and use 
 bullet time to focus on particular body parts. This isn't an entirely new concept; it was used 
 to some extent in Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem. However, it does really make the game much 
 more interesting, seeing a flying missile hit your target or using firearms to cripple an incoming 
 attacker. Aside from the new system the gameplay is largely the same as Oblivion. In fact, some 
 commentators say it is just Oblivion with guns. This is quite true but Fallout 3 offers much more 
 than Oblivion was able to in terms of gameplay. 
  The range of quests and the player environment when you first breathe your wasteland air can be 
 overwhelming. There is a lot to explore and do that there are more hours in this game to be had 
 than certainly Red Alert 3. The main drawback is the real lack of an immersive main storyline, 
 at the end of the game, prepare yourself for a letdown. In fairness I don't think this game is 
 meant to be completed, as you can take on the main storyline and have that completed in a day but 
 frankly you would have missed so much of other game content you will be itching to restart. Exploring 
 the game can be great fun and there is much to explore. Only reservation in this aspect is the 
 Doom 3 effect, seeing the same tunnel time and time again. Again like the character development 
 the game is a victim of its previous game engine outing, Oblivion. However, rest assured there 
 is actually a real, living, speaking tree in the game. 
  
  Turning to sound now and the effects are rather pleasing and the voice acting rather a valiant 
 attempt. Not much can be said for the music, although the developers have captured the 1950's feel 
 quite nicely and have a range of radio station for the player to listen too, there is real lack 
 of depth. You can be listening to the same catchy song more than a few times. I suppose this is 
 the confusing part, there is background atmosphere sound which at times can be very creepy and 
 apt for the situation. However, there are radio stations to listen too which don't offer a huge 
 range of tracks, therefore I was left wondering if I should keep the radio on or just have it off, 
 most of the time it is left off. 
  Although much more can be said of the game it is really for the player to explore. You can be guaranteed 
 hours of gaming time if you want to immerse yourself. I appreciated Fallout 3 more than Oblivion, 
 admittedly after immersing myself in Fallout greatly it is perhaps time to revisit Oblivion, and 
 be able to appreciate it much more.
  
  Pro's:
  - Hit game, great back story and enjoyable quests
  - Immersive environment rich in items and 
 foes
  - Great graphics, credit to the developers.
  Con's: 
  - Real lack of diversity in characters
  - Background music leaves a lot to be desired
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeaconW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this one for a while and to be honest, was worried when I heard 
 that FALLOUT 3 was going to be a first person perspective game vice the previous isometric views. 
 I felt it would detract from the franchise. Boy, is that not an issue. From the innovative way 
 that you are born and "grow up" into your character appearance and skills to the beautiful (in a 
 stark post-apocalyptic way) scenery, this game sucks you in. It makes you make choices that have 
 far reashing consequences. There are multiple ways to play and to accomplish tasks. V. A. T. S. is 
 great, although the limited ways the targets die is somewhat disappointing (headshots almost always 
 animate the same way... head separates from shoulders) . Two primary disappointments for me... one, 
 I had a repeatable crash in V. A. T. S. if I was trying to shoot through an apeture (such as a window) 
 or too close to an obstruction that would CTD. Two, once you finish the main quest, the game ends. 
 There is no ability to go and finish all the side quests. Other than that, this fine DNA combination 
 of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and OBLIVION is a great game with a great RPG storyline that should please all 
 fans of the FALLOUT franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I hesitated getting this game because of the reviews of the combat interfaces. Having now completed 
 this game, and I don't finish many games, I can say don't let any of the reviews sway you from 
 giving this game a shot if you enjoy RPGs. The RPG elements in this game are great as you get to 
 actually see your improved stats making a difference. Put points in lockpicking and you can pick 
 locks you couldn't otherwise. Science allows you to hack computers you couldn't otherwise. I noticed 
 an improvement when I would increase my Perception and when I improved my small guns skill. This 
 is a great RPG. The game has perks as well like the ability to shutdown robots when you sneak up 
 on them or befriend animals or improve some core skills. Plenty of variety.
  The story is enjoyable and I found myself reading most of the text and listening to the radio occasionally 
 for the latest news it would provide. Most of the dialog is spoken (versus just text) which was 
 well done.
  Just like RPGs of old you can save whenever you want. 
  The Live experience with the accomplishments system is a nice extra.
  This is one of the very 
 few (only one I can think of actually) games I want to play more of right after finishing. Usually 
 after the hours it takes to get a game finished I'm ready for something different. Now I'm hoping 
 an addon comes out very soon (tonight would be fine with me) .
  I really enjoyed this game the characters were interesting, the actions and choices are mind boggling 
 with serious consequences, and as stated above the RPG choices make a difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa4lyfe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  i have been playing games since i was 8 but i started really liking them when i was bout when i 
 got my ps2 and i have played some of the best possible rpg games evr and this game IS WAY MORE 
 bettr than oblivion which i found to be quite boring as the storyline didnt intrest me at alll 
 but this game is jus awesome... the review is in 3 sections:
  
  Story: (few spoilers) ok you start as a little baby and you make your name etc... w. e..... the game's 
 tutorial is actually built in the AGE system. Let me explain. When u are a baby, you learn how 
 to walk and how to interact. When you're older you learn how to use your pip boy and it goes on 
 like that. The ACTUAL story is that your dad leaves you inside the vault and runs away without 
 telling you and you have to escape and find him. Now this is how it begins and i just love the 
 way if you're experienced enough, you can skip a few missions by just using speech. There are some 
 really cool parts in the story that i wont mention but then there's a point where you just *may* 
 lose interest in the story
  
  STORY:9/10
  
  Graphics:
  the graphics of this game are based on the oblivion engine which i wasn't so *OMG* about but this 
 game enhances that and you literally feel like everything's dead. some of the texturing is really 
 messed up though and you do notice it. well sometimes you do :D. One thing that is messed up is 
 that the emotion on peoples faces is really messed up like it shows no emotion at all. Also the 
 physics are really really messed up. its like they didn't change it from oblivion.
  
  Graphics:8/10
  
  Sound:
  the games music and gun sounds are just INCREDIBLE. the music on 
 the radios are making you think that you are in the 1950s and the acting is decent too. The gun 
 sound really nice and when slowed down actually sound like if they were slowed down. 
  
  SOUND:10/10
  
  OVERALL:8.9/10 (Just didnt feel AAA worthy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IxEmoKidIx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Vault 101, the place where you were born. You're home. A bit of a boring place, but it's still 
 safe, from the creatures and the evil humans out there....
  
  You start as a new born baby, you choose how you will look when growing up, hairstyle, eye color 
 etc. You're mother dies, and you're father get very depressed after her death. 
  
  Suddenly' you can walk, you are a baby and you're pappa are going somewhere, and you are going 
 all around in the room, and open a book, there you choose some points in strength, intelligence, 
 endurance, etc.
  
  Next, you're 10 years old and having a birthday party, blablabla.
  
  After a while in Vault 101, you're father have escaped, no one is allowed to enter or to go out 
 from the Valve, but you're dad does. And the security "guards" are going to catch everyone, it's 
 like CHAOS in Vault 101. Me, myself, wasn't a sneaky boy there (you're 19 now) i just shoot the 
 cockroaches and the security guards. Anyway, I don't wanna tell you to much.
  
  After that, you're going to look after you're father, that's your "Main Quest" , the main goal. 
 But it's many side - quests you can do at people and mini - games, and a big world to explore. 
 The thing is, it's a big world like Oblivion, yeah, but some places isn't needed to be there, on 
 some places it's nothing, NOTHING, just garbage and no enemys. That's boring, but who cares? Not 
 me. 
  If Oblivion was more happy and gave you a smile on your face then Fallout 3 is sad and a destroyed 
 world.
  The AI works fine - and they can be really smart sometimes. 
  The sound ? what can I say ? It's perfect.
  The graphics ? Could have been better, but enough 
 for me.
  The Gameplay ? Excellent !
  The Story ? A bit confusing, but average.
  
  I give this game 9,5/10 because :
  + NPCs are often smart, but sometimes dumb.
  + Sound
  
 + Gameplay
  EVERYTHING IS PERFECT ! Almost..
  
  - The NPCs faces, can look weird, like in Oblivion.
  - Like I said, the world.
  
  
  Buy 
 it, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda have done a great job in bringing Fallout3 to a new generation. The pip boy which made 
 the original games so great is there, complete with its skills and perks ect, and the game has 
 a very similar overall feel to the old Fallout games. The humour from these is also present. The 
 graphics and world are both full with detail, and I found the combat outside of V. A. T. S to be suprisingly 
 good: head and limb shots really do count. The design of the main quest hub areas is brilliantly 
 realised, with Maghaton being paricually well designed. The reasonI I can't give this a 9 or a 
 10 is because, just like the Morrowing games, it doesn't feel as epic as I expected. While the 
 worls is large and detailed, much like the Morrowind gameworlds it lacks that added extra variety, 
 with the storyline only encompassing about a tenth of the map. As it stands now, the only way you'll 
 get to see everything is by taking the explorer perk once you hit lvl 20, and making a point travelling 
 out to each of the revealed locations. If Bethesda had extended the storyline to encompass more 
 of the map and added in a few more higher lvl mobs and weapons ( you only ever get one type of 
 shotgun ) , then this would have been a truly great game. The lvl 20 cap is also too low : I couldn't 
 lvl up all the weapon skills I wanted to without sacrifiing them in other areas. The storyline 
 could have easily been twice as long if Bethesda had used the map more effectively. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  After months of waiting Fallout 3 has finally hit the stores. It is a post-apocalyptic story which 
 covers the life in America, after a nuclear bomb. Everything arround the player is a region with 
 ruined buildings and billboards, something that was a civilization once.
  
  The story starts when your character is a baby, a newborn. He is taken to Vault 101, an underground 
 city in which everybody who once enters never gets out, as the Overseer says. Then, he grows up 
 there with your dad (his mum has died when he was baby) . He is then rased well in the vault, not 
 knowing much about the existence of "another world" out there.
  
  One day, your dad leaves the Vault, leaving you only one audio message with 1 minute length, in 
 which he only tells you not to follow him, and to try to understand him. But then again, the Overseers 
 daughter, Amata, gets to you, and tells you to escape. After that, you leave your old world, and 
 go in the Wasteland to look for your father.
  
  Bethesda games are all about quests. You can find tons of quests, all covering the plot of the 
 game. You can also find very useful information, using the residents of the cities as your resources. 
 You'll be able to help people for money, and do various crazy things, you can blow up one of the 
 cities for money, but then again you can also disarm the bomb in it and so on.
  
  While playing the quests, you'll get to chose from various options, with which you can gain good 
 and bad points, called Karma in the game. With these points, you become able to talk with specific 
 type of people (good, bad, gangs, merchants) , and you gain extra points talking with them if you 
 fulfil the conditions for their factions.
  
  The gameplay is mind-blowing. It's an fps of course, but the moment that needs to be seen, is the 
 VATS system, which allows you to practically see the chances of hitting the opponent in a specific 
 part of his body (like torso, head, left arm, right arm, left leg, right leg, and so on) . Many 
 gamers are thrilled of this system. Not many RPG games are concerned on the design on the combat 
 itself.
  
  You can level your character from 1 to 20, with each level you high up your so called "SPECIAL" 
 set of abilities, and also each level gives you different skills which you can use.
  
  There are also tons of weapons, armors, and healing kits which you can use, which makes this RPG 
 really variable. You can collect different sets and so on.
  
  The sound really reminds of Oblivion, but still the atmosphere itself in the game doesn't remind 
 of this game, so we can't say that Bethesda just copied the hole code, changed a few things and 
 made a new game. This is completely different. And as most of the fans state, it is even better 
 than oblivion.
  
  I guess I can wrap up the review with this. Fallout 3 is a great new rpg, and it sure has the potential 
 of becoming the RPG of the year. Definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgdl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Ill start off by saying that I loved morrowind and oblivion (the latter slightly less) ,
  these games do appeal to me. Also with this version of fallout there are the little play times 
 where you just think, 'wow that was awesome', for instance going into VATS when a ghoul has jumped 
 onto you from above, blowing him away with 2 shotgun blasts and his corpse just carrying on over 
 your head and hitting the wall behind you - very satisfying.
  It is oblivion with guns though and not a traditional fallout game, but still great fun.
  
 
  The Good
  - Its Oblivion with guns!!!!
  - Immersive story missions, beginning of the game set in Vault 101 is great.
  - Visuals are great 
 for the post-apocalyptic DC wasteland
  - Gore fantastic in VATS and generally normal deformability of your enemies (always nice to see 
 'pieces' of them flying off in different directions.
  - Plenty to be found and played, allowing for different game experience in playing
  again, you 
 could play evil for instance, visit different places, do that mission for
  that evil dude instead of killing him etc :P.
  - Its still the bethesda series that involves 
 me nicking everyones stuff and selling
  it to the local shop keeps.
  
  
  The Bad
  - Some annoying glitches in game (im looking at you giant thing at end of game)
  - Most of the 
 weapons in game are easily acquired from the beginning of the game and would be nice to see some 
 different ones down the line apart from things like the plasma rifle, a 3rd assault rifle would 
 be very welcome.
  - It ended: P
  
  
  There are other points that maybe hit or miss
  - the VATS aiming system that allows for there to be a turned based element in a real time fps/rpg. 
 
  - Travel, this is good for the scale of the game and I find it very satisfying learning of new 
 locations in the wasteland, not as expansive as oblivion but there is plenty. But again it can 
 easily be seen to be a bit dull for some between the action sequences (but it is worth bearing 
 in mind it is an rpg)
  
  I suppose the points that I have placed under 'hit or miss' I would classify to the games advantage, 
 but these areas aren't enjoyed by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Wow.
  
  Fallout 3 rules. This is Oblivion with guns. This is the next level of RPG and FPS action crossover. 
 This is simply superb to say the least. I would hammer a 10 out of 10 for it if it wasn't for the 
 steep system requirements.
  
  Being a fan of the series, I may be overreacting a bit. But I will promise that I havent' for one 
 second played less than 3 hours a session a few nights in a row, and have only begun to graze what's 
 before me. 
  
  The story, characters and quests are vast and epic. The violence - brutal as hell can get. After 
 all, it is pretty much the end of the world. No game has presented hell in any better way. If you're 
 a fan of the series, you are mad not to get this game. If you are new to the Fallout world, this 
 is going to be the best gaming experience you have ever had. 
  
  Otherwise, go and play Fable or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hents7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best Role-playing game i've ever played . But ... the ending ruined it all 
 . 
  
  The good:
  
  It has a big world and lots to explore. It has many quests, some of them are quite hard, some are 
 not. The main story is also very good, but there is a bad part of it. You can make your own guy 
 or a girl. It has a uniqe thing, the V. A. T. S, what helps quite a lot. The graphics are also very 
 good. Now the persuasion is one of the best things in the game, because if you succeed, you might 
 do some good with it ..... might .
  
  But now the bad....
  
  The Bad:
  One of the main things, why is it so bad, is that if you complete the main story, it's the end 
 and you can't play anymore. I had to find some cheats, because I died all the time. Things break 
 quite often. I definitely hate those mutant bastards and even more, I hate those bandits and mercs. 
 Enemies are not so easy to kill (mutants, enclave, big ants) . 
  
  So that's my review, you might want to argue with these I wrote, but that's my opinion ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  "I... don't want to set the world on... fire!" With the opening introductory song, we're immediately 
 drawn into the world of Fallout 3, the third installment of the famed franchise (the last game 
 was released in 1998 by Interplay) . This is actually the first time I've played Fallout and being 
 impressed with Bethesda's last game, Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion, I knew this was going to be nothing 
 short of a masterpiece. Boy, was I right! Fallout 3 takes place in an alternate world where the 
 US resembles very much like a futuristic version of the 1950s, complete with robots that hunt for 
 "Reds," laser weapons, and vintage 1940's music. However in the year 2077, open war broke out between 
 the US and China, with a nuclear exchange taking place that devastates the entire world. Fortunately, 
 despite the world become an irradiated wasteland, humanity survives with some living in sterile 
 "Vaults" and the others just trying to survive in the Wasteland. They build rickety settlements 
 and for the most part, try to get through the day despite the desolate atmosphere and the constant 
 threat of Super-Mutants and Raiders. The story begins 30 years after Fallout 3 where you are born 
 in Vault 101, literally witnessing your own birth in first person view where you use the game's 
 clever character creation system. You'll go through a truncated childhood that'll teach you the 
 ropes of the game and when you reach 19 years of age, you discover that your father has left the 
 security of the Vault. Your journey begins and this is how you turn from the Vault Dweller to the 
 famous Lone Wanderer. The story ends up being a winner and is much more interesting then the classic 
 fantasy good vs. evil plot that we got in Oblivion. This is mostly due to the fact that you have 
 much more control over your character's choices and some of them aren't as black and white as you 
 would expect. You'll visit a variety of locales in the Capital Wasteland, Washington DC such as 
 the famous Jefferson Memorial or Washington Monument. Most people expected Fallout 3 to be "Oblivion-with-guns" 
 but that's an oversimplification. It is a first-person shooter but its not the run-and-gun type. 
 Damage is based upon your statistics and the condition of your weapon, so even if you're hitting 
 your target directly in the chest, you won't do full damage unless you have a high percent chance 
 of hitting. You can do your shooting in real-time or use VATS (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System) 
 where combat is paused and you target specific body parts of your opponent, which shows the chance 
 of a successful hit. This costs Action Points, basically a fancy way of saying Mana. You're then 
 treated to an often gory cinematic where, if you had a high chance to hit, body parts go flying 
 and blood just sprays everywhere! Apparently, the ultra violence is a staple of Fallout. The play 
 area is incredibly large and you can spend hours wandering, exploring and talking with people. 
 There are a lot less side quests then in Oblivion but they're much more involved and could basically 
 count as a separate game. You'll also gain Perks that'll buff up your character just as decreased 
 damage or increased XP points. The game uses the same engine as Oblivion called GameBryo. Despite 
 its age, its still one of the most detailed game engines out there and the graphics (at max settings) 
 look simply stunning. Who knew a wasteland could look so good? Sound is also great with some quality 
 voice acting from Liam Neeson, Malcolm McDowell, and Ron Perlman as the Narrator. Inon Zur provides 
 the score but the 1940s music that is heard throughout the game ends up being the winner. Fallout 
 3 uses Games for Windows LIVE, which is now free so you have no excuse not to pick up those achievements. 
 There were some crash-to-desktops but out of my entire playtime, I only experienced two. With large 
 games like these, some bugs slip though and Bethesda is a company known for its support so patches 
 should come soon (one is already released) . Fallout 3 is simply a masterpiece with an amazing amount 
 of content that would keep you going for many months to come. I have just completed the main quest 
 and any side quests that I managed to find. I have a save file right before the endgame so I expect 
 Fallout 3 to keep me company through the holidays. War... War never changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 comes from a heritage of great RPG games of the same name, each featuring the same unique 
 post-apocalyptic storyline. This game comes into the genre as one of the best, and this is partially 
 due to the fact that this game was developed by Bethesda. The game is absolutely enormous and it 
 features some of the best graphics ever in an RPG.
  
  Gameplay in Fallout 3 is all about one primary idea: survival. At least, this is most prevalent 
 after you leave the safety of Vault 101 and you find yourself in an untamed, dangerous wasteland. 
 Like previous Fallout games you begin the game in a vault, which is just a large protective underground 
 haven to protect its inhabitants from a nuclear apocalypse. You are given a Pip-Boy 3000 early 
 on and this device serves numerous functions: checking objectives, stats, quests, locations, and 
 it shines to provide light. The game officially starts from your character's birth, and without 
 completely blowing the fantastic early game, you will play through childhood and adolescence. The 
 whole way the early story works is terribly imaginative, and this is largely due to how some of 
 your basic information is learned. You also can take some time in creating the way your character 
 looks. You can edit face shape and hair, and of course you can alter color as well. The nice thing 
 about Fallout 3 is that it allows you to completely change your appearance at certain points in 
 the game from head to hair. Skipping ahead to when you actually leave the vault is the point where 
 you officially begin your game and fend for yourself. Once you find yourself in the wasteland you 
 can do anything you like; you can go off and explore the literal hundreds of ruins or you can follow 
 the main storyline. There is no particular recommended path to take because each one will benefit 
 you in some way, whether exploring for loot or making new friends and enemies. The game works on 
 a "karma" system which rises or falls depending on your actions. If you steal, kill innocent characters, 
 or complete quests with a bad choice you lose karma and your rep decreases. You can be good, evil, 
 or you can sit on the fence in a neutral position. And the populace will react according to your 
 reputation. The shining gem of Fallout 3's gameplay is its extraordinarily creative combat system. 
 Veterans will remember the turn-based combat from previous installments, and of course AP is still 
 relevant here, but there is new mechanic to the V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System) 
 targeting system. This system is very similar to previous Fallout games because not only does it 
 allow you to target specific body parts, but also it adds a gorgeous combat cinematic camera so 
 you can view all the juicy action. The V. A. T. S. system is a creative and exciting way to dispatch 
 enemies, but it can be dangerous to use too often because every time you engage V. A. T. S. you lose 
 control of your character. Using the system in hectic situations will leave you wide open to attack 
 from other enemies. Though, under certain condition while using V. A. T. S. you might score a critical 
 or crippling attack upon your target. And of course you have the standard first or third person 
 FPS action where you can control everything and it is where AP does not apply. Unfortunately, sometimes 
 the combat will feel cumbersome with either size weapons but this little detail is manageable. 
 Most of the time you will be using either single or two-handed weapons, but in time you will have 
 access to ranged weapons like grenades and rockets. Each weapon can be used in V. A. T. S. though 
 in varying ways due to each weapon's allowed range and velocity. Combat overall is extremely satisfying 
 in both use of the gun and V. A. T. S. And naturally, the game allows for stealth tactics as well. 
 This method is simply explained but more difficult to actually execute because it hinges on one's 
 player's skills to stay hidden. This ability, of course, is required in order to carry out sneaky 
 kills and the theft of owned property. And along with sneaking comes the important skill of lockpicking. 
 Picking locks in Fallout 3 requires the use of a screwdriver and a bobby pin, both of which can 
 be found in common places. It involves applying torque to the lock and finding the "sweet spot" 
 with the bobby pin and ultimately unlocking the door or container. The lock can also be forced, 
 but this route is not recommended because if you attempt to force it the lock may break and you 
 cannot try to pick it again. From that point you will need to find a key if you wish to unlock 
 it. Most doors and containers have standard key locks but often you will come across things that 
 require you to access a nearby computer terminal. However, that terminal is locked with a password 
 that calls for you to hack it. Hacking a terminal is a little more complicated; you are shown a 
 screen full of possible passwords and you need to guess which one is correct. The way to successfully 
 find the password is by guessing a password, and if you are incorrect you will be told how many 
 letters are correct out of your guess and you go from there. The bad news is you only have about 
 four guesses on average, but the bad news is if you use all your guesses the terminal will become 
 locked until you find the correct password from another source. Fortunately you can exit the terminal 
 screen at any time and your guesses will be reset for another try. Both the terminal and key lock 
 range in difficulty from "very easy" to "very hard", and actually being able to attempt more difficult 
 levels depend on your respective skills of "science" and "lockpicking". Leveling up in this game 
 is one of the best I have ever seen. The system works like one would expect: you earn experience 
 through completing quests and killing monsters. How much experience you gain at any given time 
 varies. Once you reach a certain number of experience points you automatically level up and you 
 get to allocate some skill points to a list of skills including small guns, lockpicking, science, 
 big guns, explosives, etc. The real joy after leveling up is being able to pick a perk that enhances 
 a particular area of the game whether it aid the V. A. T. S. system or stealth. Each perk has a special 
 use but it is up to you to determine which single perk you want. Perks can either be passive or 
 they can actually add special abilities to your character. The perk system is great because each 
 one is useful and it actually makes leveling up a complete joy, though it is not possible to learn 
 every single perk in the game (unless you cheat) . After choosing a perk you are given some points 
 to allocate to your skills such as "speech" or "explosives". Depending on how to want to play will 
 determine the number of points you pump into a certain skill. Skills are governed by a set placement 
 of strengths and weaknesses called S. P. E. C. I. A. L. (Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, 
 Agility, Luck) which you set personally at the beginning of the game. This list of strengths and 
 weaknesses determine how well you perform with a given skill. The only downside to the leveling 
 is that you cannot go over level twenty. This level cap is not particularly crippling but it seems 
 like you blaze through the levels awful fast. Regardless, in order to reach twenty you will see 
 a whole lot of the game that you will not soon forget. The main game is not necessarily long but 
 it makes up in quality more than sheer quantity, though there is enough quantity as well. The game 
 functions on a fairly complex choice system which involves you making a choice, going through with 
 it, and naturally accepting the consequences that fallow. This game provides plenty of moral choices 
 and you actually get to see how your decisions affect the game world for good or ill-in one instance 
 a choice you make affects the existence of an entire city. Fallout 3 plays very much The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion with the similarities stemming from control mapping, leveling up, and other 
 subtle things you may notice. There is so much to tell about the game but rather than lay out every 
 detail for the reader it would be easier (and more rewarding) to experience the game for themselves. 
 Overall the gameplay is utterly fantastic.
  
  I mentioned that this game has some of the best graphics I have ever seen, and I stand by my statement. 
 Without spoiling too much, the game takes place in a post-apocalypse region often referred to as 
 the wasteland. This region is actually in close proximity to Washington, D. C., or what is left 
 of it and it is called Capital Wasteland. You explore a large area of the wasteland and the D. C. 
 region itself actually consumes about  of it. Though the D. C. portion of the map is considerably 
 congested in areas, a majority of the map is fairly barren with spots of buildings and civilization 
 here and there. When you play the game disregard any thoughts about how little there is to see; 
 this is due to the fact that a nuclear war broke out and hardly anything is left. The world is 
 appropriately dirty and grimy. There is nothing in this game that could be considered "clean" or 
 "acceptable" thanks to the nuclear conflict. Every place you visit will be dirty, damaged, or completely 
 destroyed in some way. Roads are cracked and completely wrecked and high highways either have collapsed 
 or look like they will collapse. Homes are missing walls, doors, and some even everything but their 
 wooden skeleton. Often you will come across charred skeletal remains some adult forms some child 
 forms. The wastes as a whole are incredibly well done and they lend enough realism to ensure the 
 player could actually believe without a shadow of a doubt that a nuclear apocalypse took place. 
 Most bodies of water are irradiated and can cause radiation poisoning if drank or waded/swam through. 
 Towns dot each region and they usually are deserted, but often you will find some kind of life 
 either good or bad. Generally places will be deserted, again appropriately fitting with the whole 
 theme. Though, if you search in the right places you will find plenty of life and usually some 
 lucrative action if you dig deep enough. There are several large makeshift cities around the wasteland 
 and they range from a city with a massive unexploded nuclear warhead to a city built within a derelict 
 ship. These towns provide a nice haven for the weary waste-wanderer and they provide services like 
 bartering and rest. The locations you find can thankfully be traveled to quickly via your map and 
 clicking on its icon. Exploration is fun, but often you may find yourself aimlessly roaming the 
 wasteland hoping to find somewhere to actually explore like a ruined convenience store or a devastated 
 school. In all honesty, exploring the seemingly endless wastes gets a little bit old after a while. 
 It is often better to set out with an objective of some sort so you do not have to wander around. 
 One of the best aspects of the graphics comes with the weapons and the awesome V. A. T. S. mechanic. 
 Weapons are unlike anything I or you likely have ever seen in a game like this. There is a standard 
 collection of weapons, but they are designed in a way that fits the whole game's theme. You have 
 the standard 10MM pistol or a silenced one, a rocket launcher, there is a double-barreled shotgun, 
 there is even a sniper rifle, but the game really shines when its unique weapons come into play. 
 The game features a couple very interesting weapons that I will point out. The game's most powerful 
 and destructive weapon is called the "Fat Man" which shoots chubby little miniature nukes that 
 actually cause a miniature mushroom cloud when detonated. The Fat Man is the choice weapon for 
 explosive junkies, though it causes damage to whomever is in the vicinity and ammo for it is extremely 
 hard to find. Another weapon, which comes in a collection of custom-built weapons, is called the 
 "Railway Rifle" which does just what it suggests: it shoots large railroad spikes. This weapon 
 is very deadly especially against unprotected enemies because it can completely decapitate a head 
 and literally nail it to a surface. These weapons look both amazing and they are fun to use while 
 using V. A. T. S. These weapons look very unique because they look like they are made of junk, and 
 in some case their forms of ammo are less conventional than standard weapons. The V. A. T. S. system 
 is a great way to watch your character waste another character because it looks beautiful. It is 
 rendered in a very attractive cinematic style so that you can view all the action from different 
 angles. Sometimes the camera shows your character's mug grimacing as he/she discharges a weapon 
 or it might show an enemy being blown to bits. The cinematics in V. A. T. S. is especially cool when 
 you use big guns like the Flamer, the Fat Man, and of course the Railway Rifle. And of course, 
 with weapons like these, one would expect a fair amount of blood and guts. I am happy to say that 
 there is more than enough blood and guts to satiate anyone's bloodlust, and it appears in different 
 forms. The most obvious time would be during combat, especially during V. A. T. S. Blood usually appears 
 as big flying blobs or puddles on the ground, but more often than not you will blow off an enemy's 
 legs, arms, or you will blow them to pieces altogether. While the blood aspect of the game is not 
 particularly extreme, the game does feature a more disturbing, almost grotesque element that appears 
 throughout the game. During your exploring you will come across buildings that have either mauled, 
 mutilated corpses strung up from lampposts/chain or mauled, mutilated corpses hung up on walls. 
 And without going into too much grisly detail, these images are pretty unsettling. The character 
 models in the game look fantastic because they have unique looks and they use facial expressions. 
 Everyone wears some form of clothing that fits their walk of life in this apocalyptic nightmare, 
 though whatever they wear is dirty or in need of repair. And the game has both adults and children 
 NPCs. There are humans and there are other kinds of people called "ghouls". These ghouls are very 
 nasty-looking, almost zombie-like mutated humans that have been cast out by human society. They 
 are frightening, fearsome, and they look absolutely disgusting. Enemies come in several forms as 
 well. Early on you will encounter your first radroach, but once you find yourself in the wastes 
 you quickly realize much nastier things exist. I am not going to explore each enemy you will encounter 
 because they are worth fighting on your own. The only downside is the enemy variety is pretty limited. 
 Overall graphics come on top as the most stunning element of Fallout 3.
  
  The sounds in this game are extraordinary in both basic SFX and voice acting, and more so in the 
 voice acting thanks to an amazing cast of actors. The likes of Liam Neeson (Schindler's List) , 
 Malcolm McDowell (A Clockwork Orange) , and Ron Perlman (Hellboy) grace the marquee of Fallout 3's 
 voice over talent. Each actor does an excellent job of portraying their respective characters convincingly 
 and professionally. Other voice work is done reasonably well, even when it comes to the collection 
 of children you will interact with. Dialogue is varied with usually several choices, and the character 
 responds accordingly. Dialogue in the game is rife with explicit language in some instances, and 
 this is true even with one of the children you deal with later in the main game. The SFX also stand 
 out because they sound very real. Moving about in a decrepit building yields a whole plethora of 
 sounds sometimes from a moving enemy or just the building itself. Guns sound very good, and they 
 sound especially good during V. A. T. S. where everything slows down. There is really nothing much 
 to tell about sound, but overall it is wonderful.
  
  There is so much good about Fallout 3 that I did not discuss. Those thing left unmentioned should 
 remain for the player to experience on their own. Regardless, the game easily falls into the Fallout 
 universe as the best and most immersive installment. It is long, there is plenty to see and do, 
 and going through its amazing main story is worth your money and time. I mean, who would not want 
 to explore post nuclear apocalypse Washington, D. C.? That fact alone makes the game worthwhile. 
 Despite some flaws and clunky combat this game is one of if not the best and most easily recommendable 
 PC games this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are an updated version of Oblivion, but still look good for their age. The gameplay 
 is a cross between Elder Scrolls and AD&D, and for the most part it combines the best of both. 
 The quests are lengthy and important, and ethical decisions make a difference in the world. Instead 
 of errand boy quests, these have multiple parts and usually involve multiple paths. But don't expect 
 the entire world to change like it's Fable 3 instead of Fallout 3. Quests really only affect the 
 one place you do them in, and no one else. 
  
  One area that this game really falls down in is it's lack of factions. There is never a chance 
 to join something and help it grow. The map is scattered with small settlements, but you can't 
 become part of any of them, can't help build any of them into a city. Neither can you truly join 
 either of the two main factions in the game, let alone lead them. This being said, though, there 
 is at least 40 hours of quality gameplay here without repeating yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAGSNSTITCHES
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  This, simply, is an amazing game, no question about it. There is not one thing in it i can find 
 that would say it was money grab attempt by Bethesda. It is a game that they clearly cherished 
 from its conception to its release. Such attention to detail shows commitment. But was the title 
 one that's too big for bethesda to undertake? Fallout after all is a game with a strong fan base... 
 including myself. 
  
  Let's look at what they presented to us first. A large landscape that has so much in for one to 
 explore. While not as big as Oblivion it certainly has tons more with in the slightly smaller world 
 then oblivion had in its vastness. Now this world is not lush and vibrant like Oblivion... no bright 
 greens or pretty pinks or strong yellows; no fallout 3 is bleak, with a very dull colour palette. 
 But that's the point, it is after all post apocalyptic. I found the exploration aspect to this 
 game to be very engrossing, to an extend that i would simply get lost on my way to a specific point 
 because i decided to detour off track a bit... luckily the map is pretty useful for getting around. 
 I loved discovering new places and people. It never got dull. And it was the little things satisfied 
 me the most, for example: 
  
  on one of my detours i found an underground labyrinth with a locked door that was only accessible 
 via a password on a computer. Next to the door there was a skeleton, and beside the skeleton there 
 was a book on how to pick locks... now im a bit slow witted but when i was trying to open the door 
 myself it clicked, the poor sod came all the way in here with knowledge of a locked door and a 
 book to help him get through it only to find it didn't have a lock to pick. 
  
  It was a such a small thing to put in a game so vast, completely unnecessary, but it was an element 
 that had so much to it. It told stories of its own. And the game is littered with such little tidbits, 
 some are funny, some are kind of sad but each one tells you another small story. It's 100% immersion.
 
  
  The game itself is pretty solid. Fallout 3 is an RPG-FPS as you all should know and both elements 
 are well incorporated in the game. The combat mechanics feel a bit sluggish but is thoroughly enjoyable, 
 the rpg elements are not as complex as other rpgs but can still create as huge a range in diversity... 
 you truly can be what ever you want in this game (and people, don't nit pick, I meant within the 
 parameters of the games world, you can't be a mage okay) . One thing i have heard people complain 
 about is that its not hard to survive in the game (in regards to rationing meds and ammo) ... again 
 it is a RPG-FPS, not a survival game so its hardly worth arguing agains something that was never 
 an aspect.
  
  Survival aside, the game isn't all that hard overall, even on its highest difficulty. But is that 
 a bad thing, in fallout 2 i found that a couple of bad choices i made in regards to character developement 
 throughout the game made the final boss impossible to beat... literally, even after pumping myself 
 wit psycho, buffout and jet. It is the first time i ever had to resort to cheating to complete 
 a game. Fallout 3 is not like that... altough i haven't comprehensively tested it, I believe no 
 matter what choice you make you will be able to complete the game... of course, no one path will 
 allow you to see everything. 
  
  Oh and your level is capped at 20 ie no more levels after you reach 20... boohoo, so what... in 
 fallout 1 i never reached 20 and still finished it, and in fallout 2 i was 24 but the game still 
 forced me into cheating due to its harshness and poorly developed rpg element. Fallout 1 was the 
 better game, in mine and many other peoples opinion. Fallout 3 used Fallout 1 when looking for 
 inspiration. Fallout is Fallout 3s foundation. That's hardly a bad thing. 
  
  Now heres the big question: is Fallout 3 really Fallout? Hmm. In my opinion... a resounding yes. 
 I think they took the franchise and did quite a good job with it. They evolved it from its original 
 isometric turn based game into a fully realised and three dimensional world... its turn based combat 
 replaced by a more engrossing real time experience. Its plot is also worthy of Fallout. One merit 
 to this game is that it didn't try to surpass its predecessors. It removed itself from the first 
 2 games settings and characters so that it could create its own setting and characters that would 
 compliment the old fallouts, not replace them.
  
  So all in all it's a great game, weither or not you agree on it been truely fallout you can't deny 
 it as a quality production. Like any game it's not going to appeal to everyone. And yes it does 
 have flaws, but they can all be overlooked. As far as I'm concerned i have never played a perfect 
 game, thats becaues pefection does not exist. However games can still be great and Fallout 3 is 
 great. Don't dismiss it because someone has a grudge against Bethesda. Give it a go, rent it for 
 just a sample. But I recommend this to anyone who is fed up with the monotony of games industry 
 of today... its refreshing :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hartattk
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  After a decade of abscence from the shelves of stores another installment of Fallout has made its 
 way to gamers. Funny... i should be happy and i would be if the game were actually any good. 
 
  
  Fallout 3 does have its upsides, the introduction is momentous letting the player learn as the 
 character learns through the years, the map is quite large allowing for lots of exploration and... 
 well thats where the good ends I'm afraid.
  
  Bethesda tried to break away from the fantasy, sword wielding, spell-casting world of the Elder 
 Scroll series, but in doing so have tripped and fallen on their face. 
  
  Lets start with the weapons, there is a handy selection of weapons ranging from police batons up 
 to mini-nucular devices (ironic huh) however the potential of weapons isnt realised until the player 
 uses the VATS system. For the first 10 times that body parts get blown off enemies VATS seems like 
 fun but after 10 hours of it it becomes a thoroughly annoying nessecity. When VATS isnt used weapons 
 are excruciatingly inaccurate unless at close range, with the exception of the sniper rifle.
  
  Now lets talk music or lack there of. In fallout 3 the character can tune into radio shows, 
 there is a choice of an American patriotic channel that plays a couple of propaganda messages, 
 the American anthem and the yanke doodle song or a channel with a weird black doo-gooder who rambles 
 on a little and then plays vintage music. Not much of a choice.
  
  Finally the general stuff like the lack of transport, there is not one usable vehicle in the game 
 meaning exploration and travel between mission waypoints is long and tedious. The camera in third 
 person is awkward being situated over the shoulder rather than from the center of the head. The 
 amount of useless junk that can be picked up and for what purpose? For example burned books, why 
 bother with them, they cant be used for anything and sell for next to nothing. The fact that this 
 nuclear holocaust happened in a world similar to our in the year 2077 and yet most of the technology, 
 cars, music and art work (pepboy im looking at you) is from the 1930s-1950s.
  
  Frankly there are so many things with this game that are poorly made. The game gets so tedious 
 and boring that you just start to not care about what story there is. Fallout 3 could have been 
 a good game, think of it the storyline from Bethesda, the physics from Valve and the weapons and 
 combat tactics from Activision and Ubisoft. With all of that Fallout 3 would have lived up to the 
 hype, but Bethesda alone just cant cut it and no amount of modding (when Bethesda finally release 
 the tools) will fix this like it did Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud1911
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Well, the bethesda makes proudly prouduct. It looks very beautiful. It is the story of the caoatical 
 waste land. In this game the world is suffer from nuclear radiations. The animals are suffering from 
 radiations and become muntants and ver big newely formed animals. You will become a hunter for those 
 mutants in this game. You will go around the world and you must complete the objectives. When you 
 wear brother hood of steel armour, you will become an adapt hunter. The game has a good atmospher. I 
 will tell the good and the bad of this game.
  Good
  The game si very beautiful and have a very large enviroment. You will like to kill the mutants in 
 targetting mode. It is the best moments of this game. The game is full of mutants and they will bring 
 fear to you. The game's enviroment is very large and you can go where ever you want and the brother 
 hood of steel armour makes you 
  
  BAD
  What a very hard and boring game. When you play it over 4 hours you may be suffer from headache. The 
 game has many graphical problems and sometime it makes me to sweating and boring. A very large enviroment 
 is its weakness. It waste a lot of hours to win. You may be boring after playing for 10 hours. I spent 
 above 60 hours to win this game and this is the game's  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 starts like a true Fallout game. Sure, it looks a lot different, it plays different, 
 but it feels the same, thanks, I suspect, in no small part to Ron Perlman's intro. The character 
 creation and the "growth" tutorial are nothing short of genius, SPECIAL is still special, and the 
 vault looks like a real vault. Then your father leaves and you soon follow and when the great vault 
 grinds and screams open and you step out on the ledge and see the Wasteland for the first time, 
 it's like a Fallout fan's dream come true.
  
  This feeling lingers as you begin to explore. You soon get your first 10 mm pistol, which you'll 
 want to hug after all those years. You'll soon find the hunting rifle. You'll pick up Jet and Psycho 
 and ammo off the corpses of raiders who look incredibly close to what you remember from the first 
 2 Fallout games. You'll probably use VATS to kill them.
  
  The VATS system is fun, although it's not nearly as fun for melee weapons, since you can only aim 
 for the entire enemy, which seems weird and kind of defeats the purpose of having VATS system in 
 the first place. But I guess to be fair the real purpose of VATS here is pausing the action, which 
 is kind of a lukewarm praise. You get time to catch a breath and you save ammo with the precision 
 shooting, but the usefulness of shooting body parts is limited. There won't be any eyes or groin 
 shots; and crippled limbs will give the enemy pause, but I was disappointed to see a super mutant 
 recover and run towards me after I busted his knee cap, or to see him still be able to shoot when 
 I crippled his shooting arm, or to aim when I turned his face into a busted jar of marinara sauce. 
 Shooting at the weapon is viable when you see a missile launcher or a minigun pointed at you, but 
 it's not life-saving and you will probably achieve the desired results faster by just shooting 
 at the heads, which often seem so unhappy with the shoulders supporting them, they're just looking 
 for an excuse to fall off. After a while I actually began treating corpses with head still on them 
 as special achievements.
  
  But back to the beginning and the awe. The wind howling and blowing the swirling dust clouds across 
 a broken highway, the sound of your boots, the skeleton of a bridge to the right and the mangled 
 Washington monument far ahead to the East. Don't look for tilesets and textures, just look around. 
 It's beautiful. 
  
  Of course, it's not a painting, it's a game. Looking at it is not enough. We need something to 
 do. Well, there's plenty of that here, although you may find the pace a bit slow in the beginning 
 and the story a bit retarded throughout.
  
  Yes, the story is the main problem in Fallout 3, especially later on, when it truly begins to get 
 silly. Following a tradition started in Oblivion, Bethesda proved once again that it's very possible 
 to create an incredibly detailed world, full of interesting locations, characters, items, background 
 lore and side quests, that it's in fact possible to even capture the feel of such a game as Fallout, 
 and at the same be unable to weave a compelling tale. If you thought Oblivion's story was weak, 
 reach the ending here and weep. It's annoying on so many levels it needs to be experienced without 
 spoilers. Even Ron Perlman won't cheer you up. I'll say one thing, though. After it ends, unlike 
 Oblivion, the game will not let you back - another annoyance - no matter the outcome of the story, 
 so make sure to save. And another thing, this one a good news, as annoyed as I was with having 
 to live through that finale and then with having to reload the game from an earlier spot, it was 
 surprisingly easy to shake it off and get right back into exploring the wasteland, of which, having 
 spent over fifty hours, I still covered less than half.
  
  Now that I got that off my chest, let's return to what is good about Fallout 3. The exploration, 
 the side quests, the loot, the weapons. The map is smaller than Oblivion, but good folks at Bethesda 
 seem to have crammed about ten times more locations into it, and there are plenty of cool items 
 to look for and cool characters to encounter. The characters will give you quests that are put 
 together better than the main story, although that, as I've mentioned, is not saying much. It also 
 needs to be said here that some of the story shortcomings mentioned above leak into character interaction. 
 For example, a mild spoiler here: a certain computer character will gladly undo everything it did 
 for the last couple of hundred years following a total of about four lines of simple - if not dumb 
 - dialogue choices. Another notable absent is the humor of the original games. People are rude, 
 but they aren't funny. There are amusing moments here and there, but on the whole the capital dwellers 
 are a lot more uptight and less imaginative than their Californian brethren.
  
  But trust me, most of the quests are fun. The loot is also fun. There may be actually too much 
 of it. I have two lockers full: one of weapons and ammo I've collected which I am not going to 
 use, the other of random items I thought were cool. 
  
  You will meet characters whom you may talk into joining you. The most famous and heavily marketed 
 of these, Dogmeat, actually becomes a bit of a hassle as you level up, as he always gets targeted 
 first and frequently dies, forcing you to reload. I ended up leaving him at the house late in the 
 game (you get a house and you can buy items to, if not customize it, then at least fill it with) . 
 When I came back later, a much more capable Super Mutant in tow, the dog was gone. Don't know what 
 happened to him, but I'm sure he'll turn up at some point, maybe in the sequel.
  
  The combat, aside from what's already been said about VATS, is pretty decent. The slow-mo animations 
 rotate and don't really get old no matter how many times you've seen them. The enemies aren't super 
 bright, but they display semi-smart behavior: they duck behind cover, toss nades, and retreat from 
 you if you try to rush them. There are mines and bear traps to step into. Old cars catch fire and 
 trigger small thermonuclear explosions, which are pretty neat, if improbable. Even Fat Man, a mini 
 nuke launcher advertised early in the campaign, isn't as cheesy as I thought it would be. It's 
 actually about the only decent weapon against a certain creature you'll meet and also fun to shoot. 
 There's also a good arsenal of less goofy unique weapons in the game, and on top of that you can 
 make weapons yourself after buying or discovering blueprints. 
  
  Besides combat you will engage in such minigames as lock picking and hacking, both of which are 
 a lot more fun "in person" and add significantly to the overall feel of the game. In fact, I got 
 more feedback on my character's improvement from two of those skills than from countless shootouts.
 
  
  All right, so as not to turn this into something that takes you as long to read as it will take 
 you to finish the game, I'll be wrapping up.
  
  Fallout 3 is most definitely a Fallout game, although it's not up to the level of its predecessors. 
 There's a lot to enjoy here: the atmosphere, the wonderful nuclear desert and the mysteries it 
 conceals, the loot, the side quests. I'll continue exploring it myself, as I picked up the explorer 
 perk at level 20, which reveals all the locations on the map. And I just now visited Bethesda ruins 
 for the first time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2point5boogers
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This really has nothing to do with fallout, Bethesda added superficial things like the pipboy, 
 the BOS, Enclave, ect. but failed to capture any feeling of desprate struggle to survive in the 
 post apoc. world. 
  
  The perks come down to +skill most of the time, if you played the first games, taking a +skill 
 perk was dumb, there were a lot better choices.
  
  The writing is high school level, the voice acting is uninspired,.
  
  Honestly, id rather read 
 bad dialogue than have it read to me terribly.
  
  The thing that really irks me is, how this game got so many 9-10s. I simply do not understand it. 
 
  
  Too many gameplay features seem rushed. One example is companions.
  
  All in all, for an oblivion mod, id give this game a 10, it is a definate improvememtn over that 
 game.
  
  For a Fallout game. HA. terrible. I uninstalled it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggyisland
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the fallout series, but I am now definitely a fan... may be I should give Fallout 1 
 & 2 a try? Fallout 3 is one of the finest RPG I've played in years. Besides what makes an RPG a 
 good RPG - storyline, skills and equipments etc., Fallout 3 has a fantastic combat system. I've 
 never really enjoyed gore and bloody mess, but I enjoyed every single battle in Fallout 3. The 
 few things that stop me from giving it a 10/10 are the occasional exaggerated rag doll effect, 
 some stiff animations and not being able to see my character in the inventory screen. It would 
 also be nice if the songs are less repetitive. I loved the songs, and I want more of them!... well 
 these are just minor issues that I can easily overlook. In summary, for the RPG fans out there, 
 give Fallout 3 a go. Not an RPG fan? Shame on you. Well, enough chit-chat, I've got pants to explode! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game world is surprisingly huge. Somewhat less so once you realize that your movement is constrained 
 to predetermined paths through the rubble and subways of the wastes, but still, the detail they 
 put into each area is impressive. Most of the maps are designed like mini stories or vignettes. 
 They may or may not have a puzzle or mystery associated with them, but they all tend to tell a 
 story of a band of people that lived or live there. Now for the problems:
  -Rewards for solving puzzles are usually underwhelming (i. e. a couple bucks in a safe that took 
 you all over the building to find the password) .
  -VATS mode makes killing pretty easy (yet still rewarding!) ; some people try to play the whole 
 game without it, but you end up using a lot more ammo this way, which can be a problem, especially 
 early on when ammo is hard to come by.
  -I hit max level about half way through the plot. Although I did take the bonus xp perk, I only 
 did the side quests that jumped out at me. Hitting max that early made me much less interested 
 in doing anything extra.
  -The "best" equipment is available pretty early on. You find that you can pick up a few guns early 
 on in the game, and you basically don't upgrade after that. There's not much to spend money on, 
 and you can easily collect enough vendor trash to trade for the few things there are worth buying, 
 so there's really no reason to go exploring after the first 10 levels or so. There are exceptions, 
 such as power armor and plasma rifles, but you can't really get them till end game, so they don't 
 count.
  -I explored maybe 10% of the world by the end. Since I was awash in money, equipment, and xp, there's 
 no incentive to explore. Really a shame, since they put so much work into all the maps and areas. 
 To bad they didn't put more work into the balance and loot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is a worthy sequel to the originals that were made with it's share of both positives 
 and negatives that give you an overall enjoyable experience. Personally I played through as a do-gooder 
 the first time through and found the game to be most set up for that type of character from both 
 the overall world and the story. My evil character seemed out of place. I also had a third character 
 I had fun with where I just simply killed everything in my path, everything that could be killed 
 anyway.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8
  For the most part the graphics are very nice and play well into the game. However there are some 
 parts that just look horrific, most notably in the rubble. They try to give the illusion that the 
 piles of rubble around you are actually there where instead it is a near perfect dome on the ground 
 with a 3D looking texture on it. Which looks good from 1 angle, but when close to it, then it sticks 
 out like big black eye.
  
  CONTROLS: 9
  Simple to get a hang of with only a couple little annoyances. First I wish that you could just 
 use your mouse scroll to change weapons, You can pretty easily go through a battle without needing 
 to change weapons but if you are ammo conscious then you want to be able to change weapons without 
 having to going into your inventory. They did try to fix this by setting it up so that you can 
 assign your weapons to your number keys, but I found it annoying to remember what I had assigned 
 where because I would use many different weapons, that would word well with just 2 or 3 guns but 
 no more.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8
  I have to admit, I was rather disappointed with the missions that are given to you in the game. 
 With only I think 16 misc quests there is not enough there to give it a high replay value. There 
 are multiple ways to complete each quest however there is no real mystery to the outcome because 
 you are told your options and what will happen whichever way you choose. This takes away from the 
 replay value of the game IMO. Another thing I disliked was the fact that you cannot get downtown 
 without going through the sewers, this game is suppose to be about an open world and freedom to 
 do as you choose, but with giant walls of poorly placed rubble blocking the entire downtown area 
 in a big circle really takes away from the immersion.
  
  SOUND: 9.5
  Creative sounds were used and I like the voices used for each of the characters a lot. I only with 
 that you felt more of impact with each of the weapons you use in the game, for such a gorey game 
 they showed brutal impact and looked spectacular and you could really feel what was happening, 
 but the sound just didn't match up to the visual effects.
  
  STORY: 8
  Nothing to special here but it was something that hasn't been done before, otherwise I would have 
 given it a 7. You can skip ahead if you know where to go but is otherwise very linear and again, 
 has very little replay value to it. When I replayed the game the main story was more of an annoyance 
 that I simply had to do.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: N/A
  
  FINAL: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niccodemus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of oblivion you'll love this game though this game doesn't have all the lush landscape 
 as oblivion it does have great side quests an ok main quest on as you come out Vault 101 you see 
 a massive part of the destroyed lands with a small town in plain view. At first you don't know 
 what to do where to go or maybe even how to use your pip boy to its full capacity. The first place 
 I actually ran into was the school where there were enemies with major guns other than BB guns 
 or a 10-mm pistol which I found my hands very useful at the time until I took their guns. After 
 killing about four enemies I left and ran into Megaton a city with an active nuke sitting in the 
 center. Then there is a sheriff that comes up to you as soon as you enter the city that looks like 
 he came from a western movie which I thought was pretty funny. 
  Now to get to combat VATS is actually a great accessory for a RPG and anyone that like seeing people 
 get killed in slo-mo which has entertained me. It gives you a percentage of your accuracy and a 
 choice of which limb you want to shoot at unless you're using a grenade of course. What I found 
 interesting is that you shoot their leg they limp, or shoot their arm or weapon and the weapon will 
 fall, and then the head you shoot it and their accuracy will lower. The action in the game gets 
 fun when you get better guns myself i use the combat shotgun it gets the job done and for long 
 distance the hunting rfle or sniper are great. 
  Quests are like oblivion you'll find them but you have to explore the wastes if you keep to the 
 main quest you'll finish the game in no time. I suggest exploreing the game before finishing the 
 main quest because you'll be upset at the things you miss mostly since there is a fast travel which 
 isnt bad but you'll miss a lot. Go into all building its fun some are trap rigged to the teeth, 
 some plain strange, and some are war zones that you are stuck in the middle of.
  All and all this game isnt perfect but what games really are its a must have for anyone that like 
 1st person shooters, 3rd person shooters or rpgs
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BartRaz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls V: Wasteland - it should be enough to say.
  As a seperate game should be fine, but as another part of Fallout it is a total dissapointment.
 
  True power lays in MODs by the help of them I hope people will make this game as it should have 
 been made from the beginning. In the original this game looks like made by some du.. b as. es.
  Firstly - 20 lvl cap?? I reached it before exploring 1/4 map and even haven't touched main quest. 
 So I AKS why there are so many location while it is useless to explore them?? 
  Secondly V. A. T. S is a crap and the Action Points, when I used all AP they're recovering very slow 
 while all othehr mobs shoot many times, ok I guess VATS is used only for cool look, so don't say 
 it stands for any strategic, and god mode on while VATS (10% received damage) . 
  Another aspects are like, dumb weapon usage while in VATS (5 times quicker lose durability!!!) , 
 or you can shot 5 times with combat shotgun in one's head (without any helmet) and it's still stands 
 alive. Minigun is a joke here, has a firepower of common machinegun, only difference is that you 
 can fire longer without reloading. Best weapons you can acquire pretty fast, your skills are nothing 
 since its real time so don't bother, you think VATS works good, well when you got better skills 
 you have better % but while using sniper rifle you won't see any different between sniper or pistol... 
 Power Armor?? You can be killed in power armor by common rat, it's really ridiculous. Game is completely 
 without humour, no comparison to REAL Fallouts.
  On the other hand in this world you can really feal a post nuclear atmosphere, graphic and sounds 
 are great (background music is a piece of crap comparing to the REAL Fallouts, you feel like playing 
 Morro or Obli, I suggest appropriate MODs with original ones) . Real time game sometimes is an advantage, 
 you can play sniper and killing mobs from away, but I have to mention here, it still needs improvements 
 from modders, as I said previously, everytjhing in this game needs modding, to start with equipment 
 description, through weapon firepower/ armor class/ difficulty level (which is by far too easy 
 in original version) , movement speed, AI, items/weapons/amm/stimpacs occurrence through the wasteland 
 (now there are too many of them) , skills needs to be remade that it should be possible to have 
 more than 100 or skill per level decreased to max 10 per level. Level cap to at least 40 and perks 
 should be obtained every 2-4 levels, not in the way it is now, each level. Perks should be changed 
 to give some drawbacks too, not only pluses. Marks on map should be removed (it's done here like 
 in Oblivion - literally for dumbs) you can go from the beginning to the end only by looking at 
 the map where to go (Idiots warning) .
  OK enough, I could write for a whole day about stupidity in this game which has been made by Bethesda, 
 I hope they will allow modders to change many of them with Construction Set (CS, SDK as you wish) 
 and I hope it will be released soon (it must be released..) , not everything is possible now for 
 modding.
  
  Cya in the Wasteland!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crookin_Insane
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a great game. Though if you played the first two then you have to remember that this 
 game isn't them. 
  
  The graphics for Fallout 3 are great and fit right in with the theme of a world after the war.
 
  
  Fallout 3 starts in a unique way, it starts during your characters birth. Its basic tutorials are 
 done in the form of the achievements of a baby. Like when you are learning to walk it isn't just 
 your first steps in the world, it is also the first steps of your character.
  
  Right out of the vault you have lots of freedom. Though there is a trick travel, you can't actually 
 use it until you go to the places. This means there is lots of things you will find on the way 
 to other places. During this exploration you will come across many people and creatures who are 
 trying to kill you, whether it be out of the need to survive or just plain blood-lust.
  
  The towns in Fallout 3 are usually made of scrap metal and have no people that try to bring justice, 
 instead there is good karma and bad karma, which are gained through various things. The game has 
 lots of choices, in quest you have multiple ways of getting the rewards. Such as doing the quest, 
 lying and killing.
  
  The combat in Fallout 3 is fun, but most of the time you will be using V. A. T. S. as your guns seem 
 to be less effective if you don't and on some occasions you will get to see a limb go flying.
 
  
  Fallout 3 is well worth how much you pay and is just a fun game to play. The game has plenty of 
 replay value after you finish it, as there will always be places to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracon600
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, but when I am in the wastelands I can't help but feel alone despite all the content 
 provided. While I would love to talk about the greatness of this game, I would rather talk about 
 how I wished it was multi player. Imagine a wasteland filled with real people where everyone chooses 
 a faction. Take for example I joined the slavers. While someone else joined the good guys or the 
 bounty hunters where their purpose was to hunt and kill me. But of course we would have our brothers 
 in each group, as each faction would have several hundred human players in each faction. Forget 
 World of Warcraft, I lost interest in it within a week, with its kiddie quest and lack of blood, 
 gore, language, and servers populated with three year olds. I mean comon!, give me a Fallout 3 
 MMO, now I would gladly pay 20 dollars a month to play that. That would be epic. Sadly, I guess 
 I will keep dreaming about this concept while MMO's for three year olds dominate the market, as 
 I doubt Bethesda would do it. But if they did, now would be the time as this game hit big. I bought 
 it the first day it came out, and was not disappointed. But I have been taking it slow, as I know 
 once I beat the game, there will be little reason to replay it more than twice. A MMO would last 
 for years.
  If you agree, left Bethesda know. Don't pretend like you don't think that would be great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazePower
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is my first experience with a Fallout game, so I had no expectations, but I must say 
 I got positively surprised.
  
  The game literally starts from scratch, with you being a baby where you have to choose your main 
 stats and just learning to know the world and controls. After a few short missions in your vault, 
 Vault 101, you get to see the outside world for the first time and this is (although graphically 
 beautiful) not a happy sight. Everything is a smoking ruin and in the horizon is nothing but a 
 barren wasteland.
  
  From there, you are pretty much on your own. You can do whatever you want, and go wherever you 
 want. My first encounter with another creature was a fierce dog. Sadly for the dog, it chose the 
 wrong person to attack and it was down after 5 bullets to the brain. I went to the nearest town-looking 
 place, only to find burned down and destroyed homes and a lonely robot flying around. You can walk 
 around searching the houses for equipment and medical supplies. After a while you find some weapons 
 and start meeting people and then it gets even more fun. The quests are fun and they very rarely 
 get boring or repetitive. You can do it all in your own pace, so if you want to explore something 
 first, you might just end up getting another quest.
  
  As soon as you have gained a few levels you pretty much feel you can do whatever you want - I definitely 
 get the feeling of total freedom. Unlike Oblivion, you don't get hunted to death by guards in every 
 city if you steal or kill innocent people - you just loose Karma, which means that some people 
 will like you less, and others like you more - depending if they are good or bad themselves. In 
 short, you are free to break into a house and slaughter those living in there and then loot the 
 house and corpses afterwards - or, you can help people by healing wounds, giving water or just 
 taking rescue quests. This game have a fast travel system like Oblivion (in Oblivion I used this 
 feature no matter where I wanted to go) but in Fallout 3 I actually enjoy walking everywhere on 
 foot. Just knowing that I might find some supplies, weapons or a mutant in the distance that I 
 can take out with my sniper rifle. There is just so much in the environment that will catch your 
 attention, that you dont know where to begin - and this just ensures a longer playing time and 
 replay value.
  
  In combat, you can use a targeting system called V. A. T. S. In this mode, you stop time and can choose 
 what part of the enemy you want to shoot at. You can aim at legs to cripple the enemy or simply 
 the head, making the brains splatter all over - very cool to watch in slow motion. Although it's 
 cool, I normally only use this mode in emergencies, since I prefer fast paced action.
  
  All in all it's an awesome game worth every penny. Of course it got it's bugs like all new games, 
 mostly crashes if you use a newer graphics driver (in my case) or if you bind some controls with 
 keys that contain special characters. These bugs keeps me from giving it a 10. But I really enjoy 
 it and im sure everyone is having a blast with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  This review compares FO3 to the Elder Scroll series (Oblivion) , since anyone who has played both 
 will easily spot the code/gameplay shared here.
  summary: An inferior, but still good, cousin of Oblivion set in an post-apocalyptic setting.
 
  
  
  The good:
  Good [enough] graphics - it fits the genre of this game.
  Extremely satisfying gameplay here and there (great dialog and quest integration on occasion, certain 
 fights, etc.)
  As what appears to be a unique talent of Bethesda only: consistently good voice acting, even in 
 a part-silly [intentional] game such as this. Every game they produce is good in this category.
 
  
  The bad:
  -The graphics are low on volume: trimmed down clearly to help consoles (in texture "volume"/size) , 
 and volume (number of different textures, etc.) ... or maybe production schedule
  -The AI appears to not have evolved - at all - since Oblivion. It retains all of the extremely 
 annoying properties - e. g. comrade's ignoring your orders and running off to fight an enemy safely 
 locked in a room they can't get out of, enemies spotting you, while you are in stealth, from far, 
 far away, through walls, etc. and magically summoning every enemy within R radius (I guess even 
 molerats have wakietalkies, heh) . On occasion (just like Oblivion) , your comrade, or even the enemy, 
 can get permanently stuck, as well.
  -V. A. T. S : at least for stealth/sniper based characters, this should be the #1 selling point/use 
 - what a disappointment. It is very clear this system is completely broken. Example: by entering 
 V. A. T. S, you frequently miss 100% (even if the percentage to hit listed says 95%) because the actual 
 hit calculation incorrectly calculated occlusion: the shot is blocked by a nearby wall, or even 
 your own arm, where, from you gun and eye view, is clearly not the case. It is an occlusion issue, 
 as, tests where I load the same point and stand up (should make no difference) ... suddenly give 
 me a 95% hit rate. Further, damage from your weapon is clearly distance based ... and for some 
 weapons, is clearly off.
  -Items in the game are - in general - more repetitive than almost any other rpg game. You are selling/picking 
 up things like sensor modules day 1, and day end. There's little to no progression, other than 
 power armor, which is a major disappointment to anyone who quested enough beforehand to find comparable 
 - if not superior - armor. Add in repair bills, and the never-ending scavenging for caps/ammo becomes 
 old very quickly
  -As a rp character, although there's variance (somewhat) in good vs. evil choices ... variance 
 in skills and other areas are nowhere near that found in Elder Scrolls. In particular, fighting 
 style: due to lack of ammunition in the game (or some types of weapons earlier on) and other factors, 
 almost all reviews in this area comment on the waste of big-guns, some even on energy weapons ... 
 which makes almost everyone a small gun fighter early on (you can try to go melee only ... not 
 recommended at all)
  -The game is ... almost too non-linear. One could argue "nonlinear" as a selling point these days 
 is a way over used and abused term and review point (e. g. by gamespot) ... almost to the point 
 of being meaningless, but in this game, the non-linearity is extreme enough that you will miss 
 a large portion of the side-quests unless you actively look for them. There are some areas not 
 even in the main quest line - and perhaps not even in a side quest - which appear to have far larger/action-packed 
 fights going on. This - doing side quests/the nonlinearity - is "minorly" bad only in that, doing 
 this in most portions of the game is way out of character, given the point of the side quests vs. 
 the point of the main quest (for the Elder Scroll series, this was not normally the case: side 
 quests were more integrated, or, "appropriate" as a character choice)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarb001
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 made a big impression on me. Not only are its graphics fantastic, but the atmosphere 
 is superb and the world is fully realized, although it could do with a little more meat. Some of 
 the best parts of the game are not in the (short and rather stupid) main quest, but in trekking 
 across the wastes, discovering ruined locations and scavenging for anything that may help you survive. 
 In fact, the few parts of the main quest that I enjoyed were when we are forced to travel to rather 
 distant locations on foot, allowing for exploration and looting along the way.
  
  The gunplay is great, it feels like an RPG because of the many stats that govern your shooting, 
 but it can easily be played like any typical first person shooter, albeit with more inaccurate 
 weapons. However, doing so you would miss out on the VATS, the coolest innovation to come out of 
 this game. Press V to effectively slow time to a crawl and select any body part you want to damage 
 (be it head for max damage or legs to slow them down, or even shooting thier weapons from thier 
 hands!) and then sit back and enjoy as your choice of target becomes pulp or even gets shredded 
 off. Intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mansoor6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played, mainly because of the phenomenal story and characters 
 in the game. The game is engrossing and addictive, with an open world setting and amazing graphics. 
 The weapons and items are vast and fun. My only gripe is that it was too short. This in my humble 
 opinion is the best single player game I have ever played. It is open ended and deeply immersive, 
 you really connect with the characters and story, the voice acting is the best I have heard in 
 a game, the locations are not that varied since its set in a nuclear post apocalyptic washington 
 DC, but they are rendered beautifully and they have a dark foreboding atmosphere. this is not oblivion 
 with guns as some people have stated. IF you are an RPG fan and you are tired of all the hack and 
 slash , same old dwarf and elf linear D&D stuff, and you are looking for something new and deeply 
 rewarding then look no further, This is a game that would be appreciated by older gamers more so 
 keep that in mind, if you are a fan of fallout series and first person shooters then this is a 
 must have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff7nuke
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 immerses you into a completely new world, with a beautiful story line and voice acting. 
 
  Requires a lot of exploring, so it's not all action all the time.
  If you can imagine Oblivion with guns in a post apocalyptic environment you would have Fallout 
 3. 
  The gameplay may be a bit repetitive and requires a LOT of walking around, so patience is a must. 
 With the ability to customize your character and the ability to play as either good or evil, based 
 on the karma system, Fallout 3 offers hours upon hours of gameplay. 
  Fallout 3 immerses the character in a post-apocalyptic world, as a vault dweller. Someone who's 
 been locked away from the madness and is once again released into the chaos that has spawned from 
 an era of war. This game differs from it's predecessors in that it does not use the conventional 
 turn-based strategy required to do battle. Some may be disappointed. The fighting is more like 
 it was in Oblivion with a twist, you can use the VATS system to target certain body parts of enemies, 
 which is a great tool to use against moving enemies. 
  In the end, Fallout 3 delivers an out of the world experience but may only appeal to certain gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is official 3rd in series of the Fallout games, set in nuclear holocaust post apocalyptic 
 USA. The main plot is based upon the player's character's father escaping the fallout shelter and 
 you must pursue in his footsteps and uncover why he escaped. 
  
  The game is playable via first person or 3rd person camera, it introduces an interactive inventory, 
 quest management system and a targeting assistance ( V. A. T. S) aka "high tech bullet-time". The 
 opening sequence, which acts like an interactive cut scene is well done as your character grows 
 from childhood to 19 years old, at which you forcibly escape the confines of the vault into the 
 "Wasteland" in search of you father. This is where the game beings, you can follow the main quest 
 or wander around and pickup side quests to earn items and experience points. While i must warn 
 that the main quest is quite short, (8-10 hours to complete the game) , however the side quests 
 are plenty enough to keep most players entertained. There is just too much detail to describe in 
 a review, suffice to say the artists and developers did spend a good amount of time sculpting the 
 world and characters that populate it, the atmosphere is rich and inviting. That alone makes this 
 title worth playing just for walking around in the world and absorbing it all.
  
  The RPG aspect relies on upgrading various skills, i. e weapons, repair, bartering etc. You can 
 only upgrade after leveling up, which is easy to do because the world is very forgiving in terms 
 of earning Experience Points. Hacking computer terminals and picking locks for example will earn 
 you plenty of points, so will discovering new landmarks and coercing characters in speech. This 
 mechanism will allow you to go from fledgling to wasteland god in a short amount of time. 
  
  The game world is very large and traveling to undiscovered locations can sometimes be daunting. 
 With no forms of vehicles available, all travel must be done on foot, at the game's default slow 
 run speed. The addition of vehicles would certainly be welcome. The run of the mill enemies such 
 as molerats, scorpions and raiders become easy game once you have a good supply of ammo and weapons 
 skill, the hardest enemies suddenly become just average because a couple of shots from a good weapon 
 to the head through the VATS system will put them down.
  
  In conclusion, I thought Fallout 3 is an amazing experience, with plenty of locations and fun people 
 to meet, it will entertain for many hours, thus being worth the price of admission.
  
  report card:
  
  +graphics
  +sounds
  +world design
  +weapons
  -main quest
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BimC
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The graphics is outdated. The textures look like that are low resolution and especially the bump 
 maps are so bad and clunky it reminds me of texture mapping 1998. Besides the bad textures in Fallout 
 3, you will also find that the graphics is repetitive. The textures are placed without any respect 
 for the surrounding elements and textures and looks like they have been placed randomly. It also 
 seams the only had 2 colours to work with and decided to make the sky blue and the rest of the 
 world... yep brown. Then there is the 50's look. Its just bad and doesn't ad anything to the game 
 at all. As an artist you are supossed to look around you. Some how they missed that fact when creating 
 the graphics for Fallout.
  
  The sound is acceptable. There is a constant sound of the wind whirling on the ground which is 
 good and believable. Besides that, there is nothing to mention.
  
  The Ai in Fallout 3 is plain stupid. You don't have to use tactics to lure or sneak in on your 
 opponents. Just go as close as you possible can en empty as many clips in their head as you can. 
 They will even follow you in to a room with only one door to take you down with a gun instead of 
 throwing at grenade in there.
  
  So I don't care if it similar to another game. Point is that Fallout 3 is crap. The graphics is 
 ugly and the game play is repetitive. AI is stupid and characters act like idiots. The VATS looks 
 nice the first 3 times and then you would wish they would have skipped it. There is nothing about 
 Fallout 3 that impress me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigTex001
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the Elder Scrolls you'll like Fallout 3 - similar interface and game play style 
 with similarly irritating mini-games (hacking computers, lock picking) .
  
  Accumulating weapons, armor, items, etc. is relatively easy but no obvious place to store things 
 other than the ground when you hit your weight limits (at least I have not found any great method 
 yet) .
  
  Story line is interesting and side quests can be entertaining as well but for some of the annoying 
 beasties that get in your way.
  
  Graphics are good (if you've got the right card) . Navigation and maps are a bit junky - would have 
 been nice to have a large map view of the entire game, but so far it's manageable.
  
  Game intro of setting up your character takes a bit long so save before you exit Vault 101 and 
 you can always redesign your character if you want to skip the initial nonsense.
  
  Energy weapons tend to be more exciting than the projectiles, but finding enough ammo is a bit 
 of a pain. The Fat Boy small tactical nuke is fun to play with as well.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  I love the first two Fallout games, and even though this is nothing like the first two I still 
 like this one too
  
  This game (like Fallout 1+2) offers lots of choices that can change the game and the story of the 
 wastelands. The first city you'll probably see offers you the first great choice: Arm the nuke 
 in the city and blow it up when you're far away, or disarm the nuke and save the city. Or what 
 about becoming a slaver? Or just kill all the slavers? The choice is yours, and what you chose 
 can change your options later in the game
  
  The game world is huge, even after 30+ hours there's still a lot to see, don't expect to see everything 
 the game has to offer. While a big part of the area is wasteland, there are many small hidden surprises 
 here and there. This could be anything from "meeting" an annoying guy whos just keeps on talking 
 and wants to blow up the city with mini-nukes, to meeting a familiar face from earlier Fallout 
 games, who has seen better days
  
  The visuals are great, not "Crysis amazing", but still great. Seing the half-destroyed capitol 
 building in the background looks great
  
  But the game is not without it's fair share of problems:
  Expect crashes or freezes, as it happens 
 now and then (so be sure to save often)
  
  The VATS system (used for targeting enemies) is not as smart as it wants us to think. E. g. if you're 
 standing near a wall, VATS could tell you there's a 80% chance of hitting the enemy, but when you 
 actually fire you could end up firing all shots into the wall
  
  The game has fast-travel, but unfortunately it only works on the main map, not the local map. It 
 would have been nice to fast-travel e. g. from your house in Megaton to the store (after having 
 walked that distance 50+ times you kinda get tired of that)
  
  But even if the game has a few downsides, the game is very addictive like the earlier Fallout games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Implosions
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I have found this game to be, not surprisingly, one of my favorite games of the year. I've played 
 many FPS's in my time, and this stands out like no other. Many who have reviewed the game have 
 given it a 9, or a 10, and I can agree with 'just about' every positive aspect these other user 
 critics have mentioned. There are also 'the bads', as in most games.
  
  This game is all-around addictive; it will have you wanting to complete quests and kill everything 
 in sight, especially with V. A. T. S.; gain the XP needed to get to the next level, then go out and 
 put your new perks to good use. Oh, and the difficulty stays the same throughout - the enemies 
 won't be level 20 while you're halfway across the map at level 5. You can also manually change 
 the difficulty at any time during the game.
  
  I'll start with the good, as I figure people want to hear the good details, in order to cushion 
 the blow of the bad. If your system is equipped to handle this game at it's maximum quality setting, 
 you will see the detail, intricacy, and effort put into this game. It's a vast world, and wherever 
 you go, there will always be something to catch the eye, whether it's an item you can interact 
 with, or the details of your surroundings. The load times were extremely fast (less than 5 secs. 
 max. for me) , for any building, fast travel, etc. This is one of my pet peeves, and Bethesda worked 
 wonders for me.
  
  Then there's V. A. T. S. system. I love this system because it gives you control over which area of 
 the enemy at which you would like to maim. This innovative targeting system is in a class of it's 
 own; it not only gives you control of where you'd like to shoot, but it also helps you to conserve 
 ammunition by allowing you to choose how much to shoot. 
  
  The science and lockpick skills are an added dose of fun to the game; much improved from Oblivion's 
 lockpicking. This time, they give you a door knob, screwdriver, and a bobby pin to work your magic 
 with. The science skill gives you an opportunity to put your wits to use, if you're good with words 
 and puzzles. The bobbleheads were a nice little addition - sweet skill rewards for being the 'adventurous' 
 type. They're normally hidden in side passages or somewhere out-of-the-way.
  
  If you've read any of the other reviews, im sure you know what else is coming as far as good. Now 
 i'm going to relay the bad. I always find it much easier to nit-pick, anyway.
  
  As has been mentioned before, Bethesda hasn't done much in their shady area of character mechanics. 
 Most of them still move rather stiffly, but are well-designed. Also, i've encountered many problems 
 with enemy AI, where they would be running to pursue you, then get caught running into an obstacle 
 until you can activate V. A. T. S. and head-shot them or blow off a limb or two. This would typically 
 happen outside in the wastelands, though.
  
  I mentioned the graphic effects of the game being astounding, but before I was able to tweak my 
 system, it was running a bit choppy with the graphics turned up to full blast (and i'm definetely 
 not running an out-dated system) . Lower the quality of your graphics, and you'll see the performance 
 improve, as with any game. It won't matter much anyway, you'll be having more fun killin' the baddies 
 and grabbin' the phat lewts to care much.
  
  The MAIN aspect of the game that killed me was the level cap. I was only able to reach level 20, 
 with so many more perks to be able to choose from. This frustrated me, as I wanted to work combinations 
 but had no more room to level, and couldn't change my perks. This is what eventually led me to 
 restarting 3 times. The beginning makes for a good story set-up if you haven't played before, but 
 afterwad it was painful to restart a character. The quests after reaching the level cap seemed 
 so pointless, as I couldn't gain any more XP.
  
  This game had a very Oblivion-like feel to it, with the controls remaining the same, for the most 
 part. The way objects are looted and stored, the way weapons were used (except for V. A. T. S.) , and 
 the way quests were accomplished and the map traversed brought me back to the hundred hours I had 
 spent playing oblivion. This is truly what had me done with this game, all the while thinking to 
 myself 'haven't I done this somewhere before?'.
  
  Overall, the Oblivion feel aside, this was a very uniqe game in many ways. It had me playing non-stop 
 until I had beaten it the first time through. The late 50's / early 60's feel of the game had me 
 drawn to it in some mysterious fashion. Definetely something I will keep on the shelves for years 
 to come, though I may not neccessarily continue to play.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Action RPGs with amazing exploration and quest choices don't come along often. Fallout 3 is a great 
 experience and it feels a lot like Oblivion with guns, while this can be a weakness for some people, 
 it comes across as a big strength. The key differences between Fallout 3 and Oblivion rest in the 
 side quests and combat. Fallout 3 features longer side quests that are more interesting and contain 
 more miniature story elements than most of the side quests in Oblivion. The quests that you may 
 stumble across in the capital wasteland are better than the fairly linear (sometimes tedious) story 
 quests. It's important to keep the story quests on the backburner until you have exhausted your 
 exploration quota, otherwise you will be seeing a diluted experience.
  
  The story in Fallout 3 centers on a child (you) brought up Vault 101 whom escapes in search of 
 his father who has left the Vault for unknown reasons. As it develops you'll uncover more about 
 the inhabitants and threats of the wasteland. You will be offered numerous choices for quests, 
 deemed good or bad on the karma scale which will eventually change the way you are treated. But 
 the karma only really deadens the choice from players, who are told in no uncertain terms what 
 they just did (however right it felt) was wrong, this includes pick pocketing. The combat in Fallout 
 3 is reasonably good, basic shooting mechanics may be frustrating when weapons miss from short 
 ranges but VATS makes the combat effective and satisfying. VATS is basically slow motion targeting 
 assistance, using it to focus on weak points, weapons or damaged limbs greatly increases your chance 
 of success. The VATS also highlights just how gory and violent Fallout 3 is, heads are blown off 
 frequently, eyes are expelled from minced head tissue and dead bodies are often propelled great 
 distances into the sky in slow motion from grenades and heavy weapons.
  
  What makes Fallout 3 so engaging though is the exploration, you can stumble upon cities, uncover 
 new missions that can be completed multiple ways or maybe just meet outlanders willing to trade. 
 Following a game guide probably won't capture much of the thrill of finding a small outpost of 
 terrified humans protecting themselves from a mutated family. Or perhaps the discovery of a town 
 whom regularly engages in the thrills of slavery? But slavery you say, "Is evil", as you pull out 
 your trusty flamer and lay waste to the slavers, freeing the innocents, leaving the slave town 
 free from evil and open for looting if you so desire. This is just one example of many different 
 approaches that appear when you journey to locations not set in stone by your main quest list. 
 It feels like you are really part of a world with a lot of interesting things going on and you 
 are excited to see what might be next.
  
  The game on Normal is a little bit hard to start with in which case fights against a few enemies 
 will drain you of health and ammo, stinting your progress. But as the game progresses, you gain 
 caps, better weapons and perks, near the end following the main story quests the game becomes quite 
 easy and in some cases you will hardly need to press fire depending on your past choices. The story 
 quests give you easy access to higher level weaponry too, they practically fall at your feet, accelerating 
 the upgrade progress you've been working hard on previously and hampering the game. 
  
  Unfortunately at the end of the main quest the game doesn't let you continue playing like in Oblivion, 
 so you'll either need to load an earlier save to complete those unfinished quests, or start again. 
 Thankfully starting again will show you the randomness and variety possible, which may be observed 
 via quick loading anyway. Fallout 3 does let players create a few custom weapons, using items found 
 in the world and sets of schematics they can build some very handy weapons. The inside levels including 
 offices and subway tunnels can be a little confusing at times, and can take some time to exit, 
 the blurry map doesn't help. The downtown area is packed full of super mutants and many locations 
 to discover; often the locations will be restricted from direct travel requiring some circling 
 to arrive at your destination. Fast travel from any found location when no enemies are near ensures 
 there is no tedious backtracking when delivering items or finishing quests.
  
  Fallout 3 is just what the mad scientist ordered for fans of Oblivion but with hopes of a darker, 
 futuristic setting. The combat becomes solid with the VATS, the side quests are unique, deep and 
 well put together. While there is probably not as much end content as Oblivion the existing quests 
 will be more intriguing for those appreciative of the setting. The main story quests involving 
 your father are shallow, short, paced badly and a poor representation of the rest of the game. 
 The game may very well keep you thinking about it when not playing - what quest will I do next? 
 How should I approach this situation? Where should I explore next? Ultimately the game is much 
 like Oblivion with a very different setting and very big guns.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Fallout was one of the most memorable games on the PC for me. Fallout 2 continued the genre very 
 nicely. The idea of a Post Apocalypse was very appealing in a very macabre way. Fallout Tactics 
 dropped the ball slightly in the fact that it just didn't gel right for me, still enjoyed it though.
 
  
  In general the games are very similar, leave the Vault where you spend your childhood and find 
 your way in the world that has been decimated by nuclear war. 
  
  Fallout 3 takes you from your very birth, choosing your sex, name and even designing your future 
 self. Your initiation with the game is walking along as a baby to your dad, choosing your defining 
 assets, strength, charisma, intelligence etc. You then move onward through your childhood getting 
 to know the games controls, choosing your level up points etc. 
  
  One day you finally leave the Vault and out into the Wilderness you go. On the way you meet a plethora 
 of creatures from Blowflies, molerats and dogs to Huge Super Mutants. Raiders plague your every 
 move with sometimes devastating results.
  
  Weapons and Armour play a major part in the game. A word of warning, learn how to fix your own 
 kit. It''s expensive to get others to do it for you. The last thing you want to happen is be in 
 a face off with 3 or 4 Super Mutants and your damn missile launcher breaks leaving you with a 10mm 
 pistol that just dents their armour.
  
  Graphicly the game is pretty much flawless in my opinion. OK it does suffer slow down on my P4 
 3Ghz 7800GS but heh it's getting old.
  
  Final Thoughts: I completed the game in a week doing some side missions and going straight into 
 the main story. I am now playing again doing all the side stories seeing how they turn out. Replay 
 value is massive, there is always something you have missed, a weapon you don't have or an enemy 
 not killed. The game area is simply huge. I enjoy just wandering around at the moment killing everything 
 unfriendly in my path. So much more I could put here but in all this game has sex drugs and violence... 
 what more could you want? From Nukes to Deathclaw Gauntlets, Stims to Pyscho drugs to make you 
 strong, intelligent, radiation free or just hard as hell you will have an unbelievable time.
  
  Enjoy, 10/10
  
  *Note*
  Slight downers are the sound issues, fixed by getting the K-Lite 
 codec. Get the new patch too, fixes the annoying crash to windows. The secure rom on the DVD is 
 a bit twitchy sometimes too.
  
  Don't let these minor irritations stop you from enjoying what is easily a must for the Fallout 
 Fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuamishael
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  the game has very good mechanics. I love the idea of the V. A. T system, which you actually press 
 "v" and get into a target system, where you got the choice to shoot any parts of the enemy body, 
 include head, torso, left and right arms, left and right legs. but obviouly the best part to hit 
 is the head, since most of the enemy is weak on the head. 
  
  The Gore part of the game is awesome, the blood actually splash on the walls and ground. And you 
 basically see limbs and head scatter on the ground, depending on where you hit the enemy. or get 
 a critical strike.
  
  This is a bit different from Elder scroll Oblivion, fallout3 is bloody with Modern weapons and 
 enemies Don't level up, okay ? all enemies has a fix level :) ) . they put a level cap on 20 only. 
 maybe they're afraid that you get too strong.
  but winning a battle is all about ammunition and firepower. you can kill anything at low levels 
 with good amout of firepower, but as you put more skills in a certain type of weapons. you become 
 more effective to it. like dealing more damage and critical hits. Other than that is to hack computers 
 and lock picking. you will need to master one of this. so you can have access to lock storage room 
 full of ammunition. and hacking and lock picking gives you experience points.
  
  it's also cool feature they have in this game is that you can actually sneak and put granades or 
 mines in your enemy pants then watch them explode. 
  
  The game is almost perfect. except some part of the side story is strange...
  and the ending 
 is really strange to me.. I was hoping for something else, cause they promise a 200 endings. although 
 I don't need that much cause I don't think I want a game with too many endings. but you decise 
 for yourself if you like it or not. you can go to fallout3 official website forum to post your 
 complain and suggestion anyway.
  
  but still. the game is really worth playing, I already played it twice with different built of 
 characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdog1687
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a groundbreaking game given to us from the RPG geniuses Bethesda. The best game this year.
 
  
  Story: Fallout 3 has a great story where you start off searching for your father and it turns into 
 a much bigger conflict. While it is fairly short there are a lot of amazing sidequests with their 
 own stories and expansive progression. (10)
  
  Sound and Music: Your Pip-Boy 3000 all you need in the world including your gateway to music and 
 talk shows. When you start the game you are greeted with "I Don't Want To Set The World On Fire" 
 by The Ink Spots. Most of the music from the radio stations is this 30's to 40's sounding music 
 and when the radio is off or you lose the signal of the station there a nice orchestral song going 
 on in the background. Besides a few audio quirks the music is pretty good and the voice acting 
 is probably the best with famous stars such as Liam Neeson voicing your father. (10)
  
  Characters: The characters in this game are well created but sometimes you cannot communicate and 
 have real conversations with them. Otherwise the cast the well created with the good and evil people. 
 Obviously you have your annoying characters but overall they are tolerable. Your characters look 
 is created by you through an immense character editing screen. You will get attached to some characters 
 and will grow fond of them. Also the ability to recruit some people makes the trek through the 
 Wasteland not as lonely. (10)
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Fallout 3 is like a mix of an FPS and RPG but the choice of your camera's 
 angle is up to you. You can even make a Resident Evil 4 like camera. The V. A. T. S. system works 
 well and is not really a way to make cheap kills it adds some cool scenes to watch as you pummel 
 your enemy... or completely miss. The combat is fun but sometimes is rare but when it does happen 
 it can end in an epic battle. The gameplay is defiantly Fallout 3's shining star. (10)
  
  Graphics: Despite a few graphic bugs here and there the graphics are great and there truly isn't 
 much real color besides gray. (10)
  
  Game Length: The core game can take about 10-20 hours but with getting all the collectibles, completing 
 all the quest and your map that takes at least 30-40 more hours. I still haven't finished the collecting 
 and I'm loving ever minute of it.
  
  Replay Value: There are some many choices in this game you have no choice but to go back and try 
 being good or evil and change your ending. Although on your second game there isn't much reason 
 to explore the whole world. (10)
  
  Final Note: If you have a 360, PS3 or a PC get this game you will love it and find time disappear 
 the game is so immersive and expansive you will love it if you are a fan of RPG in anyway.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merrydown
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow, the game has such a lot of plus points that it is difficult to review fairly. The graphics 
 are great, though not perfect. Missions are entertaining and the plot is fairly novel and fun to 
 work through.
  
  The pros:
  Interesting and pretty unique post-apocalyptic plot.
  Believable and well detailed landscape.
  Fun mini-games.
  Great combat system - particularly 
 the step-time 'V. A. T. S.' option
  Great camera system in V. A. T. S. combat mode.
  Well acted dialogue
  
  The cons:
  The game should not end with the plot.
  Characters sometimes 
 interact meaningfully with you then act as if they've never seen you before when you try to speak 
 to them again. 
  
  I wish I hadn't uninstalled this game now. I miss it since I completed it. I should have gone back 
 to a save before the end and finished all the side missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregge17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Wicked game, more addicting than methamphetamines at times, but I say, the main quest could have 
 been much longer and the ending could have been less disappointing. It ends very quickly, with 
 a lame ending video, then you have to load a previous game if you want to keep playing. There is 
 some very nice side quests though. One thing that deserves mention above anything though is the 
 many different choices you can make for almost any situation in the game, and if you don't feel 
 like making any tough decisions, just kill everyone in a 100 meter radius! I did this more times 
 than I care to share with anyone.
  The game's got a really good sense of humor too, from the GNR radio station to the many characters. 
 One that stands out is the sickeningly happy Molly Brown from Megaton, one of the settlements in 
 Fallout 3. Her voice is excessively agitating and makes you read her dialogue faster than she can 
 speak it so you don't have to hear her voice anymore. And every time you insult her by choosing 
 the meanest possible dialogue choice in a conversation, she brushes it off and finds something 
 cheerful to say. Oh, and if you can't stand her a minute longer, just blow her head off! If you 
 do that though, you'll have to deal with her bodyguard and probably the rest of Megaton, so it 
 may end up being a killing spree. 
  That brings me to the killing part of the game. It is really just fun to watch if you've got a 
 stomach for animated violence. You can blow off limbs and heads, or shoot the weapon out of somebody's 
 hand, and watch them die in fantastic slow motion. Only one problem with it though, you'll only 
 blow off a head or limb when you've struck the killing blow. It would have been nice to blast off 
 a leg or arm and watch your enemy scream in agony and squirm around a little before you finish 
 them off.
  But all in all, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aahman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  The first game to suck me in and hold my interest in two years. I have bought one new game every 
 month, sometimes more, for most of my adult life. Because nothing had really pulled me in, in couple 
 of years, I thought maybe I had "outgrown" gaming (something I hoped never to do) . I am 44 years 
 old. This game has me pulled in and thoroughly entertained. Ironically given the apparent predominant 
 desire of other gamers to play bad guys, I am enjoying the freedom and challenge of trying to be 
 a good guy in a very very bad world. For me the opportunity to be a good guy is essential. Even 
 when gaming, for me to be invested and enjoy the experience I have to be able to see myself as 
 a good guy making the best decisions I can and trying to make the world better. The fact that the 
 game world makes those choices a real choice rather than taken for granted adds real depth to the 
 game. I remember playing Fallout 1 and 2 as grand adventures, events in my life that are memorable. 
 This one lives up to that high standard and with just 20 hours of playtime so far it seems like 
 this experience may exceed the ones that came before. Thank you Bethesda for restoring my enthusiasm 
 for gaming. Now if I can just find a dog to be my traveling budding everything will be perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Before I go into the review, let me start out by saying I don't think I have ever played a game 
 with as intense a setting, gameplay, etc. as Fallout 3. Fallout is really a work, and while some 
 naysayers claim the game is a bit short (of course, who can blame anyone for wanting more of a 
 great thing) , it still makes up for it in the amount of quality play available.
  
  This, first of all, has a tremendous amount of gore in it, limbs being detached, (as well as heads) 
 and sometimes the V. A. T. S. (which I will get into later) will actually do a slow motion zoom following 
 the bullet, then following the head rolling on the floor. Amazing.
  
  Okay, so you are in a world with your dad, and then he leaves you, so you go out to find him. That 
 is the oversimplified version, and I don't want to tell anything more than that, especially because 
 if you are reading a review of it, you probably haven't played it yet.
  
  You leave your little vault area, and when you step out the view is breathtaking. It is so overwhelming 
 and so enormous that I literally spent the first five minutes of the game just looking around from 
 the door of the vault itself.
  
  The gameplay is fairly challenging at times, as it is a shooter where the shots is far from always 
 accurate. The game has a V. A. T. S. system, which basically is when you pause the game, and click 
 on the body part you want, each labeled with a % that tells likeliness to hit it. At a first read 
 it may seem a little bit odd, but these are actually by far the most satisfying sequences of any 
 firefight, and may be the most exciting part of any video game I have ever played.
  
  The way the game works is that ultimately, the stats of the gun outweigh your stats to use it or 
 your level. The better the gun, the better you can kill. Your personal stats, which are built up 
 in typical Role-playing fashion, dictate numerous things, including how efficient you are with 
 a gun. The whole system works very well, and I was a little skeptical when reading about it online 
 myself.
  
  If you have played Oblivion, you will know that every character had speaking parts. You also have 
 the option of responding to the characters any way you want to, and have more freedom in completing 
 quests, with there being the occasional time you could lie about completing a quest. There are 
 perks which allow the player to get different ways of interacting, such as the Black Widow perk, 
 which is gender based, and allows for men to be seduced into giving up things such as money to 
 your character.
  
  The game, if you haven't figured out, is excellent. What makes it a 9.0 and not a 10.0 is that 
 the game doesn't give you the option of fighting with or against the main force in the game; you 
 can be the most evil character and the the most angelic character ever to grace the Wasteland and 
 either way will fight with the Brotherhood of Steel, (the good guys) for the main quest. If the 
 player could join factions, (such as the Brotherhood or the Enclave) , and have different endings 
 based on his decisions, then this game would be a 15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tachsniper
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  my god what can i say about the behemoth that is Fallout 3? If any gaming franchise deserved, nay 
 needed Bethesda's sandbox treatment it is Fallout. A very well thought out and developed world 
 gives us the backdrop for what is easily a game of the year contender. the world of Fallout never 
 looked better... or bleaker. A few annoying bugs and crashes on the PC version stop it short of 
 gaining what might have been my very first perfect 10 rating ever.
  
  its the year 2277 200 years after the 2 hour long nightmare of the great war that obliterated 95% 
 of planet Earth. you guide your character though a massive adventure though the bombed out destruction 
 of D. C. I imagine it may be a little unsettling to play this if you actually live in D. C the city 
 is wonderfully realized and scaled down perfectly in the game world. 
  
  and visually it is stunning. everything from the broken concrete of once proud highways to the 
 lone defiant majesty of the Washington monument is done superbly. there aren't words to describe 
 how beautiful this game looks. 
  
  Gameplay wise Bethesda took their tried and true model from their previous games and applied it 
 here. the result real time combat with a fallout twist. V. A. T. S. or Vault Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System lets you pause the action and target specific body parts of your enemy cripple that body 
 part and your enemy looses his or her defense bonus in that area. and of course cripple a foot 
 and it slows them down. using V. A. T. S. never got old or tedious for me. Bethesda also took their 
 policy of exploration from the Elder Scrolls series to F3. shine up those vault boots and get ready 
 to put some miles on them because D. C and the surrounding areas are fully explorable. you; ll log 
 hours upon hours of trudging through the wasteland for no other reason then the obsession to see 
 whats around the bend or over the next hill and there is a plethora to see. everything feels alive 
 (ironic considering everything is destroyed) and each area is unique. Gone are the days of the 
 same old generic temple ruins or whatever from Oblivion. With potential expansions for F3 smiler 
 to Knights of the 9 for Oblivion there is potentially no end to the exploration of the Capitol 
 Wasteland. thank goodness!
  
  
  but gameplay is where my biggest complaint lies. random freezing and crashing plagues the game. 
 I've even gotten the dreaded BSOD and when i rebooted my computer my saved game was gone. hopefully 
 Bethesda is working on a patch to correct this but as of this writing it is still an issue for 
 a lot of PC users.
  
  Sound is solid music without the radio on is moody and enhances the game well. gunshots are crisp 
 and loud I've jumped a few times out exploring and suddenly the crack of a rifle goes off from 
 an enemy i didn't know was there. i guess my only sound complaint is the radio on your Pip-Boy. 
 I wish there were more radio stations and more verity of songs, the main radio station says 20 
 songs but it seems like you hear the same 4 over and 
  over.
  
  Atmosphere is well it may sound like a joke but this game should be shown as a nuclear deterrent. 
 I know i would not want to live in the wasteland. It's bleak, depressing and it'll get to you after 
 long periods of play, not that I'm saying it's a bad thing it's just wow... this is an image out 
 of my worst post holocaust nightmares. Everything is destroyed. and if you really immerse yourself 
 in the game you will have a lump in your throat and a tear in your eye the first time you lay eyes 
 on the Capitol Wasteland from the Vault.
  
  i know there is some bad blood with the desision to give F3 to Bethesda and the burning question 
 is, is it Fallout? Or just a Post Apocalyptic RPG with a famous name to help it sell?
  
  Well... from the crooning of the Ink Spots unofficial Fallout theme song "maybe" to the cold refreshing 
 Nuka-Cola, Bethesda took great pains to make Fallout fans feel in familiar territory. it id unquestionably 
 Fallout. Bethesda took something dear to a lot of gamers hearts. and gave it love and attention 
 worthy of such a great franchise. It honors those that came before it and blazes an amazing new 
 trail for this epic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing Fallout 3, I thought I was in Washington DC 200 years after a nuclear war. 
 Even though I'm new to the whole Fallout series, this game of the franchise makes me regret to 
 have never played any of the prequels.
  
  For starters, the graphics are outstanding. One of the most beautifully rendered game of our time 
 and you can feel the post-apocalyptic atmosphere. You need a decent gaming rig for it to run at 
 max settings, but it's worth it.
  
  The gameplay is great, controls feel just right and even the melee - even if you have to be careful 
 when fighting enemies armed with ranged weapons - is well done. Sure, it's not a revolutionary 
 hand-to-hand combat system, but it's pretty good. Similar to Oblivion, but it even felt a bit easier. 
 I've found very few bugs in the game, though at some points I'd have a few invisible Enclave soldiers. 
 Annoying, but it happened only once.
  
  The main storyline is... short. That's the main downside of this game. And if you tell yourself 
 you'll just do the story then do the sidequests... don't be so sure. I don't know for the alternate 
 endings, but I was quite deceived when I saw the one I chose prevented me from continuing to roam 
 around and explore to complete the side quests and discovered all the areas (there's really a ton 
 of them) . So, my suggestion, do as many sidequests and exploring as you can before completing the 
 main quest, and you'll have a blast going through Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  It's difficult to review Fallout 3 without comparing it to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Both 
 games use the same Gamebryo engine, and both were designed by Bethesda Softworks, a studio that 
 has made a name for itself making good open-ended RPG's with an acquired taste. The game follows 
 in Oblivion's footsteps, which might sound strange, considering it's the third installment to a 
 completely different franchise (the Fallout series, of course) . Fallout 3 is similar to its two 
 predecessors in name and theme only, having done away with many of the old turn-base elements. 
 But like its precursors, Bethesda managed to create an engrossing post-apocalyptic world, full 
 of bleakness and despair with pockets of hope.
  
  Fallout 3 shows us that humanity can survive any obstacles or attempts by higher powers to ensnare 
 our freedom through propaganda and mindless patriotism. If anything, the game is a decent social 
 commentary of today's realities. The message is conveyed rather nicely and gameplay holds its ground 
 to this ambitious undertaking. It's not without flaws -- the biggest one being that it resembles 
 Oblivion too much -- but it is well worth checking out. Though not the perfect title many have 
 been proclaiming, fans of gore, horror, action, gun-totting patriotism or libertarianism are nonetheless 
 in for a treat.
  
  
  THE AMERICAN DREAM: COMIC BOOKS AND FANCY CARS  DON'T MIND THE DEVASTATION
  
  Fallout 3 takes 
 place 30 years after the events of the second game, and 200 years after the nuclear war that ravaged 
 the country. The setting moved from the West-Coast to Washington DC, but things are just as bleak. 
 On the surface, survivors of the holocaust formed small towns, constantly attacked by raiders and 
 mutants. Life for the unlucky few revolves around scavenging for junk. Large cities are a thing 
 of the past. People live in settlements carved out of scrap. The common currency is bottle caps, 
 water is scarce and purified water is a luxury. Forget gold or diamonds; clean water is the day's 
 rarity and at the forefront of Fallout 3's story.
  
  Whatever was left of the country's government hid inside "Vaults" spread across the land, where 
 it maintained much of the pre-war way of life. Like 2007's Bioshock, we are presented with a 50's 
 retro world. The artificial innocence of that era lends itself perfectly to the theme, where comfort 
 and obedience is vanguard, at least in the vaults.
  
  The story begins quite literally at your birth. You see your father, James (voiced by Liam Neeson) , 
 delivering you into the world and your mother succumbing to childbirth. Flash-forward to your first 
 year in Vault 101. Your father -- a prominent scientist -- sees you take your first steps. Once 
 alone, you are allowed to explore your crib's surroundings. It is here you assign your first attribute 
 points (Strength, Agility, etc.) . The game flashes forward again to your tenth birthday where you 
 ceremoniously receive a PIP-Boy-3000 -- a GPS with many extras. The vault part is short but sets 
 the tone: you are a young man loved by his father living in a rationed society that thinks it can 
 control every aspect of a person's life -- a form of socialist jail controlled by an overseer. 
 Everything is peachy, until one day you are awakened by a friend that tells you your father broken 
 vault law by leaving the compound. Your life in danger, you decide to escape in search of him.
 
  
  Like in Oblivion, you are allowed to modify your character's face, gender, and skills before heading 
 off into the world. Once outside, players get a glimpse of the horror that is the surface. The 
 effect is somewhat shocking, even for a video game. Bethesda did a great job recreating the devastation. 
 Vegetation is nonexistent; the lush greeneries of Oblivion have been replaced with rocks and dirt; 
 towns and cities have been razed, with the occasional house still standing; overpasses and bridges 
 look like broken giants; road signs and cars are scattered about, reminding us that this world 
 once indeed had life.
  
  After a few minutes of exploration, and after having encountered your first mutant (a dog or a 
 molerat) , players find Megaton, a town built around an unexploded nuclear bomb.
  
  
  IT'S WATERWORLD WITHOUT THE WATER
  
  Megaton looks like Waterworld's main atoll, where Kevin 
 Costner sold dirt. The town is fortified with pieces of jetliner fuselages. Inside we have metallic 
 ramps, makeshift houses, trailers and whatever else could serve as shelter. Bethesda efficiently 
 made the town look like something survivors would build out of scrap. Most of the makeshift settlements 
 are believable in their improvised nature. It is here players can decide to either continue looking 
 for their father or explore the "Capital Wasteland".
  
  Fallout 3 has an enormous amount of side missions, from helping a local write a survival guide 
 by gathering objects scattered in the wasteland, to acting as a mediator for a wannabe super-hero 
 (The Mechanist) feuding with a demented super-villain (The AntAgonizer) . Good deeds can give your 
 character Karma points, which in theory serve to improve your standing with other NPC characters 
 and can slightly alter gameplay. Stealing and murdering takes them away, but in practice having 
 Karma doesn't open up any real opportunities. The only noticeable advantage is a woman occasionally 
 giving you gifts in Megaton and your father eventually praising you for being a Good Samaritan.
 
  
  The RPG element of the game is centered on the various abilities. After leveling up, players can 
 allot a certain number of points to various professions (skills) , upgrade Perks (another form of 
 skill) and increase attributes (Strength, Agility) . Skills are exactly what the name states. A 
 higher lock picking skill, for instance, makes opening locked objects easier. Perks add special 
 abilities that can't be characterized as a profession, like receiving bonuses while fighting at 
 night or increasing your experience gaining rate.
  
  Fallout 3 lets players play in a variety of ways, depending on what you decide to focus on. Electronic 
 skills allow players to hack into rather realistic-looking computers (it seems Microsoft finally 
 came to its senses and reverted back to DOS in 2027) . Thieving skills let players steal and pickpocket. 
 Action skills give various fighting advantages. Speech -- one of the more important skills -- lets 
 players talk their way out of situations and so on.
  
  Bethesda added a turn-based real-time combat element to the game with the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System, or V. A. T. S. for short. Simply put, VATS freezes time and lets player aim at specific enemy 
 body parts. At first this feature seems like a gimmick, but once skills and Perks are high enough, 
 VATS becomes very useful. Targeting a limb can disarm or cripple an enemy. Various parts or opponents 
 can be targeted in a single session, provided there are enough action points. Once parts have been 
 selected, action unfolds in bullet-time with some rather nice slow-motion effects.
  
  Gore abounds, as well as gratuitous swearing, even amongst child characters. The game is noticeably 
 designed for adults. One can even hire the services of a prostitute. The game is mainly a shooter 
 but it has enough RPG elements to keep both Action and RPG fans occupied. The choices players are 
 allowed to make are what make the game fun. Simply talking to characters can avoid a lot of combat. 
 Conversely, players can kill everybody they come across, even the good guys.
  
  Killing opponents with various weapons produces varied results. For example, slashing someone's 
 arm with a sword will sometimes cut the limb off. Though takedown effects are nice, especially 
 while using VATS, and graphics have nice effects, Fallout 3 still suffers from Oblivion's graphical 
 limitations. Bethesda reused Oblivion's Gamebryo engine but it unfortunately didn't improve the 
 physics. Characters still walk like plastic toy figurines and topple over like dummies when killed. 
 Note to Bethesda: the Gamebryo engine sucks; stop using it.
  
  Everything in the Fallout world looks nice, but animation is crap. Oblivion suffered from blocky 
 object collision and that's still true here. As a result, gunfights can be a bit sluggish. Another 
 graphical downer is the limited amount of character designs, both among friendly and enemy characters. 
 All human characters have the same basic model design, save for a few facial and clothing differences. 
 There are no fat people (understandable since times are hard) but there are also no skinny or short 
 adults either. Variety amongst mutants is lacking too. There is but a dozen or so characters in 
 the entire game. Considering Fallout 3 is a long game, players will get to see the same faces too 
 often.
  
  AI can be pretty stupid at times. There are moments where enemies and friendly characters will 
 get stuck around walls or not find their way around a staircase. NPC characters will also go out 
 of their way to antagonize nearby enemies, forcing players to get into needless fights. Members 
 can be added to your team (up to three characters) , but there too few teammates in the game to 
 even mention. Many players will go through the entire story without ever finding someone to help 
 them out. I personally missed the much-advertised dog character. Having said that, Fallout 3 is 
 a huge game feature-wise. Many elements will be missed through the first playthrough, which can 
 take many sleepless nights.
  
  
  OK, BETHESDA, WE GET IT: YOU LOVE OBLIVION
  
  Gameplay is very addictive once you get settled into the flow of exploring the wasteland. Time 
 flies almost as quickly as the game's night and day effects. Running around doing missions and 
 gathering garbage for barter, again, resembles Oblivion, sometimes painfully. Hundreds of objects 
 can found and sold, or used to create custom items. Again, the feature sounds good on paper but 
 in practice it leaves much to be desired. There's a limited amount of items that can be created 
 and most players won't ever bother with the feature. You can get a house in Megaton, which acts 
 as a dumping ground for all the extra junk found while looting. The house can be fitted with a 
 workbench (used to create custom items) and few more extras, though none of them really have a 
 practical purpose. Still, it's there, which is a plus. Wadsworth, your robotic butler, is a treat 
 to listen to.
  
  Undiscovered areas have to be reached on foot, but once a location has been found, fast-travel 
 can get you from one place to another instantaneously. Unfortunately, the world only seems vast. 
 Megaton has maybe a dozen inhabitants. The game's largest settlement, Rivet City (that's Rivet 
 not River) , has even fewer citizens, and it's supposed to be a converted aircraft carrier. Missions 
 will often be a spit away from their source. The AntAgonizer (demented super-villain) is only a 
 few feet north of Canterbury Commons, the town that issues the mission.
  
  Another downer is Bethesda rehashing of old concepts, like vampires and religious cults from the 
 "other game" I have mentioned too often already. Note to Bethesda #2: let go of Oblivion -- it 
 seems entrenched in your psyche. Speaking of the "other game", a large part of the action will 
 take place in caves, caverns, grottos, metros or other similar-looking hollowed-out underground 
 chambers. Needless to say, those parts all look alike. Buildings are no better. Many have repetitive 
 rooms. Players will often get lost while exploring offices, mainly because the game's indoor map 
 doesn't have vertical layers.
  
  Sound and music is great but it has its downers. The positive is Bethesda's decision to focus on 
 50's music. Listening to 50's classics is a treat, especially when blasting a super-mutant's head 
 off while some "dame" sings about love -- priceless. The cheery music can get annoying, though. 
 It's gimmicky. A few radio stations can be picked up by your Pip-Boy 3000 but only Galaxy Radio 
 acts as the game's source of "music". Fortunately, Fallout 3 has its own ambient tunes, and they 
 are very good, though a bit too few and far between.
  
  Sound effects are great. Caves (and Bethesda knows its caves) have perfect ambient drips and crumbling 
 sounds, and hearing ghouls panting out of view will send chills down your spine. Wind sound effects 
 in caves are often used to clue the player in on how close they are to an exit. Sadly, NPC character 
 lines are very repetitive. This is noticeable even during the first raider encounter. For the most 
 part voice acting is decent while interacting with characters. There are instances where actors 
 simply recite lines, and sometimes midway into a sentence it sounds like the dialog was recorded 
 in another studio using different equipment, but in general voices are decent. With so much voice 
 acting one expects a few blemishes here and there.
  
  
  
  The story itself is rather short. Had it not been for the side-missions, Fallout 3 would have been 
 a 10-hour game, at the most. But with all the extra quests (200 last I heard) , the game gives players 
 loads of play time, that is if one decides to fully enjoy everything. Some players will undoubtedly 
 have problems will Bethesda's latest creation. It's one of those games where you create your legacy. 
 Play evil and you might get some things done faster; play good and you will be everyone's errand 
 boy or girl, but at least you'll see the best possible plot outcomes.
  
  One flaw about most of the plots is the inert narration. The game seriously lacks cutscenes. Everything 
 is told through dialog, with characters standing around like dummies, occasionally moving their 
 arms for effect. It would have been nice to see some actual action during scenes. This is especially 
 true at the very end, where you are asked to make some rather important choices. Even there, everybody 
 stands around like props. The ending is also rather disappointing, especially Bethesda's decision 
 not to allow players to continue playing past the ending.
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  In all, Fallout 3 delivers more in style than in gameplay. The Capital Wasteland conveys a bleak 
 reality. Graphics, though limited by the theme, are depressive and barren -- as they should be. 
 The retro theme adds an eerie reality to it all. This is especially true when your character gets 
 stuck in a simulation program with a scientist hell-bent on preserving his perfect middle-class 
 suburb. Everything is so perfect and artificial you end up wanting to get back out into the filth 
 on the surface. Having said that, the Fallout 3 is more than just a post-apocalyptic Action-RPG; 
 it's an effective social commentary that freedom is not about creating a perfectly sterile world 
 with no choices, but about allowing citizens to do whatever they want, no matter how dirty and 
 ugly their actions may be.
  
  GRAPHICS 87
  Realistic devastation and settlements and nice overall graphics, but character designs and animation 
 are too repetitive. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 84
  Open-endedness is a blast, though action can be sluggish. Slight AI problems and some features 
 are useless. Too much like Oblivion.
  
  PRODUCTION 82
  Authentic 50's style and settings convey well. Lack of animated cutscenes makes for stiff storytelling. 
 Rehashed concepts. Game with an important message.
  
  SOUND 85
  Retro music adds a nice twist but gets old. Great sound effects. NPCs repeat themselves. Some voices 
 are sub-par, both in delivery and quality. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 90
  Too many missions to accomplish on the first run. Not being allowed to continue playing after the 
 end forces players to replay the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enViable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  The following review shouldn't be too difficult but it really is Oblivion set in the future. 
 
  
  The layout is almost identical to Oblivion with the quick travel, inventory menus, buy and sell 
 and setting up your character. The AI dialogue is also identical. You notice this when walking 
 past a character that seemingly hates you but as soon as you talk to them, their voice alters and 
 they say something very pleasent ha. The swords and shields have been swapped for guns and laser 
 beams and the forest wildlife has been replaced with mutated creatures that look like they belong 
 on Yu-Gi-Oh cards. Bethesda havem't swapped much in the way of how the game handles BUT... this 
 is a good thing. 
  
  I wont slate this game at all because it may be a carbon copy of Oblivion BUT Oblivion was fantastic 
 and many people were left craving a gun version of it so fair play.
  
  There are still a few glitches to hammer out (like only being able to close your inventory with 
 the TAB key) and I think the map and inventory could have been made ALOT prettier than just chronic 
 green and black flickering crap.
  
  In summary, yeah this is a GREAT game and well worth investing in, I will be putting alot of hours 
 into it myself but it really is Oblivion without the beautiful terrain and interesting characters.
 
  
  8.5/10 because I preffered the Elder Scrolls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mahobudo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Oh Fallout what can I say about you. There a too many things that you do right for me to openly 
 judge what you do wrong. However I think for the sake of argument and to be unbiased I'll point 
 out the few... very few.. things that it does wrong. First the world. Some times the world is really 
 amazing innovative and a blast to explore... however there are quite a few buildings, rooms, enemies 
 and streets that feel like you've been there done that. The character models are DOG UGLY. They 
 are better than Oblivion and better voice acted but still not pretty. The only other thing I can 
 add is that if you love open gaming and sandbox feel this game is a 9.9 instead of a 8.5 however 
 if you don't appreciate becoming totally lost and nearly fending for yourself then this game might 
 be a bit annoying because travel is tedious when you don't know where your going. ALL THIS ASIDE 
 This game is AMAZING otherwise with an awesome story, intense battles and immersion gameplay. And 
 the battle mechanics are really really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniperwolf_SN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Iam not interested in RPG's , but some of those game make you feel your self in the game...
  
  FallOut 3 offers great colors, graphic, sound, music, and characters of course. the game have 
 a very nice story, maybe its simple not like oblivion but simply is not always a bad thing. I think 
 the story is very cool.
  story also is realistic, and thats make you feel the story, no magic and no super heroes.
  
 
  and don't ask about game play.. Its not boring like alot of other role playing games, "most of 
 the time is to collect some items"
  you will enjoy your time by fight and exploring and fighting, make friends, be a rider or a good 
 person , trading ...
  
  radiation , is a very strong idea !
  you will have some if you drink dirty water , or eating meat, and there R alot of new ideas , like 
 Pipboy, Radio , karma , special and of course the Vault101 and so many others
  for me , playing role playing in the year 2000 and after is more interested than historical times
 
  
  it's really superb game.
  
  In one word : AMAZING!
  you must enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heinzsteinhoff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  The main difference between Fallout 1 & 2, and Fallout 3 are the feelings: while playing Black 
 Isle's Fallout, you were completely immersed in the post-apocalyptic world. While playing, you 
 start really thinking like a Vault Dweller, or a Chosen One, and you can ever forget that you're 
 role playing in a world where the WWIII began, because the things get very natural, like stealing 
 corpses, or Killing raiders and Muties, or just walking in the middle of the blasted towns. You 
 don't think "hey, now I'm going to steal that person, hope my Karma doesnt get too low", you just 
 think "hell yeah, I need some shotgun shells right now. That bastard over there might have some, 
 let me steal from him". And thats the difference between Fallout 1 & 2 and Fallout 3. Fallout 3 
 have some perfect moments, where you look to the blasted bridge in DC and think "Oh gosh, I wonder 
 what happened here", but when these moments are over, you get back the feeling that you're just 
 playing a game.
  
  Even Fallout 1 dont giving a close up when you access pip boy, or being in a isometric view, it 
 had much more feeling than FO3. When you confronted your enemies in FO1 or 2, you always tought 
 "bastard, if this guy picks up a minigun from his back, I'm pretty **** up". And if this guy were 
 a super mutie, well, you would probably run. But, in FO3, when you see a Super Mutant, well, it 
 is just a green big guy running toward you, and he'll die if you just give him 3 shoots with your 
 weapon of choice, without coasting you some stimpacks or many bullets.
  
  Another bad aspect, is the conversation. I have just one word to describe it: weak. I think that 
 Bestheda did a great job with the graphics, a great job with the music, but with the conversations, 
 they have failed badly. Failed in the writing and failed in the facial expressions. While it was 
 acceptable that the talking heads in FO 1 & FO2 just had 3 or 4 expressions, this gives a completaly 
 idiotic look to all the conversations in a new generation game. You speak with a character: "Hey 
 moron, I'll shoot you", and he'll look to you with a very dull face. Then, try to say "Ok, I was 
 just kidding big guy, I love you", he'll make the same face to you. The only good part about the 
 conversation is the voice acting. What you can't see in the facial expressions of those people 
 out there in the wasteland, you can see in their voices.
  
  Ok, about the battle system: It is kinda of clunky, but it is playable. Even if I saw a lot of 
 people complaining about VATS, the proto-turn-combat-mode from FO3, I dont find it all that bad. 
 Of course, the fact that the head is the only real good place to shoot makes VATS kinda of boring, 
 since in FO1 & 2 you could do a real good damage shooting the person in the groin (ouch) or in 
 the eyes. Now, for the FPS mode, Bestheda failed again. It is almost impossible to shoot something 
 far away from you, and it doesnt need to be very far. If I'm in a cliff, and my enemies are in 
 a road down the cliff, well, the thing is to use VATS, wait til' your Action Points come back, 
 then use VATS, and so it is. I know, I know, shooting in real life isnt easy, and the game tries 
 to be real, but hey, I bet that in real life I can shoot better than in FO3 FPS mode, since I prefer 
 my hands to control weapons than FO3 control.
  
  Ok, these are the bad aspects to FO3, and I think the worse is this: isnt really a good Fallout 
 game, since it lose the main aspects of Fallout. The good aspects, well, amazing graphics (with 
 the exception of some textures when you get close to some objects) , amazing music and effects and 
 a not so bad combat system. You can have a lot of fun exploring FO3's world, and learning what 
 Bestheda think that happened in these parts of the USA after the Great War :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchick1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I am really NOT happy to 'diss' on this game. After all, I am a huge fan of Bethesda especially 
 since I still play Oblivion and its expansion, Shivering Isles .. not to mention every add-on to 
 them that I can get my hands on. 
  That being said, I am disappointed big time in this game. First of all, it crashes ... a lot. BAM! 
 ... right to the desktop. No warning, no error display, no nothing. Just 'Google' on 'Fallout 3 
 crashes' and you will see almost 1.5 MILLION references! Buy this game at your own risk!
  It is very difficult to 'get into' when it won't run for more than 10 minutes.
  Beyond that, 
 I find the game to be very intriguing and original. First of all it is a very dynamic, living world 
 with many random encounters with the NPC's . If you do badly in combat and reload to try again, 
 the same situation may not unfold.
  It is also very much a go-explore on your own. However make sure you do NOT finish the main story 
 line because the game will be over. Unlike Oblivion where you could continue to play after the 
 main plot was finished you cant do this with Fallout 3. 
  Also, the dialogue options are also realistic and I like the VATS combat slo-mo display.
  My 
 suggestion on FALLOUT3 is to wait for (1) a fix for crashing or (b) bargain prices and then buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fil333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Okay for all of you users thinking that this game is going to be good just because it is made by 
 Bethesda softworks your not exactly correct. Fallout 3 is original and very addicting, the storyline 
 is very good and draws you further in the game than anything else. The real big letdown is the 
 overall software. This game crashes prettly much 60% of the time and you definatly will not want 
 to be buying it until an update is released. For a Bethesda softworks game, the game is extremely 
 unstable and almost unplayable. I am very disapointed at Bethesda softworks for releasing a game 
 which is so unstable. The game is definatly worth the money if your luckey enough not to have it 
 crash half way through. Basically DO NOT BUY THIS GAME just yet, you will regret it when it comes 
 to actually playing it. Otherwise the game is one of the best RPG/SHOOTERS I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShriekForth
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  It's not a shooter, but a classic fallout game with a new perspective. A bleak future perspective 
 of a difficult life with hard people living hard lives. It seems barren until you look close and 
 you start to notice that over here someone has tried to make a home under an underpass. Over there 
 a few people are trying to eek out an existence behind a thrown together wall. The whole of the 
 game is about atmosphere and it works well. 
  
  Choose to go get what you want without any remorse and kill anyone in your path. Or choose the 
 virtuous route and help anyone who asks... occasionally just taking what you need to get a quest 
 done faster. It's up to you.
  
  There are plenty of places to explore. Some inhabited by friendlier folk than others. Find an abandoned 
 hotel full of mutants, or a school full of raiders. Maybe an overpass fortress full of scared people. 
 Or wander into a subway infested with rats and zombies. And visit some national landmarks along 
 the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  When I first heard Van Buren was canned and Bethesda took over Fallout 3 with the claim they are 
 fans as much as the next Fallout lover, I had visions of a game more in touch with Oblivion than 
 Fallout. When it was finally released, and after much frustration of getting it to work, I didn't 
 see much change. The before game menu was similar with Play, Data Files, Options, ect. The Main 
 Menu was the same except for the GfW-Live button added on. The beginning just felt like the starter 
 dungeon from Oblivion, except it is played out in a more friendly environment as you shape your 
 character. Sure, they remove the class system in favor of the original Fallout skill system, just 
 down to 13 skills instead of the insane amount of useless skills. I thought all this, until, like 
 the Lone Wanderer (your character, he can be called Vault Dweller, or whatever title your Karma 
 and Level gives him) seeing the true evil of the Vault and arising to the world for the first time, 
 I saw the light. The moment you leave the Vault and venture out, it all feels different. From the 
 inclusion of the VATS for a brutal and satisfying combat system that pays homage to the original 
 Fallouts, to the sidequests. Remember the tacked on sidequests that numbered in the hundreds in 
 Oblivion, that has all changed. The game now has about 10-20 well thought out sidequests, each 
 with multiple end results and options during them. I came across quests where you have to kill 
 people to get something, and that's it, but if you talk to the people you have to kill, you find 
 out your killing them for more than it appears. Everything in the game has a consequence, from 
 the sidequests and how you treat people, to your leveling up. Leveling up is handled by distributing 
 skill points, and then picking a trait. Since the level caps off at 20, each perk feels like a 
 major decision, since you cannot change after you finish picking, especially all the great perks 
 at level 20 that you have to choose from. To this great game, there are some downsides. If you 
 are buying this because, like Mass Effect, you were told of the great shooting and awesome action, 
 you are in for a surprise. The movement is slower than your normal FPS, and the action is not all 
 that great, it is the RPG elements that matter. The Main Quest just feels like another find the 
 missing person quest like in Oblivion, just it is your dad this time. The characters move just 
 like in Oblivion, sorta stiff and sometimes have pathfinding issues. I have had a number of bugs 
 with Vista, ranging from the game not even starting, to when I exit I get a BSoD (Blue Screen of 
 Death) . The one issue that might shock players is, due to circumstances I am not about to spoil, 
 when you get to the final area and do your final objective, the game ends. This may seem like a 
 shock, but considering it encourages you to go back through with a different character doing different 
 things, it seemed more like a design choice. Overall, it is a great RPG that you should not miss. 
 If you are a fan of Oblivion, you will find enough here to feel like it is familiar, and same with 
 the Fallout fans. May your Wasteland Romps be plentiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I have tried to pick this game apart and keep the score below "9" but really it deserves a "9". 
 It's a hell of a game, really. 
  
  The graphics, setting... details... it's all so perfect that I think people take it for granted. 
 At least I did. 
  
  Imagine what a city would be like after a nuclear war... even though it's impossible to know, Fallout 
 3's world is so believable (minor exception: super mutants) that it's hard to imagine the outcome 
 being anything else. 
  
  From burned up corpses still sitting in bathtubs to scrounging file cabinet after filing cabinet 
 for a few bottle caps (this game IS junk collecting at it's finest) , one really does feel like 
 the irradiated survivor hero of the appropriately named "Wasteland" that is post-nuke D. C.
  
  The game is called FALLOUT, after all... so the experience is all about living out the hell 
 that deep down we may all recognize as the possible conclusion to our world: nuclear war. 
  
  The gameplay is outstanding. VATS (I recommend watching a gameplay video to understand; basically 
 pause the game in combat and then queue up attacks) , lockpicking, hacking... stealth... disarming 
 traps... it comes together well and there are a number of skills to specialize in. 
  
  Finally, I had so much fun looking in toilets for grenades and shooting dogs that I didn't pay 
 much attention to the story. If you are interested in a really complex RPG with thousands of pages 
 of dialogue then you should probably look elsewhere. 
  
  On the other hand, if you want a fun experience and disturbing glimpse of the worst of "worst case" 
 scenarios, then by all means enjoy Fallout 3. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phreek300
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Decent, but nothing to write home about after seeing recent PC games. It was decent looking 
 on Ultra High setting at 4xAA, and 8xAF at 1360x768. It could look better than my old rig, I have 
 a single core processor and a HD3650 512MB. At these settings the game looked bland at times and 
 the landscape was too barren. The character models were good looking as well.
  
  Sound: The sound was good, as was the sound during VATS. Overall the sound was great through out 
 with sound effects that roll out of your speakers.
  
  Game Play: This was the area that was the worst for me. After leaving the Vault I found the game 
 play to be very BORING. The main quest was ok, but the the story never really picked up for me. 
 The side quests were decent though. All in all the game is decent to me at best. Others may love 
 it, I on the contrary, do not. I'd say give it a shot if you love sandbox games. If not, do not 
 pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowmanKCMO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  My favorite games of all time have been made by Bethesda. Morrowind and Oblivion both captivated 
 and hooked me and absolutely set the bar for single-player role-playing games. I was so completely 
 impressed by Morrowind that I literally spent two years in forums talking about the coming Oblivion 
 and how amazing it was going to be. Nothing can live up to that kind of build-up, but it turned 
 out to be a great and groundbreaking game nonetheless. Still, I decided not to follow the Fallout 
 3 frenzy nearly as closely, deciding instead to avoid the hype and just buy the game when it came 
 out, which is what I did.
  
  I'd played the original Fallout and Fallout 2, and loved them, they were almost as good (and no 
 doubt completely inspired by) Wasteland, which pre-dated the series. And that was a game I was 
 completely hooked on. So the combination of being a huge Bethsoft fan and a fan of post-apocalyptic 
 RPGs set the stage. 
  
  Viscerally, the game is both great and .. not. After spending countless hours in the lush forests, 
 mountains and swamps of Oblivion, Fallout 3 puts you in a dreary and inhospitable wasteland. There 
 is one scene in the game in particular in which you are transported to an America where bombs have 
 not dropped, and the appearance of trees and complete structures is jarring. But I'll leave it 
 at that or risk spoiling the moment. The rest of the time you definitely get the feeling that you're 
 in a deserted nuke hole. Of course it's really not deserted, there's life everywhere, but rarely 
 is it friendly and welcoming. Usually when you meet someone for the first time out in the wastes, 
 it's guns blazing. The overall feeling is absolutely the reverse of an Oblivion or Morrowind-type 
 world, in which exploration is often a fun thing to do just to see the cool sights. Here the world 
 definitely feels constricted and claustrophobic, and at times the crumbling architecture itself 
 forms boundaries you must be clever enough to find your way around. I've read other player reviews 
 who said they could only play for an hour or two before being turned off by the dreariness of it. 
 Understandable, but we knew what we were getting into.
  
  Things look a lot better up close, and everything is really well-detailed. Being able to physically 
 pick things up with the "Z" key and move them around is satisfying, and as always, the physics 
 engine (Havok again, I think?) is remarkable. Lighting is generally good, too, and watching a full-sized 
 nuke go off is something to be experienced for sure. So remember to play a bad guy at least once 
 for this.
  
  Speaking of bad guys and good guys, my first run-through of the game I played a do-gooder. I thought 
 of myself as a paladin-type, out to save the world, and that's just how I was able to play. The 
 character creation "chapter" at the beginning is pretty sweet, and right away you can get a good 
 feel for the type of character you're going to play. As was the case with prior Bethsoft games, 
 decisions you make do matter and you can wind up going from good to bad or vice-versa pretty easily 
 if you're not careful. It's also very possible (and for some Perks even desirable) to play a neutral 
 centrist-type. So there's a lot of room for true role-playing here. 
  
  The overarching story is compelling, and in fact that's a drawback. You tend to feel a sense of 
 urgency at completing the main quest. You are, after all, chasing your own father down, and it 
 would seem he's in a spot of trouble. So going off-quest to do side-quests actually takes some 
 prerogative. Still, it's highly advisable, as my biggest overall gripe with the game is in how 
 short the main quest actually was. This is not a "you-can-play-it-forever" type of game like previous 
 Bethsoft titles. Oh, you can, but that means postponing the main quest indefinitely, and somehow 
 that's kind of an immersion-killer, knowing that you need to go out of your way not to interact 
 with certain people. The end was like hitting a solid brick wall. I remember thinking, during a 
 particularly kicka** scene where you are accompanying a gigantic robot to lay some smackdown on 
 the bad (?) guys, "Wow. This game is absolutely killer. And knowing Bethesda, I'm probably not even 
 halfway done yet." And a few minutes later the credits were rolling. And this was after I had done 
 maybe a dozen very fleshed-out side-quests, too. Took less than one week. Pretty short.
  
  So I started over and played a bad guy, and found that the game is extremely satisfying from this 
 perspective, too, with all kinds of new openings, paths to take, relationships to build, etc. In 
 terms of roleplaying, as always, Beth has just nailed it.
  
  The VATS system is a welcome new toy to the first-person RPG genre, and the slow motion effects 
 are not gimmicky but really really cool. I find it just as satisfying to pummel someone with my 
 fists as I do machine-gunning or grenading or nuking, in slow motion. With locational targeting 
 and damage (hit head - knock silly, hit arm - disarm, hit leg - cripple, etc.) , coupled with slow 
 motion, it's like watching a mini-movie play out. It's very very cool.
  
  I also like the HUD in general, although it's a bit clunky always having to hit a series of 3 or 
 4 keys to get to what you want (inventory, stats, quest info, etc.) If I have one big, overall 
 complaint about Bethsoft games in general, it is that to date they have never nailed a good inventory/stats/etc. 
 system. It's always clunky. Still, the Pip Boy system is cool and it does feel mechanical and attached 
 as opposed to just a video game menu. It keeps you immersed. 
  
  On a decent system, load times and framerates are pretty good, but you need a decent system. Unfortunately 
 at this writing there are bugs that bring the game to a stop, I crash about three times per session 
 (a few hours or more) , and the crashes are usually Blue Screens of Death (BSOD) which is never, 
 ever good. Since all my stuff is updated and all my drivers are fresh and new, and since I am reading 
 similar experiences from just about everyone who has played this, my expectation is that these 
 are bugs which will be ironed out in future patches.
  
  Anyway, short story long, Fallout 3 is a must-buy. I'd suggest going into the experience from the 
 beginning with the intention of completing the main quest. You'll get sidetracked by some really 
 good side-quests, but just get on through the main one, and see all there is to see from that perspective. 
 When that's done (it won't take long) , start over and play for real. Screw the main quest, or make 
 it a distant priority, and try to explore as much of the world as possible. Do as many side quests 
 as you can. Maybe just randomly head into places and see what kind of trouble (or do-goodery) you 
 can stir up. The vast and detailed world is definitely worth exploration.
  
  I think I'll always prefer games with no permanent ending. Big open-ended things in which you can 
 develop your character forever as long as the world is big enough. Bethsoft is the king of this. 
 Here they go off-path a bit to satiate Fallout diehards, and the ending (one of hundreds of possible 
 endings) is one of the draws. For me, it's one of the weak spots. But besides that and the computer-crashing 
 bugs, and perhaps a slightly too depressing-looking world, the pros of this game far far outweigh 
 these little complaints. It's a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgicore
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Stunning indeed. It deserves, it really deserves it. Just the world you have to explore and the 
 quests you have (or not) to accomplish it makes this game a whole new beast. You are not forced 
 to complete all the tasks, although you could, but the world is depending on your decisions and 
 you will be presented with different endings. 
  
  While you discuss this game with friends, be it in a bar or a coffee shop, you always hear new 
 things or tasks that are new to you. Variety, great story, great graphics, amazing game play experience, 
 these are the ingredients that separate the boys from the grown ups, the same from amateur to this 
 master.
  
  The use of bump maps are extensive, but it gives a perfect illusion of the great and vast details. 
 The characters textures are nice. However, a bit more of variety of mutants wouldn't hurt. But 
 the details are extraordinary indeed.
  
  Will we see a fallout4 coming out? I really hope so and yes, a multiplayer mode would be an excellent 
 add too. 
  
  Well done, a total 10 points!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgmedlin
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is an incredible game, but I lost all interest after maxxing out at level 20. I play these 
 kind of games with a patient and methodical style, and I hit the max level less than half way through 
 the primary story line and just a few quests done. I played on Difficult, which the manual says 
 gives more XP per kill which might helped me level quicker. Even on Difficult, monsters were for 
 the most part easily killed. If I could do it all over, I would have played on the most difficult 
 setting (forgot what it was called, Hell or something like that) .
  
  Its definitely worth getting, but unless you like exploring and doing quests pretty much for nothing, 
 expect to be disappointed once you max out.
  
  They really should have made the max level like 50 and had areas with a lot harder monsters.
 
  
  The Local map is pretty worthless as well.
  
  I think I played it for like 55 hours, so well worth the price ($1 an hour for entertainment is 
 well worth it) . Sad thing is there so much more I did not see in the game, but no real reason to 
 play anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paimansli
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  every thing fine and i was going to rate it 9 but the ending killed me. WTF!!!!!!!!!!
  i cant play anymore. i was planing to finish the story line then discover the whole world but now 
 i have to go hell because i have lost every thing. i waisted 65$ to enjoy the game for months and 
 now nothing. i think i have better return to oblivion, Bethesda failed badly DAM YOU, why did you 
 put an ending like that ? to stop us from the game die die die die --
  loved fallout 1 and 2. I loved fallout 3... until I got to the endings. Then I was completely dissapointed! 
 
  
  First of all, where's the 500+ endings? The voice over showed several pictures that had only vague 
 connections to the monologue or none at all. You see about 4 series of these pictures and thats 
 it! I hate how there's no specifics about what happened in each town/area you did quests for! I 
 worked my butt off to make sure I left each town in just the right state. I spent hours doing quests 
 in the hope that the ending would live up to the previous games' endings. What a total dissapointment!
 
  
  (spoiler comes next)
  
  Also, the end is ridiculous. You have the option of freeing Fawkes, who retrieves the GECK for 
 you since the hallway is too radiated. He's practically impervious to it so he strolls in, grabs 
 it, strolls out, done. No problem. At the Project Purity site, he was still part of my team since 
 I had high karma, but sat there like a poorly designed AI bot just staring at the Lyon girl and 
 I as we decided who would go into the chamber. 
  
  I'm sorry, but this is what bothers me the most. If you're able to make such an amazing game with 
 complex AI behavior, to not have the option of Fawkes putting in the code is just plain lazy, sloppy 
 and frankly stupid. If you can code the Lyon character to do it, you can also make it so Fawkes 
 can do it. 
  
  Lastly, I put in the FEV to the filter, let the Lyon girl put in the code etc, and it barely changed 
 the ending.
  
  I know you worked hard on the game Bethesda, and I appreciate it, but you completely ruined it 
 at the end and dropped the ball. I hate to rant and nerd rage here, but seriously, what a complete 
 let down. Whether its just laziness or a lack of regard for the player - to let them choose how 
 their own story ends, that they've put so many hours into - is just plain sad. 
  
  Way to ruin a great game Bethesda. I hope you guys are ready for the extreme amount of dissapointment 
 coming your way as other players finish the game. Be prepared for game reviews to also heavily 
 criticize your lack of varied, detailed endings. 
  
  You can also forget about me buying any expansions or further games from you. Oblivion was a joke 
 (story wise) and I really believed the hype for Fallout 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokinman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Having now played the game for about two weeks I can safely say that Fallout 3 is one best games 
 of the year. The game will progress how you want it too. The main quest of the game is pretty straight 
 forward and can be done pretty quickly if you so choose. But where is the fun in that. Explore 
 the wastelands and try to find everything the game has to offer. It can't be done with just one 
 character. Should you choose to be evil (blowing up the bomb in Megaton is a good way to start 
 as any) , or be the good guy (disarm the bomb and the town will love you) Fallout 3 lets you be 
 who you want to be. Should I let someone live so they can help me later, or should i kill them 
 for their gear? The choice is yours.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. This coming from a PC that is pretty ancient in computer years. Older 
 Intel 4 chip running at 3.4Ghz, 1GB Ram, and a GT8800. I have only had one or two experiences where 
 the frame rate has slowed. Both instances involved 3-4 Super Brutes, a Mole Rat, and me taking 
 them all out with a Missile Launcher or Bottle cap Mine. Gotta love the carnage.
  
  The side quests will lead you all over the map, and this is a good thing. Go take a trip to the 
 Washington Monument, the Jefferson Memorial, the National Archives, or even the good ole White 
 house. These landmarks are a sight to see. 
  
  The weapons in the game give you a lot of options on how you would like to kill your foes. Do you 
 annihilate them with a combat shotgun, beat them to death with a nail board, disintegrate them 
 with the laser rifle, or turn them into a pile of goo with the plasma guns? This doesn't even include 
 all the fun extra weapons in the game. Use the Rock-It-Launcher to kill that cute Mole rat with 
 the extra stuff in your inventory. Who knew teddy bears were such good ammo?? 
  
  Fallout 3 will take up a lot of your time, but is 100% worth it. If there is one game you should 
 be playing this holiday season it should be Fallout 3. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  What to say about this game and not to neglect any important thing. Just buy the game and enjoy 
 it! It is awesome! The graphic is perfect, sound is good and detail level is astonishing. The world 
 you can roam around is huge, there are hundreds of quests to do and hundreds of locations to explore. 
 Story is great, freedom is endless. You can look at the game as one huge, and by huge i mean REALLY 
 HUGE work of art, that will just suck you in with its freedom of game-play, story, design... It 
 is really atmospheric, both graphically and with sound. Radio stations you can tune just bring 
 to the game ambient. Everything in the game seems just to fit to the right place, like it is part 
 of some perfectly planed design. Whatever you wanna be: good or evil, what ever you wanna get: 
 money, weapons... whatever you wanna become - assassin, mass killer, destroyer, thief, barter... 
 you can accomplish in this game. Characters and creatures are so well thought out that there won't 
 be a second of doubt that you're in post apocalyptic world.
  
  In short, for every game aspect you can rate in games, i would give it a perfect score: graphics, 
 sound, game-play, story. What the hell, even the AI isn't bad. If they hear you, they'll attack 
 you, and of course if they see you. But if you sneak, use their blind spot from behind to attack 
 them, they won't notice you. They use the environment, they are not just standing always at the 
 same place doing nothing. If you attack one of them, friends will rush in to help... So many possibilities 
 will make you wanna play the game over and over... But the game is so huge that it will take you 
 really long to explore every location in it. An literally EVERY LOCATION in game is worth exploring 
 and worth the time.
  
  Weapons, items and the whole world in the game is so huge and so diverse that you won't even notice 
 you're in game. IT will just suck you in. 
  
  What to say at the end? It is definitely one of the best games i have played lately! Worth every 
 buck you pay for it! What to say - it is FALLOUT 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yasiruddin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 1 & 2 are  3 outshined them!!!
  Story line, character ,model  was so well thought......
 
  the part where one able to do good, neutral or evil choices are terrific; which some might affect 
 your future mission  realistic to real life 
 when things can't just be saved and reload.......
  Never get bored playing 1 &  never get tired playing 3 as well.... still 
 trying to finish the game but somehow its just so addictive that it encourages you to fully explore 
 the wasteland.... never played Bethesda's game but this one is totally  
 the fact that my laptop is not good enough to play the ultra mode of Fallout 3, medium mode still 
 looks  Bethesda!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happIz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I don't hate this game. It's not boring, and it actually works on my computer 
 (as in smooth fps) . I have also never played any other Fallout games, so I don't miss anything 
 that was changed. [I will also compare it to some other games that I have played.]
  
  The graphics are mostly well done, and the draw distance isn't too bad either. Shooting an enemy's 
 head off or chainsawing up several enemies' in a row is extremely satisfying. The player can pick 
 up many pieces of junk from everywhere, including discarded bottles, books, and teddy bears (good 
 but mostly useless implementation) . There are some issues though, for example, the ground texture 
 seems to change as the player moves closer, and there are occasional bright flashes. Also in 3rd 
 person view, the player's feet don't seem to quite move with the ground. Other than minor bugs, 
 the world is realistically ugly, as everything has been burned, broken, or covered with dirt. The 
 main colors are gray and brown (and occasionally the splash of red) . [I'm spoiled by Crysis]
  
  Sound, as in dialogue, could have been greatly improved by including the player's voice. Without 
 it, conversations don't feel like conversations, and usually I find myself just skipping the dialogue 
 altogether. The voice acting is decent, and I can see some attempt at humor. [spoiled by Mass Effect] . 
 The sound effects are also decently realistic, but there could have been more ambience. (I guess 
 they are catering to the realism, as everything has been nuked and therefore has died or grown 
 in size.)
  
  As an RPG with the option to go 3 different paths (good, neutral, evil; although the evil part 
 doesn't make sense, as a truly evil person would not look for his/her father, but probably try 
 to kill, enslave, or take over everything) , the game is exceptionally deep, and probably of the 
 trio of recent games (this game, farcry 2, and dead space) has best storyline. It has a nice, balanced 
 amount of both main and side quests, the which never feels recycled and repetitive. (There are 
 some fetch quests, but even these are atypical because it's not always "objects" that are brought 
 back. Like capturing people and turning them into slaves. The only bad thing is that the player 
 doesn't get attached to any of the characters, including the main character because everyone is 
 easily disposable (except children) . Other than that, there are some nice twists and branching 
 paths that can really surprise the player sometimes. [comparable to say... Mass Effect]
  
  The player customization is truly impressive, with more than one list of stats, and a well integrated 
 perks system, as well as a decent range of weaponry and armor. There are a great number of melee 
 weapons it seems, almost as many as guns which seems strange, as most of the bipedal enemies have 
 guns, and getting near the ones that don't would seem regrettable (as most of the unarmed are giant 
 mutated things) . There could be more firearms, as the typical class includes the normal, weakest 
 version, a Chinese version, and a special collectible version. The implement of energy weapons 
 is good, but I expected the plasma rifle to look a little cooler. The weapons getting damaged after 
 prolonged use doesn't spark any anger, partially because the lack of ammunition will probably limit 
 the use of the weapon anyways. 
  
  The bad parts come now. The 3rd person view is absolutely atrocious, due to the fact that the character 
 floats across the terrain, and leg movements aren't exactly smooth. There also seems to be very 
 little gravity. The 3rd person could be easily fixed by allowing free camera, instead of just the 
 character pointing where you are pointing. There are 3rd person shooters style games that gets 
 this right, like [GTA SA and Mass Effect] both of which are not classified as 3rd person shooters. 
 Fallout 3's 3rd person view makes it difficult to both navigate and enter combat. I guess that's 
 where the VATS is put to use. Playing this game in 1st person is the best. But using VATS during 
 FPS mode makes combat boring. The mouse seems messed up too; the cross hairs move too slowly (but 
 no lag) , and on the Pipboy menu, the cursor moves too fast (with a lot of lag) . Speaking of the 
 Pipboy, it's the most complex set of menus I have ever seen with the exception of Japanese games, 
 but that's another story. This game could have focused on either 1st or 3rd person and perfected 
 each one, but having both being bad is apparently Bethesda's choice. 
  
  Overall, presentation (graphics and sound) is good, the story is better, and the gameplay is hopeless. 
 If I had wanted a 40 story, i would have rather bought a book. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigj687
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game overall is simply epic, and there is no other way to describe it. The game can be demanding 
 on some systems, but if you have a high end rig, the visuals are amazing. 
  
  The Good:
  
  The thing that is most gripping about this game ( in comparison to GTA 4, Mercs 2 [sucked balls] , 
 and Saints row 2, is the sense of having actions with consequences, both good and bad. If you kill 
 someone who you need to complete the mission (because they have information of some item or ability 
 you need) , then you just have to rough it. All of the games elements however, seem to be in perfect 
 balance and everything is dynamic, and works together seamlessly. 
  
  The missions have many, many ways to completion, beyond choosing which hallway, door, or gun to 
 use. People in the game will help you with your mission, by giving you information or special equipment 
 upon completeing it, sometimes even depending on how well you completed it.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Occasionally, the game seemed to shut itself down at arbitrary moments (although there were 
 no other noticeable glitches)
  
  Sometimes, missions can seem very long and drawn out, especially with long treks across the wasteland.
 
  
  Killing someone who could have helped you in a later mission is a sucky feeling (contributing to 
 the long drawn out feeling of some missions) .
  
  Due to the harsh nature of the wasteland, wasting ammunition is not an option, removing the fun 
 out of large GTA style rampages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeddecuss666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  After waiting a decade for the sequel to the originals i'm not entirely disappointed... though 
 not as focused on turn-based combat as the originals, i can see how well they've incorporated it 
 into a 3D-World... 
  
  Wish the long-range weaponry (Fat Man, Missile Launcher, Sniper Rifle) was more accurate in V. A. T. S 
 mode.
  
  Power Suits aren't as good as they used to be... great job overall but I wanted to trounce through 
 the white house! :D
  
  It definitely is Fallout themed Oblivion, for better or for worse... Cant wait to see what they 
 come out with in the future, just wish for some multi-player action!!!
  
  It felt like one could rush through the game and get to the ending without really experiencing 
 a lot of the content it had to offer...
  
  Also, the instantaneous travel to places previously visited rendered moot any use of post-apocalyptic 
 mechanica (Cars, Motorcycles, Subways, Airplanes, Helicopters) and any interesting role-playing 
 that would've ensued... 
  
  The dog was kind of cool to have, felt more like babysitting instead of help.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_dekin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 1 & 2 are  3 outshined them!!!
  Story line, character ,model  was so well thought......
 
  the part where one able to do good, neutral or evil choices are terrific; which some might affect 
 your future mission  realistic to real life 
 when things can't just be saved and reload.......
  Never get bored playing 1 &  never get tired playing 3 as well.... still 
 trying to finish the game but somehow its just so addictive that it encourages you to fully explore 
 the wasteland.... never played Bethesda's game but this one is totally  
 the fact that my laptop is not good enough to play the ultra mode of Fallout 3, medium mode still 
 looks  Bethesda!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troika1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Preface: Firstly let me say that I loved the first two fallout games and was drooling for this 
 one for a couple of years. It is a good game, but was still very disappointing. Maybe I'm overly 
 negative about it because I looked forward to it so much. 
  
  The Good: 
  The devastated world of Fallout3 is very very well done. You really feel that you're in the post-apocalyptic 
 world which defines the Fallout series. The Capital Wasteland is brilliantly done. 
  
  Voice acting is well done and the missions are well thought out and compelling. Weapon variety 
 and character customization are well done as well. 
  
  The Action Point Targeted attack system is pretty cool.
  
  The Bad:
  Combat sucks. It's clunky 
 and difficult and not very much fun. Ammo is really hard to come by and constantly degrading weapons 
 is a hassle.
  
  I really didn't start having fun with this game until I hacked my weapons skills, added a huge 
 amount of action points, and gave myself a bunch of money to buy good quantities of ammo. This 
 allowed me to basically remove combat as a significant portion of the game and that was my purpose 
 in hacking. Unfortunately, having to engage in combat made the game joyless. Once I'd done this 
 I could enjoy the story line and keep the plot moving at a reasonable pace. 
  
  Super Mutants get old... so many of them... so repetitive. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrei912
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  On my opinion it is a superb game , yet different from many others , and one , if not the most 
 important motive being the place where the action takes place , post-apocalyptic D. C. , ideea which 
 is rarely seen in RPG games, most of them bringing up history and mythology.
  
  I've finished the game once and the main story is short (and I find it's lenght being the only 
 thing in the game which can be improvised) , yet original (for ,, the sacrification for the good 
 of man-kind and so on..."ideea is classic but it has been put in excellent circumstances) and many 
 players have complained about this game because they hadn't had the time or passion to explore 
 the vast world.
  In conclusion the game's world is what makes it epic , so call it finished when you explore everything.
 
  After playing it a second time ( this time doing the good things) I never thought that the simple 
 map is so vast. I tell you being good is very hard for the good decisions are the complicated ones 
 , and it brings me a warm feeling when people thank me and I hear my deeds on the radio.
  Another thing that makes Fallout 3 epic is the land and the people that live in it , and here you 
 can see that Bethesda touch , for the post-apocalyptic face hides mythological and / or historical 
 
  beings which has a few impacts on the gamer's mind:
  -classic rpg's are the mithological ones so this one is for classic RPG fans
  - the game takes 
 place in an all new future universe , but the knights in shining armor ( The Brotherhood of Steel 
 which resembles the union between men at hard times) , conquerors and sick - minded , so called 
 "Messiahs" (you guessed it - The Enclave) and everybody's favorites the Super Mutants that resemble 
 mythical beigns , together with talking trees and other antagonists like the riders that resemble 
 some sort of secret cult)
  - And yes I thaught of Elder Scrolls 4 and Gothic when I was writing the resemblances...
  In 
 the end I could continue all day with this review but as the wasteland calls me I will obey it 
 for I have many other things to explore. Fallout 3 will be remembered as a classic as years will 
 pass, and in this review I have surprised what i felt that makes the game unique
  
  
  P. S. I hope you have enjoyed reading it as I have writting it ;)
  
  IRON MAIDEN 4 LIFE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tailou
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Its not what i was expecting, is not a turned based rpg like 1 and 2, but this well made game 
 could be named anything. Using the marketting of major "Fall Out" is what made this game so popular 
 in a short time, is like creating a sandwich and name it "BigMac 2".
  Otherwise it would need much more reviews and ads to show the world how good a game like "Fall 
 Out 3" could actually be. How many good games are out there but with a non-attractive name?
  
  Not wanted to repeat most of what other users allready said, but just want to tell you all 
 that is never too hard to have such a game mode and map in a multiplayer mode. Playing as a raider 
 or another survivor somewhere else, run a "family" or a vault as a guild, millions of ideas that 
 could make "Fall Out" a massive online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordInvernus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Fallout fan. I even played Fallout 2 again last year. Fallout 3 is an amazingly fun 
 and exciting game. I do think the game has done a good job in moving the Fallout universe into 
 the next generation of gaming. The updated aspects such as the V. A. T. S system work very well. I 
 know that the repetition of decapitating heads can be a bit boring at times but the graphics of 
 it always look amazing. The interaction with the NPC's is better with Fallout 3 than in 1 and 2 
 (For those I've seen disagree... I don't think you've played 1 and 2 in the recent past... you clearly 
 remember it wrong) . I really like the story, it plays out well. The assortment of weapons at your 
 disposal is crazy... I love Bottlecap mines. There aren't a lot in the area of new enemies in the 
 game but the ones they have are decent enough.... nothing like taking out a Super Mutant long distance 
 style with a sniper rifle for some extra XP. Probably one of the best things about the game is 
 that you can choose to play it good, bad or neutral. Your actions do indeed effect things that 
 happen in the game.... yes I BLEW THE HECK out of Megaton and the only NPC's that don't call me 
 a scumbag or low life are the slavers from Paradise Falls. It's okay.. I kill everyone when I am 
 done with them anyway... not a soul left in Tenpenny Tower!!.
  
  Fallout 3 is an awesome game and worth the time you put into it and worth the time of working on 
 all the extra quests instead of fast tracking through the main quest... those who do the fast track 
 completely miss the point and concept of the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel848
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  While Bethesda made a game worth trying, I'd hardly say it's at all what it's made out to be.
 
  
  The first few hours it was fun and interesting. I've never played the previous Fallout games, and 
 a post-apocalyptic world such as this was new to me. Seeing the devastated D. C. upon exiting the 
 vault was also exciting.. But it didn't take long after that, when it became obvious that I'd tried 
 this before.. It was like playing Oblivion again, after it had received a bad make-over.
  
  Now, I know many people enjoy (ed) Oblivion, and so did I, for a while. But I never thought it had 
 much replay value, and the same goes for Fallout. You never really get more than two choices in 
 matters: To kill or not to kill. This results in the alternative 'story' being extremely obvious, 
 and pretty much ruins the replay, at least for me particularly.
  
  So, as others have said, this seems more like an FPS game with a few RPG elements, where I think 
 they aimed for the opposite.. And I, for one, had expected more.
  
  On the upside, it would seem that Bethesda at least learned a little from their previous release, 
 with Oblivion. No more monster leveling, making it at least a challenge at some points. The learning 
 curve was good too. But the difficulty wasn't impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signum201
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Ok , so first time I reviewed the game I considered it pretty darn amazing - the graphics are great 
 , the design and the scenes are amazing , the story seemed pretty decent ... I even gave it a 9.5 
 due to that ... but that was only for playing it for about 6 hours or so . Then after emerging 
 more end more in the world of Fallout 3 I got pretty bored by all those mutants which I could easily 
 kill , the V. A. S. T wasn't that cool anymore, all the quests weren't that interesting themselves 
 too ... But the thing that got me really sad was the main story line that was SO short and the 
 ending that offered so little continuity - WHAT ABOUT THE REST OF THE PLACES undiscovered ? Maybe 
 I was the blame for taking only the lead with the main quest , but still it was so damn short!!!
 
  Downgrading it to a 9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_cheater34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  a great game in the series and the post apocalpitic scene is very is amazing and the realistic 
 grahpics its worth playing this game and the story a huge world like Oblivion it looks a little 
 like Oblivion it was a good ideaa to put V. A. T. S Vault tec assited targeting sistem
  to focus on body parts. And the gore sistem is very realistic the body how flying when you shot 
 the head with a shoutgun. Or the realistic explosions from the weapon the fat man a mini nuke launcher 
 it deserves to play a lot a making the optional quests and karma sistem is great. the soundtrack 
 is so authentic and the character customization its cool to customize your own character how to 
 look like be black or asian or have long hair or punk hair. And the items are very well desginted. And 
 the start is very cool you start like a baby and the grow and grow until you exit de the vault 
 101 and the plot is much from the anterior series brotherhoad of stell defeats enclave and take 
 the purifirer. The ending is not very well made from betsheda promisted more over 50 or 100 new 
 diferent endings but there are 4 diferent ending bad good coward normal.
  But this is game is an must have its worth your time to play this awesome game and great from his 
 series and il give 9,5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokas1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  After 4 year's development by Bethesda Softworks , it has been finally released. After the nuclear 
 explosion Earth has lost almost all of it's resources. Human civilization has nearly vanished. Some 
 of the people were lucky to survive by getting invitation to live peacefully in an underground 
 Vault , designed by a company called Vault-Tec. Just to make sure to people , this is all a newcomer 
 need's to know about Fallout 3 history , because most of it will be recovered by exploring the 
 Wastelands of D. C. You were born in Vault 101 , received a Pip-Boy 3000 at the age of 10 , you're 
 futuristic watch which will display you're condition , inventory and data you recovered from any 
 place. This will be you're most used thing in the whole game. When you get to 16 , you will take 
 an exam called G. O. A. T. that will represent you're future job in the vault. This is just an accessory 
 to entertain you. You finally get to leave the vault , when you're 19 and you discover that you're 
 father has opened the doors of the vault , and now the Overseer want's you're death. Fighting you're 
 way out of the vault , you finally step out of the vault's doors and get out from that place. When 
 you open the doors to wasteland you get to see an effect of human who see's a bright sun. The place 
 itself looks outstanding. You always feel that this world almost died. Robot's lurking around and 
 scanning for something , mutant beasts trying to bite you're leg off and raiders who just want's 
 to draw you're blood out. People in towns or Wasteland are all depressed , they all look awful , 
 mostly every one of them aren't rich to get themselves some fresh water. Well that's for introduction 
 of the game. Let's talk about gameplay.
  So the game has Karma , V. A. T. S. and pretty good selection of weapons. There will be also a development 
 of you're character , by selecting Stats from S. P. E. C. I. A. L. , choosing skills you want to level 
 and of course Perks. First things first is the V. A. T. S. system. It's a huge thing to this game , 
 when you can simply press V in the game , while some beast is trying to kill you , you get into 
 a screen to select his body parts to shoot. It's fun to see when you his leg leaves his body and 
 he drops on a ground , ragdoll style.
  Then there's Karma in the game. It depends whether you steal stuff from good people , kill innocent 
 people or just do bad things , like enslaving a child. Of course you will raise karma and become 
 a good guy , like defusing a bomb , killing bad people and etc. You get additional features when 
 you're bad or good or even neutral , like inviting people to join up with you. Of course last part 
 is the character system. You get to choose you're character's stats when his a baby , and when you're 
 leaving the vault. Skills will let you to handle weapons better , get you more experienced with 
 Stimpaks who replenish you're health , or persuade people with speech and bartering. It's really 
 fun to skip quests and stuff just by talking with them with a certain success rate of a speech 
 dialogue. The last parts is world itself and music. I am really surprised how good the world itself 
 looks. It's of course thanks to Bethesda people , who have an experience making huge places. Music 
 itself is 60's - 70's type , it's really good to hear music from a radio , when you can turn it 
 on by simply using a Pip-Boy. For closing comments I would like to say , this game is really huge 
 , I've already spent 50 hours of game time , and I still want more. Remember there will be upcoming 
 modifications such as more quests , zones , weapons and armors. So always be prepared for more fun 
 in this post-apocalyptic world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulhunter91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  well... it was awesome!!! i love this game, i love going around killing things and especially in 
 VATS -joygasm- anywhoo... the problem with it is that it starts to lose its flare after a while 
 and you just want to finish. some places are just a chore to explore but some are fun. when you 
 get the T51-B power armor is fun. Paradise Falls was ok, Vault with the virtual thingys was really 
 fun. Oasis was a chore. and some other stuff. anyways, its a good game and you should try it. Its 
 worth it!!!!
  
  I only played good so far and its fun. Blowing stuff up, shooting random junk, firing nukes, watching 
 enemies get blown to bits, etc. all of it is fun. Its really a good game but not really a compelling 
 story. The main story has like... 7 stops to make and its over. Basically the game is more based 
 on the Wasteland then on the story. So you are mainly driven by the ppl of the world and not by 
 your search for your father 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I was on the pro-Fallout 3 bandwagon way before the game even came out and to be honest I wasn't 
 80% faithful that Bethesda could pull off a game that would feel like it belonged in the Fallout 
 series. It was going to be pretty, the AI was going to be smarter and the combat was going to be 
 much faster but seeing as how Oblivion's characters and quests were set up, I was afraid the RPG 
 aspects were going to be a lot like STALKER's; almost nonexistent.
  
  Call me crazy but Fallout 3 ends up like a child of Fallout 1's and Morrowind's sexual encounters 
 with just a few shortcomings in the end. What the final product turned out to be is a beautiful 
 nuclear wasteland ripe for exploring, boiling over with hazards, and full of interesting sidequests 
 and topped with bloody combat.
  
  Many people complain right off the bat that Fallout 3's combat isn't on par with a First Person 
 Shooter's and that's simply because this is an RPG at heart. Due to the ragged condition most guns 
 are in when they are first found, the lack of skill, traits and perks a character has when they 
 first start, the majority of weapons will feel ineffective and weak. It isn't until around level 
 8 and using a combat focused character when the pay off starts to emerge and by level 20 the majority 
 of all the inadequacies should be long gone. Unfortunately there lies one of my biggest gripes 
 about the game; the level 20 cap. 
  
  Sure it took me about 35 hours to reach this level cap but I still had things to do; quests to 
 complete, Super Mutant Behemoths to hunt and bobbleheads to find. However, the absence of the feeling 
 of progression really hindered my enjoyment to the point where I felt I might as well save those 
 for a second play through. After level 20 I felt like I was playing a FPS with RPG elements which 
 was the total opposite of what I felt the game was like in the beginning.
  
  Other than that complaint, combat, like stated earlier is a combination of different stats and 
 states of weapons which gives the majority of Fallout 3 an evenly balanced feel. A character with 
 a focus in hand guns with a scoped Magnum .44 and a few tricked out perks up their sleeve is just 
 as effective as someone with big guns carrying a mini-gun. VATS, the semi turn based combat system 
 also uses certain stats like how good the character is with a weapon, the size of the weapon and 
 the character's agility to determine how many shots and how successful the character will be with 
 their attacks.
  
  This balance and the looks of combat make the majority of combat interesting throughout the game. 
 Toss in the fact that you can plant mines, use stealth, lure enemies into traps or other types 
 of enemies and have companions fighting along side and with combat alone there are many ways one 
 can approach the game.
  
  Equally as varied would be the ways one can handle the quests given to them. There have been times 
 I went in guns blazing, snuck around to plant evidence or hack terminals and times I've talked 
 my way out of situations or flat out lied to get what I wanted. There are really no right or wrong 
 ways to handle quests but usually there are good and bad ways.
  
  The quests are unbelievably creative seeing as the makers of this game also made Oblivion and range 
 from blowing up towns to quelling racial uprisings. There are only twenty or so large quests but 
 often times there are smaller little tasks that are given to the character by notes or tapes that 
 can be equally as fun and rewarding.
  
  The AI mixed with the fact that the game is full of character with ranged weapons fixes a lot of 
 the issues Morrowind and Oblivion had in combat. It was easy in those games, when one was outnumbered 
 to just find a rock or building that the enemy AI couldn't reach and hide up there for a break 
 or fire down arrows/spells until the foe was gone. That's impossible to do here. Also the AI does 
 seem a bit more tweaked and smarter than Oblivion's with such things as trading going on where 
 a shop will have dwindling supplies until a caravan and some traders come along.
  
  There are still some scripting that has plagued both the Elder Scroll titles and the previous Fallouts 
 that rears its head here. Sometimes dialogue options that the character shouldn't know about are 
 available right off the bat or the fact that some finished quests have no effect on the NPC's. 
 There was one side quests that involved finding a runaway child and even after I watched the child 
 go into town, everyone still acted like the child was missing. In a game this large there's bound 
 to be mistakes and errors in logic so it wasn't that big of a deal.
  
  Another left over from the Oblivion pet peeves is that Raiders, Slavers and Mutants, some of the 
 most prevalent enemies in the game are almost always aggressive to the main character. In Fallout 
 1 or 2 a lot of combat could be avoided by using conversation skills even in the face of enemies, 
 this is sorely missing from Fallout 3 where anytime these enemies are on screen, bullets are soon 
 to follow.
  
  The quality of dialogue seems to land somewhere in between Morrowind's and Fallout 1's. Most people 
 forget that Fallout 1 wasn't chock full of jokes and had a very dry sense of humor and Fallout 
 3 is no different however some of the dialogue options and responses aren't as creative or original 
 as those found in Fallout 1, they are however much better than the writing you'll find in Morrowind 
 and Oblivion.
  
  I don't know if it was finally the PC God's smiling down upon me but my experience with Fallout 
 3 was mostly bug free. The game ran smoothly and beautifully with only my character getting stuck 
 in a rock once or twice with a speedy use of the quick travel being the solution. Other than that 
 the game is mostly gorgeous and fittingly desolate. The animations of human character could use 
 a little help but they're not horrible to any degree.
  
  The design of Fallout 3 is top quality from environment to character design. The majority of NPC's 
 look a little more attractive than their Oblivion counterparts and they still have that 1950's 
 style. Ghouls actually look ghoulish, raider's and slaver's outfits look like they're fashioned 
 from scraps of things and everything generally has a retro feel to it. There are only a few new 
 instances of original creatures to Fallout 3 and what they did create are pretty interesting. The 
 Mirelurks are wonderfully detailed and look like huge humanoid crabs. To see their blue shells 
 glisten in the light of a subterranean tunnel is one of the best little touches in this game.
 
  
  I was surprised to see Bethesda use a little inventiveness when utilizing skills. Repair is a skill 
 that is of the utmost importance now and barter, medical, sneak, lock picking and science are all 
 very handy skills to spend points on. I single out repair because it is really a surprisingly valuable 
 skill that will help repair weapons and armor along with assisting on some quests and the creation 
 of a few weapons.
  
  It seems Bethesda spent a little more in the sound department this time around and it seems to 
 have improved some of the flaws of Oblivion's lack of distinct voices this time around. Although 
 the majority of ghouls sound alike and there is still instance of characters whose voices change 
 because of dialogue options, this problem isn't as rampant as their last title. Music on the other 
 hand is filled with grooves from around the 50's era and talk radio abounds to add to the atmosphere 
 immensely. 
  
  In the end my last disappointment came from the ending itself. Throughout the game I was expecting 
 that all the decisions I made during my play through would be played back with far reaching consequences 
 but I was sorely mistaken. Only a scant few things actually mattered and in one instance it was 
 a decision I made 20 seconds before the end of the game that had one the biggest consequences. 
 The developers state that there are over 200 endings and I just don't see it.
  
  So to me the game starts off beautifully through the character creation and the tutorial to get 
 one accustomed to the game, the first view of the outside world is one of the best sights in gaming 
 and it kicks off an introduction to a wonderful world full of trials and tribulations. Too bad 
 the game peaks way before the end in the form of a level cap and a letdown of an ending. Simply 
 put Fallout 3 revived my faith in Bethesda and is indeed a sequel to two of the most influential 
 RPG's in existence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  What i can say, the game is good, it's worth the money, but don't expect the same philosophy and 
 formula from the original fallout games 1 and 2.
  
  The graphics are nice, seen it before, and of course looks the same engine as Oblivion, not so 
 polished engine if you asked me but still is ok. But what wins it is that it can handle a lot of 
 junk in it, since the game do carry a lot of detail o the aspect of the destruction of the destroyed 
 cities because of the nukes.
  
  The storyline is ok, could have been better tho, kinda short without the quests, but also or at 
 least there is the quests that fill the gaps and at least the game maintains a descent karma system, 
 be evil or good. But the karma system doesn't describe in which town you're good or bad.
  
  The difficulty and combat, sometimes it could be quite challenging in some aspect but also easy 
 in others. The Vats can have some letdowns, an sometimes repetitive, making battles easy, sometimes 
 i use it if i'm in a pinch or low in ammo. The challenging part is when your low on ammo, quite 
 fun sometimes but annoying, since sometimes some enemies takes a lot of shots to take em down or 
 the gun or the player have a nasty aiming ratio. This part is tolerable and easy to forget.
  
  Oh and including, part of the combat, the vats system, as it seems Benthesda created a Mature 
 Rated game but in the VATS they have a semi Teen Rated system, as they took out the shooting or 
 hitting the groin, testicle, or genital shot, it could have been fun to see how the NPC would react 
 or say.
  
  Music and sound, this is ok, nothing much to say, its goes well in the ambient and the music part 
 of the 50's modern era as it is on the fallout storyline. They could have been some use similar 
 to the music like the old fallout in which had some rare ambient music but nice ones.
  
  And now comparing to the old ones, is a so... so... , half of it do fallow the type of game that 
 is Fallout 1 and 2, but sometimes it lacks the humor, the stupidity or goofiness and of course 
 the sexual theme but that might be a little to graphic still it doesn't have to be show off. Also 
 saying the conversations, as they where funny, some of them in F3 is ok, but here in Fallout 3 
 same as Fallout 1 and 2 there is those words like the M word, the F word, all those kind of words, 
 but here in Fallout 3 many things are replaced to fit in those words, it seems kind of... pushed. 
 IN many ways it doesn't make a good game in many aspects. The final word on this, Fallout 1 and 
 2 wins in many ways but looses in some ways and aspects.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlgrey23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed for two reason with Fallout 3. First is the game play and freedom were impressive. 
 Second, it was super stable. After getting great looking games from Ubisuck for so long I was gratified 
 that someone actually put out a finished game. I played through it and not once did I need a patch 
 or update. Amazing concept.
  
  I am alittle wary of the LIVE interface through Microsoft. But that is just the paranoia in me 
 that they are trying to spy on me.
  
  The game is gorgeous, beautiful, eye popping. Imagine if it was not a blasted wasteland how good 
 it might look. I found that the increasing difficulty of the mobs was good. As a comparision to 
 Oblivion where if you leveled to 20th in alchemy you got wasted. The increase in weapons and armor 
 here really help even if you do mostly science and medicine and lockpicking.
  
  The one little caveat is that you can play away from the main quest alot. But I found it was mostly 
 aimless wandering that found me more quests. I kind of tripped over then rather then being directed 
 to quest hubs. Alas the days of going to the bar and listening to rumors is dead.
  
  I am not sure if I will play this through again. Mostly because while I did feel a great sense 
 of accomplishment winning. I was disappointed in the non-cinematic ending. But that is a small 
 quip.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChR666
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  To begin, I haven't been a Fallout fan, as I've never played any of the previous games. And after 
 playing Fallout 3, it looks like I'm still not a Fallout fan.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  To begin, the player models (particularly the facial structure of the models) is very repetitive; 
 for example there are less than 10 different presets for females. Thus, a female in Arefu looks 
 exactly the same as the female in Megaton. The outdoor environments are well detailed but definitely 
 not innovative in any way, and cannot be compared to Crysis or Far Cry 2.
  Overall, concerning the graphics part, I believe you will not be disappointed, but you wont' be 
 amazed either.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  It's pretty much like Knights of the Old Republic and Fable, in the sole way that you can pick 
 what you will say in a dialogue which will not only affect the answer given by the other person 
 but your status (good or evil) as well. You can take quests and bargain, or try to persuade people 
 in doing things such as giving you a greater reward etc.
  You also get to choose your character's sex, appearance and features and you live through his childhood 
 and teenage years, but of course the game focuses on the grown-up years.
  HOWEVER. There is something which destroys it all. Since when do 3 or 4 headshots not kill a human? 
 You'll experience this thousands of times. Using the so-called "Vats" system, many of the headshots 
 you'll get might even reduce your opponent's health by 1/6. This is quite ridiculous, to put it 
 gently.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Satisfactory.
  
  Replay value: 8/10
  I believe there is great replay value, as you can always try a different options which will lead 
 to different conclusions and consequences.
  
  Buy or Rent?: Rent
  
  
  Overall, the game failed to keep me interested for more than 4-5 hours. I do not recommend Fallout 
 3 as a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripley
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  as long as it took F3 to arrive, I have to say Im not disappointed. the work and effort put into 
 the design and creation of this latest edition of Fallout shows in every detail. it encompasses 
 the feel of the original with a slick updated AI, art, graphics etc... all the while reminding you 
 of Fallouts predecessors. if you were a fan of those, you'll love this. if not... I recommend giving 
 it a go anyway. VERY few games in the recent past have such an engrossing, well executed storyline 
 while being true to the heritage of its former iterations. Even Dogmeat is back! gotta have my 
 mutt companion in a world gone totally radioactively insane.
  
  bottom line: from a long time fan of the originals.....
  wicked cool. I can see playing through 
 this one over and over again
  
  
  I do wish I could furnish my hovel with some of the trophy's Ive managed to gather out in the wastes 
 (mostly those from some of the more epic battles Ive survived, but thats such a minor thing and 
 little more tha personal preference) . bottom line..... awesome. simply awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcs808
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is all it was hyped up to be. Great environment to explore. There always seem to be something 
 new to find at every turn. It is great to stumble upon quest while you are working on another quest. Have 
 been playing for 20 plus hours and have not even started the main quest. I also enjoy the idea 
 that you can either be a good or bad character. Graphics are great and there is plenty of diversity 
 in the game. This is not an Oblivion 2. They took the best ideas of Oblivion and turned them into 
 great ideas. On the technology side i have not had any problems playing on high settings, though 
 i am using a high end rig, 8800gtx sli 6 gigs of ram and inter E840 at 3.6 ghz. Windows Vista64 
 is also working great with this game have had only one hard lockup so far. I would recommend this 
 as a must buy for any type of gamer. I am looking forwards to the MODS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfandango
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has been a long time coming but lets the fallout fans down : (
  
  The Good:
  - The game looks stunning
  - You'll get at least 20 hours of gaming
  - It's built on the fallout 
 history
  - It's an FPS with stats
  - There's hope that PC players will get user generated mods (XBOX is promised lots of DLC) .
  
 
  The Bad:
  - Far too many Bugs
  - Main quest is incredibly short and boring
  - It's not an RPG
  - Quests are pretty lame
  - NPC are useless
  - Only two main locations
 
  - Characters & Dialogue are boring
  
  To Sum it Up:
  Its basically Oblivion with guns and worse missions. If you're just after hours of First Person 
 Shooting and exploring the vast wasteland then get this game. If you want an immersive RPG experience 
 like Fallout 1 & 2 then you're sadly out of luck.
  
  ... Basically, take a long weekend and rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brother_Mikaelu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  To start off, it should be stated that this game is not Fallout nor is it Fallout 2, it is a game 
 released 10 years later by a different developer determined to keep the series in the spotlight. 
 Some might consider this good, some might consider it bad, but all in all it is a refreshing change. 
 That said, Fallout 3 is an enjoyable experience, but still has it flawless.
  
  Known for their Elder Scrolls series of games, the people behind Bethesda Studios have incorporated 
 a fair amount of their ideas into the game. It shouldn't be said that this is 'Oblivion with guns', 
 but it does have its similarities. It's hard to see how this can be called a flaw considering Oblivion 
 is known as one of the best modern RPGs, but to each their own.
  
  The new mixed real-time/V. A. T. S. is one of the biggest changes to the Fallout series, and it's 
 fun. The system blends the basic elements behind a FPS and a RPG wonderfully, although the combat 
 can seem a bit clunky from time to time. Unfortunately, the game seems far too easy even at the 
 max difficulty setting, but that is subject to change based on player skill, which brings up another 
 good (or bad, depending on what you enjoy) point.
  
  Unlike a 'traditional RPG', your experience in Fallout 3 is not based on character stats alone 
 making it easier or more difficult to perform certain actions. The lockpicking subgame for instance 
 is easy once the player gets the hang of it, but combat tends to remain just as frenzied as when 
 it starts.
  
  One of the bigger flaws with Fallout 3 however, is the lackluster story and dialogue. The story 
 is short, linear, and far too predictable among other things. The ending leaves much to be desired. 
 There aren't too many conversation trees, and they're uninspired at that. While the game has a 
 monstrously large world, the amount of quests are far and few between. The game seems to focus 
 a bit too much on exploration, and not enough on other content.
  
  As of this writing, Fallout 3 is also plagued with numerous bugs that have yet to be fixed long 
 after release. They aren't always gamebreaking, but they definitely take away from the game.
  
  One of the biggest pluses however is just how fun Fallout 3 gets. Even though it has its downsides 
 the game just grows on you so much. You probably wont feel too emotionally connected to the characters 
 or feel a big sense of reward, but it's still difficult to put down.
  
  All in all, Fallout 3 is a great game with some minor setbacks. It seems if the game had more time 
 in development it might have been better. Luckily, in our day and age, it is highly probable that 
 future patching will fix some of these problems. It's difficult to say have fun when you're living 
 in the Wasteland, but it's pretty hard not to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Pros: Huge area with hundreds of locations to explore in the capitol area. Great nuclear fallout 
 atmosphere, very original. Large variety of weapons, apparel and miscellaneous items, some of which, 
 are special weapons and are difficult to get. Perfect character creation and skill progression. 
 Hands down, the best combat in any RPG (for some maybe shooters) , and the V. A. T. S system deserves 
 a lot of credit for that. Amazing explosions that impressed me more than Crysis. The soundtrack, 
 voice-acting and other sounds where well done as well.
  
  Cons: The story was ok, but the ending sucked. However, the main quest is about 1/100 of the game, 
 so don't let that disappoint you. The graphics where great, but nothing revolutionary that would 
 stomp out Crysis. 
  
  Fallout 3 was a great experience for me. You could play the game as the savior of the wasteland, 
 or as the devil of whom will sweep death across all those living in the waste. Or perhaps, a neutral 
 character just trying to survive in whichever way seems fit. If you want to be evil, Fallout 3 
 is the game to get: Murder anyone (but children) , blow up nukes, enslave people for money and steel 
 whatever you want. Nothing will stop you.
  
  Great game, go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade1978x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  I keep reading the reviews from all these whiny little **** complaining about how the game isn't 
 like the originals? Who the hell cares? Fallout 3 is a sprawling epic with an incredible story 
 and deeply rich world that gamers will clamor to "live in" for dozens of hours. With quest after 
 quest to complete and seemingly unlimited nooks and crannies to explore in the Wasteland, you'd 
 be hard pressed to find a game that's worth $50 as much as Fallout 3 is.
  
  Visually, the game is beautiful. The music, sound effects and sound design is expertly executed 
 and the game-play works on every level. It's a game that, despite the droll, grim context of the 
 environment, you just want to spend time in. You want to wander around the Wasteland, running into 
 roving gangs of raiders in need of killing or other restless wanderers in need of your help.
  
  The karma system makes an interesting game even more interesting as you find that your decisions 
 actually have an effect on the world and how those inside it perceive you.
  
  I just can't wait for the downloadable content that will undoubtedly be coming in the near future, 
 similar to how DLC was released for Bethesda's last offering, Elder Scrolls 4.
  
  Regardless of what gaming platform you own (PC, X360, PS3) , get this game, play this game, enjoy 
 this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbart10384
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Bethesda already had quite a reputation with the release the Elder Scrolls: IV series, and FallOut 
 only solidifies its position as one of the best game designers out there. 
  
  FallOut is visually stunning, and unique enough in its content to justify placing it in its own 
 category of "post-apocalyptic role-playing" game. Those familiar with TES IV will undoubtedly see 
 similarities here in the character animations, although the hyper-realistic characters in the game 
 all still suffer from the slightly creepy "dead eyes" phenomenon. 
  
  The voice-acting throughout is excellent and demonstrates the same level of detail that Bethesda 
 brought to TES IV. While other role-playing games will often have minor characters whose responses 
 to questions will invariably be text-based, FallOut 3's denizens all have voiced responses. While 
 these can get to be repetitive, it does add to the game's verisimilitude. 
  
  The game itself is the same sort of free-form "sandbox" roleplaying presented in TES IV. You can 
 go anywhere, anytime -- there are no scripted missions that require you to follow a certain path, 
 a la Neverwinter Nights or Mass Effect (although these are excellent games, the difference is more 
 a matter of style, rather than one being superior to the other) . 
  
  The V. A. T. S. targeting system is great fun -- it is an "auto-target" mode similar to what you find 
 in many games, but it adds slow-motion and some dramatic effects (e. g., enemies exploding, getting 
 limbs, heads knocked off) to give the usual "hack (or shoot) and slash" element of RPGs some newness.
 
  
  FallOut 3 is remarkably bug-free for a new game, but it does occasionally lock up and crash for 
 no reason. Although the game is no Crysis system-breaker, it is demanding on systems, just like 
 TES IV in its day, and will make even newer systems work hard to keep up with the graphics.
  
  All in all, an outstanding game and well worth your time in playing. I know many people are 
 still anticipating the death of PC gaming, but at least for the moment, games like FallOut 3 prove 
 that there is still plenty of good games to be had on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Seeing as this is the CE of Fallout 3, I will be covering the packaging and goodies as well, although 
 it will have it's own review based on if it's worth it or not. This is also a description of what 
 things look like in this edition, so forgive it's length, and feel free to skip below if you don't 
 wish to read this part. We'll start with what everyone gets with their copy, the game itself.
 
  
  Game Case: The game case itself is your typical thing, however a very nice new trend for PC gamers, 
 the case is the standard DVD case, not the double-wide versions we've been seeing for a while now 
 on games like Oblivion. The front of the Case sleeve filler has the Armor clad character on the 
 front, the game is clearly marked with the M rating from the ESRB, it has "Fallout 3"
  written above the art of the character, as well as Bethesda's logo in the right lower corner. The 
 top gives the information that it's a Games for Windows title, that it's a DVD and that it uses 
 the LIVE feature. The back of the case has three screen-shots in the center, as well as the short 
 description, bullet points of interest, art, and E3 "Winner, game of show" awards from IGN, Game 
 critics award, and Gamespy. As well as all the legal stuff, the epilepsy warning, all the reasons 
 the game got it's M rating and the system requirements are in easy to read boxes. Overall the games 
 basic case is well designed, like Bethesda's other case designs. 
  
  Manual: Keeping with the "You're a Vault Dweller" motif, the front of the manual has the Games 
 for Windows Live info at the top, and "Vault Dweller's Survival Guide" as the title. The back has 
 Fallout 3 written on it and the legal information. Opening the 40-ish page manual, you will see 
 a clean presentation, with easy to read information about the game. To keep even the manual in 
 the game's feel, the manual has excerpts from a survival guide if one existed, like "be sure to 
 wear safety goggles if you leave the vault for the first time." It's actually very clever and makes 
 the manual worth looking at if just for these excerpts.
  
  Game DVD Disc: The disc is fairly simple, but does it's purpose in the package. The Games for Windows 
 LIVE logo once again hangs at the top. The design is a "Please Stand By" TV test screen, with Fallout 
 3 at the bottom, the legal text on the left, and Bethesda's logo, the M rating, and the DVD logo 
 on the right. Simple, yet effective.
  
  Next we shall look at the items that come in the CE, starting from the box it all comes in. The 
 sleeve covering the box won't be explored, because aside from it stating it's the Collector's edition, 
 the info on the back is the same from the case.
  
  Vault-tec Lunch-box: The CE of Fallout 3 comes in a tin lunch box that is designed to look worn 
 and old, complete with Vault-tec's mascot on the box. This piece obviously functions well as a 
 case for the set, but also as a mood setter, as the trailers had the same box, as well as the actual 
 game has them in it as well, same design. It's very neat to have this piece of collectable goodies.
 
  The Art of Fallout 3 (Art Book) : The CE comes with an art book. This 96 page, hard cover book 
 is a bit small, being it has to fit in the lunch box, but the 95 pages of art (the 96th is credits) 
 inside are all great to look at. The book is nicely organized starting from paintings of a destroyed 
 DC (that look almost like photos at the amount of detail) and ending with story boards for the 
 first teaser trailer, and part of the game intro, complete with commentary at the beginning of 
 each section. To me, this alone warrants the $20 extra it costs to get the Collector's Edition.
 
  
  Making of Fallout 3: This added goodie is a DVD with an almost 50 minute long documentary (mostly 
 staff members talking about) the making of the game. There are very interesting facts contained 
 in this film. Along with that, there is some concept and poster art, as well as the first teaser 
 trailer and the main trailer. The one downside for some (as all the goodies are the same for all 
 3 versions of the game) the making of, and all the features on the DVD are NOT HD. The sleeve for 
 the disc is cleaver, marked with "VDSG HOLOTAPE, Historical video footage of the development and 
 implementation of the project." As well as "Historical Series (Volume 1) " and even "Restricted 
 - Do not remove from the archival room. After usage, to avoid dust contamination, immediately place 
 this holotape back within its sleeve." Along with a stamp of "VAULT 101 Archive room." The disc 
 itself has a label designed to look like (and does a good job of it) an old film reel, complete 
 with reel numbers and what is on the "Holotape."
  
  Vault-tec Vault Boy Bobble-head: The final piece in the added goodies is the bobble-head of the 
 mascot. Made of PVC, the figure is actually well detailed, and is a higher quality bobble-head 
 then what I usually get. Place it on your stand, or in your car, and at least one thing will always 
 be smiling happily.
  
  Overall on Packaging: Fallout 3 costs $50, ($60 for consoles) for just the core game, for $20 more, 
 you can get the Collector's edition, which comes with all the above listed added goodies. For whatever 
 system you have, this is one Collector's edition I recommend anyone pick up, as the swag that comes 
 with the game well worth the extra money.
  
  
  
  And now, the feature presentation...
  
  
  Opening Statements: Fallout 3 is Bethesda's latest 
 creation, their last game, being "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" was heralded as the best RPG 
 (and by many places) the best game of 2006. Fallout 3 uses an upgraded engine, a new world, and 
 a new combat system to play with. With all said and done, is Fallout 3 worthy of it's title, or 
 just another spin-off or wanna-be?
  
  Story: War... War never changes. In the year 2077, the world found out how devastating war can 
 be, when in under two hours the planet's surface was blown away, creating a nuclear wasteland. 
 It wasn't the end of the world, as some of the United States population hid in large underground 
 vaults. On the outskirts of Washington D. C., lies Vault 101. It is here, you are born, where you 
 learn to walk, where you receive your pip-boy 3000, where you find out your future. It is here, 
 that you must escape from, find your father, and learn that war... war never changes.
  
  Design: The premise is simple, you go through your first nineteen years of life in Vault 101 (which 
 is the game's character creation mode) , learn how the various systems work, and after that, you're 
 released into an open world to explore at your leisure. There's a main quest to go on (which should 
 take around 20 hours to complete) but there are a variety of side quests which, combined with the 
 sheer amount of interesting stuff to see and do, can bring that adventure up to 100 hours of game-play. 
 The side quests are all fairly long themselves, usually taking several steps and various ways to 
 accomplish them. The game has an unique approach to combat, combining skill based combat with VATS 
 (Vault-tec Assisted Targeting System) where at the press of the V key (default) , will zoom in on 
 an enemy and you can pick a body part, select how many times to shoot at that part (or target multiple 
 shots, as determined by the AP on the lower right corner of the screen) , press E, and you're treated 
 to a 3rd person, cinematic view of the action in slow-mo. The game gives you the choice to be good 
 or evil based on what actions/quest directions you take over the course of the game. Very few games 
 give you this much bang for your buck.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are almost exact to the ones found in Bethesda's previous game, "The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion." The only difference here, besides VATS control, is the switch of the space 
 and E keys. Space now jumps, and E is action (by default) . Combat, though slow (as this is NOT 
 a shooter) at times is usually satisfying, and the VATS cut-scene like fight sequences are always 
 a blast to watch. The pip-boy, Fallout 3's version of Oblivion's journal, basically controls in 
 a similar way, though things are a bit better organized. One downside to the PC version, is the 
 lists for bartering, the Pip-boy, and various other menus have text that is needless large on the 
 system, obviously not changed from the console versions. The controls are tight, and the game is 
 flat out fun to play. The game can draw you in when things click, like wandering around the wastelands 
 in search of random things to explore. The game does have bugs, so it's not perfect, I've experienced 
 on my old rig crashes every 2 hours or so, and that's it. I've seen the list of noted bugs, and 
 I'm thankful I have not had most of them, so my view on the game is almost un-tainted by these 
 bugs.
  
  Presentation: For the sake of this review, this section will be broken up into two categories, 
 Graphics, and Sound...
  
  Graphics: This game is leaking at the scenes with atmosphere, every detail tuned to give you the 
 feel you're walking through an old, totally destroyed world, and for the most part, it works, and 
 works well. The random stuff you find is all neatly modeled and textured, from weapons, characters, 
 buildings, to the lunch boxes and books. Some things will be recycled, but in a world like this 
 you must expect such, but most areas are unique, and interesting to look at. The characters, for 
 the most part, animate fairly well, better than Oblivion. The third person camera is useless in 
 battle really, but is great for just wandering the wasteland for a cinematic flair. VATS battles 
 are interesting, as, if you do enough damage you will see limbs fall off, heads explode (complete 
 with flying eyes and things like that) that, for what they are, look well and add an over-the-top, 
 almost humorous style to the violence. The art here screams Fallout, and it made the jump to 3d 
 very well. This game is really impressive to look at from beginning to end.
  
  Sound: Like the graphics, the sound leaks atmosphere as well. The sound effects are all appropriate 
 for their weapons, footsteps, water, wind, underground, etc. In a surprise turn for Bethesda, the 
 NPCs have greatly varied voices, with only a few that sound the same as others, this adds to the 
 immersion as well, as you aren't finding two NPCs talking with the same voices to each other anymore. 
 The script is usually fairly sharp and the voice performances get the job done in a believable 
 manor. The musical score is also to that fine Bethesda quality, and fits the mood of the environments 
 and situations well. The Pip-boy's radio also helps here, as it blasts quite a good selection of 
 tunes from the 30s. The complaint here is not enough songs on said radio, and in a surprise move, 
 the song "Dear hearts and gentle people" that plays in the trailer for the game (that has been 
 pulled by the ESRB for reasons of which are not known to me) is not part of this radio play-list. 
 Overall though the sound only enhances the experience that much more.
  
  Final Thoughts: A franchise changing developers is rare, and usually ends up a failure. Fallout 
 3 has been coming in one form or another for ten years, and finally has been released. Bethesda 
 has managed to bring out a game worthy of the Fallout line, and earns it's place in the numerical 
 series. Though not perfect by any means, what's there is great by all standards. Don't dwell on 
 the small things, and enjoy the game. Don't let your through-the-roof expectations ruin it either. 
 Times change, and so does gaming, Fallout 3 has gone where it needed to go to keep the series alive 
 and well, and all the better for it. Fallout is definitely going to be a nomination for Game of 
 the Year this year.
  
  Score:
  Story: 8.4
  Design: 9.3
  Gameplay: 9.6
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 9.7
  Overall: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  It looked like it was going to be really good. Leaving the vault and looking out to what is a ruined 
 landscape. The environment looked good and there was a sense of being alone in a destroyed land.
 
  
  However what makes a good rpg like the original fallouts are options and not yes / no / maybe / 
 dialouge choices.
  
  The (what i thought was the) big tough sheriff of megaton dies automatically if you go against 
 the "over the top bad guy in the corner", even if you stand inbetween the two of them. That is 
 not an option, it is "well actually we didn't really want to give you a choice as we don't want 
 to give this character anymore play time and who really want to work things out beyound, yes... 
 no...". Im not even sure a shot was fired between the two of them. an example of a missed oppotunity 
 for developing relationships with the locals. why not have the option of having him become a follower 
 and going off to destroy the nearby tower of the bad guys together as revenge or to save the world 
 from over the top clique bad guys. I'm guessing it is now going to be impossible to get into the 
 tower or if you can everyone will have vanished. neat.
  
  On playing the game a bit more i realised the the wastes are not actually wastes. 200 years after 
 a nuclear war near where a bomb hit. wooden structures cant stand that long and stone structures 
 like freeways would not be standing either. i might believe the environment if it was 50 years 
 after the war. Is DC really that rocky too. Why are trees that tall but dead? Why isn't the place 
 over grown. Nature doesn't stop at doors of houses and buildings. Nature is hard to stop. radiation 
 may stunt it but come on. Maybe the super mutants know why.
  
  Heres another fun thing that Bethesda use to make games a chore.
  Repairing is just not fun at 
 all. Why do you think i want to run around repairing things. Micro-managment on that scale is pointless. 
 Yes i understand it is what Bethesda do with games but can we just pretend that it is done while 
 the character sleeps or waits etc. It isn't a RPG just because you collect things and then use 
 them. I think that is called "Dammit" or "finding that small screw that i just dropped somewhere 
 but not sure where, so it is going to be really frustrating and the sooner it is found the better 
 because i would rather be doing something more meaningful". Perhaps instead of spending time on 
 how players will repair things and find the things that are needed to repair you could instead 
 stop raping classic games and make them what they should be. Good, opposed to ****
  
  Alright it gets a 4. It is not worse than Icewind Dale 2 which i gve a 3.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunyu19
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have to argue that this game do not worth a 9.0 score. I am not sure whether other 
 players have the same feeling, but I do not have the feeling of playing Fallout 3. I still remember 
 I played Fallout 2 and especially, Arcanum (a game developed by the same team) for several times 
 without feeling boring, but I DO feel boring when I first escaped from the Vault 101. What I have 
 to do is to RUN arround searching for Cities or towns, but when you find it, you may realise they 
 are vacant without any NPC to interact with. 
  
  The bad thing is, you have to walk (or run at a slow way) to a NEW destination if you have never 
 been there before, which is a TIME consuming task for such a huge but empty World. I don't know 
 why the games nowadays trend to make those players to RUN a lot. Is it the facts of the 20 hours 
 gameplay is that, 15 hours spent in RUNING but only 5 hours you are actually play the game? And 
 so, players will think that this game is worth playing as it has 20 hours gameplaying time. Right?
 
  
  The MAP in the Pip-boy is for showing directions (N, E, S & W) only. I never expect the MAP would 
 tell me there is a road or something to concern, where I just give it up during the time I stay 
 inside Vault 101. Comparing to all other similar games, this MAP system is the worst !!
  
  There is lack of clues/hints for the quests, and always result in running for a long time without 
 any progress. I admire those players who can finish the game without any helps, but poorly I was 
 always sticked in the quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tshorizon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is similar in many ways to the Elder Scrolls series, but that is not a bad thing. The 
 story is engrossing if you actually take the time to listen to everyone speak. The character development 
 is nice, and the game play is quite well-done. However, there are many flaws that pop up throughout 
 the game. The dialogue has a tendency to automatically assume the character is a man. My first 
 character was female, and at times they would say sir or man. This was annoying and took away from 
 the game, but not enough to make me stop playing. 
  
  The complexity of some of the quests is only inhibited by a lack of information involving just 
 what the character is supposed to do. Many quests fail to clarify exactly what to do next and will 
 involve you running around all over the land unsure how to proceed. It is also extremely easy to 
 miss quests out in the middle of the waste because you had no idea they were there. This both adds 
 and takes away from game play. The scope of the game is quite nice, but can get frustrating when 
 you become "stuck".
  
  There are mixed feelings about the V. A. T. S system in the game which seems to favor some weapons 
 over others. Many of the big weapons will miss quite a bit in VATS, while many of the small guns 
 will hit more often. (Regardless of level in the skill) . So with many of the big weapons, it's 
 easier to use manual aiming and you will hit more often. 
  
  Like in many games the perks in Fallout 3 have mixed usefulness. Some perks like Lady killer is 
 worthless due to there being far more men in the game then women. So, it really makes you choose 
 carefully, not so much based on what seems useful or fun, because many perks are pretty worthless. 
 
  
  At times there are graphical bugs or crashes on the PC version, but not enough to ruin the game. 
 
  
  The story is fairly linear, but there are enough side quests to keep your interest. I would like 
 to see an update or an expansion to further any side quests or story, because the most disappointing 
 aspect of the game is the main story ending. The ending leaves something to be desired from a generally 
 good video game (this may be arguable) Also, the fact that the game ends once you finish the main 
 quests is also frustrating even though that may be appropriate.
  
  With all of that said, many of the moral decisions in the game are extremely well-done and actually 
 pull on your emotions a bit if you follow the whole story. I found myself liking other characters 
 over others, which added to the engrossing feeling quite a bit. 
  Also, the combat system is quite well-done, but I have to qualify I have yet to play a melee character. 
 I have played all of the ranged weapons and even put in some cheat codes after I beat the game 
 to check out all of the weapons I have not seen. The weapon system is great. The inability to use 
 power armor until much later in the game is frustrating, but not the end of the world.
  
  With many flaws this game is still engrossing and fun to play. I find myself playing through the 
 game numerous times just to see how things play out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosuchsol
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't help but give plenty of interest to this game when it first got announced. It's one 
 of very few games that I would ever think of pre-ordering and I am certainly glad it did. Thank 
 you to Amazon for day-of-release delivery. As a fan of fallout and a fan of RPGs, I have to say 
 that this has been one of the better of both categories that I've played in a long time. The game 
 starts you off easy and then drops you off in a world large enough to spend 100 hours in. At 50 
 hours I decided that it was my time to complete the main story line and see how it ends. Bear in 
 mind, once you end the game that's it so remember to save before you do. The problem is you can't 
 help but feel a little disappointed at the end after you have had some much fun in the Wasteland. 
 The game is vast enough to keep you wandering for hours, but has enough points of interest to get 
 you looking for more at every turn. I took the good guy route.... luckily for Megaton... and didn't 
 have too hard of a time sticking to it. I'm looking forward to trying the bad guy route to see 
 if it's just as fun. 
  
  Upsides: Awesome and expansive world, great perks, good flow, and fun gameplay. 
  
  Downsides: 
 So-So ending, voice acting alright, want more levels, and more bad guys to destroy. 
  
  I would HIGHLY recommend this game to anyone that enjoys RPGs, Fallout, or wants a different FPS 
 experience (it's not a true FPS) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigsworth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning Fallout 3 is underwhelming. The "character development" section, which serves 
 the same purpose as the escape from jail section of Oblivion, is long and boring and essentially 
 unnecessary, since at the end you can edit all the results to your liking, anyway. Upon exiting 
 the vault the scenery is gray and dreary, and it doesn't get much better for the rest of the game. 
 There is massive reuse of scenery, too. Then you discover the clunky combat system, and are unimpressed. 
 Then you try the VATS system, and it brings a smile to your face. "that's pretty neat" you say. 
 Then you discover that VATS works with melee combat too, and are actually quite impressed. The 
 first time you bash in a molerat's head with a baseball bat will always be a fond memory. The secret 
 to enjoying the game is DO NOT DO THE MAIN CAMPAIGN FIRST! No, spend your time exploring. It is 
 much more rewarding, gameplay-wise. There are all sorts of little things to encounter that make 
 you marvel at the reasonably trivial details. Did you find the Rube Goldberg-esque trap? The tribute 
 to H. P. Lovecraft? Try different things out. Don't do the expected. Unlike Oblivion, where in order 
 to succeed you basically had to be a strong fighter first, with magical skills second, Fallout 
 seems to more evenly cater to various play styles. So when you build your character, have a plan. 
 You can't maximize all your scores, so decide how you want to approach things. Sneaking and shooting? 
 That's okay. Or maybe try melee and medicine. You'll take more damage, but you'll get more healing 
 from stimpaks. And face it, eventually you have to go through the bad guys, and not around them. 
 When you finally do the main campaign you will get run all over the map, but there will be some 
 diversions. My main complaint is that the ending, at least if you choose to do the right thing, 
 is somewhat lame. So get all your adventuring done before completing the game. You won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeiNpl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Note for RPG veterans, why this game is a bit of disappointing if you compare the title to previous 
 ones or ANY RPGs made by Black Isle Studios. Some things may be for many people positives.
  
  Negative stuff:
  
  - PUTting everything in PiPboy is plain stupidity, it drives me nuts 
 when i have to check something on the map and i have to go look for it in menu then to submenu 
 ect. WHY the local map doesn`t appear when I press "m" ? It could be better organized... 
  
  - VATS it`s a good try but i`d prefer ONLY turn based fight while fighting, now i simply run 
 to a mob turn vats and shoot it few times, then i hide and wait until APs regenerate...
  
  - it takes a lot of time to search for items - every room has them so many that it`s very hard 
 to find valuable or useful things. FOR FPS-RPG convention PERCEPTION should give ability to mark 
 the valuable items (for example you could choose from what price it should mark an item on the 
 FPS screen)
  
  - ALMOST no sex - the`re drugs, there is brutality, weapons, hunger and more but almost NO SEX. 
 I`m not a pervert but i miss that part of F2, for example it was funny to read the "special list" 
 in New Reno, or to collect porn magazines (Pawn Cat) and many many more. TBH i don`t need to see 
 it happening but whole concept is interesting :-)
  
  - not enough ironic-black humorous fallout view of the world
  
  - NO traits or special markings 
 for doing something (i don`t remember the name of it - in F2 you could get a note like "greavedigger", 
 "Gigolo", "Porno Star" ect.) - it simply marked what you`re character has done while playing, it 
 was a supplement to your character and often had little effect on the game. SURE some things were 
 added to perks but perks have to give you something more than just a note, so in F3 there are no 
 selective notes.
  
  - there aren`t many missions, most of them are simple "go there and shoot something". It`s the 
 main issue of game - go to a location and shoot.... it`s plain stupid 
  
  - not enough "big" settlements 
  
  - Bethesda lied a bit about "fully opened to see world" 
 - there are many places to which you have to take a specific rute, it`s simply planned like some 
 labyrinth and due to that it feels not real. There are even places where you cant simply go pass 
 through (i mean the building ruins - the cracked concrete plates ect.) because they were simply 
 BLOCKED by invisible wall...
  
  - the music could be a bit better (it isn`t bad but i`ve expected more)
  
  - this game could 
 use a bigger world, and a bike to ride ^^
  
  
  Positive:
  
  - nicely balanced skills and SPECIAL - everyone is useful
  
  - good mission menu (the arrangement 
 and given infos)
  
  - Great beginning, the character creation is marvellous idea
  
  - nice idea for missions: "survival guide" - it gives many posibilites, and the mission with android
 
  
  - nice side-collectables qests (like for sugar bombs or pre war books ect.)
  
  - great graphics it`s very creative
  
  - excellent idea with wearing off equipment
  
  - 
 many many items and Pipboy bubble heads
  
  - well added mobs (new ones)
  
  - many raider locations which kind of gives more climate
  
  - nice body massacre system
  
 
  - nice guns and not bad (but simple) making your own stuff system
  
  I think that`s most of it. :-) Hope it`s helpful ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaifr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Great story, even the side missions are fun (so far) . I love the teleporting system. (All the driving 
 killed my motivation for playing FarCry 2 and all the walking in STALKER) I also like the fact 
 that there is much less monster/enemies leveling than there was in Oblivion. You are supposed to 
 be weak before you gain experience. The only thing I hate so far is all the searching in cabinets 
 and boxes. And I also find the map blurry and hard to read. (I know it is supposed to mimic an 
 old television type of device.) All in all, great game. (All this writing about it makes me want 
 to end this review and play the game....) I made some wrong decisions when creating my character, 
 I would like to redo. This is more a critic to roleplaying games, since you really don't know witch 
 abilities will support your playing style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  First off, I have never played Oblivion. I mention that because apparently this game gets compared 
 to Oblivion quite a bit. Also I am reviewing the SINGLE PLAYER version of the game ONLY. Where 
 to start. First off, this is NOT a FPS, but it does have FPS aspects. It's not a pure RPG but it 
 does have a lot of RPG aspects as well. This game is a perfect balance between FPS and RPG, which 
 combined with a fully open ended world create a fantastic setting with tons of possibilities.
 
  
  There's so much you can do in this game it has thousands of hours of re playability. You can be 
 friendly and helpful to the NPCs you interact with or you can be a real **** to them all and only 
 focus on yourself. Each has it's own outcomes, advantages, and disadvantages. I started to find 
 my character taking on my own personalities most of the time, which creates great immersion. You 
 also have a great character customization with plenty of options that you are able to change throughout 
 the game. The setting of a post apocalyptic Washington DC is just perfect. They even have some 
 suburb neighborhoods of DC including Falls Church, which was a big deal for me because I was born 
 in Falls Church, so that was a real treat :P: P The landscape, day/night transitions, lighting, 
 water, sky, just all graphics in general were just amazing (I have a beast of a system with dual 
 8800GTXs in SLI) and a real pleasure to look at. The ONLY little pet pev I found in the entire 
 game was a small little graphics "issues". Nearly all female characters look the exact same in 
 the face. Also the shadowing makes nearly all the female characters look like they have a slight 
 mustache. But all in all the graphics are top notch.
  
  The story is strong and solid. Great dialog and OUTSTANDING voice acting. It's such a great story 
 that really grabs a hold of you and makes you crave more and more. Your character has a chance 
 to learn MANY different types of skills and there are hundreds of possible character "builds" that 
 will fit your play style. Some have experienced problems with crashing, but I have not. Game ran 
 VERY smoothly and only had one or two CTDs but they were not repeating. So in summary, this is 
 one of the best games I have EVER played. The open ended, the thousands of different choices, items, 
 skills, quests, etc and an outstanding story just make it a game that I just can't praise enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronpremo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything i hoped it would be. I had played some of the other Fallouts but not alot, and 
 i did play Elder Scrolls and yeah even though sometimes it plays like Elder Scrolls why is that 
 a bad thing? I mean i see to many reviews groaning about this is not like the other Fallouts, well 
 thats because it isn't, its better, instead of a small group that played, now even more can enjoy.
 
  
  
  I have 2 friends who played the other 2 games a ton and they both rave and love this game. I think 
 to many people want it to be like those games well sorry it's time to move on, if you love those 
 other games so much then just play them.
  
  
  As for any crashing problems i have had none at all, for the most part it plays very well on my 
 lower end system, the only reason i gave it a 9.5 is because i can't really enjoy it on higher settings.
 
  
  Bottom line if you like a VERY good RPG game and like a good dark humor, and contrary to what people 
 say a good story, and just a plain fun game to play then go pick this game up, you will not be sorry 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apeszilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  It may have some issues that need to be worked out, but it don't matter to jesus. I was gonna play 
 it on saturday, but now I'm gonna play it on Wednesday instead. You gotta date wednesday baby, 
 whooo! Oops, sorry. This game has a in depth story line, beautiful graphics, and an amazing amount 
 of items and customization. Ya, It crashes every once in a while, but the game play that you get 
 is well worth the occasional annoyance. Plus, the game loads quicker than any game I've played 
 in a long time. Kinda makes me wonder what the other designers are doing... How can the game be 
 this good, this spacious, and have this story when it only takes about 30 seconds from desktop 
 to blowing mutants heads off? I'm not complaining. I was playing Farcry 2, that got boring quick. 
 So then i started playing Dead Space, which wasn't bad. Then I got Fallout 3 the day it came out 
 and haven't played another game since. I have to make myself turn it off so I can get up for work 
 in the morning... Basically what I'm saying is "BUY IT, you won't be disappointed!" Well..... Thats 
 assuming that you enjoy quality gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleys987
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics. Seriously. I live in the DC area, and seeing all the familiar sights was an added 
 bonus. No, it's not like the first two in the series, but the use of the VATS system, and the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. 
 abilities - very cool.
  
  Very, very replayable. It's not that difficult to race right through the story line and get to 
 the end game, so take your time, and enjoy it. One caveat - be sure you've done all you want before 
 the end scene. I was a bit disappointed that the game literally ends for you there, as opposed 
 to Oblivion where you could continue on. Think the NeverWinterNights 2 ending.
  
  A lot of flexibility in how you can play a character. I tended to do a lot of pointblank shooting 
 with small arms. (Just can't beat the combat shotgun and chinese assault rifle at close range... and 
 you get them pretty early on.)
  
  But if you want to melee, it's certainly competitive to do so. If there was a love interest in 
 the story, I couldn't find it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulvin
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't come anywhere near the two "real" fallout games. The story is poorly told, characters 
 are uninteresting, dialog options carry a fine line that only very rarely gets bented a bit - everyone 
 you meet will present you with the same dialog options more or less, this makes the game feel dead. 
 The NPCs you can team up with has nothing to offer, in the two fallout games (yes, there are only 
 2 of them) they had a story, they were interresting. 
  
  The dark humour and constant references are gone, it feels like creativity has been set back to 
 something that at best could be a tech demo to fallout 1+2.
  
  50%, if not more, of the game you'll run around inside confined, dark and uninterresting buildings. 
 It's fun for a little while - mostly due to the references there still are to the fallout games.
 
  
  It's definently not as well written as the real fallouts, but it seems that creativity and story 
 telling in games died quite a few years ago, so it's probably on par with 80% of the endless pile 
 of crap game developers spew out to the xbox generation.
  
  The only progression in this "fallout" game is a newer graphic engine. The real Fallout games are 
 getting horrible dated. But on every other department it falls short on the name it has to live 
 up to. All in all, for "old" gamers that liked the first ones, this one just leaves a bad taste 
 once you've had more than 10 hours with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CondiRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  I've never written a review before but I'll start with this: I like Oblivion a lot. Oblivion has 
 several characteristics which add up to make an extraordinary experience: near total control over 
 your character's initial abilities (and even obsessive facial tweaking) during the tutorial, quest 
 writing which is full of black humour and plot twists, and a really enjoyable and intuitive exploration-and 
 combat-based gameplay. This is why I have played Oblivion for something like 150-200 hours total, 
 and Fallout 3 has all of these features and more.
  
  Fallout 3 begins much like Oblivion, with a tutorial section which is more or less linear (i. e. 
 do this, then that, then that, then end the tutorial) through which you customise your character's 
 face, attributes and skills step by step, with even more control in each step than Oblivion allowed. 
 After the tutorial you are free to go where you like in a vast world, side with whoever you want 
 and behave however you feel. The exploration is pretty much just like Oblivion, in that you can 
 fast travel to places you have discovered, and nearby places that you haven't discovered appear 
 on your compass to alert you that some unknown destination is near. A key improvement in this game 
 though is the way you interact with the people you meet. Just like in Oblivion you have several 
 dialogue options with a character, but they aren't generic conversation topics like "Taxes" or 
 "Rumours", they are really different for each type of character you meet. In addition to this, 
 if you have a particularly high attribute like strength you can use unique " [Strength] Give me 
 the keys or I smash your face." dialogue options to manipulate people. You get unique dialogue 
 options for all sorts of different character abilities you might have, and you also get to try 
 and manipulate people using your speech skill. There are often dialogue options such as " [Speech 
 19%] Come on I'm a nice guy, just let me in.", where the percentage is based on your speech skill 
 (which in turn is affected by your charisma attribute) . If you fail to persuade someone with percentage-based 
 dialogue, that option is lost forever. There is none of that silly speechcraft minigame from Oblivion, 
 and none of the silly "Charm 24 points on touch" magic that you can use to make people like you. 
 What you CAN still do in this game though, is wear clothes and take substances such as vodka which 
 enhance, say, your charisma attribute. I like to put on my charisma-boosting clothes and drink 
 some alcohol before talking to merchants too, because your charisma boosts your barter skill, temporarily 
 getting you cheaper deals. Although don't be surprised if you become addicted to any drugs that 
 you take! If you become addicted to a drug you can suffer withdrawal effects if you don't get your 
 fix, which are (I think) just the opposite of the effect of the drug, so beer withdrawal will negatively 
 affect your charisma until you get a cure or drink more beer.
  
  Attributes and skills work differently to how they did in Oblivion. In Oblivion your skills improved 
 as you used them (e. g. hit things with a mace to boost your blunt skill) , and you chose attributes 
 to boost when you levelled up, with the amount of points you could put into an attribute proportional 
 to the amount of skill points you had gained in skills 'governed' by that attribute. It was a slightly 
 complex system, but a rewarding one which meant if you wanted to become very strong you needed 
 to raise many skill points across blunt, blade and hand to hand at each level. In Fallout 3 things 
 are quite different. As you play you gain generic "experience points" for doing practically every 
 different thing, and once you reach the experience threshold for your current level you level up. 
 Upon levelling up you get a set number of points to distribute across your skill set as you see 
 fit - this is the only time when skills actually improve (other than reading books that boost a 
 skill, but you don't have control over that) - but your attributes do not change. Once you've distributed 
 your skill points you get to choose a perk, a special bonus in some area of your character build. 
 For example, you can choose a perk called "lady killer" if you are a man, which means you deal 
 extra damage to female characters and gain additional dialogue options for persuading females. 
 You can also choose perks such as "gun nut" which boosts your repair and small guns skills, or 
 "intense training" which allows you to put one point into any attribute. There are a huge range 
 of perk options, but as far as I have seen intense training is the only way to permanently alter 
 your attributes. Some perks can obviously be chosen only once, such as lady killer, but others 
 allow you to choose them more than once. For example I have selected intense training 3 or 4 times 
 during my game, as at some point I felt I needed a permanent boost to strength or intelligence 
 more than I needed skill points or new dialogue options.
  
  The combat in Fallout 3 is significantly different to Oblivion because almost everyone uses projectile 
 attacks, but that doesn't mean that melee weapons are useless, because for a start they don't require 
 precious ammo! If you equip a melee weapon you can still attack and block like you could in Oblivion 
 though, and if you equip a gun you can attack or zoom. If you are in sneak mode (crouching) your 
 accuracy improves, and if undetected you can achieve 'sneak' attacks. You also get 'critical' hits 
 now and then, and a critical sneak attack is a deadly combination. Whenever enemies are near you 
 can pause time using "VATS" and queue up precision attacks on multiple enemies, but this consumes 
 "action points" - the equivalent of magicka - which recover over time like in Oblivion. That's 
 not all there is to combat though, as your gun can jam while reloading, and your weapon's condition 
 governs how effective it is (and I think how likely it is to jam) . Periodic weapon maintainance 
 is advised! There are two ways to fix your weapons, you can pay someone to repair your weapon up 
 to a given percentage (which depends on the character's repair skill) or you can sacrifice one 
 of your duplicate weapons, using the salvaged parts to boost the condition of the other (up to 
 a maximum condition that depends on your own repair skill) . Weapons are often worth quite a lot 
 of bottle caps (currency) though, so you have to decide whether you want to carry around your loot 
 to sell it on, or sacrifice it to improve your main weapon. This is just one of many decisions 
 that you have to make in the wasteland!
  
  There is a lot more to this game than I've had time to cover, but it really is immersive, deep 
 and a hell of a lot of fun. I have a house and I collect alcohol (arranged neatly along a bar) 
 so that I can have a drink before bartering or trying to persuade people. I sometimes get a haircut 
 when I'm fed up with my hair-do or beard, and can even visit a plastic surgeon if I'm bored of 
 my face. I have a follower, a woman in power armour who follows me around helping out in combat 
 and carrying equipment when there's too much loot for just me to carry. In the middle of one fight 
 she even picked up a minigun from a dead super mutant and started blasting things. This game is 
 amazing, I strongly recommend you get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smetty72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  I'm slightly disappointed with the main Storyline in Fallout 3, it's good, but too short. I think 
 I expected more from Bethesda after both Morrowind and Oblivion. I've started another game with 
 a second character and am planning on doing a bit more wandering and hopefully find some new quests, 
 stories etc. to give it some more long term playability. Looking at the fairly bare map towards 
 the end of the main storyline gave me the impression that there's a lot more to find out there!
 
  
  Graphics are good, even on my old machine (Athlon 3700 with Nvidia 7900GTO) . Hopefully the few 
 graphical glitches and crashes I've had will be resolved soon. Difficulty is set just about right 
 for me. I found DC quite difficult to navigate around though, although this becomes largely irrelevant 
 once you can fast travel.
  
  All in all Fallout 3 has the potential to be on my PC for as long as Oblivion has, around 18 months 
 and counting. Although I attribute a lot of Oblivion's re-playability to the Mod community and 
 all their hard work, hope your listening Bethesda. Construction Set please!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wainamoin3n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  Let's look at the facts:
  - Bethesda buys the Fallout license in order to develop the third installment (big spenders, eh?)
 
  - they recycle the Oblivion engine, with both its great potential and its shameful quirks; they 
 don't repair it or improve it significantly (the Fallout license costed quite a bit, right, why 
 invest further?)
  - while they keep stating everywhere that they intended to keep the good ol' Fallout spirit alive, 
 they refuse the assistance offered by two important original Fallout designers. Well, that's odd... 
 and most sadly, it really shows.
  - from launch up till now, Fallout 3 sells like warm bread. Objective completed.
  
  Translation: 
 Let's buy a well-known license, use the Oblivion engine on it and make a whole lot of bucks that 
 we need for The Elder Scrolls V's development. Why, how courteous!!!
  
  A compressed opinion on the various aspects of Fallout 3:
  
  Sporting a + three year old engine, 
 it does run smoothly or at least acceptable on any computer that ran fine Oblivion. That's obviously 
 a big plus. Unfortunately, while they've improved their depiction of the characters aesthetically 
 (which was close to horrible for the most part in Oblivion) , Bethesda failed to hire some good 
 animators, resulting in unsatisfying movement and animation, along with a whole lot of movement 
 oddities. The main character itself moves like it was crippled and the jumping feels especially 
 unnatural. The texturing problems that were covered by vegetation in Oblivion are now perfectly 
 visible, because the new post-nuclear environment wouldn't be credible with lots of flora spreaded 
 around. 
  
  Next, the sound.
  General sound effects are good, ambient sounds add to the atmosphere and music generally acceptable 
 but not memorable. The different radio stations are a great idea and add a lot to the feeling. 
 However, the positional audio fails to be accurate and the volumes of different sounds aren't adjusted 
 properly. That often results in you trying to speak with another character while being constantly 
 invaded by ambient dialogues that take place far enough, but with a ridiculously high amplitude 
 that distractis you from the direct conversation. Big minus.
  Speaking of dialogue, all the lines thrown around in F3 may be acceptable and even funny at times. 
 That's if you've never played the previous Fallouts or another RPG with smart, witty and genuinely 
 funny or deep dialogue (such as Planescape Torment) . If you have, then most of the spoken lines 
 in Fallout 3 will seem uninspired, to say the least, to downright retarded. If you think I'm exaggerating, 
 just check out Fallout on IMDB and read some of the lines, the start comparing. Then, there are 
 the voices. Some seem teleported from Oblivion. I don't know what the heck happened, but having 
 lots of folks with a medieval British accent on the East Coast of USA, in a post-nuclear world, 
 that's a little too much. Furthermore, a lot of unconvincingly spoken lines reveal really bored 
 actors, while some hit the bullseye. Mostly not. 
  
  The gameplay:
  Full of anachronisms and inconsistencies from the Fallout Bible's point of view, the world indeed 
 feels quite stiff and the different elements seem mostly forced together, squeezed in a rather 
 small world as opposed to the free wandering available in F1 and F2. Immediately after exiting 
 the Vault, if you head right and walk for 30 meters or so, you'll stumble into an arbitrary border 
 that you can't cross. Ah, love that kind of freedom. Bad, bad design! The consequences system and 
 different approaches are constantly crippled by illogical results and responses to your actions. 
 You kill the Overseer under the terrified gaze of his daughter, your longtime friend and immediately 
 after that, when trying to speak to her, she doesn't want to talk to you right then... How absurd! 
 While leaving the Valut, if you kill everyone AFTER completing all the quests and saving all that's 
 to be saved, you can still become the Vault Guardian. Say what?!! It's also common that after beating 
 the hell out of someone, that someone just gets up and asks you: "How's it going, mate?". Immersion 
 my ass.
  As you gain or lose Karma and the story unfolds, I realised that no matter how much of a villain 
 you are, killing, betraying and mocking everyone, if you take the "paladin" choices at the key 
 moments you can still get the "good" endings. Ridiculous, "good" options shouldn't be available 
 for a lowlife.
  Also, another result of the obvious compression of the world is that you don't feel you actually 
 travel too much and there's always way too much loot to be had. Mostly, you can't even fart without 
 hitting a mutant or another character. While walking casually, you stumble across a settlement. 
 You take another few steps and discover the entrance to a radscorpion cave and at a rock's throw, 
 there's another settlement. All that instead of free roaming through a decrepit DC, preferably 
 using the Fallout trademark vehicle, a Corvega. No Wasteland, just a bunch of post-nuclear location 
 squeezed together. For that reason, there seems to be a huge amount of loot, especially since we're 
 talking about a post-nuclear scene with lots of limitations and a general supply shortage. That's 
 very, very disappointing.
  Next, the combat. Although Oblivion's excellent melee is still to be found, the gunplay isn't all 
 that exciting. The VATS system makes for some potentially nice if unnecessary dismemberfests, but 
 also grants you a quite unfair edge over your opponents. VATS=WIN. Plus, the gruesome results of 
 using VATS are way too frequent. In F1 and F2, such common brutal deaths were granted only by choosing 
 the Bloody Mess trait (which stated something like: for some reason, your opponents seem to meet 
 their end in the most brutal and sadistic possible ways) . It was optional, now it's unnervingly 
 common.
  As in Oblivion, sneaking and stealing are extraordinarily well implemented and the hacking and 
 lockpicking minigames are brilliant and feel satisfying. Not so for the repairing part. Mending 
 a broken item requires another identical one no matter how high you push the skill. Why can't I 
 be able to replace a shotgun trigger with the one I've found on a machine gun, if I'm good enough? 
 Plus, the general abundance of items really steals the emphasis from the Repair skill.
  
  The skills:
  While the main stats are intact, they work fairly different than in the previous 
 installments. For example, in the past, a high Perception granted excellent targeting abilities 
 and was critical for sharpshooters (it was lethal combined with luck and some key perks) . All it 
 does now is grant you improved detection of foes, which is by no means spectacular in any way. 
 The so-called "traits" from previous games have utterly disappeared (you could choose two of those) 
 or transformed into Perks that you can choose when leveling up. The result: too many Perks, some 
 really uninspired. The older system was much better. Oh well....
  
  Generally, the quality and coherence of the game is a mixed bag. Some areas are plain beautiful 
 and credible, some seem to be forced down your throat and totally unnatural. That applies to dialogues, 
 characters and situations. It's like the development team was schizophrenic. That said, there are 
 plenty of amusing and interesting location, characters and situations, which made me genuinely 
 laugh quite a lot.
  
  Bottom line
  It's not a bad game, but it's still far from being a good one. An uneven experience, filled with 
 great moments but shameful quirks too. As a sequel, I'd have to say it's far from what I expected 
 and what could have been achieved. A highly schizophrenic title with disappointingly varying quality 
 and consistence. It's NOT an AAA title, but a decent experience, and indeed newcomers and generally 
 shallow players might enjoy it quite a lot. For veterans, experienced RPG players, contemplative 
 individuals and Fallout fans, it's quite dissapointing and often an insult to their intellects. 
 However, the highly moddable nature of the engine and the devoted Fallout fans vow for some soon-to-emerge 
 "mods that shouldn't have been mods" which will probably set most of the quirks right, just as 
 it happened for Oblivion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayt88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for something with an intricate storyline then this game is not exactly for you. 
 Despite the mediocre story filled with logical flaws, it has very decent gameplay which makes you 
 want more as you play it.
  The flavour of the Fallout series is still there even with the change in how it is played, I would 
 say Bethesda has done quite a good job in trying to maintain the nostalgia of the series.
  Lastly, the ending format although quite similar to the previous series of the Fallout games, lacks 
 innovation and thought. For example, (*Spoilers*) if you destroyed the town Megaton and complete 
 the game with good karma, you would still see it in the ending.
  Overall, the gameplay experience along with the scenic outlook of the environment towers over the 
 sub-average storyline. Definitely worth getting and playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshjo9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  the game brings a new experience to the world of gameing rpg mxied with a first person shooter 
 it has many choices to pick from being a boy to a girl race skills abilites evil good many choices 
 many effects on the gameplay the story line gets a 10 out of 10 gameplay gets a 8.0 out of 10 good 
 but hard walkin the road then pop you hit a bottle cap mine and loss half your health you find 
 water and drink it you absorb to much radiation and get sick get into a fight with some ghouls 
 you get crippled in the head and keep blacking out they made it a little bit harder than they should 
 of i dont want a game were you keep playin and dying over and over again make the next one easier 
 please make it like oblivions difficulty easy but sometimes hard but if you want a game thats challenging 
 andis a great role playing game and a good concept buy it but play it first if you have a chance 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 merges real-time and turn-based into a hybrid of sorts... making the gameplay immersive 
 and addictive. Sadly the ending spoils the game and makes the player feel unsatisfied at the end 
 of the day.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is fantastic. What can I say? I used VATS (Vault-Tec Assisted Targetting System) almost 
 exclusively and this didn't kill the immersion for me - if anything it added to it. FO3 also gives 
 the player the ability to do almost anything they want... from being a slaver working for the grunts 
 at the slaving complex ironically named Paradise Falls or disarming an atomic bomb in the middle 
 of a town, earning yourself a little shack to sleep in. The Karma system also appears to be somewhat 
 present whenever you engage in dialogue with someone - allowing for your character to effectively 
 role-play the mercenary/town-savior that you love to play as. The quick travel system is helpful 
 but does kill the sense of how big the game world actually is, and the graphic walls inside Downtown 
 DC areas do restrict the player to linear gaming - however if you're doing the 100+ hours of sidequests 
 before the main quest, then you won't be in DC for much anyway...
  VERDICT: 9.5/10
  
  STORY
  The story is short and the ending is shorter. I was happily playing away after about 6 
 hours of gameplay and suddenly saw credits. If there ever was a "WTF" moment this would be it. 
 There are numerous twists abound which can be seen a mile away and the fact that you're shouting 
 out for your "Dad" every two minutes makes you feel like a lonely teenager capable of going on 
 hunger strikes just to get his attention. 
  VERDICT: 7/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  The modelling in the game looks like it's done in an archaic version of Maya. The textures are 
 very bland... even for a post-apocalyptic game, and the actual performance of the game runs quite 
 poorly (when I say poorly I mean good... but the microstutter that was also present in Oblivion 
 has made a come back, much to the dismay of PC gamers world wide) on most PC's. In fact, every 
 PC user is experiencing a micro-stutter due to the game's coding - depending on what card the user 
 has and what drivers, the stutter may/may not be as noticeable (but it is still there) . However 
 with all settings on, my computer runs at a steady 60FPS where Far Cry 2 run at a measly 48FPS 
 on average... but that is taking into account that half of Fallout 3 is underground, meaning less 
 things to load. Differences aside, if the front cover didn't say "Fallout 3" you'd read "Oblivion 
 With Guns" as it looks just like it ingame.
  VERDICT: 8.5/10
  
  SOUND
  Fantastic soundtrack to Galaxy News Radio, incorporating old tunes from the 40's (even though the 
 actual war that plunges the Fallout world into an apocalyptic setting took place more than a few 
 decades after the 40's...) and when not in reception, the engine seamlessly switches over to an 
 ambient orhestra. However the wind noises do seem almost TOO similar to Morrowind's ambient tracks 
 and the voice acting is terribly limited (although everyone has a voce in the game, there are only 
 about five voice actors) ... I remember talking to a shop assistant who happened to be african-american 
 then turning to talk to the pale white shopkeeper... who had the same accent.
  VERDICT: 7.5/10
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  None.
  VERDICT: -/- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrimac
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  It lacks the Fallout atmosphere, it's wit and charm, it's humor. I have already played Oblivion, 
 I really didn't want to do it again. That's worth 2 points down for me.
  
  Technical things I don't like (also 2 points down) are among other things: 
  - the fps element, 
 
  - the combat system (either leave it real time or make it fully turn based, can't do both) , 
 
  - the constant claustrophobic exploration (most of the quests are placed in confined spaces) , 
 can't imagine why they decided to call it a wasteland,
  - the level cap, renders the 'swift learner' perk useless,
  - the constant slow motion action 
 during combat,
  - why do all developers think it would be fun to use mini-games for lock-picking or hacking and 
 such. What is the point of having a skill if you still have to do something to use it.
  - and other things
  
  Recommended for people who like the Elder Scrolls series. Old geezers 
 like me, who really enjoyed Fallout originals, should expect to be disappointed. In the end it's 
 6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iloveconnie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, but don't expect the magic of Oblivion, because this doesn't reach those 
 levels. However, even being a diminished Oblivion is enough to merit a buy. I've already played 
 about 22 hours and can say this is a great RPG, very addictive, it just doesn't have the endless 
 amounts of things to do that Oblivion had, quests sort of run out too fast, and the level cap is 
 20. 
  Graphics are very well done, I was impressed, also the sound is well done. I'm currently running 
 through 2 characters at once so I suppose that means the replay value is high, and yes it definetly 
 is, but again, not as high as oblivion. I expect to get about 50 hours from this game altogether, 
 which in my opinion is worth the full price. So for all you Oblivion fans, this is something to 
 tide you over until ES5, or until the next Fallout includes the magic it should have.
  
  ~ (Would have given it an 8.7) ~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3rino
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  So, here is some new insight into Fallout 3. I will not bow in awe, as I've seen my share of games, 
 but I'm not going to rant about how it is not "true" Fallout, as I've never played previous Fallouts.
 
  
  Instead, I've played a game called Oblivion. Fallout 3 is like a mod to it generally, changing 
 the visuals. Aside of V. A. T. S (a action-point based, point-and-kill targeting system) , it is all 
 the same.
  
  Game is made nicely, and it is enjoyable to do almost anything - shooting blows people up very 
 nicely, walking shows you magnificent (yet desolate, obviously) sceneries, developing your character 
 offers some interesting decisions to make.
  
  Yes, it is all very enjoyable... untill the game runs out of it. The world is small (I haven't 
 messured it, but you could run from end to end in few minutes I guess...) , the quest are limited 
 in number, and weapons/armours you can count on fingers (not even having to do it in binary) .
 
  
  I am no pro-gamer in this type of games, yet I've finished FO3 in less than 20 hours. And I've 
 done a lot of side-quests. For comparison, I had characters in Oblivion, that had more than hundred 
 hours played, and they had done merly a fraction of the quests.
  
  Play this game. Really, it is a good game, and a real pleasure - while it lasts. Blow some Uglies 
 with biggest guns you can carry and roam the desolate wasteland. Then get back to Oblivion, 'cause 
 even after all this time, you probably have some quests to finish... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SickNastySick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Newcomers can easily understand the plot as it is intriguing and the NPC's in the game explain 
 everything. There are so many perks available to you when you level up that you have to replay 
 the game just to see all of them in action. (Lady Killer) This is not a first person shooter so 
 dont expect to go into anyplace guns blazing and taking cover. The game is more of a tactical shooter. 
 The story is intriguing and the characters are enjoyable even though everyone seems to have a bad 
 attitude. Thats that wasteland for you. There is allot of side missions and allot of places to 
 explore that you will be busy for days. The landscape and people are so interesting that you will 
 spend most of you time exploring the wasteland for hidden pockets of civilization. (The Republic 
 of Dave) All good RPG's have you make a decisions, this one is no exception. There are decisions 
 to be made although many of them are clear black and white decisions it is interesting to see how 
 both ways play out making you want to replay this game. If you love RPG's this is a must play. 
 Veterans of the franchise will enjoy the small nuances of the game that make this game different 
 than others you played. No game is without flaws. At time i felt like this was just an Elder Scrolls 
 game with a mask. That was quickly diminished when i was exploring and a Super Mutant came walking 
 over the ridge at dusk and crouched slightly in my direction and jumped up screaming with guns 
 blazing as he spotted me. Not to much of a variety of weapons though you can gain schematics to 
 build some nasty little weapons, there could of been more weapons readily available. I would of 
 loved to be the leader of my own pocket of civilization. Overall this is a good game that deserves 
 at least one play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgx3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, it is not a "Master Piece", but it is good. I never played Fallout 1 or 2, 
 but I did play the pen and paper version in the late 80s. This interpretation is only vaguely familiar 
 with that original world. That being said, it is good in it's own right. I won't comment on how 
 it is not "Fallout", as I never played the first two computer versions. But I will say this, it's 
 creepy, there is a smattering of decent humor and the story is so far engrossing. The graphics 
 and sound are good (although I had to turn off my hardware accel for the known bug with soundblasters 
 which bugged me until I figured it out) , and the content is well thought out and integrated. Polished 
 is the word here, which is something Bethesda is known for. Clearly this is spawn of Oblivion, 
 if you have played that game a lot of the underlying mechanics of that game will be familiar to 
 you here. Many have decried that as a problem, but it was a good formula for Oblivion, and it's 
 a good formula here. However, the "wide open" feel of Oblivion is somewhat diminished in this game. 
 I can't quite put a finger to it, but this game should feel huge to me, but it doesn't. Only for 
 a few hours after exiting the vault did I feel that way. In Oblivion, it feels huge every time 
 I started over. Another thing it shares with Oblivion is the console control scheme. This is a 
 minor annoyance, as it works well enough, but the PC has so much more possibility than a console 
 in this regard. Although, as I have noted before, if this is the price I pay for a good game, I'll 
 deal with it, even as I dock the game overall for the fact.
  Now for the truely negative. Too much ridiculous gore. It just became a parody of itself as people 
 blew up into small pieces. Silly and juvenile. When will the game designers stop equating "mature" 
 with this kind of drivel? I always feel like I am some 18 year old with no worldly clue making 
 life decisions in these games. I know, you actually are a young man early on, but the dialouge 
 never grows up even as your character does. The choices of dialouge are sometimes cringe worthy. 
 
  Overall, as I said it's a good game and well worth the price, which is what matters really. Buy 
 it and enjoy it for what it is. A well thought out, well made, polished gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game had everything an rpg gamer would want, including dismembering limbs, gore, and of course 
 guns. 
  
  There was just one major flaw that hopefully a mod can fix, you can't keep playing after the game 
 is beaten, it's understandable and theres ways to make it so you still get the achievment and keep 
 playing after you've beaten it. All you have to do is save before you go into the last door and 
 beat it then load the game back and continue to play.
  
  But away from the flaws lets go to the good in the game, now gore was a little overdone and thats 
 just the way i like it, heads popping off, limbs and other things.
  
  The humor in the game is down right funny, like the options for the G. O. A. T test were just hilarious 
 like the one where they gave you the option to put the firecracker in the toilet.
  
  The guns were awesome in this game, mini nukes that really do make mushroom clouds and little 10mm 
 pistols, they just make the guns so cool. Lets not forget about V. A. T. S, it is just the icing on 
 the cake, you can watch the bullet go from your rifle into the enemies head and watch those heads 
 roll.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviledger
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Yes, everything goes in post apocalyptic universe, yes this game is awesome, but... it's not Fallout. 
 Oblivion + S. T. A. L. K. E. R = Fallout 3. That's all, nothing more. 
  When i've heard that Bethesda bought the rights for this unbelievable game the first thought was 
 "the game doomed to be Oblivion" and I was right. Where are traps?? It's impossible to make your 
 own traps except the mines. The only thing you can is to reactivate some traps... Where is Browning 
 M2? 
  The game is to easy. The first time I had a meeting with deathclaw in old Fallout I've died 10-15 
 times at least. In Fallout 3 it's just impossible to die even if you got 10mm vs enclave or super 
 mutant with minigun. The biggest threat were raiders... it's simply a nonsense. Futhermore, I've 
 read in some forums that Fallout 3 universe is huge. Wrong. You can travel across in no time and 
 the main quest is to short.
  To sum up, if you expect Fallout 3 to be as previous series you'll be disappointed. However it's 
 an awesome game to kill time till Diablo 3.
  
  For being Fallout 3: 5/10
  For being Oblivion 2: 9/10
  
  Sorry for mistakes :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk9780
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Fall Out 3 
  Myself and my daughter have been playing for well over twenty hours reach level 12 / 14 and traversed 
 about 2/3 of the FO3 world. The beginning within the Vault can be a bit slow and seem that you're 
 just acting out a part in a movie, as this is true, it's really worth having a good look round.
 
  Once you get outside, this when true independents of game really begins, you have a real choice 
 on what path you follow, but in what manner of attitude you undertake you're chosen path. Sound 
 and music first class, the level of detail makes the game a wonder to play, seems silly but sometimes 
 I just go site seeing!
  You need to remember to check everywhere for goods and booty, early time in the game should be 
 lived in a settlement close to V101 learning and gathering the required skills to survive. You 
 can undertake Quest independent of the main story line, but with the Quest's you'll gain much need 
 knowledge FO3 world, and beginning plotting location on you're map, the up side to this is once 
 a location has been plotted you can quickly relocate to that location by simply clicking on a map. 
 Most Quests can be completed in a number of ways, and the bullet isn't always the best answer.
 
  Does the game have any downsides, why yes a few, but the ones that get me are you can't keep your 
 own diary within the game, and need faster way to swop between weapons. Nearly forgot my daughter 
 would like to point out because her female character is wearing military battle gear doesn't mean 
 that she needs to be portrayed as a lesbian. I think there are a few encounters which are meant 
 to boast the male ego. There are teething problems with some setups, but there many gamers out 
 there willing to advice you through the problem times, I guarantee you it will be well worth the 
 struggle. The game is huge and to visit every location you'll need to play through a few times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edendil
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Well to start this game it's not fallout they only take the name and a few things like the V. A. T. S 
 and characters names that makes fallout 1,2 or even the fallout tactics a great game and put in 
 a oblivion new- ambient (Post Apocalyptic World and then call it Fallout 3. WELL THIS IS A JOKE 
 !!!
  
  I have been waiting this game for over 10 years, and the only thing that i see it's a game with 
 a lame speechs, they take the same questions and repeat it over and over again, then the gameplay 
 it's fun for the firsts15-20 hours then it's more of the same don't have any feedback. After that 
 we have a world when you are continuously push it in subways because the invisible walls, or the 
 unscalable rubble of the surface can't let you go anywhere else (issue that I tought have been 
 fixed for all modern games ) .
  
  The IA have no sense mutants firing over 2 miles with a minigun (obviously they don't hit anything) 
 and in other cases just stand in front of you thinking what can they do. For the other hand you 
 with some good perks like sniper, commando or finesse and a decent weapon like the sniper rifle 
 or lincoln repeater can pass through the whole game without any problem (what happen with the rooms 
 full of monster when you need almost a miracle to leave alive) . After that we have a karma system 
 that the only remarkable consequence on the trayectory of the game that has it's being persuit 
 for some pathetics guys call it "regulators", and make you evil for steal things when no one see 
 you.
  
  now to end let's talk about the side-quests that are just a try from bathesda to make the game 
 a little more deep in comparation of a decadent ,careless of imagination, main story of 20 hours 
 about looking for your dad and when you find it all the game its over :S then you are kicked again 
 to the main menu, what about taking revenge for you father dead or help the brotherhood fight against 
 the enclave, or the opposite, etc. 
  
  This game have a lot of potential but doesn't deserve the name of Fallout 3 it's just another shoot 
 em up with some good adds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinkoman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  For those who just want to know if it is a worthy addition to the core Fallout games, the answer 
 is: Without a doubt yes. Far superior to Fallout 2, and rivals Fallout 1. 
  
  The star of the game is without a doubt the dark yet fascinating post-apocalyptic ruins of Washington 
 D. C. and the surrounding wastelands. While there are certainly prettier games out there, none let 
 you explore such a massive and complex world as the one you have available in Fallout 3.
  
  The story is strong though the ending is somewhat weak. It doesn't have the memorable final showdown 
 with the Master that the first game had but the final battle scene leading to the ending is extremely 
 well done. The real strength of the game is the exploration that takes place outside of the story. 
 The game is at it's best when you are just trying to survive in the hostile wasteland.
  
  The downsides of the game are that it is somewhat easy, especially once you get past level 15 and 
 the endings are weak. Concerning the endings, its obvious that the developers wanted to do more 
 but ran out of time which is dissapointing but its easy to forgive when you consider how damn good 
 the rest of the game is. And considering the success that Fallout 3 has met with, its almost a 
 sure bet that there will be more to come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAT-21
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The game was very interesting, unfortunately constant freeze-ups and crashes ruined it for me so 
 I uninstalled and returned Fallout 3 for a refund. The store took it back and the guy there told 
 me I was the 7th person returning it that week for the same reason. Whether you used Vista or XP, 
 the same problems followed. Either you froze while walking or the game crashed all together returning 
 me to the desktop. On Bethesda's site they have a patch and some fixes to try but all did me no 
 good. Time to go back to the drawing board Bethesda!!! If you Google Fallout 3 you'll find many 
 others complaining similarly.
  
  Maybe when the game works I will re-review this potentially good game. As for the bright points 
 I did like the growing up sequence. I did however get bored with the RPG- like interaction with 
 players so I would add a shotgun in here and there and go on a killing spree which made this game 
 way more fun. I think they should have quickened the pace a bit as this game could be boring at 
 times. If it would have worked my rating would have been around 7.5-8.0.
  
  Maybe Fallout 4 will be a better balanced game??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdiana21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  I love the original fallout series and Fallout 3 doesn't disappoint. It has all the feel of the 
 original version, including the playability and large universe that we love. I currently have about 
 15 hours invested in the game and haven't even touched the map and quests. I am not sure of how 
 long it will take to finish but I am glad there are so many different quests and sub quests. I 
 am loosing many hours of sleep and will probably loose many more. If you loved Oblivion you will 
 really love Fallout 3 since the playability of the game is nearly identical, with many great enhancements 
 to merge the fallout environment. While there are many games coming out this holiday season they 
 will have to wait because I won't stop playing this for a long time.
  
  That being said the PC version does have it's problems just like any game does nowadays. It randomly 
 locks up when trying to move to quickly in some areas. Usually when I get into some small corridors 
 and try to spin around too fast. I have a quad core dell XPS-630 with 4 gb of ram so it is plenty 
 of machine. Hopefully we will see a patch soon.
  
  Bethesda rocks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovka87
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  i have never played a game for 60 plus hours (not done yet) so easily, time just fly's by when 
 playing this game. the world is so amazing but yet so depressing and yet it is so much fun to explore. 
 i have only used fast travel a couple times because you could miss so much when you do fast travel. 
 the pc version is the best version out of the 3 available, why, because the graphic just look so 
 much better, go to ign-fallout 3-videos-head to head you'll see what i'm talking about. there are 
 so many weapons in the game, probably between 50 and 60. i have yet finished the story but so far 
 it is great, it's not bioshock great, but its good. now for anyone who thinks this is oblivion 
 with guns, it is and it isn't. the graphic between the two games are a big difference. fallout 
 3 looks so much than oblivion, third person still is not good but is a good improvement. character 
 models are better, dialogue is better and yeah just better. fallout 3 gets a 10 because it is the 
 perfect rpg with a first person view, absolutely one my favorite games of all times now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biochimera
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  It was hard to award this game such a score, but in the end I think it's what it deserves. Utilising 
 the same engine that powered Oblivion, the game feels and acts like oblivion in a lot of ways. 
 The game handles well, and is fun.
  
  So why the so-so score? As already alluded to, it's that the game doesn't feel like fallout. The 
 violence and the gore in the game feels forced upon you rather than a true part of the harshness 
 of the wasteland. The areas and the quests have undergone "Oblivionisation", ie they are standardised 
 and tied to level, which while it makes the wastes easier to explore also diminishes the sense 
 of pleasure and fulfilment that Fallout brought. Also, the areas in Fallout 3 aren't as immersive 
 as they are in Fallout 1 + 2. Unlike in the originals I found myself struggling to care about places 
 that I found. So two morons are playing cartoon characters? Another town has a nuke in the middle 
 of it? Compare that to how Vault City or NCR or Reno impacted on you, and how you wanted to really 
 do well by those places (or not, depending on your alignment) . 
  
  Another thing tied to that is what you could get up to in Fallout 1 and 2 that you can't in Fallout 
 3. In Fallout 2 especially, you could be a porn star, a prizefighter, a member of a crime syndicate, 
 so on and so on. You could also sleep with a crime boss' daughter and wife, pimp out your wife, 
 or be a devout, pious saviour of the wastes. In Fallout 3, you can't really do any of the above, 
 it feels like all you're doing is running through the game exploring the place and hoping you find 
 daddy under a rock in faroutsville. 
  
  Finally, even the weapons have undergone Oblivionisation. Energy weapons used to be more powerful 
 than standard weapons, but that was offset by them being later in the game. Fallout 2 introduced 
 the gauss rifle to somewhat offset that effect, however in fallout 3 energy weapons are a big loser 
 compared to small guns. At the least, have a scoped laser rifle...
  
  In short, credit where credit's due. Fallout 3 is a beautiful game, and a good story, however it 
 lacks the immersion, the dark humour, the odd things that made Fallout Fallout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianGyrofire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  For those who are reading this and have heard (or believe themselves) that Fallout 3 is "Oblivion 
 with guns", I say to you: putting aside certain basic similarities, they have very little in common.
 
  
  If you've actually -played- Fallout 3 for a period of time long enough to allow you to see the 
 spectrum of the game's content, you would say "Hey, this is a truly revolutionary game." But I 
 won't just tell you that it's good, and tell you to go buy it; I don't work for Bethesda's marketing 
 division.
  
  Instead, first let me explain the similarities between Oblivion and Fallout 3:
  -Both games have 
 a multitude of locations which can be fast-traveled to and serve the same functions (towns, "dungeons", 
 etc.)
  -Both games are typically played in first-person with semi-standard FPS gameplay elements (accuracy 
 is somewhat watered down, although Fallout 3 has hitboxes)
  -The item systems of both games are basically identical - you pick up items and store them in your 
 weight-limited backpack.
  -There are a variety of skills which control the proficiency your character has with the corresponding 
 gameplay elements.
  -The are knights.
  
  That's it; those are the similarities. So, if you've played Oblivion through and through, will 
 Fallout 3 be "more of the same"? Not at all!
  
  Unlike the Elder Scrolls games which have preceded it, Fallout 3's degree of character customization 
 is intuitive enough to suit its players. This is a rare, rare standard for single-player RPGs; 
 most often, players must conform to the game and "fit" a role. In Fallout 3, even creative, pioneering 
 gamers can be surprised by the level of dynamic interaction present.
  
  If you're anything like me, you've played RPGs for years, both on old-school consoles and on the 
 computer (and maybe a little pen-and-paper) . Role-playing games have come a long, long way over 
 the last 20 years. Choice-based RPGs like Deus Ex have set standards most games could never compete 
 with (or most game companies cannot or will not pursue) . However, despite the older Fallout games, 
 which I did not play, RPGs and FPSes (and mixtures of both genres) have become very open-ended 
 in recent years. For someone like me who grew up with Dragon Warrior and Final Fantasy on the ol' 
 Nintendo Entertainment System, seeing a vast, hauntingly realistic landscape with insurmountable 
 levels of detail is really a satisfying moment. Being able to take part in that environment in 
 an intuitive, interactive manner is not just satisfying - it's downright sublime.
  
  Of course the game isn't perfect. There are some minor technical problems and a definitive end 
 to the game. There are not hundreds and hundreds of guns to choose from. Expecting a game to be 
 perfect is, albeit consumer freedom, unrealistic and detrimental to enjoying video games in general. 
 If you have an open mind and enjoy creative depth in the RPGs you play, this game is a spectacular 
 choice. Understand the systems, choose the difficulty level which best suits you, and pay attention 
 to the perks and stat/skill allocations of your character's potential. In the end, it is one heck 
 of a virtual ride.
  
  If and when Bethesda releases the construction set for the game, Fallout 3 will only get better. 
 Until then, we still have a glorious role-playing game with action elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Fallout, give Fallout III a try... The game is great... The looks are quite 
 like the Oblivion and other Elder scrolls series but the visuals are just incredible... The first 
 moment you step out of the vault, the view you witness is unbelievable... I just stood there stunned 
 for a few minutes, my head in my hands and tears filled my eyes... What has become to the world? 
 The game just gives you a shocking scene on what has become of the world... In the previous series 
 the isometric looks couldnt just paint a picture of the world's condition... but in this game you 
 truly witness the destruction... the collapsed bridges, damaged buildings and you sense the desperation... 
 It is overwhelming, you just feel that you are all alone out there and no one will pity for you... 
 You can either be a saint and help people all around or become a villain and just steal, kill crash 
 and burn... The choice is up to you... 
  
  The game is not pure turn based but there is a VATS system lets you to aim and fire like a turn 
 based game... the VATS system is essential if you dont want to suffer from ammo shortage... 
  
  The kill scenes are gruesome enough to satisfy the most blood thirsty player and if you get 
 the bloody mess perk, you will love the blood splatters on your monitor...
  
  There are a few drawbacks to the game, like the NPC's dont show a trace of emotion on their faces, 
 unlike Vampire the Masquerade Bloodlines, The quest are a bit identical, retrieve, kill and stuff, 
 very much like oblivon... 
  
  All in all it is a great game that lets you do whatever you want, whenever you want, follow the 
 main questline or do something else altoghether... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z_4
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  I was very sceptic about Bethesda taking on the legendary game series Fallout but when I Finally 
 got my hands on a copy ( yes I bought it ) I was simply stunned over how fast I Got that fallout 
 feeling I craved after Fallout 2 
 I Didn't play tactics "
  
  To make this simple I will point up the positives and negatives which stands out more than others.
 
  
  Positives
  * The VATS system : Is amazing, choose the bodypart you think you'll benefit the most from damaging 
 and then sit back and watch the show as a short cinematic shows you how youre attack was executed. 
 This also mixes the fallout combat system with the "oblivion" combat system. THis is of course 
 influenced by your stats and skills as the rest of the combat system which brings a bit of reality 
 to it.
  5/5 Bethesda! 
  
  * The enviiiroment, you have to see it to believe it. And if you dont like it you're probably blind.
 
  5/5
  
  * Survivability: THis actually makes this game a challenge, you need ammo! and lots of it. And 
 ammo is hard to find so you need to buy most of it which means you need alot of cash. You also 
 lose alot of hp fast from enemies, and you cant as in Oblivion just use the "T" button to rest 
 and then get full hp. Hp is only obtained through food, beds or stimpaks /meds.
  5/5
  
  The Negatives. 
  * Where's the enclave SPOILER WARNING SPOILER WARNING? Compared to the other 
 fallout games you don't encounter the enclave alot until end game and you dont "really" get to 
 join them either which makes me very sad since they are like the most badass characters there is 
 in any game. 
  
  * More villages! : I would like for bethesda to make more villages than they did in this game but 
 I guess thats a part of the game, the world being more of a wasteland than it was before in fallout 
 1-2.
  
  
  I could write about this game for hours, but if you like fallout 1-2, BUY IT, DONT DOWNLOAD. Support 
 Bethesda to make another kick ass expansion.
  
  THis game deserves a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerilousWolf
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8 (Good detail, Amazing draw distances. However seems very Oblivion like)
  
  Sound: 7 (Voice acting is good, Sound effects are quite good. Music overall in uninspiring/insignificant)
 
  
  Gameplay: 9 (Will easily keep you hooked from start to end with a compelling story and decent amount 
 of exploration and loot. Not nearly enough variety in weapons or overall approach to combat.)
 
  
  Longetivity: 6 (Well I am not playing it anymore, I've only had it for a week. So that's a fair 
 indication most dedicated players will knock it over in 2-3 days.)
  
  Overall: 8 (If a fan of Oblivion or the Fallout series you should greatly enjoy this game. Anyone 
 excepting a great shooter or above average AI will be disappointed. All in all, not worth its 100 
 dollar value, but it comes closer than many other games which is why I give it a solid 8.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shelledfade1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has great visuals, great voice acting on NPC's. Lots of character customizable options. 
 I had however mixed reactions with some of the playability. Reminds me of oblivion a lot, they 
 are almost the same game, just a different setting and different weapons. Item elements in the 
 game can get annoying after a time, lots of useless nicknacks makes trying to keep your inventory 
 weight in check rather annoying.
  
  Repairing items can also be downright frustrating sometimes. I feel like I spend more time in my 
 inventory than actually playing the game, and when I am playing the game its pretty barren of life 
 and enemies.
  
  The v. a. t. s targeting system is insanely cool. Explosions are insanely realistic.
  
  The game 
 has no music unless you tune into a radio channel, which plays very old crap lol, not my cup of 
 tea.
  
  Basically if you like shooters and oblivion you will like this game... Just take it with a grain 
 of salt because this game is in no means perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badmilk206
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  10 years. Its been 10 years since Fallout 2. The wait has been long enough and even though the 
 developers tried to satisfy our craving for more Fallout with Fallout: Tactics, the adventure portion 
 just wasn't there. Now Bethesda has resurrected the series, hitting the stores with Fallout 3, 
 is it worth the wait? After immersing myself in the game and finding it very hard to not play, 
 I definitely give it a big YES.
  
  The game starts out ingeniusly with a great character development system, unlike any other game. 
 Safe within the womb of the vault, you learn the basics of the game before leaving the vault to 
 venture out into the wasteland. I don't think anything will prepare you for how BIG the world is. 
 Everytime I think I won't get dazzled anymore, something new pops up and leaves me breathless again. 
 Of course, the open ended exploration of the game does determine how you want to play it. Do you 
 want to visit the nearest city, Megaton, first? Or do you want to stray from the path, and find 
 your own way around the wasteland? Its really up to the player and how he/she wants to play the 
 game.
  
  Bethesda does do a really great job capturing the feel of Fallout, translating it into a 3D first 
 person world from the isometric one we grew up on. Combat system, VATS, is innovative, it feels 
 like an almost perfect transition from the original turn-based limb-selection targeting. Its amazing 
 watching your bullet go slo-mo flying to its target, splattering its brain and eyeballs into an 
 exploding mess.
  
  The graphics of Fallout 3 defintiely captures the bleakness of the post-apocalyptic world, with 
 drawn-out colors and ruins stretching miles and miles. I remember the first time I climbed atop 
 of hill to get a good view of the city and I was just in awe seeing the ruins of Capitol Hill and 
 the Washington Monument in the distance. Unfortunately, not all things are perfect with the graphics. 
 The character models face the same problems as Oblivion, they are downright ugly. Everything else 
 looks fantastic, the creatures, the super mutants, the towering behemoths. But when it comes down 
 to the human models, they are just terrible. They also face numerous path finding issues, sometimes 
 you see characters just getting stuck behind a rock or something. Hopefully, the next Fallout will 
 address this. Bethesda, take note: make better character models for HUMANS.
  
  Although there is some ease in the RPG aspect of the game compared to the old Fallouts, it doesn't 
 subtract from the gameplay. True, a lot of the leveling and perks seem a bit dumbed down and simplified. 
 Characters can't seem to be that varied compared to older Fallouts. However, I do believe Bethesda 
 didn't keep the old leveling system due to make the game more playable to the general masses. Quests 
 don't seem to be that varied as well. Usually its save this, fight that, simple and to the point. 
 I do miss the original Fallout quests, where a lot of it morality and ethics come into question. 
 Fallout 3 quests do feel a bit gutted, but of course, I am being a little critical.
  
  Fallout 3 does live up to its name. It is a great game, kept true to the Fallout universe. Save 
 for a couple of shortcomings like character models and quests, this game definitely can be a strong 
 candidate for game of the year. You shouldn't try to compare too much between Fallout 3 and the 
 older Fallouts however, you'll just be too critical. Fallout 3 is great fun as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drachmas
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  this really is an oblvion/fallout hybrid so i will judge the game based off that because lets face 
 it they took the same engine, a. i., and several other things from oblvion and just added the s. p. e. c. i. a. l. 
 system and set in a post apocalyptic world. 
  
  it may sound bad but its not as bad as you think. its actually a pretty good marriage of the 2 
 games. i actually thought oblivion was pretty bad but the special system and vats just really works 
 well in it even though i have a a couple big gripes with it.
  
  on thing is the stat points dont effect things enough. they do have an effect but you really feel 
 they arent that important compared to the skills and skill points.
  
  my other is the dialouge in speech options arent as rich or meaningful as fallout 1 and 2s. its 
 still a huge upgrade from oblivion but youre not left with the option of being a character with 
 high charisma who can talk his way out everything. youre basically stuck with a combat character 
 be it guns, explosives, meleee weapons, or sneaking around like a rogue character. 
  
  despite those major flaws the rest of the stuff is done pretty well. VATS in my opinion works real 
 well and is what saves the combat system from being just average. the skill points and perks gives 
 you decent options of customizing your character. 
  
  the environment also delivers despite the scenery being a a little bland at times with the locations 
 to clumped together. i would have really like their to be more open waste land with a vehicle option. 
 the radio stations are done well despite not having a very big loop.
  
  
  one other problem i have with the game and not just the special system is the replay value. it 
 may seem at first that you will have alot of options to come back to as an evil character or just 
 maniac who kills everybody in your way. these options are suprisingly limited and you are basically 
 stuck on the same quest chains with not much changing from the good or bad character choice. quest 
 characters cant be killed either, just knocked out which is lame.
  
  despite all the negatives of this game it still adds enough fallout elements into the game to make 
 this a good oblivion/fallout hybrid. you should give this game a chance if you are a fallout fan, 
 even if you hated oblivion. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I've never previously played a fallout game. That said, I found this game to be extremely enjoyable.
 
  
  Storyline: This is the most outstanding aspect of the game in my opinion. The story line is deep, 
 and flows well. The gaps in the story are only as long as you let them become. As the game progresses 
 you are able to revisit some of the loose ends and see how things played out. There are choices 
 in this game which truly decide the course of the rest of the game. For instance if you kill somebody 
 important, somebody somewhere is going to care.
  
  Gear/Weapons: This game has a fairly unique feel. When you engage in combat, there are many approaches 
 to dicing up your enemies. The weapons are quite creative ("mini nuke", "junk launcher", etc) . 
 You have to pause to switch weapons, so be strategic about what weapon when your are holding when 
 running around in dangerous territory, it takes time to switch. You can specialize in particular 
 weapons, though missile launchers and such work pretty good without specialization.
  
  Character: You can customize your characters stats and skills quite a bit. You decide your characters 
 stats (SPECIAL) at the beginning of the game and it doesn't change a lot. You can choose a perk 
 every time you level up, and these dramatically improve various aspects of the gameplay (Conversation, 
 Sneaking, gun specialization, etc) .
  
  Graphics/Performance: I can't say much here. I have an ATi 4870 so most games run great at high+ 
 settings. I will say this game looks great, even at lower settings. It seems to run well on many 
 machines at the expected settings for those machines. So if your running an old machine, you'll 
 turn down the graphics and it'll probably run fine.
  
  Cons: So I figured I point out a few things that I though could use more attention. 
  First weapons; 
 It would have been nice if they had made it so you could modify your weapons (scopes, lasers, silencers, 
 etc) . Instead you have to find the guns with those modifications already, and don't loose the gun 
 cause you can't move the mod to another gun. 
  Second Engineering; This is a cool aspect, but it seems like you can only engineer a few things. 
 I carry around lots of extra junk to engineer with, but I don't really need any of the stuff I 
 have schematics for. The stuff you make are mines (which are common loot items) or guns (which 
 you only need to make once) .
  Third Companions; This is an interesting aspect, but I think they should either scrap it or improve 
 it. You need to be able to interface with your companions inventory better, and see where the items 
 you give him are going. I haven't been able to figure out how they treat consumable items. Lastly 
 they are either in the way (such that you shoot them on accident) , or they are not effective.
 
  Fourth Mods/Addons; I don't know much about whether there will be mods for this, but I hope there 
 is/will be something like TES4 Editor for this. This type of game begs for third-party mods.
  
  
  Conclusion: This game was worth every penny, and I will play it until the end and replay 
 some of the key decisions. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoyed Oblivion. This game is 
 an open ended RPG/FPS that flexes to many play-styles. You can run around and Rambo the whole game, 
 or you can be sneaky and deceptive. You can play in real-time, or you can focus on VATS (allows 
 you to choose where to aim in pause mode and give you a probability of success) . You can loot everything 
 in sight, or you can just get a couple guns and some ammo and ignore the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaqure
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  I must admit that when I first heard that Bethesda had obtained the rights to the Fallout series 
 I was somewhat skeptical, especially considering the fact that they decided to use the Oblivion 
 engine to facilitate such a project. While I have never had the opportunity to play the original 
 fallout series (and I want to) , the fact that Bethesda wanted to follow Oblivion with another open-ended 
 RPG seemed quite... contrived. I, like everyone else, was scared that Fallout 3 would turn out to 
 be an "Oblivion with guns", as the game world came to put it. Even in my conversations with die 
 hard Fallout fans, the skepticism remained solid and unflinching.
  
  This skepticism, however, is misplaced. Bethesda has, once again, reached deep within its bag of 
 tricks and pulled out a show-stopper for us. Since its release, I have been able to play copious 
 amounts of the game and must say that it is NOT what many people thought it would be.
  
  Fallout 3 is a wonderfully built game combining the best aspects of Oblivion with aspects of the 
 Fallout series. The redesign of the S. P. E. C. I. A. L system along with VATS provides for a gaming 
 experience that is unlike any other that I have had in recent memory. While the special system 
 is vaguely reminiscent of D&D and its governing attributes, it remains steadfastly apart from its 
 tabletop counterpart. The affect of each attribute contributes differently to each skill and action 
 than any tabletop attribute could (go game engines and game play mechanics...: D) and the ability 
 to freeze live combat via the VATS system is a whole new experience.
  
  Though the isometric view of the original Fallout games did not survive to see this iteration of 
 the series, I'm sure that die hard Fallout fans will be able to, at some point, forgive Bethesda 
 for this change. The transition from an isometric third-person view to a first-person view is, 
 in my eyes, a must have for an RPG such as this. Not only is the FP view the MO for most Bethesda 
 games, it helps to immerse the player in the game world. Considering many of the situations and 
 interactions that take place between other characters and your own, I would have to say that the 
 first person perspective more than makes up for the lack of a traditional isometric view.
  
  While reading other reviews of the game, I've come across the consistent complaint that the 
 game is boring. I can understand this sentiment. It is perfectly feasible to see how this game 
 could be considered boring in the eyes of many other gamers. Bethesda does make great games, but 
 many of their games happen to be open ended sandbox games, allowing the gamers to take their characters 
 lives and shape them as they see fit. Many gamers simply aren't ready for this kind of scope in 
 gaming. I know plenty of people who can't play games like this because they need all action all 
 the time, or simply don't know what to do with themselves once they clear the opening tutorial 
 stages of the game. That being said, I suggest that everyone give this game its fair shake. You 
 may get bored, but I guarantee that the end result will be more rewarding than not.
  
  I have not had the opportunity to complete the main quest line of the game yet, but I can say that 
 what I have played so far was engaging and intriguing. Many of the side quests I have completed 
 were rewarding in their own way, each providing some reward or moral dilemma with its outcome. 
 Ultimately, the story telling, while sterile at times, pulls you in, forcing you to do things and 
 make decisions that many would normally avoid. This superior story telling element more than makes 
 up for some of the games annoyances and shortcomings...
  
  ... and yes, it does have them. On multiple occasions, I have had enemies glitch from a lower level 
 (say... the ground!) up onto a catwalk that I was standing on, supposedly safe. Not only does this 
 ruin the immersion factor, but nullifies the fact that you CHOSE a safe place from which to fight. 
 The PIP Boy, while an ingenious menu system, does have the ability to become quite annoying at 
 times (though I must say that being able to use the mouse wheel to scroll in the menu's is GREAT) . 
 Encounters, after a while, tend to be dry. The number of enemies in the game seems somewhat stunted 
 (I'm level 14 and I think I've seen most of the enemy types so far) . This stunted enemy count can 
 lead to very dry battles with predictable outcomes. Also, combat at the beginning of the game is 
 VERY clunky, leading to hard game play that could easily frustrate those looking for a quick and 
 easy play (combat DOES get easier as you level though) .
  
  Overall, I must say that I feel Fallout 3 is a great game worth the time of any gamer wanting a 
 new and interesting experience. Though it does have both good and bad points, the good greatly 
 outweigh the bad. Bethesda has, without a doubt, created another blockbuster game worthy of their 
 name... and my money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyukuk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  It is deep, well worked, balanced (yet not fully) rare game. Yet there is something not quite fit.
 
  "IF" It is your first time in apocaliptic fallout world. Game have good, detailed grapics ,except 
 some character prob., stunning "VATS" System, fully voiceover dialogs, good senario, Atmosfere 
 that sucks you in, Liam NEESON 's and Ron PEARLMAN 's voice. 
  Bethsoft made a good job in reviving Fallout. They put quite a effort in to that too. "But IF" 
 you played Fallout 1-2. You will be little disappointed that lots of things that made fallout 10 
 years ago has gone. Some systems, Way to effect world, Character advancement especially faithfull 
 F1-2 system, which ad&d "inspired" in NWN :) perks, skills, tags, etc. 
  
  It is a very good game that you can play for hours without realize the time. "Yet It would be perfect 
 if it were more like fallout in game mechancis that worth 10/10..." Change point of view of is 
 good for be in atmosfer. "I Advice you old Fallout players to put aside your prejudice and enjoy 
 the game game worth it"... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blood_fang_lupe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  My first review so heh hope its helpful. To some up this game quickly I'll say this, a Good game 
 but it just isn't Fallout. I'm enjoying this this game but at the same time I keep reminding myself 
 its not the same as the old. While that is a good thing as it means many more will hopefully be 
 drawn into playing this those of us old enough to remember will just go "Shouldn't it be like this?". 
 The shift to first/third person isn't the only thing which has made it different, it lacks the 
 feel of the older games which I guess just isn't a wanted style anymore. Thats about the only bad 
 thing I have to say about this game, even if it wasn't called Fallout I would of brought this and 
 enjoyed the game, it plays well with alot to see and even more to do. I have three characters going 
 at the moment each doing a different path with one character already about halfway as far as I 
 can tell through. Very much like Oblivion but managing not to feel too much like it or the same 
 game with a different setting. While the weapon selection is good I'm looking forward to the mods 
 which will come and increase the choices. Characters are likeable even those who are up to evil 
 and alot of fun is had seeing how they react depending on your choices. With so much to do and 
 try and hopefully more to come from the modders I know this will keep me going for awhile. For 
 action RP fans this is a must, for Fallout fans this will be enjoyable but not the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedeviant666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Although the open ended-ness of this game is fantastic and the world interesting enough to make 
 you want to keep exploring the main quest is over before it even feels like it began. Explore all 
 over and you could find that you've skipped parts of the main quest anyway, shortening it even 
 further. Subjects come up for conversation despite never having spoken to anyone about it before 
 just because you've visited somewhere really detracts from the flow and any sense of realism the 
 game might try to convey. Although there are side quests, there aren't really enough to fill the 
 game out.
  
  The game engine feels old, if you've ever played Oblivion you'll notice that NPC movement (especially 
 when getting out of bed) is exactly the same. Nothing much has changed. There are still references 
 to all the spells!
  
  Although you could replay this game in different ways, the frustration when the game ends and you're 
 stuck staring about at the main menu is unforgivable. They should have allowed continuation after 
 game completion. Yes you can roll a new character and blow up that nuke instead of disarming it, 
 but it's still the same old stuff. Despite the illusion of replayability, it pretty much stops 
 at being an illusion.
  
  With a strong modding community, this game could be made far better. With so much potential wasted, 
 I think the players know what this game needs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  In short and to the point:
  --------------------------------------------
  GOOD:
  - Pretty good graphics for the genre
  - Great gameplay
  - Interesting story
  - Excellent 
 sound and speech system
  - Excellent non-linear options and a big world to explore
  -----------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------
 
  BAD:
  - Main story is short
  - Some bugs
  - Some similarities with oblivion that set it apart from the Interplay's Fallout series
  --------------------------------------------
 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  An awesome title for 2008 despite some negative things that disappoint a little... and especially 
 the old Fallout hardcore fans.
  The game is one of the best experiences for the moment and it can easily become addictive.
  
 
  SCORES
  
  Graphics = 8.5 (in Ultra graphic mode)
  Sound = 9.0
  Gameplay = 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurosy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  Almost, but not quite. Yes, this game is like that. I`ve been wanted for this game so long, but 
 this is not what I expected. Let`s review by original scale:
  
  Graphics - 7.5
  Audio - 8
  Gameplay - 7
  Post-apocalyptic atmosphere - 9
  
  
  
  Graphics - graphics 
 is not so good, that`s all I can say. But what do I want ? This game have big map after all ! And 
 I didn`t like taht character have no legs, arms and body.
  
  Audio - good songs in radio adjusted good atmosphere, but ... Radio went loop all the time, and 
 that was a bit boring. And I wanted to hear my character speaking. If your character in game is 
 speaking, that makes him a personality and that`s great, but in Fallout 3 all I can hear from him 
 was moaning when I got shot.
  
  Gameplay - good 3rd person view and first person view, but something was missing in 3rd person 
 view. I don`t know what, but something ...
  
  Post - apocalyptic atmosphere ... Yeah, nothing bad to say about it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack0niel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The combat in this game is by far the most interesting element its real time/paused action. The 
 system is fun because you can choose your play style however this is an Rpg that is aimed for a 
 mass audience as suggested by Bethesda. Which is fine and I enjoy it for what it is but being a 
 Pc gamer who loved Morrowind .. and well only Liked Oblivion cuz I had no other option I wish it 
 had more depth. The quests are very interesting and often distract you from the main plot which 
 is definitely a hallmark of developers keen sense of entertainment value. The wasteland is similar 
 to oblivion's repetitive terrain however there is a lot of variety in the interiors of the game. 
 Buildings, schools, sewers .. whore houses.. i love whore houses) ) (1pt for tht) The game is definitely 
 for you if you are a fan of games like Deus Ex, oblivion or if you are interested in long hours 
 of short interesting quests with solid light rpg mechanics. However if your a fallout or morrowind 
 fan i recommend forgetting about the existence of those games. Just say it never happened, and 
 you will love this game for what it is Like I do. Ps. I would give this game a 8.0 if they did not 
 use the fallout name because that just leads people to make unfair comparisons during gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geekhippie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I do not normally play an RPG, but I do enjoy sci-fi themed games that have replayability. Fallout 
 3 fills both wishes.
  
  There have been a glitch or 2, mostly crashing to my desktop, but, overall, this game runs just 
 fine on my average box. It auto detected my box's hardware, and set the game when I installed it. 
 I haven't changed it since I starting playing.
  
  I have been playing like a goodguy so far, but can already see that it will be a much different 
 game if played on the bad side. Make sure you watch for ammo in the game. You will need it. The 
 cut scenes can get very gory in their slow motion goodness. The ability to location jump is very 
 useful, and helps speed the game along if you want.
  
  The graphics are nice looking. The voices of the different characters can get very funny as they 
 mock you or chase you or beat on you. Make sure to save often.
  
  This game will make a fine addition to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yzzycz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I liked Oblivion and i also liked Fallout. Oblivion i decided to rate after short.... it was mistake. In 
 my opinion it was great game but for sure not worthed 10 i gived to it. With Fallout i waited.... and 
 i am really amazed by this game even after 30 hours plus i spend to play it. It is catchy... does 
 not let me go into bed. Many things to do there.... many different fractions, alot of interaction. U 
 are just free to do what u want whenewer u want.
  Good thing is.... mob is not leveling when u do, so if is too hard for u to "clean" drug store u 
 just can come later back there when u gain some levels.
  I know im little bit mesy but anyway.... if u didn't decide to spend money on it... just do it. I 
 guarantee u will like it if not love it. I am not person who is easily persuaded by commercial reviews 
 but this is really a must to have!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Computerbits
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Cool game and starts out in a great way and a cool exciting place.
  
  Once u get into the outside world its all exciting for about 1 or 2 hrs, then everything starts 
 to reapeat itself and the wastelands arent quite full of anything but rocks and roads.
  
  It has too little action in it really and u have to travel too long routes between keypoints of 
 excitement and action.
  
  Yet the game is still really cool, the futuristic cyberpunk environment are really awesome as we 
 in my opinion have had more than enough prehostoric and unrealisticly futuristic environments in 
 games allready.
  
  This environment reminds me of stalker, however the world og FO3 is so much bigger and its a "free 
 world" where one can do what one desires.
  
  I must admit that the guys at Bethesda have pulled a great job with this one, its as astonishing 
 made up as Oblivion, only with a little more of this and that. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Quite simply put its a game some of us have been waiting about ten years for, so its not with only 
 a little hype and anticipation that this game has been eagerly awaited. As a veteran Fallout gamer, 
 I have tried to ignore most of the hype and keep an open mind about it, and this i highly recommend, 
 keep an open mind, and you might be in for a pleasant suprise rather than an earth shatter disappointment. 
 You need to be prepared for the fact that the game has evolved quite beyond what the game used 
 to be, and in ten years you should expect it to.
  
  Of course with the release of a new game comes the obligatory Fanboy (a person who will defend 
 the game to the hilt regardless of its failings) vs Troll (bitterly disappointed gamer, who has 
 likely bought into the hype a bit to much) flame war, so I would advise to avoid the official forums 
 as much as possible as you arent likely to get an unbiased opinion there.
  
  So whats the game all about?, well I will try to avoid plot apoilers and give a brief overview 
 of the game. Set in Washington DC in a post apocolyptic future, you find yourself as one of humanities 
 survivours, with a desolate open world at your feet to explore, filled with interesting and unique 
 locations and a variety of weird and wonderful critters to kill along the way.
  
  
  GAMPLAY: 8/10
  
  The mechanics of the game are not so disimilar to oblivion, as you might expect 
 seeing as how they used the same engine. But if it worked for Oblivion it should work for F3 also 
 right?..... right, while the combat system does have its failings, mainly of a bug or glitch nature, 
 it does work well. One thing I must categorically state (which ive noticed quite alot of people 
 havent really fathomed, and have thus been in for much disappointment) is that this game is not 
 meant to be a FPS, ok, once more for the record this game is not a shooter, so if your only desire 
 is to rack up kill counts and thrash through it all in the shortest possible time, then this game 
 isnt for you. 
  
  While the combat system can be played through a FPS type manner (as it is an action rpg afterall) 
 it also has V. A. T. S, which is Bethesda's way of incorporating a turn based system into it. And 
 while it can be a bit glitchy with regards to line of sight and the use of cover, I found that 
 it does work very well, and is in keeping with the nature of previous fallout games, it allows 
 you to make shots to specific locations on the target.
  
  So, so far as regards to gameplay the pros outweight the cons, the missions or quests as you may 
 or may not like to call them, tend to be quite involving and add plenty of variety and so far have 
 been fun to play. Many dont seem to be of the usual fed ex or kill count orientation which im glad 
 to say. The character acting which seems to be typical of bethesda, doesnt add much to the game 
 though, with much of it being very wooden and lacking emotion, also many dialgoue options are shot 
 and to the point and uninventive.
  
  The character creation system is unique and enjoyable, with the creators remaining faithful to 
 the stat and perk systems of past fallout games. The legendary PIPboy is back and adds a versatile 
 and immersive way of interacting with stats and inventories.
  
  Many of (I hate to say but can think of no better description) mini games such as lock picking 
 or computer hacking are done very well, and are fun to puzzle through. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  
  To sum them up the graphics are bleak and desolate, but then what did you 
 expect sunshine and rainbows?, they have done a marvellous job of portraying a postapocolyptic 
 wasteland, with the graphics adding to the overall atmosphere. Wether its stealthly advancing through 
 an underground transportation network or traversing a scarred and deserted township, the landscape 
 is lovingly rendered with the shadows and lighting heightening the experience in much extravagance. 
 Visually this game has taken Fallout to new levels and with Bethesdas know how and technical expertise 
 they have created a vast an immersive game to rival any other that may make such bold claims. 
 
  
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  
  Nothing spectactular, some decent if a bit lifless voice acting. A nice adition is the use of radio 
 stations which play atmospheric music and chat which helps to add to the immersion factor.
  The sound FX for combat and background noise are adequate and effective.
  
  Summary: 
  
 
  In summing up its difficult to put into words even a small part of how good this game is, not 
 only is but can be also, as im sure following a similar trend from Oblivion the Devs will release 
 the construction set to the community, allowing us to modifiy the game and extend its lifespan. 
 Many have commented that the main plot can be achieved in a short space of time, and I believe 
 that this is true but these same people often try to compare with the time it took to finish earlier 
 Fallout games which is a non starter as I believe the original could with prior knowledge be finished 
 in as little as nine minutes, but this is always a danger with a non linear game as players can 
 skip as much of the story as they wish unless the devs take appropriate action such as locking 
 off certain areas. However there are numerous secondary quests to help flesh out the game and add 
 longevity.
  
  In short is this game worth a punt?, in my opinion yes, it is a game I am enjoying playing very 
 much and so far I feel I have barely scratched the surface of an expansive open world. I will likely 
 add to this review over time the more familiar I become with this game.
  
  Remember if in doubt rent the game first!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zodi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Fallout fans, prepare to be amazed and disappointed.
  
  After playing this game it does really make you feel like your in the Fallout Universe. The non-linear 
 quests will have you trapezing the wasteland doing things in whatever order you feel like. However 
 there is a drawback. Quests sometimes feel muddled in the order you get them as well as dialog 
 options that appear when you haven't even met or even discovered an individuals existence.
  
  The characters however are very real and well thought out. Combat can be cumbersome to any 
 of us who have played the old fallout style games and are not and actual FPS player. I found using 
 Vats does make up for a bit but you also just have to blast away sometimes. Combat is quick and 
 the hot keys do help but sometimes its just to fast causing you to get beaten down.
  
  I think people who have never played the fallout series will not understand the whole fallout universe 
 game as I feel its geared towards players of the genre.
  
  Fallout 3 is also missing some of the more witty and associations of the previous fall out games.
 
  
  It has a feel similar to Bioshock in that if your playing it with sound on in a dark room certain 
 events in the game will make you jump.
  
  Graphics are good for DX 9 but do show that the aging Havoc engine is aging gracefully. Sound is 
 excellent and really immerses you in the game.
  
  Well Done Bethesda for keeping this world Alive and radiated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a rare find. After playing it for a couple of days, I have found that this game has 
 only grown on me. It has many ways to play and a huge world to explore. The graphics are great, 
 the characters feel real, the whole thing just makes you want to play again and again. This game 
 well exceeds Oblivion in its combat, lock picking, and content. Just when I think this game can't 
 get any better, I stumble upon something that just makes Fallout more innovative and creative.
 
  
  Pros-
  
  great graphics and performance
  life-like characters
  leveling up is neither to easy or too hard
  provides many choices for the player that can affect 
 the entire game
  VATS combat-very cool, didn't think I would use it at first
  Well worth the money
  
  Cons-
  
  A few bugs that mostly have been fixed by the recent patch-holds 
 it back from a perfect 10
  unsatisfying melee combat
  no upgrades for weapons or armor
  Made for the Xbox-controls just feel off, the mouse feels weird to use, especially for the Pipboy 
 3000
  (if you've got your Xbox controller hooked up to your PC like I do, it won't be a problem)
  
 
  Overall, I would 100% recommend this game if you've got the money. If you enjoyed Oblivion at 
 all, you won't be able to put down this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BananasFoster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The game too hard for my tastes, even on normal: I can't even complete a simple mission without 
 returning to town several times to buy stimpaks and ammo. For me, scrounging for ammo and health 
 is just no fun. Even basic random enemies I meet in the wastes take a ton of shots, even with V. A. T. S. 
 In addition, every piece of equipment has a condition rating that goes down as you use it, requiring 
 frequent repairs (which either consume spare items or cash at a store) . In fact, the first storekeeper 
 in the game will repair your stuff, but only to around 50%. Similar to item condition, your radiation 
 level goes up when eating most health items, requiring an expensive doctor's visit or rare items. 
 It all adds up to a lot of down time and feeling of barely scratching by.
  
  I was surprised that this game, like Oblivion, suffers from severe character creation and balance 
 flaws. Oblivion was too hard if your preferred skills were the ones you used all the time and too 
 easy if they were the ones you used rarely (since difficulty scales with level, and you level only 
 when you use your preferred skills) . 
  
  Fallout suffers from a related but different problem: There is virtually no guidance (such as "classes") 
 on how to distribute skill points and it is pretty easy to spread them too thin and create a useless 
 character. You are also forced into character choices before you have any clue what you are choosing. 
 
  
  For the first several hours, all you'll have are "small guns". So what do you do? Concentrate on 
 agility attribute and small guns skills? When you finally find a missle launcher or ray gun, it's 
 too late to adjust your skill allocations to make good use of them without gimping your character. 
 Plus ammo for those seems even rarer than small guns.
  
  Like Oblivion, difficulty scales by level, so it's easy to get behind with incorrect skill allocations 
 and impossible to catch up. And then there are sucker choices like the "Fast Learner" Perks which 
 just make you level faster, so you get less effective Perks and skill points. 
  
  And since there is no guidance to how you spend your skill points, and nothing whatsoever to limit 
 how many points you can add to a single skill per level, it's hard to know how the game is balanced: 
 Do you just put every single skill point into your single weapon skill? That doesn't seem very 
 fun but presumably it will give you the best chance against the game's enemies? The game doesn't 
 give you any feedback about how many points you should have in your main weapon skill to be balanced 
 at a given level. Is it 10 points per level? Is it way easier if you put all 19 points into the 
 weapon? Who knows!
  
  As far as setting, I find it very depressing and lonely so far. Not surprising I guess, but the 
 characters generally seem uninteresting and much of the game is wandering across empty wasteland 
 with no interaction and little visual interest.
  
  Hopefully it will get better. I'll give it a few more chances, but I'm just not geting Fallout 
 3 so far.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gasing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  i miss the previous fallouts, the FPS is not as good as turn-based. where is my 'steal'!!!! i used 
 to enjoyed a lot stealing others ammo and stimpacks . . . . the V. A. T. S seems less important, since 
 you can aim, why bother entering this mode? graphic wise a lot of improvement . . . but the 'bloody 
 mass' effect is some what not as impressive as before . . . the animation is sucks, how come a 
 male shake his as so much like female when he ran?? the jumping, combat action, gestures, etc, 
 are simply not good. wonder do they notice that, or i presume that they will improve this in the 
 next sequel, if there is any. i prefer it to be no detail animation at all just like the previous 
 two. the being a child part is kinda 'extra' if is a must to include, it should be longer and the 
 place to explore should be wider. i aspect a lot being able to work out all my traits . . . overall, 
 it's a great game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying that this is THE dream game for me and many gamers out there. It's beautiful, 
 big, long, and it's got guns and violence. You're exposed to a new kind of freedom that GTA didn't 
 even accomplish. Let me explain~
  
  Fallout is more like an FPS with RPG elements. I'm not just talking about having an actual inventory 
 and being able to customize weapons. There is a stats system and even special skills and perks 
 you get to choose and upgrade.
  
  The DC area is so expansive for a shooter, that by the time you finish the game, you'll probably 
 have a million markers on the world map for the areas that you explored. 
  
  And, of course, with an expansive game world comes many secrets and side quests. Along your journey, 
 you will meet many characters you can choose to harm, ignore, and side with. There's a karma system 
 in the game that affects how people treat you and how the game generally treats you. 
  
  Fallout 3 takes place in post-apocalyptic America, near Washington D. C., to be exact. You play 
 as a member of the fallout shelter Vault 101 in the year 2277, 200 years after the nuclear war 
 that destroyed the fertile green earth we lived on.
  
  Simply put, you've escaped your little underground prison to find your father, who had escaped 
 earlier without word of his plans. 
  
  You will be able to choose your character's sex and customize his/her physical features at birth, 
 as well as your main skills (you have many, but you may specialize in 3 of your choice, which will 
 have more points than other skills) and your "seven primary aptitudes," as Wikipedia says.
  
  You'll get 5 points to spend on your stats (str., agl, luck, etc.) at the beginning of the 
 game, and since you will only be able to do it once in the entire game, it will determine the kind 
 of perks you'll get to choose from each time you level up. Certain perks require you to be a certain 
 level and they also require one or two of your stats to be at a certain level. The highest requirement, 
 I believe, is 8.
  
  I've been mentioning perks all this time, but I've never really explained them. Here's how they 
 work: When you kill something/someone, or you hack a computer or you successfully pick a lock and 
 open a door, you gain experience points. (NOTE: No grinding will be necessary in the game... trust 
 me.) 
  
  If you just so happen to level up, you will get 15 points to spend on one of your skills, whether 
 it be skills involving small arms or medicine. You will also have the opportunity to select a new 
 perk. A "perk" is like a super-ability. It adds a new ability to your character. For instance, 
 there is a perk that causes vicious animals to not attack you unless you provoke them. (Normally, 
 the dogs and giant mole rats attack you on sight.)
  
  With that being said, I'd like to say that as soon as you step out of the vault into the sunlight, 
 you'll notice the richly detailed environment around you. It'll stun you. 
  
  From that point on, you'll be able to meet the people living on the outside world. They'll give 
 you quests involving killing, negotiating, and in general, doing some crazy and unique missions 
 that most traditional FPS's wouldn't give.
  
  You do have melee weapons and guns in the game, obviously. There is a combat system called VATS 
 that lets you attack in a strategic fashion. It lets you aim at certain enemies' body parts, enabling 
 you to cripple them so that they're at a disadvantage. A lot of times, when they're almost dead 
 and you use VATS, their limbs may be completely blown off, and the slow-mo sequence following their 
 dramatic death will provide you with a lot of time to laugh, giggle, and gasp. 
  
  (To bring up your inventory, status, and map, press TAB for you Pip-Boy 3000. It's this awesome 
 PDA you wear close to your wrist.)
  
  Enemies are hiding around every rock, under every lake, waiting to jump out at you. There are many 
 different kinds of enemies you will face. Some will be mutated, and some will be human. Some will 
 be mutated animals, and some may be super human mutants. 
  
  Lastly, I'd like to talk about the overall length of the game.
  
  There are so many places 
 to visit around the DC area, whether it be abandoned factories or enemy bases. The atmosphere is 
 that of a 1950s version of America after a nuke hits home. It can be dark, and it can be creepy. 
 There is a radio station that plays 50s music, so it might remind you of Bioshock. The rusted cars, 
 he few remaining on Earth, and the leveled cities all add to the atmosphere.
  
  With all of this to see, you're looking at a good 25+ hours of game play. The problem is that the 
 story's main missions add up to be less than 6 hours at most. You probably won't notice it, with 
 the amount of side quests you'll be doing, but you'll notice it sooner or later... well, you'll 
 notice it when, all of a sudden, the ending movie starts rolling and you're forbidden to continue 
 playing after. 
  
  For most of us, this isn't a big issue. Just reload the save before the last main mission and continue 
 playing through the side quests and continue discovering places. Like I said, there are secrets, 
 including special variations of certain weapons that do more damage.
  
  Overall, it's a great game that nobody should miss out on. Who would've thought that a combination 
 of RPG elements and FPS elements would make such a perfect game?! There ain't nothing else like 
 it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  For starters i wasn't a big fan of fallout series, i have played them but they didn't leave me 
 wanting more.
  
  I absolutely loved Oblivion and after all the hours i spent on it... well it got old. So when i 
 got this game the very first impression that i had is oblivion in a more modern age.
  
  This wasn't a bad idea since not many company's could pull it off and Bethesda did it.
  
  The 
 game has good graphics and doesn't require a monster of a PC to run it which i likes from the start. 
 The story line of the game will keep you in the dark until you unravel it. The combat system is 
 fun in the game since it challenges players, its not enough to have 1 gun or even 2 and think you 
 can kill everyone.
  
  Overall the game is somewhat like Oblivion but its a different kind of fun and is worth an RPG 
 gamers time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilbert3k
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am not a fan of the other Fallout games. They just struck me as ok, but 
 not great.
  
  This game however keeps surprising me with how much it has drawn me in.
  
  The combat system doesn't do much for me, it's nice and the little cut scenes when I use the 
 VATS system is a nice touch.
  
  The graphics are good, but not great. The music could have used more tracks. The radio gets old 
 quickly. But adds a nice 50s feel to the game.
  
  So far my review really doesn't sound like a review for a 9/10 game. What pushed me to a 9 then?
 
  
  The biggest thing for me was the characters, I found I really cared what happened to the people 
 in the game. 
  Once I had a mission where I saved a couple of people from the super mutants. No big deal.
  When 
 we get back to their city I train them to defend themselves, and help them fight off a couple of 
 waves of super mutants.
  Even while I am feeling all good about wiping out so many mutants. I spot a couple of the defenders 
 dead, including one of the people I had just saved. It kind of hurt to see them there. I felt a 
 lot less heroic in that moment. And that is what brought home the realism of the game.
  
  Then there are all the little things, like looting boxes or whatever. In most games everything 
 lootable has something useful. Not this game. These boxes have been sitting for 200 years, this 
 is what is left over after all this time. So finding so many empty boxes, or boxes with useless 
 stuff in them felt right.
  
  The wear and tear on weapons makes you actively consider, is this fight important enough to harm 
 my best weapon? Or maybe I should use a lesser weapon and risk being hurt.
  At the same time, it is not as annoying as some games have made this concept. (Note I worked up 
 my repair skill early)
  
  All in all, if you want a game that will draw you in. I recommended this game. Just make sure to 
 do the side missions to get your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmgustaf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series has a long history. Bethesda released TES: Arena in 1992, five years before 
 the first Fallout game.
  
  The Elder Scrolls series always focused on skill-building and world-exploring before straight up 
 leveling, so in this regard, the joining of the two series through the use of the Oblivion engine 
 was a natural fit. 
  
  The S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system, famous in Fallout 1 and 2, works wonderfully in the highly interactive 
 game world. Leveling up feels natural. A player has dozens of choices in terms of skills and perks, 
 literally able to create exactly the kind of character wanted.
  
  Enjoy sniping? Small arms and agility it is. Want something bigger? Heavy weapons and strength. 
 More of a talker? Speech, barter, and intelligence. The customizable character engine from the 
 first two games is back and working just as well as we all remember.
  
  Unfortunately, the only major criticisms of Fallout 3 arise from the very same engine. None of 
 these criticisms are deal-breakers, but they are important. They don't distract from the game play 
 so much as they distract from the immersion we seek to achieve.
  
  Let me put it this way: when I watch movies, especially in a theater, I tend to forget I'm watching 
 a movie. Background noises and the people I'm sitting near fade out, leaving only the movie. Sometimes, 
 however, my enjoyment is abruptly interrupted: a crying child, loud talkers, even a sneeze can 
 interrupt my concentration and make me remember that, yes, I'm simply watching a moving picture.
 
  
  Fallout 3 is like that. I'll forget I'm playing a game at times. I'll be immersed in the action, 
 in the subterfuge, in the moment. But then the flaws inherent in the system send me back to the 
 real world.
  
  Some of these are unavoidable in any video game and can't really be considered flaws but limitation 
 of the platform (pixel size, screen stuttering, the very size of the screen, etc.) .
  
  But some can be remedied. Jerky character animations persist from Oblivion. Characters don't walk; 
 they skate. Eighty percent of the voice acting is wonderful (Liam Neeson was a terrific choice, 
 almost as good as Patrick Stewart in Oblivion) but some of the acting is cringe-worthy.
  
  Still, with many of these faults directly related to the same faults in the Oblivion game, the 
 feel and look of Fallout 3 is completely separate. This is not Oblivion with guns. The dialogue 
 system and character animations may look the same, but that's where the similarities end.
  
  Just like the United States capital is hardly recognizable in the game, the game's engine has 
 also been changed to the point where Fallout 3 is at once familiar and strange.
  
  Fallout 3's innovative, console-friendly menu system isn't the greatest ever on the PC, but it 
 works. The Pip-Boy 3000 easily manages the huge amounts of data needed to function in such a large 
 game world.
  
  The graphics, as many people have pointed out, are incredible. Discovering the Washington Mall 
 and the White House for the first time is sublime. I wanted to stop and stare, but unfortunately 
 a pack of Super Mutants decided they don't like tourists.
  
  My first thought when playing the game was not that it was an Oblivion-with-guns knockoff, but 
 the properly-done version of Hellgate: London (which was itself criticized for being Warcraft/Diablo 
 with guns, though I thought it fun for a while, at least) . The similarities between the two games 
 (apocalyptic wasteland, one London, one D. C.; Mutants and demons; gun maintenance, repair, and 
 creation) were striking. Fallout 3 is a much better game, both for its non-linearity and its vaster 
 world, but I can't help and wonder whether the Bethesda devs played Hellgate: London and learned 
 a few lessons.
  
  Fallout 3 is, overall, a terrific game and well worth the money. The storyline is intriguing, the 
 world is mesmerizing, and the exploration alone is amazing. I've never spent time wandering around 
 a game world just because I can. In Fallout 3, roaming the Capital Wasteland is a big time-suck, 
 in the best way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thore33
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I have finished playing Fallout 3's main story line. I will admit that it is a highly immersive 
 game. The graphics are great. The voice work is awesome. And the concept is pretty interesting. 
 I ended up taking about 30hrs to play the game. I didn't just focus on the main story, however. 
 I think just focusing on the main plot line would probably only take 15hrs. 
  
  My only disappointments are that there really isn't a lot of variety in terms of making weapons 
 or finding "intersting" items + that the story is over when you've completed the main quest. 
 
  
  Having loved Oblivion, i think it falls short to actually end the story so much that i can't exlore 
 and continue to make my avatar better. It'll be interesting to see if they try some kind of expansion 
 with that in mind. 
  
  Anyways, i found the game fun and a good blend of role-playing/first person shooter. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is better.
  
  I think Bethesda tried a little too hard to please all the people, like all developers I guess. 
 Ain't a bad game, just not my cup of tea. Was hoping for more realism. Oh well.
  
  I wish someone would do a game based on the book, Swan Song, with drama, sex, and violence, to 
 the max! That's what I want! For adults! I'm getting tired of playing these games for kids. They 
 have enough games, make us adults one!
  
  Everything else about the game is good though, graphics voice acting, sound. Perfect! Give it a 
 go after you get bored of Oblivion.
  
  All these vehicles around the world, and you cant even get in them. would have been cool as hell 
 if you could fix them, and drive 'em. Mount a gun on the hood. and put a hula girl on the dash... 
 Could have been so much more then just old Fallout 2, with lipstick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrewclifft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  To all the poor fools that didnt rate this game as a worthy succesor to the originals, To all the 
 people that said it was to short or an oblivion rip off, To the people that said it was to easy. 
 You just completly missed what this amazing game is all about and i really pity all of you because 
 you are missing out on one of the best experiences in any era of gaming. Yes it has visual and 
 some AI issues, But it also has great visuals and some very good AI. No game is ever going to be 
 perfect but the sheer scope an depth of the game is genuinely awesome. If you play the whole story 
 through in 10 hours or less then you have completly missed the point of the game. Exploration is 
 the name of the game and to create a unique character, At least try to have some fun because theirs 
 plenty of it there. As for it being like oblivion then whats wrong with that it is made by the 
 same people so you would expect similarities. Even mass effect was similar in places to KOTOR. 
 I find it really annoying that people want to put a game like this down just because its ambitious. 
 The more ambitious a game is then the more chance it has to not be perfect in a certain area but 
 with a linear type of game like dead space, Gears of war or halo then its easier to make the over 
 all pakage look, sound and play very well but without the open endedness. It all comes down to 
 what you want from games and what level of freedom you want. If you like being told to follow the 
 same path as every one else and acheive the same begining, middle and end to everyone else then 
 fair enough. Personally i would rather have alot of freedom and have the option to create a unique 
 character in my own way. I can understand this might not be for every one and i can also understand 
 fans of the originals not liking this game but to insult bathesda with scores under a 7 is very 
 unfair. This game must have taken alot of creativity and alot of skill from hundreds of very talented 
 people so i just think that some people expect to much out of the current technology. I would like 
 to know what the creators of the fallout series think of this game because im sure they will be 
 very proud of what bathesda have created. Just remember to save the game now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bongun
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  Fallout genre has been one that i enjoyed playing even this game although it has many aspects changed 
 from the original Fallout games that we know and love. But i say don't treat this as another Fallout 
 game get past the fanboy hatred you have for the changes and you might actually enjoy yourself, 
 the number of possible paths and the choices in the game is just staggering as expected, the shooter 
 feel i believe was to keep with the times everyone now a days is a fps fan, if they can't shoot 
 something in a game they go into withdrawal. But mixing an rpg and a shooter in my eyes is not 
 good for example have any of you been frustrated at shooting something near the start of the game 
 in the head several hundred times before just taking out your bat and hitting them till they fall? 
 the game Took me 17 hours to complete but it has much more potential time killing if you go into 
 all the quests. Problem i had was with the plot the events in the plot are all climactic but are 
 spaced soo far apart when your finished the game you look back and not all that much has occurred 
 making it feel short until you look at your game time :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Havoc_
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  just untill l was IN the vault, it was a Fallout to a degree, as soon as l exited the vault, l 
 entered the world of ES4: Oblivion, exactly the same scenery, exactly the same mechanics, the only 
 difference is that weapons of use are using up in a fast speed, l fought some enemies and to my 
 surprise, l can fight 2 enemies at a time, in a normal Fallout 1 or 2 l could even be unlucky to 
 a point where l had to fight solo with a horde of 15 enemies, the equipment in this game is quite 
 not a Fallout-ish on the contrary, the 10 mm gun looks like a plasma pistol from Quake 4, Chinese 
 gun looks like a colt .44 to me, chinese riffle looks like AK47 to me, and Ghouls don't look like 
 Ghouls, dunno who designed them but he or she failed epically.
  
  The World of Fallout was made in Isometric perspective for a good reason, and changing that makes 
 considerable loss of actual gameplay, V. A. T. S. is nothing more than a gadget that generally makes 
 it fun for a try or two, but later it's just time consuming, there is nothing special about S. P. E. C. I. A. L. 
 it's just stats, l like the idea of customizing weapons and so on but to be honest, we all seen 
 it in Oblivion, when l think "Fallout" l don't see it in Fallout 3 game, l had a completely different 
 idea of this sequel, and it's not it, This is not a Fallout Sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Im a hard fan of the old style Fallout and was skeptical of how the new style would make me feel 
 about the game. Three Thumbs Up. There is way more action, great voice acting, character creation, 
 large world and the added gameplay features make a huge difference. Sneaking, lockpicking, computer 
 hacking, diplomacy, weapon repair, bartering ect! 
  
  The atmosphere is slightly less humorous which is disapointing - but on the plus side it has a 
 slightly more horror feel when walkting through the city and subway tunnels ect. 
  
  Just minor things that I dont like:
  I wish there was an option you can turn on or off for turn 
 based combat. Unfortunatelly this was taken out, but being able to pause and shoot does appeal 
 to me as well. More game style options would be nice in this sense. 
  
  
  
  All in ALl - I am looking forward to a new, long line of Bathesda Fallout Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nDtImEr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a solid game. It's hard to call it a disappointment. When I finished Fallout 3, the 
 first thing I did was begin a second character. However, when I began playing through for a second 
 time, I didn't have near the desire or the passion to go through with it like I did on my first 
 character.
  
  First off, the gameplay is pretty good. I enjoyed the combat much than I did in Oblivion or Morrowind. 
 VATS doesn't seem to get old, I began just above every battle using it. The game plays well, almost 
 all of the quests and side quests that I have done (I've done many side quests) are enjoyable.
 
  
  The graphics vary. I run this game comfortably on ultra high settings. The environment looks pretty 
 good, and really makes you feel like you're walking around in a post apocalyptic Washington DC. 
 Unfortunately the character models are just alright, and their animations are downright pathetic.
 
  
  The sound is quite good. There are a few radio stations to listen to. One is run by the corrupt 
 government, and the other by a wild DJ known to all of you vault dwellers as Three Dog. The sounds 
 of the guns is actually pretty well done. I got sick of listening to some of the dialogue, but 
 it was alright. My main grievance is that sometimes character's voices seemed to switch where they 
 were coming from. They would fade out, and then all of the sudden be very loud again. It isn't 
 something I've seen to this extent before, but you will notice it. Well, that and the radio stations 
 are very repetitive.
  
  The storyline is pretty good. I'll try not to ruin too much of it for any of you that haven't completed 
 it yet. Don't think there are 200 endings, there are more like 4. All 4 of these end in the same 
 place too I might add. There is a following slideshow cutscene with slight changes depending on 
 how you played the game. Unfortunately, just about all 4 of these endings suck. They just flat 
 out don't make sense. If anyone out there knows of a character named Fawkes, you know what I'm 
 talking about.
  
  I really like how immersed you can get into this game. Remember that Three Dog radio DJ I mentioned? 
 You can kill him. Not for any specific reason, but you can if you want to. You can nuke an entire 
 city, possibly even destroy the wasteland, etc. Most people like playing as the good guy more, 
 and you'll like the weight of the Wasteland lies on your shoulders, and you don't wait to fail. 
 If you're evil, have fun doing whatever the hell you feel like doing.
  
  My main problem with this game is that there simply isn't enough of it. The main story is far too 
 short, there aren't enough side quests, etc. I wish you could join the Brotherhood of Steel, or 
 the Enclave, or anything like the mages/fighters guilds in Elder Scrolls. Your decisions affect 
 the game, but most of the gameplay and storyline remains very similar. You can see the different 
 endings quite easily by accessing different load screens. There just isn't enough reason to play 
 through over and over again for me, and my one enjoyable playthrough was just over twenty hours 
 long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loft77
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Unluckily... they called it Fallout 3, and made us all believe this was actually going to satisfy 
 all of us out there craving more Black Isle like games.
  
  You know they are not trying hard enough, when you can honestly say, you'd rather be playing a 
 1997 game, than this.
  
  Plain story, uncreative dialogues, repetitive combat. Reminds me of Oblivion everywhere I look. 
 They didn't even bother changing the map system. You'll find many ways in which this is not even 
 close to what Fallout 3 should've been.
  
  And what the hell is up with the invisible walls, or the unscalable rubble? I mean... come on! They 
 could've thought of something more creative than just "You can't walk farther..."
  
  If you're ready to let all this go, you'll probably spend a good time with the short single-player 
 campaign. If you treat it like a long 10 hour demo that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackomg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  As I could see a lot of people that did some of the reviews really blamed the game for most of 
 their mistakes, like "You forgot to save". Press the F5 button for quicksave.
  
  In the beggining, you're born. The screen shows a lot of blood, then you choose some things, like 
 your name, how you're going to look like when older, etc ...
  
  There are a lot of secrets on this game, like how certain places got invaded by Fire Ants, or got 
 devasted.
  
  
  It's a great game. Why? Because:
  
  Millions of quests
  Billions of itens
  A lot of places waiting to be explored
  
  Don't know HOW people can play 
 this game without doing at least one side quest. Sure, the main quest is short. But the game is 
 about side quests, that gives you EXP, ITENS, etc ...
  
  Yes, unfortunally it is easy to kill monsters in a certain point of the game. But you can make 
 it harder, by just changing the difficulty in the "Options" menu.
  
  The game looks like a lot like Elder of Scrolls Oblivion. But Fallout 3 still beats Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizik89
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Ive been waiting patiently for this game. Ive been following the release of fallout 3 and saw high 
 hopes for this game. Sadly, I was letdown.
  
  The game starts off and as of right now you are a baby who is born inside a underground vault in 
 some distant year in the future. Ok.. pretty cool so far.. yeah yeah.. gotta name the kid.. ok.
  
  Game flashes like 10 years forward or whatever and its now your tenth birthday party. Now this 
 is where you can start to tell this game has been made by Bethesda. EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS GAME 
 IS LIKE OBLIVION. The way you interact with people, with items.. its all way too similar. Outside, 
 the buildings you walk through, everything just feels the same.. its like you are playing oblivion 
 in the future. Hell im pretty sure i saw them use some of the same names for the people you fight 
 against (Maurader or w. e)
  
  Its basically like the dev team at bethesda took their pallets and just took away all the colours. 
 And whats up with power armour? They ripped off warhammer space marines and renamed them the brotherhood 
 of steel.. lolz
  
  The A. I in this game is sketchy as a mofo, sometimes they just stand there and dont shoot, other 
 times they can blast you from hundreds of feet away.. terrible AI bethesda..
  
  The only remotely cool thing about this game is using VATS.. and even that thing can really suck 
 sometimes and get pretty old. The majority of the time it misses if you are too far away (even 
 if it says 80+ percent chance to hit) Blowing off a mutants head with a shotgun and seeing it at 
 different angles is pretty cool about the first 30 times.. then it starts to get pretty lame. Most 
 of the time its easier to just gun someone down than using it in the first place. It also takes 
 forever to get places in this game.. you half to hoof it to some far away location, you almost get 
 there and then you get killed or something, forget to save, and you have to repeat a massive walk.. gets 
 way to repetitive.
  
  Anyway.. to end this.. this game isnt a fallout game whatsoever. This was a extremely well marketed 
 and built up project which in the end just turned out to be oblivion with guns and weird mutants. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabranthXIII
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  First off, i have nothing against the series, i loved fallout 1 and 2 back then, Fallout 3 would 
 be masterpiece.... if it wasn't WAY TOO SHORT!
  
  
  Graphics are all nice and okay, battle system is great, like in the other fallout-games. Well not 
 too much to say about this game:
  
  I played at normal difficult, and the game felt way too easy, in the end i had 80 stimpacts left, 
 without EVER AND EVER buying even a one off the shops. 
  
  Ending was just way too simple, main story amazingly short, no spoilers, but anyway i was like 
 "What!? That's it?" And just closed the game and came here to write the review right after it.
 
  
  Overall, a big dissapointment after fallout 1 and 2, and warning again for those who are going 
 to buy this one, if you're not doing side-quest, expect a good player to play this one through 
 in under 10 hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 1 and 2 were one of the best historic Action RPGs ever.
  When 3rd version came out, I was expecting so much on to it. The amazing graphics, 1st person view, 
 VATs were impressive. HOWEVER when played... it was just alright..
  
  Good:
  1. IT IS FALLOUT 3.
  2. BROAD map. 
  3. You can do anything except have xxx with chicks.
 
  4. Amazing Graphics. 
  5. new VAT mode. You can do real time action RPG or short turn based RPG. 
  6. Shooting guns 
 feel realistic? compare to the type of the game, RPG. Could also be FPS.
  7. Great Story line.
  
  Bad:
  1. Doesn't feel like the original Fallout series.
  2. VAT 
 mode was innovating, but.. does not suit very well. You become to depend on it. 
  3. Not very easy to new players. Kinda hard to find which way to go.
  4. Too broad map that most 
 of the time you are just walking and chilling out in the devastation or with the mutations.
  5. Obviously no multi play
  6. Too much like Oblivion... well almost the same just different 
 background. 
  7. The game has to be played by 1st person view, because 3rd POV looks really awkward. Wonder why 
 made it. 
  9. Feels like FPS but not quite. Feels like RPG but not quite. 
  It's really HALF AND HALF, but not very satisfying. 
  10. Oblivion at least had some great classical 
 musics. In this game, it hard to listen to background music.
  
  Overall:
  It is a totally new game than original Fallouts. It was not that impressive than seen on the videos 
 or maybe I was expecting too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumalan75
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 transitions into an immersive story early on. The first minutes involve you accustoming 
 yourself with the controls while experiencing different stages of your childhood growing up in 
 Vault 101. After leaving Vault 101 the games expansive nature sets in. Welcome to the vastness 
 that was Oblivion in a post apocalyptic world. The game has the ability to leave you wandering 
 and just enjoying the scenery. Overall it satisfies that Fallout urge, but I feel their was a lackluster 
 effort in almost every aspect of the game. If cleared up it could have been the classic as it's 
 predecessors. GRAPHICS - The good- The graphics are amazing. Very well done and completely sucks 
 you into the nomadic wasteland explorer mode. I spent the first few hours just exploring and killing 
 Raiders. Where the graphics really shine though are in the VATS system slow animation killing scenes. 
 I really enjoy the animations of an enemy charging you and seeing their body flail from the momentum 
 of a point blank shotgun blast to the leg. The Night and Day effects are nicely done as well. - 
 The Bad - Just the little things. I may have a crippled leg myself, but when scrolling the camera 
 back my character appears fine and not injured. Could have used some more variety with the kill 
 scenes etc. Things get a tad repetitive. Character animations tend to look a little stiff sometimes. 
 If they really wanted to perfect their skeletal animation system (In regards to the gore and killing 
 scenes) they should go borrow a little Soldier of Fortune. GAMEPLAY - The Good - Easy combat system. 
 The ability to slow down gameplay and take precise shots on different areas of your enemy is great 
 and mostly true to the FO series. I like being able to cripple an enemy's legs or shoot them in 
 the arm rendering their firearm useless. Good freedom in being able to pick up objects etc. I really 
 felt as though I am rummaging through a wasteland and end up carrying all sort of interesting bits 
 of things. - The Bad - No GROIN SHOTS? A classic staple of the FO series and you can't do it? WTF 
 Bethesda? W T F? Also the AI seems pretty dumb. I mean, haven't enough FPS games been made now 
 that the AI should be a strong point of all FPS games? Should have also borrow some abilities from 
 FO Tactics. I want to be able to go prone, and lean around corners etc... I mean comon!?!?!?! Any 
 game that leaves this out nowadays? No excuses! MUSIC - The Good - I like the use of various Radio 
 Stations. The noises of the land and characters keep me immersed and on my toes. - The Bad - Well, 
 though I am probably only around 30 hours of gameplay, the music and commentary on the Radio stations 
 all tend to loop pretty quickly. I think that at least one of the stations this is meant to be 
 more of a continuous transition, but all of em? Once again needing more variety. OVERALL - Sorry, 
 but I have to give it a mere 8/10. I wish I could say 10, but Fallout 3 just could have done a 
 few things better. I feel they should have spent some extra time in these areas just because it's 
 Fallout 3 and it couldn't be anything less than badass. Great graphics, fun gameplay, awesome/vast 
 nature sucks you in, but nothing to really set it apart in it's genre. Needed more variety of animations, 
 better AI, and music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swmangold
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I would have given this game a 9+ if I wasn't having so many crashes on my system. The character 
 development in the beginning is brilliant, you become very attached to your character. The combat 
 is fun, although a bit easy on medium. The environment stretches on seemingly forever, and really 
 feels like a post-apocalyptic wasteland. Great mood. The quests are pretty decent so far. I'm loving 
 it, I can't wait to play when I get home from work...
  
  However, the game crashes anywhere from every 5 minutes, to every few hours on my system. The system 
 completely hangs and I have to reboot - extremely annoying. These frequent crashes have actually 
 been helpful for achieving a balance in my life. If the game didn't crash, I would probably be 
 playing until 4 am every night. Now I tell myself "Well it's sure getting late, I'll just play 
 until the game crashes one more time" Booo, patch this thing already!
  
  I'm running:
  Vista 64
  Asus p5e3 mobo
  4 gigs ram
  intel core 2 quad processor 2.5ghz
  soundblaster 
 xfi music edition
  amd 4870 gpu
  
  .. Never had any stability problems with any other software/games. Buyer beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeaks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I have played all the fallout series and loved them all because of the atmostphere and gameplay. 
 Played FO1, FO2, and FO Tactics several times each over the years. Fallout 3 takes the Fallout 
 series to a new level with the update game engine. I got the collectors edition on day one and 
 played about 10 hours over the the past weekend. (I have work and family and kids or I would have 
 done it non-stop like I used to when I was single)
  
  Anways FO3 brought back so many good memories of the original Fallout games. The atmosphere, the 
 freedom of choice to name a few. One minor change so far I did not like is the +5 clothing like 
 Oblivion. The old Fallout games did not give stat bonuses to clothes like this.
  
  The graphics are great and the gameplay is fun and engaging. I have the PC version and have not 
 had any crashing issues or lag on my system. 
  
  Somepeople may not like the fact that they will not always hit their target, but I do. Since your 
 chance to hit your targets is based on your skills you will not always hit which is good since 
 Fallout 3 is not a shooter. 
  
  Anyways like I said Ive only been playing about 10 hours so far and just have to say that Fallout 
 3 ROCKS! And I see myself playing Fallout 3 over and over again just like the old series.
  
  I am excited to see that there also might be mods or addons to the game since there is a data 
 file option like in Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenakakhan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  From the first moment you begin Fallout 3, you're presented with innovation. Gone are the standard 
 character creation screens; enter the "Growing up as a Vault-Dweller" method. You start as a baby, 
 and via some genuinely delightful and seamless character-creation methodology, you end up as an 
 adult Vault-Dweller, ready for your adventures.
  
  Everything here is driven toward atmosphere; you're literally dropped into a post-apocalyptic playgound 
 with ultimate freedom. After the game's prologue, and a superbly placed sun glare, you're exposed 
 to your fist view of decimated DC. The shattered landscape is as beautiful as it is haunting, and 
 the wide-open vista underlines the intense focus on freedom within this game. Immediately you have 
 little to go on, a cracked and battered remnant of a small road to follow and the itch of exploration 
 driving you on.
  
  What strikes you immediately about Fallout 3 is it's streamlined nature. All information you could 
 require is at your fingertips via your PipBoy, the HUD is discreetly placed and your focus is expertly 
 kept on the game-world. Weapons/items are easily hotkeyed and your quests and destinations are 
 readily available when you require them.
  
  Post-apocalyptic Washington is a dangerous area, and sooner rather than later you're going to be 
 killing things. Though your combat is essentially split into melee and ranged, both can take place 
 in two main styles; the real-time (though clunkier) action of an FPS, and the tactical V. A. T. S. 
 system. During my gameplay, VATS was easily the most useful system. Using VATS you're able to pause 
 the action and zoom in on a target, identifying separate body parts and your percentage chance 
 to hit dependent on your skills. From here you can target their legs, arms, head, torso or weapon 
 specifically, resulting in a cinematic and massively satisfying slow-mo segment showing your attack 
 decimating (or missing) your enemy. Fans of free-flowing FPS can still get their kicks without 
 using VATS, but this method is slower and more error-prone than most other FPS games. However you 
 can't shake the impression that the game was made for VATS.
  
  Early on in the game keeping yourself stocked with ammo and stimpaks will become a prime concern. 
 You will not have the cash to make larg purchases, and so exploration is your mission. As time 
 goes on you begin to access more and varied weapon types, and you're able to begin tailoring your 
 play to save items. Here is where the realism really kicks in, the nature of the game makes you 
 seriously think what you can and can't do. Need to take out a nest of raiders? Well you better 
 have the ammo, and the cash to heal. Long distance trip? Better repair your gear and start out 
 with good light. With little effort, the game places you in the role of a wasteland explorer, and 
 you revel in it. Often you find yourself ambling along, fascinated by your surroundings so much 
 that you don't notice the mutant creeping up on you with a minigun. It sucks you in, it keeps you 
 there, and you're grateful for it. 
  
  Graphically, players of Oblivion will be at home here. Occasionally it can feel as though the entire 
 Oblivion engine was simply appropriated for this game, and though this is true the worlds are so 
 different from each other that this is easy to forgive. Your system will need to be fairly robust 
 to compete with the high end settings of the game, but with a little patience and a little tweaking 
 you can get that framerate to a more than acceptable standard even on moderately powerful PCs.
 
  
  Sound effects are well done and atmospheric, and the chilling and sadness-tinged music is very 
 in keeping with your surroundings. Voice acting is well done and believable, and the only criticism 
 could lay in not making more radio stations available in the early hours of the game. Overall though 
 the sound is seamlessly integrated with the world.
  
  It's hard to imagine a gamer that wouldn't like Fallout 3. Certain games just seem to be destined 
 to be great, and Fallout is certainly in this category. From the moment you start to the moment 
 you finish, you'll find yourself revelling in the world when you're in it, and missing it when 
 you're not. It should be on your "must buy" list, regardless of your gaming prefernces. There is 
 something delightful here for everybody.
  
  TKhan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire4881
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant about playing this game, thinking after watching the advert that the game was a 
 another in a long line of scary'esc FPS... but after playing the game for about 30 mins and after 
 discovering the VATS system, i have now offically become addicted to this game. 
  It has a very immersive storyline with unique quests which can have alternate endings depending 
 on the moral stance you choose to take for your character.
  The weapons and the fact that they need constant repair is a factor which brings a hint of realism 
 to the game.
  The enemies are diverse and varied and offer a great gaming challenge, as each require a different 
 weapon or tactic to over come...
  
  I wont go on for too long, but i feel this is a very innovative title which has hints of BioShocks 
 feel.. I look forward to continueing playing this game.
  
  + i feel that the fact you can change the difficulty settings at any point in the game. Means that 
 you dont have to begin a new game again if the settings you choose are too hard/easy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontenten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  hmm .... nice game but it could be better !! this is like oblivion with guns the older fallout's 
 are much much better !! the graphic is amazing but ... this is not the real FALLOUT !!! : ( fallout 
 tactics rules !! :P but yeahhh FALLOUT 4 ever :D i can't wait Fallout 4 :D fallout 4 ever people 
 :) the best game ever :) i hope it will be more from this game :) i can't wait the future he he 
 he :) 
  the weapons are cool :) armor's niceee :) but the graphic is totaly cool :D he he he he idk .... 
 i think that could be better .... i hope it will be a new fallout that's like fallout tactics or 
 fallout 2 id like the old game play :) 
  the story of fallout tactics is much better than in F 3 
  but it's still a nice game he he :D 
 so hm ... 
  yea fallout rules :D F 3 is not like i hoped but it is cool :) the killing effect is very good 
 :) but i think that the story of the game could be much better :) so like in fallout tactics :) 
 i think also that the game play could be much much better :) like i sad i can't wait the new fallout 
 he he he he :D 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Bethesda Softworks had a lot of expectations to match with Fallout 3. The first two games in the 
 series still have a cult following ten years later, and are widely considered to be some of the 
 best CRPGs, ever. Considering that the old formula worked very well, one might see how the numerous 
 changes that Bethesda implemented for the third game in the series might be a bad move. On the 
 other hand, Bethesda isn't exactly known for making horrible games.
  
  Fallout 3 is no exception. Yes, it has moments of mediocrity, and yes, when it comes to staying 
 true to the originals, it's a hit or miss. There are many good things that can be said about the 
 game, and many things that could've been much better.
  
  Unlike the first two games in the series, Fallout 3 takes place in the post-apocalyptic wastelands 
 of the east coast of the US. More precisely, it takes place in and around the ruins of Washington, 
 DC. Once again, the player is one of the residents of a vault  a large underground shelter designed 
 for long-term inhabitation by a number of people, in case of a nuclear war. Once again, the player 
 is forced out of the vault, and into the wastelands above, this time to look for his father, who 
 has gone missing from the the vault. 
  
  The plot develops from there, and takes a few twists and turn, re-introducing a lot of factions 
 and organizations from the previous games. In fact, at some points throughout the game it feels 
 like the developers tried to cram as many elements of old Fallout games in F3 as possible. Old 
 plot devices are reintroduced as new plot devices; the bad guys, and the good guys are back again 
 in the same roles. The background story is less than impressive when it comes to explaining why 
 everyone is back, on the other side of the country and 30 years later, doing the same things they 
 were doing in the last two games. 
  
  On top of that, certain more important parts of the main quest are much less dramatic than they 
 feels they should be. For example, when the player meets one of the main antagonists of the game, 
 he can convince him to join the good guys' side. That'd be all and and good, except the writing 
 for the five sentence exchange between the bad guy and the player is full of clichs and downright 
 illogical. In fact, a lot of dialogue trees in the game are rather simple, often offering three 
 well-defined choices: good, neutral and evil. Gone are the extensive conversation trees of the 
 first two games, replaced by much simplified conversation options, that in the end often do not 
 even have that much of an impact. In fact, you can often insult someone, and then repeat the conversation, 
 praising them instead, without much of a difference in the end.
  
  The game implements a mix of FPS and RPG combat, a radical shift in gameplay compared to the turn-based 
 combat of the first two games. The VATS system, allowing the player to use action points to target 
 enemies' body parts without having to aim manually, does not really change that. For purposes of 
 gameplay, it feels more like a different kind of bullet-time, rather than something that makes 
 the game anything other than an RPG/FPS hybrid. That is not to say that combat is not fun. Shooting 
 at people's heads and watching them blow away in spectacular showers of gore is quite satisfying. 
 Skill levels aren't just for decoration, either, as they make it either easier to hit enemies, 
 both in real time, and in VATS, putting that RPG element in an otherwise FPS combat system.
  
  One part of the franchise that Bethesda managed to successfully bring into the 21st century 
 is the feel of the Fallout universe. The game looks like Fallout in 3D, and looks great. Although 
 gone are the wide open wastelands stretching for miles, the various ruined towns, settlements, 
 art and pre-war paraphernalia still strewn about the gameworld manage to maintain that Fallout 
 atmosphere. Various inhabitants of the world have their own lives and problems, aggressive mutated 
 wildlife can be found in the wasteland, and the landscape is full of burnt-out remnants of the 
 old world, serving as a reminder of the great war that took place some 200 years before. The player 
 can visit a lot of real world locales (as real-world as they can get in the divergent history universe 
 of Fallout) in and around Washington, as well as other interesting places, each with its own history, 
 residents and often problems that the player can help solve (or not) . Just like with Oblivion, 
 Bethesda managed to create a virtual world that feels very complete and interesting, even if, in 
 case of Fallout 3, a bit too crowded.
  
  Under the hood, Fallout 3 uses an updated version of the Oblivion engine, which means that it looks 
 good, while at the same time being capable of running on some of the older machines. Some parts 
 of the game can be buggy, often in relation to the NPCs' AI, which still suffers from the same 
 quirks that it suffered from in Oblivion. The interface, while looking very awesome, can be a bit 
 clunky when used on the PC, a direct result of it being designed for easy use on consoles. However, 
 on the upside, the fact that F3 uses the Oblivion engine means that we can probably expect the 
 same level of modding support that Oblivion itself had, which is always a good thing.
  
  So, is Fallout 3 a worthy continuation of the series? That really depends on how fervent of a fan (boy) 
 of the series you are. It certainly isn't Fallout, in the sense that it is no longer a turn-based, 
 large-scale RPG with the same, high quality of the story and interesting characters. On the other 
 hand, it is still Fallout, in that it still has the same Fallout atmosphere, and even if it lacks 
 the complexity of the previous games in the series, it still has some interesting characters and 
 multi-path quests involving moral choices. In the end, Fallout 3 is a fun game, and as long as 
 you're willing to look past the fact that it'll never be Van Buren, you can enjoy it for what it 
 is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  I only recently got around to playing Fallout 1 & 2. I remember putting away Fallout 1 back when 
 it came out because it wasn't 3D when just around then many great looking 3D shooters came out. 
 My mistake. Anyway I downloaded both some time ago and after all these years and despite the aged 
 graphics those games still shine. I found them very addictive and full of meaningful and funny 
 dialogue etc.
  
  These are some of the things that are missing in Fallout 3. The main story is rather uninteresting, 
 and towards the end it kind of rushes to its conclusion. NPCs have the same senseless conversations 
 with eachother and say the familiar one-liners to you when you've already brushed past them.
  
  Fallout 3 is too much like Oblivion; Bethesda clearly didn't have the courage to start from 
 scratch and instead chose to adapt their existing formula to the Fallout franchise. That is unfortunate. 
 Some of the minigames work better this time around though, in particular lockpicking and hacking, 
 and the stupid barter minigame is gone, but every step of the way you'll encounter something that 
 reminds you of Morrowind and Oblivion, rather than the old Fallout games.
  
  It's certainly cool to see Vault doors opening in real time and the post-apocalyptic landscape 
 is quite impressive. An enormous amount of garbage is strewn around every indoor location. It's 
 sure to trigger your salvaging instincts, but it's also a bit too useless for its own good. Weapons 
 need constant maintenance to keep them going, and you need copies of the same (or almost the same) 
 item to do repairs. This means you're mostly only using the weapons your enemies also have, because 
 only those you can maintain. It kind of takes away from the search to find that great most awesome 
 of all weapon...
  
  Then there is VATS; Bethesda's take on the turn based / body part aiming of the originals. The 
 problem is that VATS gives you a completely unfair advantage. You get up to about 5 consecutive 
 free shots, while you're completely invulnerable for the duration. It's awkward and doesn't make 
 sense. By the time you encounter the strongest enemies you'll make mincemeat out of them every 
 time because of this. You will want to use VATS however, because without it aiming is somehow extremely 
 difficult. Inevitably you'll aim for the head in VATS and this results in the somewhat crazy effect 
 that you'll kill probably 9 out of 10 enemies through decapitation. I think I've seen every possible 
 angle and arc of the decapitated head by now...
  
  I'm being rather negative and maybe a bit too much so, afterall I did feverishly play through the 
 game. It's not bad, just not what I hoped for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  SO HERE COMES THE REVIEW.... IT'S GOOD THAT THEY KEPT THE PIP BOY... THAT LITTLE YELLOW GUY... IT'S 
 A GOOD THING THAT U GET PERKS EVERY LEVEL... THAT U CAN DO ALMOST ANYTHING IN THE GAME... THE V. A. T. S 
 SYSTEM RULES... NICE GORE... NICE GRAPHICS (THEY COULD HAVE MAD IT MORE REALISTIC INSTEAD OF MORE 
 CARTOON-BUT IT'S REALLY OK) ... YET THE GAME LOOSES THE FALLOUT FELLING ... WHY I DUNNO BUT... I GOT 
 A MORE FALLOUT FELLING FROM STALKER 1&2... NICE STORY... KIND OF A RIP OF FOR THE FALLOUT GAME... WHAT 
 HAPPENED TO THE G. E. C. K .... IT'S INTRODUCED IN THE GAME IN THE FINAL HOURS OF PLAY... NICE END (WONT 
 TELL GO FINISH IT) ... SO TO CONCLUDE... IT'S A GAME WORTH PLAYING... BUT IF U ARE A FALLOUT ADDICT 
 U WILL BE A BIT DISAPPOINTED.. WHY?... PLAY AND SEE.
  AND ABOUT THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE GAME... THEY ARE A BIT TO HIGH IN THE READ ME FILE.... IT WORKS 
 FINE ... WITH ALL THE DETAILS MAXED OUT... ON A GFORCE 8600 GTS (256 RAM) , 2 GB RAM, AMD 64 (4800+) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cvskater321
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to play, its from the makers of Oblivion. So Fallout 3 is kind similer to 
 Oblivion just diffrent time era. Oblivion takes place in the mid-evil times and Fallout 3 is the 
 future. Well inside Fallout 3 you can be a real cruell horrible person who can kill everyone and 
 make rude comments, or you can be Jesus, lol you can be so nice and helpful that being doing missions 
 finding people homes to helping the poor. This is a big game, this is a great game cause you dont 
 have to just do the main mission you can do other side missions and you can do what ever you wont 
 when you wont. When i played this game it held up to 100 hours of game play. I think its worth 
 every cent and if you have played Oblivion then you'll like Fallout 3
  If your a cheater then they have some pretty good ones, I am not myself but one rilly good cheat 
 is (cheat- God mode, (tgm) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005wrxsti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the few people who stayed up for the midnight launch for this game even though I had 
 to work the next day. It's the first time I ever did that for a game, and probably the last since 
 the next day was brutal to say the least. At 32 yrs old you just can't party like you could when 
 you were 24.
  
  I'd played both fallout 1 & 2 years ago, I believe that was the beginning of my college years, 
 so I was more of a casual gamer than an enthusiast. I'd forgotten about those games for a long 
 time even though they were stuck in my music CD case cooking in the Las Vegas sun inside my car. 
 When the brand resurfaced a few years ago, it tweaked my interest, but no serious desires to play 
 the game.
  
  When I heard Bethesda was developing the game, I was even more curious about the gameplay and engineering 
 behind the product. Oblivion was great, but it still left me wanting something, maybe the typical 
 orcs, dragons, ghosts, and fairytale story book setting was used up, or maybe it just didn't have 
 the character I was looking for... I dunno. But as Fallout 3 was being developed I kept seeing ideas 
 and screen shots surfacing around the web. Let me tell you now... it all came together incredibly 
 well.
  
  After eating my #6 at the golden arches I raced home and installed the game. The introduction set 
 an incredible mood, and I got that old Fallout 1 & 2 feeling of a somewhat morbid and sarcast setting 
 of paradise gone wrong. The character creation process in the vault was the most authentic and 
 fun experience I'd had creating a character in any game I've ever played. Who wants to sit around 
 and look at stagnant screens and select stats... Bethesda throws you right into gameplay and immersion 
 into the Fallout Universe.
  
  The character creation process in the vault takes you about a half hour but it sets up the story 
 beautifully with subtle inuendos. However, the most exhilerating part of the game was walking out 
 into the open for the first time, and seeing the vast city-scape sprawled out over the horizon... it 
 was awe inspiring and I just sat there as if I was actually right there, in the wastelands myself. 
 
  
  If any of your diehard fands are or were concerned about the strategy aspect of the game, it's 
 alive and well in the VATS system. There wasn't a single battle that I was in where I didn't use 
 VATS almost exclusively! The thought that went into this system was exceptional to say the least 
 and revolutionary in the FPS or Strategy gaming worlds. I was astounded when I learned I was able 
 to use VATS to shoot incoming missles out of the air, or grenades that were in an enemies and right 
 as they were tossing it, KABOOOM!
  
  This leads me into the story which is for the most part straight forward if you play with a consistant 
 moral compass, but mixing things up is the best way to play the game! There are a lot of side quests 
 that are as entertaining as the main quest, or even more so. The dark humor is as present as ever 
 and the comments truly get reactions out of NPC's that are some what tempermental.
  
  The graphics... well... they're breathtaking, just take a look around outside, the grass, the broken 
 highways and roads, and especially inside Megaton; everthing from chicken wire to rusted pipes 
 with water dripping out. The sound compliments this incredibly well with footsteps that echo off 
 of the tin roof of a shack!
  
  What are the drawbacks? Well, I thought the game was a little short, but in retrospect I played 
 two days over this past weekend without a break. For PC users you have nothing to fear, user content 
 will soon pop up on the web with additional quests and gear to loot. I'd also say that the menus 
 and quick swapping from the pip boy and VATS needs to be stream lined a little; such as being able 
 to right click the mouse to exit out of everything would be nice!
  
  Beyond those minor items, this game is superb! If you're tired of the normal dungeon crawling then 
 this is your ticket. Or if you'd like to experience a unique and terrifying future, it's like experiencing 
 the China Syndrom first hand! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I am surprised up the wazoo at all the negativity for Fallout 3. To me, Fallout 3 is one of 'those' 
 games that fits right up there in game heaven.
  
  The game has its list of problems, but like reviews state, they are forgiven for just how much 
 positive they put up there. The world is incredibly immersive with multiple side quests. It's incredibly 
 open ended and doesn't give me the 'oblivion with guns' feeling. Honestly it feels like its own 
 game.
  
  The character customization and highly open options for your character's choices and personality 
 immediately caught my intention starting from your life in the Vault. The voice acting was objectively 
 very good, and the atmosphere incredibly dark and satisfying.
  
  Whether you were playing on the side of good and feeling satisfied for helping innocents or releasing 
 all you inner demons performing evil, the game had a good pacing for making you FEEL like your 
 decisions have weight. For all that Fallout 3 does wrong, it's all trivial compared to its great 
 accomplishments. 
  
  But is this game solid perfect; games rarely are. Fallout 3 suffers from characters looking half 
 dead sometimes, and the third person mode isn't that great. Characters will walk into each other 
 and have half dead stares sometimes, and it kind of brings you out of the mood and reminds you 
 that its just a game. Luckily this doesn't happen as often as you'd worry.
  
  In addition, the main story IMO derails mildly towards the end. Long story short, I feel the ending 
 wasn't as good as the rest of the game. This was kind of a killer let down. As you can see, this 
 game is great. But it falls just short of epic because of its problems.
  
  Fallout 3 is satisfying and just plain awesome, but falls flat on some grounds. What the game DOES 
 do well (and may I say VERY well) is what brings it to glory: the world that it creates and the 
 feeling you get that your choices really matter. I've never played fallout games before (And have 
 played Oblivion IV) ; maybe this is affecting one thing or another. But honestly, this is one of 
 the most fun games I've played this time around. In addition, the epic/crunchy VATS system doesn't 
 hurt. Nothing is more satisfying than the slow-mo headshot. I guess, objectively, you can't really 
 bash this game; you can pick at its faults, but you can't sledgehammer the whole thing, without 
 being kind of a fanboy or a psychotic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithrandirx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for the third installment of this series and it didn't disappoint. The game is 
 great but not without its faults.
  
  The choices you make reflect how you deal with people, having them like you and tell you more detailed 
 info or hate you and want to kill you. The world is vast and makes it feel like you could be there 
 and not playing a game. Good graphics even though they are dated they make it look and feel real.
 
  
  On the down side are the DRM even thou its for CD activation its still DRM and I don't like feeling 
 like a criminal for supporting the developers.
  
  the game is quite buggy at this time. I've had in-game crashes quite often but not to the point 
 it hurts the game play.
  
  the story line compared to the previous fallout's is a little bit different but nothing that would 
 make me not play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  At first, it felt like Oblivion with guns. But that soon faded and it was almost, almost.... like 
 the Fallout's I remember. Once I adjusted my charactor to fallouts norm, I almost forgot it wasn't 
 fallout 2. I haven'yt had any problems or major bugs to contend with, so I am happily plucking 
 away an hour or two during the week and ten hours each day, satuurday and Sunday. I'm having a 
 BLAST!!!!! It was worth the wait.
  
  However, it is not a perfect game. The game has locked up on me, causing me to lose two game days 
 worth of travelling and scrounging. I have since then, learned to save often and delete my oldest 
 saves so that my computer keeps trudging along. the random encounters are pretty good and it's 
 weird to come across and old battle area and still see the bodies (and some times the left behind 
 loot) still there. I'm already thinking about replaying to try different stratagies and options.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dec4dent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Straightforward: What Fallout 3 brings us? Some things, yes. What's new? Nothing. What's original? 
 Nothing. What's bad? Quite a lot.
  
  In style, Bethesda brings you the vault and wasteland world in a very creative introducing tutorial 
 (for those who know nothing of Fallout) which made me feel pleased and interested. Until 15 minutes 
 later I was already tired of it. For one, I expected this, yes, but I didn't expect a 100% precise 
 "genuine" copy of Oblivion. There's a 2-3 year time gap between the two and it was quite sad to 
 see absolutely same physics and graphics (ignoring polishing) . Oblivion had many flaws (although 
 it looked pretty) , and they didn't fix absolutely nothing. Fallout 3 even has the same huge fonts 
 and menus, face-zoom which screws up your rotation, auto-talks although you're in a middle of fight, 
 big lists all over the screen and bunch of pointless and misplaced warnings (Plus a dumb map) . 
 When I take a look at it from far, they spent their time on new textures, mapping and quests. There 
 are many physical errors, and characters annoyingly bump one against the other or move away one 
 another (so eventually two npcs that were together talking are pushed away by walking npcs and 
 end up talking on two sides of the road, or a valut member gives papers to person 10ft away) , you 
 get trapped in place, close combat is all over the screen, not possible to track, specially in 
 small space. To get extra annoyed, they paid no attention to sound overlap and you will find yourself 
 in a noisy, babbling environment from time to time, not normal as in real life, but just very annoying 
 and distracting. You don't need 20 bad actors talking random crap at the same time. As addition, 
 VATS, old Fallout body-part hit location system, pushes cut-scene screens forcing engine for each 
 action you take, rotates the camera, shakes it, shows unrealistic hits, repeats sounds, and causes 
 software bug issues to players. These are just some issues, but quite enough to piss you off.
 
  
  Speaking of VATS, that's really important in game, just like half the skill/ability system, it's 
 done badly. For example, you aim at human opponent's head with 94% chance of shot hitting it's 
 head. You have bonus to small arms, +25% damage up, bonus through wears on small arms. You fire 
 FOUR bullets. All four bullets hit it's head. First bullet hits head, "critical shot" it says. 
 Second bullet hits, "Head crippled (ahem, HEAD, as if this isn't stupid enough, he's alive) ", third 
 and fourth bullet hit, and it remains alive shooting at you. OK... Now, you may actually get past 
 this, but spending 25 gun bullets on 3ft long rat is just retarded. Another incredibly lame element 
 of this is the fact you can just hit this opponent's head with a baseball bat or baton (although 
 you have no bonus or appropriate strength (tested with strength 7 and bonuses, and strength 3 and 
 no bonus) , and instantly kill it. It survives 25 bullets, though. Must be thanks to mutation or 
 something... well... anyway, in short, errors and misses like these have no limits. Sometimes it 
 takes 2 hits to kill a bug size of regular dog, if you reload and try, it will probably take you 
 half an hour. 
  
  But, it doesn't end here. Takes you few minutes to realize entire story, and the character interaction+quest 
 scripting is just absurdly bad. Example: Person help you escape, it escapes with you. You need 
 to open doors. To open, you need keys. Key are at that person's father. That person is captured, 
 threaten and interrogated by father and officer. You walk in, try talking things out, father attacks 
 you shouting he'll kill you. You can't unconscious a person or make it immobile, and can't calm 
 it, so you have to kill it. You kill, and the person that's helping you first gets a random script 
 movement reaction error, and then stops moving (wherever it stopped) , saying it doesn't want to 
 talk to you. Or, you don't use force, the father doesn't give you keys, you stand in front of him, 
 duck, and pickpocket it for keys. Can this be more literally stupid? ALL possible events involving 
 characters are like this. Emotionless, senseless, without any style, no logic, no reasonable behavior 
 and no correct scripts. Oh, and copy-pasted repacked quests from Oblivion. Besides, the atmosphere 
 is bad anyway. They took everything from Fallout 2 that actually made Fallout to the point where 
 even occasional cursing doesn't neither fit or come appealing. It's, actually, dumb, and I'm sure 
 a future modder will just replace all apocalyptic textures with sweet forests, and prove the point. 
 
  
  There are very few bright spots in this game, very, very few, and I, personally, played and modded 
 too much of both Morrowind, and Oblivion to continue playing Oblivion II: Fallout, or, as everyone 
 else predicted: Fallout 3: Oblivion. So players, be my guest and play the game, you may even enjoy 
 it like most of the hype-influenced/gamespot sold players, but you seriously reduced your sense 
 for, what was once long time ago, magic and art of game.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turnipcake
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like Fallout 3, somewhere in the depths of my grubby soul. I half-hoped it'd be brilliant, 
 and my cynicism had been for nothing. Unfortunately, it's just as dull, mind-squishing and inane 
 as Oblivion was. Dull, mind-squashing, inane AND using a classic series just for a quick cash-in. 
 Of all the people I've talked to who actually like this tripe, maybe two have actually played the 
 originals. This is an interesting trend, given that Obli -- sorry, Fallout 3 panders solely to fifteen-year-olds 
 with ADD. The annoying 'VATS' system with its swooshy Max Payne-esque slowdown, the simple and 
 laughable gore 'WHOMG his head came off!11', it's all cheaper than the women who work on the corner 
 down the road.
  
  VATS is certainly an interesting name for the targeting system, it ties in with the raping and 
 cashing in of an old series like this. Value added tax, get it? 
  
  I slay myself. Anyway. All the old atmosphere has completely evaporated in this game; Fallout 3 
 is the black hole to the originals' carefully balanced ecosystem. Gone is the terrifying early 
 moments of the game, where you'd have to leg it from even half-dead dogs in random encounters, 
 out of fear for your life. Gone is the black humour, gone is the pants-filling terror of being 
 near radioactive sources. You can blow a town up with a nuke, and watch it from a balcony 60 seconds 
 run away! 
  
  The storyline is a little dubious. Whereas in the first two you'd get a general goal and then set 
 off, discovering interesting side quests which you actually WANTED to do, in this it's all more 
 frustrating than trying to extract a tooth with an inflatable mallet. The lack of the original's 
 humour really shows here; whereas the first two were blacker than tarmac but still hilarious in 
 parts, Fallout 3's storyline and text feels like it was written by a man chained to his bed, having 
 to write a new line every 30 seconds or he'd be shocked with cattle prods, right on his nipples. 
 Dad's left the vault, gotta find him... yawn.
  
  The voice acting is TERRIBLE. I don't know if they recruited the actors from some drab corporate 
 office in the middle of a shopping centre that sells only grey suits, but they inject all the feeling 
 into their lines like I inject hot beef dripping into my eyeballs: I don't. All the game's lines 
 are read with shambling dullness, they have all the aplomb of a man digging roads up with a plastic 
 shovel.
  
  Random encounters are annoying and frequently disorientating. Unlike the previous games, the combat 
 is almost entirely real-time, with the exception of the dire targeting system, which I'll get to 
 in a moment. What this means is, you'll be happily jogging over another patch of samey terrain, 
 then all of a sudden, you'll be hit from who knows what direction, and have to spin around looking 
 for your attacker. Frequently, this is an enemy with something equivalent to a crossbow that fires 
 arrows formed from soft dog chewy bones, which somehow have the range and accuracy of a sniper 
 rifle fuelled by a nuclear reactor.
  
  The VATS system, ahh the value added tax system. Sorry, 'Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System'. 
 This is one of those touches that'll drag in the teenagers, howling and cheering because they think 
 Fallout is some brainless first person shooter. You bring up the targeting system much like the 
 first two, the exception being there's no more groin or eye shots. I guess that'd scare the children 
 away? Anyway, you choose where to shoot and how many times, then sit back and enjoy your Matrix 
 moment as everything goes slow and cinematic. It does this every time. The combat system is diabolical 
 enough that you HAVE to use the VATS system; trying to hit enemies feels as effective as flicking 
 peanuts at a cliff wall and waiting for it to erode. 
  
  Talking of the combat system: AP is now almost completely pointless. Run out of AP? No problem! 
 You can reload and change weapons without impacting your AP count. You can also simply run away 
 from attackers until your AP recharges. It's all so easy, again, you can tell they've aimed it 
 at kids.
  
  Assuming anyone's read this far, they're probably thinking 'Huh! Fanboy!'. This is only partially 
 true; I certainly wouldn't have ever tried this game if it was marketed as 'Oblivion in the future'. 
 So while the name is a blessing in terms of fans buying Fallout 3, this is most definitely NOT 
 Fallout 3. This is Fallout, stripped of everything that made it good, injected with dead, grey, 
 corporate gloop and shocked with 10,000 volts to bring it to life. Fallout 3 died out in the pre-alpha 
 stages and there will it lie forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I may sound like a broken record here, but this has got to be the best RPG to date. There are some 
 lingering technical issues that need to be resolved and one or two game-play issues, but none detract 
 from an awesome experience. In fact, if it were not for those things I would have rated this game 
 a 10. As is I give it an 8.5+.
  
  Some of the technical issues I have sen are NPC's dying because they "fell through" the floor and 
 a couple of times enemies were stuck in terrain (which was cool, cause they was easier to kill 
 that way!) . The game-play issue may not even be an issue, just my ignorance. My character has over 
 60 in repair but I STILL haven't figured out how to repair my own weapons.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes RPGs and shooters. If you are a fan of post-apocalypse 
 stories (Mad Max, etc.) then you HAVE to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  First things first: I'm old enough to have played Wasteland when it was new.
  
  Those are my old-school creds.
  
  But enough of that.
  
  I enjoyed the Fallouts as true 
 RPGs immensely, and I enjoyed Oblivion immensely for what it is: a gigantic, story-driven, beautiful 
 sword and sorcery action-adventure with RPG elements.
  
  As expected, Fallout 3 does not fully capture the pervasive (and intellectualized to the level 
 of design philosophy) gallows humor of the first Fallout games, the setting of which was a fictional 
 1955 wherein the US actually had gone go toe-to-toe with the Ruskies. And it was, ultimately, a 
 blackly comic take on a Cold War America: a country paradoxically at the peak of its power, prosperity, 
 cultural cohesion and happiness while under constant threat of annihilation.
  
  Fallout 3 mostly abandons this dark satire (if one could call it that) for a self-seriousness somehow 
 matched with cheap laughs and cynical gore. The only real sparkles of the original Fallout games 
 are to be found in the disquietingly grinning face of Pip Boy and in the other microparodies of 
 50's pop-culture peppering the game.
  
  And, yes, it's true: the game isn't a Fallout game by Fallout standards.
  
  And, you know, 
 that's OK.
  
  But the game isn't even Oblivion, Oblivion Improved, or Oblivion Lite.
  
  It's Oblivion Diminished.
  
  Fallout 3 has viciously utilitarian and therefore perfectly bland 
 dialogue, rather like Bioware on a deadline; it has a much smaller and zoned world -- the true huge, 
 open expanses (full of stuff) of Oblivion are not found here; there are lots fewer quests and locations; 
 the animations are visually underwhelming and character movement has its flaws (prepare to clip 
 and get stuck on world geometry) ; it has poorer textures; it has poorer models; it has a shockingly 
 lean in-game radio selection (think of GTA4's radio and reduce the content by 95%) ; it has less 
 narrative, which is also more poorly constructed (one main quest instead of four, and it is shorter) ; 
 it has lots fewer sidequests; NPCs do not follow up with you when a quest is completed -- this is 
 tremendously unsatisfying; the Pip Boy does not track quests you stumble upon randomly, you have 
 to commit the details to memory if you can; the combat system is unsatisfactory in either its action 
 or RPG manifestation (gunplay is terrible and VATS is a travesty) ; the cartoon physics and gimmicky 
 gore are clearly trying with all their might to dazzle to the least cerebral of gamers.
  
  'Real RPG' or not, Oblivion was gigantic and magical.
  
  Fallout 3 is neither.
  
  The single 
 most impressive moment of Fallout 3 is when you first emerge from Vault 101; the HDR fades and 
 you get a stunning view of the wasteland with a very impressive draw distance. In Oblivion, you 
 left the sewers; you were greeted with gorgeous expanses of green flora. Now, brown is OK. I like 
 brown. Landscape doesn't have to be green to be beautiful (and in a way Fallout's wasteland most 
 definitely is beautiful) .
  
  But, unfortunately, this intentional dazzling of us with improved draw distance is perhaps the 
 most memorable moment of the entire game.
  
  In Oblivion our first look at the best foliage in any game ever was a kind of promise of what was 
 to come in the rest of the game. And Bethesda delivered on that promise. In Fallout 3, however, 
 this moment of first entering the gameworld is nothing more than a great big, 'Look at my technical 
 achievement!' This vista of ruined landscape is breathtaking, but it promises nothing beyond itself, 
 which is good, because the game doesn't deliver.
  
  The short of it is this: Bethesda abandoned themselves making Fallout 3. They jettisoned their 
 wonky and wobbly charm, epic scope and thoroughness for narrow vanilla, mass appeal and mass-market.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xerxys_81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  We all know the back-story behind Fallout, so I'll jump straight into what's right and what's wrong 
 with the game. First of all, you will see Oblivion everywhere. Spiritually, I mean. The game uses 
 the Oblivion engine, but borrows a lot more from TES IV than that. The drawn-out character creation 
 intro, the wait/sleep system, lock-picking (different, but just as inane) , conversation structure 
 and flow, along with some stock animations when interacting with NPCs (waking someone up, for example) , 
 will give you serious dja vu. It isn't a bad thing, of course; both games are kick-ass, and of 
 course Fallout is the antithesis of Oblivion in terms of tone and character. It just leaves you 
 feeling that the developers sometimes didn't do enough to distinguish the two from each other.
 
  
  The Pip-Boy is a fairly weak point in the game. Bound by the previous Fallout games, Bethesda have 
 had to jury-rig many of the features to make them fit, ending up an unnecessarily messy affair. 
 Similar to Oblivion's menus, you have two levels of 'horizontal' menus as well as scrolling vertically, 
 which means that what you want is usually two clicks and a scroll away... Far too much. Separating 
 the inventory into individual sections is the greatest downfall here, but the system for repairing 
 weapons and armour also deserves special mention for its awkwardness.
  
  Another weak spot is combat. The game isn't a FPS, let's get that straight, but it does manage 
 to produce some exceedingly visceral melee combats and spectacularly greusome firefights, which 
 usually ends up with the explosion of enemy bodies. But at the same time, you're often left feeling 
 that the game pits you at a serious disadvantage, due to balance issues. Sneaking is all but useless 
 until you get it high enough, some creatures (especially the mirelurks) are disproportionately 
 powerful AND well-defended, and drawing or changing weapons is a little clunky. The weapons, too, 
 despite the mind-boggling choice, are all much of a muchness, offering no real feel of 'trading 
 up' once you get your hands on the bigger and better weapons, which is thanks in part to the scaled 
 gameplay system (again, another throwback to Fallout's older brother)
  
  But with that said, this game is an absolute must-play, not least for the story. Disappointingly 
 shorter than Oblivion (when the game feels as similar is it does, making the comparisons is unavoidable) , 
 the main story lacks any real punch, but this game is more about the collective breadth of all 
 the stories, and how they come together. Bethesda have done a fine job splicing the Karma system 
 into all areas of the game, so that you really are encouraged to pick a side and stay with it. 
 And this choice affects so much throughout the game; there's much more comeback, good and bad, 
 for the decisions you make than were present in Oblivion. Gone is the ability to be all things 
 to all people that weakened Oblivion's RPG element. It seems that Bethesda really do learn from 
 their mistakes.
  
  Visually, Oblivion is stunningly bleak, in a way that will actually have you stop to look around 
 plenty of times during the game. Oblivion's lush green hills were pretty to look at, but the hook 
 with Fallout's graphics is that you're always left thinking 'this could be how things turn out.' 
 The crumbling concrete skeletons of buildings and freeways, The Washington Monument, a symbol of 
 old times that the Brotherhood of Steel pathetically clings to by ringing it with chunks of ripped-up 
 blacktop, whilst The Mall has become a warren of trenches. Sometimes it can feel a little overdone, 
 or you find yourself thinking 'you'd never see that in a post-apocalyptic wasteland,' but for the 
 majority of the time you'll just think 'wow.'
  
  So, in conclusion, the game is definitely not without its flaws, but ultimately, the game overcomes 
 these with breadth, an artful weaving of multiple story threads, and the unsettling feeling that 
 this could be an all-too possible future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geneo2036
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  While Its an ok game it certainly doesn't deserve the 9.0+ scores it receives. Nor is it a worthy 
 Fallout sequel.
  
  It's simply not polished enough to be a GREAT game (though it is a good one) . As for its "FALLOUTness", 
 its severely lacking.
  This game feels too much like a remake of Oblivion with Fallout set pieces- the pieces are there 
 but the body and soul is gone.
  
  Fallout games always had a lot of technical issues- if anyone remembers the huge number of bugs 
 those games had- one of the most memorable was when your car would split in half and you would 
 be on one city. but your stuff in your trunk would be somewhere else with the back half of the 
 car :-) )
  What made those games great was an incredibly rich and deep world (which this game has to an extent) 
 but also alot of the humor, pop culture references, unique encounters, tactical depth, is gone. 
 The number of skills are cut in half and most skills are still next to worthless- mostly because 
 its so easy to get by without them. don't have stealth? use a stealthboy on those times you want 
 to pickpocket (no individual skill anymore) . don't have have first aid or doctor skill (now medicine) , 
 any doctor in any city will fix you up for a pittance- you can even heal crippled limbs with stimpacks 
 and rest... so much for consequences.
  Most importantly its the Consequences in Fallout games that gave them their feel... mess up one 
 city and other cities and characters know it... here you can do as you like and no one cares. Worst 
 of all, you don't even get the results in the ending. Fallout games always showed you how [b] YOU [/b] 
 changed the world... all your actions good or bad. 
  
  I heard someone mention this and its true... this is a single player MMO. It feels just like one- 
 grind, find loot and unique items, no one cares what you just done except for thanks- here's your 
 new loot crap for helping.
  
  HERE'S a BIG tip Bethesda
  
  the payoff of regular RPGs:- is the STORY
  the payoff of Open world RPGs:- Is the effect your 
 character has on that open world
  
  Without the recognition and explicit signs of your contributions - the game falls flat and has 
 no payoff.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Perhaps I'm at an advantage, because I've never played the previous games in the Fallout series. 
 I have no pre-conceived hopes of what this game "should have been". I knew the setting and basic 
 game elements before I bought this title, so I bought it based on that fact and for my love of 
 Oblivion.
  
  Though this isn't Oblivion, if you've played Bethesda's last hit game, it is quite obvious that 
 Fallout 3 has many, many similarities. I even recognize one of the voice actors making a return 
 to work here. Interaction with NPCs and shopkeepers feels the same as Oblivion. So those that say 
 that this game is indeed just Oblivion with guns, may not be that far off the mark.
  
  However, I find myself being sucked into this post-apocolyptic world having a different emotional 
 connection than with Oblivion. This is a far darker game. Adult language and gore are far beyond 
 that found in Tamriel. Maitaining your health without taking too much radiation is more challenging 
 than backing off a fight to heal yourself.
  
  I guess I'm enjoying this game for it's own merrits, but I also feel like I'm playing a hybrid 
 of Oblivion and Bioshock in a different setting. That ain't bad considering those are two of my 
 all time favourite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Before I begin my review, I want to state that I actually wanted to give the game a 9.2/10 and 
 not 9.5; however the current rating system seems more primitive than previous ones and only allows 
 increments of 0.5, so I chose 9.5 instead of 9.0. So with that out of the way, time for the review 
 to begin.
  
  The game begins really strongly; It shows how well bethsheda has worked on the game and the amount 
 of thought and effort that has gone into it. I felt immersed in the game right from the get-go 
 which many games fail to do. I really liked the idea of beginning as a child and learning the ways 
 of life while you -- the player -- learn the game simultaneously. Great concept and perfect execution.
 
  
  Gameplay: Fantastic. Just plain fantastic. Great idea to allow the player the choice between first 
 and third person. I played it as an FPS-RPG and I was not disappointed. The VATS system was excellent 
 and given how your karma affects its effectiveness just makes all the more amazing. I thought the 
 weapons were great. It was awesome -- and sometimes frustrating -- how sometimes even in heated battles 
 how the guns would deteriorate and/or jam and force you to either choose another weapon or repair 
 it before continuing on. There were so many other features that just made the gameplay brilliant 
 but if I were to focus on that, this review would be too long.
  
  Attention to detail: I just came up with this aspect because I felt it needed to be said. The attention 
 to detail was freakin' unbelievable. I had read some previews recently about how Bethsheda focused 
 on perfecting tiny segments of the game before moving onto the next portions just to make sure 
 they got everything right. Perfection may be unachievable but striving for perfection is always 
 worth it and this game is living proof of that.
  
  Visuals: Absolutely great. Now, it's unfair that a game like crysis is used as the benchmark since 
 their engine is clearly superior to all, but in all seriousness, with the exception of crysis and 
 crysis warhead, fallout 3 DEFINITELY has the best visuals of any game I've ever played. The animations, 
 aside from a few minor issues, is outstanding. From decapitating a super mutant in VATS to disseminating 
 its remains all over the floor, the animation never ceased to impress me. Thumbs way up for this.
 
  
  Story: Okay, now first off, let me say that this is the most subjective portion of the review (even 
 more than gameplay) . The fact is, I loved the story. The atmosphere was highly immersive and combined 
 with the visuals, I just could not stop playing the game. I honestly don't know what else to say 
 aside from the fact that it was truly great. The ending -- regardless of your choices throughout 
 the game -- may be disconcerting to some, but I thought did not take away from the journey of the 
 game. Love it or hate it, the story was still really well told.
  
  Overall, I thought the game totally exceeded my expectations and I've spent the last couple of 
 nights not even going to bed until 9 or 10 am just because I couldn't stop playing the game. THUMBS 
 WAYYY UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cranpile
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  im a fan of the elder scrolls series (played morrowind and oblivion) and i knew fallout 3 is going 
 to be similar to oblivion.. only with guns. overall the game is what i hoped for but damn! while 
 playing i realize that something is missing.. not sure what it is. maybe its because of the npc (s) 
 around or the very-fast-ended main quest which can be finished in couple of hours - too bad u cant 
 continue playing afterward. 
  despite what said above, i really enjoyed the combat system, its a bit weird at first because ur 
 used to playing rpg with a sword or a bow, but they did just fine. i loved the grenades and the 
 shotgun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denethor0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Even before I bought the game I heard scores of other ol fallout fans criticize the game to no 
 end as being Oblivion with guns. After having played it however I cant help to wonder how shallow 
 those fans are as its the spirit, feeling of fallout thats the important part of the game and its 
 most certainly are there. Not if its more in style like the old games or Oblivion as all games 
 has to move on, evolve so to say to survive and be successful. 
  
  So, while I do miss the old style of playing this game I can not say the changes are for the worse. 
 Some other things have also changed, like one can not do anything like the old part 1 and 2, but 
 I feel confident that mods will fix this giving the player the full freedom to do anything. That 
 alone is the only reason I did not give it a full 10 as complete freedom to do anything is also 
 a part of the fallout spirit. But doing it more similar to oblivion is also a great strength when 
 the proper tools for mods are released which I hope they will and soon.
  
  As a game, Fallout 3 is NOT Oblivion but very much a game on its own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toremor
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up the game I had some great expectations for it, not only had i fallen in 
 love with the Elder scrolls series (the same company that developed fallout 3) but I always wanted 
 to see if a sci-fi rpg could finally handle ranged weapons and the atsmosphere you would get from 
 a high fantasy game. Sadly I was very dissapointed. 
  
  First and foremost I found the whole atmosphere and feeling of the game to be shallow and repetative, 
 after just two hours of gameplay I felt like I had done everything and the game was just set on 
 repeat. There is nothing wrong with the armosphere itself, it is just that you get going with the 
 same feeling throughout the game.
  
  The combat system is actually pretty good, at least the ranged one. I have no clue why Bethesda 
 didn't take the melee system from Oblivion (wich in my opinion was splendid) . Anyway, the ranged 
 combat system is great and very well balanced, which is nessecary due to the fact that you can't 
 run fifty meters without being attacked by some mutated rat or bear. But seriously, where do all 
 these creatues come from? How do they survive? Why are they so many? This doesnt make sesnse at 
 all, I would rather se a completly empty barren wasteland instead of this madhouse. But on the 
 other hand the game would be rather dull that way, you just have to make some sacrifices I guess.
 
  
  When I played the main quest it felt like Elder scrolls: Oblivion all over again. I got the feeling 
 that I was just running around gathering stuff and talking to different people, all the time. I 
 know I shouldn't really expect anything more from Bethesta, but still, some variety would be nice.
 
  
  The graphics and the enviorments are awesome, and Bethesda proves once again that they can make 
 a realistic and graphically impressive would to play in. Altough, it has the same problem as the 
 rest of the game, it is all the same! I know it's supposed to be the aftermath of some nuclear 
 war and in real life I guess it would probably look something like that. The realism just doesnt 
 work here due to the fact that the rest of the would be realistics parts of the game has come completly 
 mad. I'm not saying that the enviorments are sloppy or anything, it's just that it lacks depth 
 and just seems to repeat itself. (Much like in Delta force, the first one in the series, if anyone 
 remembers those enviorments.)
  
  Over all I think this game is okay with it's suprisingly good combat system and huge world, but 
 overall it feels shallow and dull, something an rpg should avoid in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royceu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  fallout 3 is "profoundly engrossing" and the funnest time I've had with an RPG since KOTOR... and 
 I think its much better than KOTOR... KOTOR got by on a good story, while FO3 has story, plot, gameplay, 
 combat, dialogue, complexity... in a nutshell FO3 has it all.
  
  I noticed a few people complaining this was a FPS... no way. This is definitely an RPG. I almost 
 gave up on RPG's because those Final Fantasy games were so boring to me. The combat is button tapping 
 and the story so linear.
  
  Gamespot complained combat is a little clunky, but for an RPG... this game is PERFECT. While having 
 some FPS skill helps a little, what gets you through this game is your strategy and allocation 
 of skill points... so if you want to talk things through you can... if you want to sneak up to your 
 opponent and put a grenade in his pocket you can... if you want to gun him down you can. 
  
  In fact, what I realized about the so called "clunkiness" is that its INTENTIONAL. For an FPS it 
 is clunky, but this game is NOT an RPS. You don't get to freeze the game and target specific body 
 parts like this in an FPS. For an RPG... the combat is a milestone.
  
  After playing this game I love RPG's again. I can not go back to Final Fantasy... those games make 
 me hurl. KOTOR's system of combat while looking cool SUCKED too, using that horrible D&D 3 system.
 
  
  Steve Jackson screwed up big time backing out on Fallout. Now he's virtually a nobody.
  
  I have renewed faith in this genre now. I wished I had played FO & FO2. I imagine expansions 
 will come out before FO4? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfBain666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  5-Stars
  *****
  
  Well done to the guys for this epic piece of work.
  It's like a whole new world has just opened up for the Fallout fans to really get their teeth into. 
 With the richness of the environment & go anywhere map, this has bought Fallout into a genre of 
 it's own. Especially with the stop time battle option & the way you can evolve your character to 
 whatever you want it to be.. GOOD, BAD, INDIFFERENT. It doesn't matter in the Fallout 3 world until 
 the consequences come back & bite you when you least expect them to.
  
  I must admit, I was a bit dubious when they said that they were going to make the Fallout 3 a rear 
 view shoot-em-up but I have to say that it has worked for me.
  
  I can say that this game will be on many a Christmas list for a lot of Fallout fans & the midnight 
 oil will be burning for a long time to come, you really get immersed into your game & missions 
 & work that you thought you had in the morning becomes a distant future you don't want to get up 
 to, that's if you do go to bed.. :)
  
  Wastelands, here I come. :)
  One Happy Gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightangel121
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  fallout3 has finaly come out, and i myself, didn't relly care, unil i found out it was made by 
 bethesda, i am one of the biggest oblivion fanboys of all time, and so i gave this game a try, and 
 pleased to say its great, but their are minor isuess i had, the game looks great but like oblivion 
 most of the places look the same, thought pretty much all the caves, buildings ect..., look differnt, 
 most of the outside world is pretty much simmlar. the graghpics are very well done but the world 
 is an almost depressing place to play in which is not that bad of a thing, bioshock was a sad depressing 
 world and that was one of the reasons it was so great. sound and audio is great from callical music 
 to great vioce acting. the story is good, not great. and gameplay is great but has slight problems 
 like the best, fastes, and yet most of the time, only way to get a clear shot without diying is 
 using the V. A. S. T, the reason this is, is because the aiming system has a few problems if you know 
 what i mean. graghpics 5/5, sound 5/5, story 3.5/5, and gameplay 4.5/5, overal 9/10, ps my xbox 
 live gamertag is my gamespot user name just in case you have any comments, thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellishDude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  War... war never changes. The same goes for Fallout3.
  Fallout may turned to the side of FPS genre but it still have the old familiar feeling the previous 
 games had.
  For those who barked (including myself) that Fallout 3 would be a piece of **** let me say that 
 Bethesda pulled this awesomely. The game feels exactly like fallout. Both in Atmosphere and concept. 
 Its very deep and very detail and in the same time very violent. Yes its a violent world out there, 
 so are the means that you will use to dispose either your evil enemies or the innocent people of 
 the wasteland.
  Yes I agree, that Fallout 3 seems like Oblivion with guns but its exactly like saying all the first 
 person shooters look like Doom.
  Anyway as a fallout fanatic I'm very impressed and after 10 years I can say that the waiting did 
 more good than bad.
  I wont be going for the gameplay mechanics. Everything works perfectly apart from some glitches 
 and the luck of music quantity, but everything is there: Atmosphere, the world (wastland DC) , good 
 ol' fallout humor, Bloody mess, character creation and development.
  Bethesda can be proud and I'm proud as a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the Fallouts as true RPGs immensely.
  
  I enjoyed Oblivion immensely for what it is: a gigantic, story-driven sword and sorcery action-adventure 
 with RPG elements.
  
  As expected, Fallout 3 does not fully capture the pervasive (and intellectualized to the level 
 of design philosophy) gallows humor of the first Fallout games. 
  
  Those games were, ultimately, a blackly comic take on a Cold War America: a country paradoxically 
 at the peak of its power, prosperity, cultural cohesion and happiness while under constant threat 
 of annihilation.
  
  Fallout 3 mostly abandons dark satire (if one could call it that) for a self-seriousness that is 
 somehow matched with cheap laughs and cynical gore. The only real sparkles of the original Fallout 
 games are found in the disquietingly winsome face of Pip Boy, and in other microparodies of 50's 
 pop-culture.
  
  And, yes, it's true: Fallout 3 isn't a Fallout game by Fallout standards.
  
  And, you know, 
 that's OK.
  
  But the game isn't even Oblivion, Oblivion Improved, Oblivion Lite or Oblivion With Guns.
  
 
  It's Oblivion Diminished.
  
  'Real RPG' or not, Oblivion was gigantic and magical.
  
  By comparison, Fallout 3 is narrow, lowbrow, silly, and dull.
  
  The single most impressive 
 moment of Fallout 3 is when you first emerge from Vault 101. The HDR fades and you get a stunning 
 view of the wasteland with a very impressive draw distance.
  Unfortunately, this intentional dazzling of us with improved draw distance is maybe the most memorable 
 moment of the entire game.
  
  In Oblivion our first look at the best foliage in any game ever was a kind of promise of what was 
 to come. In Fallout 3, however, this moment is nothing more than a great big 'Look at my technical 
 achievement!' moment. The vista of ruined landscape is breathtaking, but it promises nothing beyond 
 itself, which is good, because the game doesn't deliver.
  
  Almost no one will agree with this review, professional or amateur.
  
  (And I'd say that's 
 fine, except I know what it means for the future of gaming.)
  
  But anyway, here's the short of it: Bethesda not only ignored what it really meant to be a Fallout 
 game, they also abandoned themselves. They jettisoned their nerdy, wobbly charm, epic scope and 
 wonky but admirable thoroughness for narrow vanilla, mass appeal and mass-market, all despite having 
 inherited the rights to what is arguably the best true RPG of all time.
  
  Oblivion plus Fallout would have been awesome.
  
  That's a game I'd love to play.
  
  So 
 here's to hoping against hope that Elder Scrolls V won't be Fallout 3 with swords. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomicbro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that although I am old enough to have played the Fallout games (and the original Wasteland) , 
 I never got around to playing either of them and I hear that Fallout purists are on the fence when 
 it comes to Fallout 3. Whatever. That shouldn't stop anyone from playing this fantastic game, regardless 
 of how they feel about the source material. I have to say that this is one of the most engrossing 
 games I've played this year, probably the best game I've played since The Witcher, despite knowing 
 nothing about the Fallout universe. 
  
  After about a week of barely sleeping at night, I've only completed a handful of quests, despite 
 the fact that I have easily put about 25 hours into the game so far. The exploration alone is so 
 addictive that I keep telling myself that I'll go to bed "just after I find out what's over the 
 next hill." I love it. The crazy amount of customization that's available is great, the visuals 
 and sound are among the best found in modern entertainment of any form and the over the top violence 
 is too much fun (make sure you get that perk that has enemies exploding into gobs of bloody goo!) 
 At points, this game reminds a little of Bioshock (another of my favorites) - it has the same great 
 atmosphere and feel to it, just with oodles more depth and detail.
  
  The bottom line, this is a top-notch game and if you avoid it because some Fallout fan says that 
 it isn't true to the originals - well, that's your loss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrook
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Of course your going to play it anyway if you played any of the other Fallout games, but this game 
 was horrible. They ruined every aspect of the Fallout games that made them different. The storyline 
 is a straight line, I don't understand why they've been selling it as a free open world. You have 
 to do all the tasks in the manner the game makers intended. No more killing children, even though 
 they are throughout the game and essential to the story and annoying at that. No killing certain 
 characters even non essential ones, just pure BS, in the original Fallout games you could kill 
 ANYONE and it effected the story. The weapons choices in Fallout were always huge, in this there's 
 just generic guns and only 1-2 of each type. If you liked this game you've never played Fallout 
 1 or 2, I would advise you to do so and see what a joke this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alclarity888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Spirtual successor to the original topdown Fallout series that looked alot like Redmoon, 
 Fallout 3 goes 3D using what appears to be an offshoot of the engine Bethesda used in Elder Scrolls 
 Oblivion. Contains very subtle humour, lacks some NPC interaction, and does a great job of easing 
 you into the massive world.
  
  Gameplay: Within the first hour of the game you will have lived as a toddler, teenager, and finally 
 a young adult before you find yourself exploring the wastelands of Fallout 3. Dialogue is awesome 
 in this game; very rarely (but not never!) will you see canned responses used across several different 
 NPCs. Bethesda was very clever in how you can complete the quests that drive the story.
  
  There isn't much incentive to go exploring because some areas are so large and confusing that you 
 will be tabbing out to your map every 2 minutes to get your bearings. The main problem with exploring 
 is, there is no clear end to many of the explorable looting zones. Sometimes there is a unique 
 monster or a boss at the end of the tunnel, but the juice isn't worth the squeeze 9/10 times.
 
  
  Whether you prefer combat, fasttalking, or being evil.. its hard to specialize in multiple areas 
 and if you try doing that in the early game, you will find yourself playing a very frustrating 
 game if you dont focus your talents. For example, if you really like combat (technically its unavoidable) 
 you definately need the repair skill because armor/weapon durability whittles away the longer you 
 fight. 
  
  Money should be a non-issue with the amount of things you can scavenge but ultimately spending/earning 
 money is just a time sink because quest rewards are lackluster and there isn't much to do with 
 money except buy pointless house attachments for convenience, ammo, repairs, or schematics for 
 crafting. Only once in awhile do you get some awesome gear from quests or exploration.
  
  The compass tool is only useful for finding personal waypoints and noting if there are enemies 
 nearby ... in the direction you are facing. The VATS combat system is great for situations where 
 stuff suddenly gets too close for comfort but can also make fights incredibly easy if your very 
 patient. NPC's do not scale as you level so if you run into something too hard to kill, come back 
 later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevennDeuce
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  For anyone having negative things to say about this game is out of their mind. 
  
  Bethesda has done it again. This game is immersive, interesting and graphically stunning... and 
 I'm quite picky when it comes to games.
  
  I can see in detail as far as the horizon. The gore is wonderfully realistic, and the dialogue 
 and game play is amazing.
  
  This is the best game out this year IMO, and the only thing I see competing with it, is Gears of 
 War 2 (multiplayer) .
  
  If you liked Oblivion, this is twice as good.
  
  You might need a decent computer to play this game in all its glory and beauty, but the coding 
 seems flawless and the game runs very smooth.
  
  There are many small details which make you love the game even more, but you will have to experience 
 this for yourself.
  
  If the new Grand Theft Auto got 10 on GameSpot, this game should be an 11. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marz311
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  With so many role-playing games venturing forth into the MMOG genre it's getting kind of hard to 
 find a solid single player role-playing experience these days. Bethesda has definitely delivered 
 that experience this year with Fallout 3. I'll just get to the grit of my review and go over a 
 few core aspects of the game which i feel are important.
  
  Story:
  
  The story in Fallout 3 is fairly solid but my concern is that it is too ordinary at times. It doesn't 
 have the complexity of other role-playing games and thus you can easily detach yourself from NPC's 
 because you don't really get emotionally tied into the characters of the game. There are not many 
 factions in the game that you can affiliate yourself with and NPC's react to you positively and 
 negatively based on your karma score. That aside the open ended gameplay of the game allows you 
 a lot more freedom than other role-playing games to create your own persona in the game world based 
 on your play style.
  
  Mechanics:
  
  The mechanics of the game are familiar to those who played Bethesda's previous games like Oblivion. 
 The stat system in this game is a sort of a spinoff of the previous Fallout games as it had to 
 be converted to work with the engine which is basically a newer version of the Oblivion Gamebryo 
 engine. I find that the stat system works fairly well and perks enhance the customization of your 
 gameplay experience and this only adds to the the longevity of the game because you can change 
 up the pace each time you create a new character. The combat system itself can be used in two different 
 ways, as a normal first person shooter or through the V. A. T. S system. Just note that you won't 
 be one shotting people with head shots if your used to playing first person shooters. This game 
 is has a bunch of calculations going on behind the scenes that determine how much damage you'll 
 do with a particular weapon based on your skill, the enemies defense resistance, total hp, and 
 etc. Thus combat can be fairly slow paced. It is fairly disappointing that the combat AI of enemies 
 is too simplistic. As most just rush straight at you and don't use battle tactics. The exception 
 is the Enclave Soldiers and sometimes Super Mutants who fallback and get into cover. The V. A. T. S 
 system is the best way of dealing with combat as you can target specific body parts and hinder 
 movement by shooting legs or knocking a weapon out of the hand of the enemy by queuing up shots. 
 It is very strategic and very useful when you are faced with more than one enemy as you can plan 
 your attacks more efficiently. The difficulty of enemies scales with your level so it keeps the 
 player challenged somewhat and there's always those Super Mutant Behemoth battles that keep you 
 on your toes.
  
  Graphical Representation:
  
  The game is a great looking game in quite a few areas. Environments feel like you have ventured 
 into a war torn wasteland. Although i have not been to Washington D. C myself the buildings do seem 
 to be visually similar to the real thing (compared to photos I've seen) . There are a variety of 
 different armors in the game that are unique looking and fit the theme of the game world. Animations 
 are not very good, although quite improved from Oblivion the characters still have this stiffness 
 in their step. Hand gestures, facial expressions are all very plain and I hope Bethesda hires a 
 new animation team for their next project. They did do a good job at the gruesome dismemberment 
 and exploding body parts portion of their character animation. If the animations were improved 
 then third person perspective would be more appealing to play. Game interface is fairly clean and 
 the Pipboy 3000 menu is fairly easy to navigate. If there was anything to nitpick i would have 
 to say that more sorting options would make inventory easier to navigate and having a better way 
 to sort save games for different characters would enhance the convenience of loading games.
  
  Sound and Music:
  
  The music soundtrack itself is great as it has a lot of good oldie 
 hits. The sound effects itself mixes some nostalgic sounds from the old games with fairly convincing 
 weapon noise. Game environment ambient sounds are fairly realistic. The voice acting is hit or 
 miss because there are quite a few high quality actors in the game, President Eden and the person 
 who plays your father. Some other character voices just seem to forced and fake but I realize that 
 everything can't be perfect. There is quite a bit of dialog in the game so i won't bash the game 
 for using the same voice actor more than once because it is noticeable. So overall a very solid 
 sound scheme.
  
  Content:
  
  The game will leave your personal path wide open as soon as you leave the vault. There's easily 
 over 30+ hours of gameplay if you choose to explore and do side quests. The side quests are pretty 
 fun and each seems different from one another and can get quite complex so you don't get the feeling 
 that they are repetitive clones of each other. It can only get better if Bethesda releases a construction 
 set of some sort similar to that of their previous games. As modifications only lead to prolonging 
 the life of the game.
  
  Technical Issues:
  
  I did experience a crash here and there, and there are some pathing bugs some which may kill NPC 
 characters inadvertently or make them become stuck. Otherwise i had fairly smooth game experience 
 on high settings throughout my play through.
  
  Overall:
  
  I won't say it's game of the year because so many other games have been released that seem more 
 innovative and polished. Not to mention the many games on the horizon coming out the last two months 
 of this year. I will say it's an excellent game overall and one of the most impressive RPG's this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duncan17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Wow.
  
  I have bee waiting for this one for a long time. I have been addicted to the whole post-apocalyptic 
 RPG thing since the original Fallouts nine years ago, and pnp games like 'Gamma World' and 'Aftermath!' 
 twenty five years ago.
  
  Everything went right from the moment the game landed on my doormat. My mail order copy arrived 
 a day early, whilst I was at home waiting for a new sofa to be delivered. I managed to sneak in 
 an extra four hours of gameplay before 'the boss' came home.
  
  And what gameplay. Each interaction involves moral choices, choices which I know will have repercussions 
 later in the game. The story-lines are a mixture of the normal RPG fare, and the unique fallout 
 moral dilemmas. Unlike other games there seems to be a genuine evil path through the game.
  
  Graphically the game is excellent. I must admit to some smugness here. I am running the game 
 on a monster machine - dual 512MB SLI, 7200 RAID 0 at a whopping 1920 by 1280 resolution. 
  
  The landscapes are stunning. The greys and browns evoke the feeling of a post nuclear world. 
 Seeing dust devils, clouds and sunsets makes me think I am watching a pre-rendered animation - 
 not a game rendered in real time. 
  
  The character animations are not as good, although still acceptable. I have noticed the same combat 
 animation issues as others, with enemies animated 12 inches above the ground. Annoying - but not 
 a real problem.
  
  In terms of combat I like it. I have always preferred the more cerebral style of combat rather 
 than the fast reflex approach needed for most FPS games. The F3 approach is about half way between 
 fallouts 1 and 2 and an FPS. Dropping into VATS is closer to my normal style - however you do need 
 to mix it when you run out of action points. 
  
  Character generation and progression is standard RPG fare. It is fairly close to Fallout 1 and 
 2 with SPECIAL, skills and perks. Of all of the RPG systems I think that this is my favourite. 
 With the original games it game the opportunity to play the game using totally different styles. 
 Whilst I have only tried one to date (stealthy sniper) I am looking forward to trying a range of 
 other character types.
  
  I have had a few crashes - but only one mid gameplay. I am also having difficulty finding a critical 
 character - which may be a bug - or equally designed in. Overall this is a lot less buggy than 
 other games within a week of release. 
  
  It is only when you bring these facets together do you realise what a gem Bethesda has made. This 
 game is compelling. The graphics and story pull you in, VATS combat and character development make 
 you think. More important than these is the fact that Fallout 3 captures the quirky, morally ambiguous 
 black humour of the original series.
  
  Overall I think that Bethesda have built upon the strengths of both Oblivion and Fallout. It is 
 a worthy successor to the originals, but built using modern technology, to provide an immersive 
 and compelling game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheriff05
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I played the first two Fallouts non stop back in the day and had a great love for both games. Fallout 
 3 shines in all the things that make todays games great, great action epic scope and beautiful 
 graphics. Admittedly I was skeptical about Bethesda handling the Fallout franchise because I thought 
 Oblivion was pretty looking but boring and scaling all encounters made the game idiotic. They didn't 
 do that here thankfully and while I miss the 3/4 perspective Fallout 3 is about as good as I expect 
 it to be. Where is falls short in NPC character development and your PC development. The lack of 
 specific skills and perks at every level easily make characters "jacks of all trades" with little 
 effort.. this adds little replay value in the character department, so thankfully the story differences 
 leave some replay options. In original games Perks and High Skill level where much more rare and 
 greater impact on your choices, as it stands I am about 16th level and very good at everything 
 except Big Guns and if I wanted to have that maxed that out I could have and still can as I still 
 have allot of game left, In short
  Bethesda "dumbed down" the Character development system to appease the masses and falls short of 
 living up to the legacy of Fallout Franchise. Having said that as a stand alone game, its great- 
 I love this game, Other than the Witcher its best game of its type in a long, long time. Fallout 
 die hards wont be happy, but such is life, I look forward to the mods.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rombie1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell Fallout 3 is Oblivion with better graphics in the future and post-apocalyptic. Several 
 aspects from Oblivion can clearly be seen in this game such as rest, and dialogue chat. The same 
 things that made Oblivion great also works for this game as well.
  
  10 Gameplay- 
  First I would like to say that the map is huge. When I first got outside of the vault and looking 
 at the map, I had no idea where to start. So I ran in an abandoned school and got shot.  :O There 
 are so many places to go, people to meet and plotlines to uncover. The environments give you a 
 sense of real survival from the after effects of nuclear war and the dangers that waltz around 
 the eroding world.
  Combat goes smoothly, especially with the implementation of the VATS system which is kind of like 
 bullet time in Max Payne except more Cinematic, and gory for that matter. VATS also allows the 
 user to select certain body parts or items to shoot. Such as if the enemy is about to lob a grenade 
 at you enter VATS and shoot the grenade in his hand blowing up him and his bystander buddies. Or 
 more simply shooting and taking off your enemies head. 
  There is a good amount of weapons but most of them are slight variations of another (10mm pistol, 
 .32 pistol, and Chinese pistol) . Which is okay just means you got options if you run out of a certain 
 ammo type. The quest are non-linear there are often times more than one way to complete a quest 
 and with just as many consequences. It really makes you think about what you really would do in 
 a situation. Also depending on what decisions you make can alter what other people think of you 
 or better yet do to you. (give you items or shoot your face)
  
  9 Graphics- 
  The graphics are extraordinary. There is a fantastic amount of detail present no matter where you 
 are in game and it really helps set the mood. For the most part the environment is gloomy and desolate 
 with a 50's era Sci-Fi movie theme to it and the people dress clich to the waste wander bandits 
 and 50's style clothing. The DC area looks great looking at Capital hill and the Washington monument 
 you can see how much effort they put into making the post-apocalyptic world a reality. Explosions 
 and combat effects look rather good as well. 
  You do get your occasional glitch just like in every other game, there is some clipping or shooting 
 through something you shouldn't be shooting through. With that said these glitches are far and 
 in between.
  
  8 Sound- 
  The music is ok here; nothing really sticks out at me. It actually kind of reminds me of Oblivions 
 music in a way. Voice acting is great, although when they express there angry the usual gestures 
 don't follow and it takes away from the characters feel, though it's not enough to ruin the flow 
 of dialogue, not for me anyways.
  
  8 Story- 
  The games story flows forward smoothly it starts you out in Vault 101 as you grow up there. The 
 jazz goes down and your father escaped and you have to search for your father in the wastelands 
 to figure out what exactly happened and is going to happen. Truthfully I haven't completed the 
 story yet so I can't say much here (I like to take my time with these things) . However thus far 
 the main plot line is interesting and easy to follow, it keeps me going and is great so far.
  
  10 Replayability-
  This is something that the game has plenty of. Like Oblivion there are 
 plenty of places to explore, secrets to find, quest to complete, skills to hone, and much more. 
 I have played about 35 hours in and I still have plenty more to do. Expect to play this one for 
 a long, long time.
  
  Overall score this game has a well deserved 9
  
  Other comments: 
  -like Oblivion no matter where you kill a civilian in town the guards and townspeople 
 know about it and will open fire on you. This to me takes some realism out of the game and I can 
 only hope for a modification for it.
  
  -While combat is interesting and exciting shooting the same baddies hours on end can get monotonous, 
 I would do things in between to prevent this from happening but eventually I believe you'll get 
 tired of it entirely. Rest assured that won't be for awhile.
  
  -I can understand why some fans of the previous installments might be urked. Although I haven't 
 played the predecessors I do like my sequels to have some continuity and remind me of the original 
 (unlike RA3) and from what I've heard the gameplay is much different because of a different company 
 making this one. (due to the original company going bankrupt or something) . However I would seriously 
 check out this game despite it being more FPS then RPG it does have many redeemable qualities. 
 Whether you look at it as a sequel or not is up to you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cassius769
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to play third part of Fallout. As it is working well already I was not expecting 
 many changes - perhaps only few things added, new storyline and a larger map.
  
  What was given to us is not Fallout as it was before, but in fact, it is more Oblivion in the future 
 than anything else. The feeling of Fallout series is not conveyed although the system of personal 
 improvement, scenario and title would like to pretend it is. Don't get me wrong - it is a good 
 game on it's own. My point is - it became a shooter whereas the previous two Fallouts were tactical 
 games with story line and open possibilities.
  
  The choice of weaponry does not not have much variety. From my play it looks like you have two 
 of each kind i. e. assault rifle - chinese assault rifle, sawn-off shotgun - automatic shotgun, 
 10mm pistol - 10mm submachine gun. Great - just great. Thank you Bethesda for your generosity.
 
  
  The system of improvement plainly does not work. With all your carefully spent time on make your 
 hero be a more efficient in dealing with environment you receive message from Bethesda - it is 
 not important. With every level up you are straight away surrounded by opponents which went level 
 up as well - even in areas where previously you couldn't find them at all. Ergo - there is no improvement 
 whatsoever - very f...... cunning of you Bethesda. Easy for you boring for us. I find it as the 
 worst "development".
  
  The feeling of vast distances is lost and with this the feeling of possible unknown promising oportunities. 
 Now you have cramped destroyed city - you walk 20 metres from one location and suddenly program 
 tells that you just discovered another - oh how great. 
  
  The themes of Oblivion are plainly visible in scenario - I'm referring to Vampires of the Family 
 which is completely disappointing development. It seems Bethesda decided to go easy way and exploit 
 existing story lines from another game. Fallout 3 was supposed to be third part of great series 
 and not a cliche of fantasy game. That theme does not fit at all into the picture.
  
  I gave fairly high score to this game - with no obvious errors and smoothly going killing it is 
 enjoyable under one condition - change the title.
  
  Summary: Bethesda bought the right to the title to make money easy way on people like me - fans 
 of Fallout series. In one case - PS3 - it is to easy.
  Thank you again Bethesda - I want a refund.
  
  The above arguments are just few main ones in 
 favour not to call this game Fallout 3. There are more so I am surprised that Gamespot is so excited 
 about this game. They gave nine and editors choice to FPP which is not much different from others 
 - apart from the title. I guess they make living from being excited about any Bethesda game in 
 order not to get on their wrong side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipolych
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played the previous ones then this is not for you.
  
  I could write about the bugs and the awkward movement system this game has but all that can be 
 fixed. If this was a game with another title ( something like "Post Apocalyptic Survival" ) I would 
 probably give it a 6.5 or a 7. But they wanted to call it Fallout. And I expected a new Fallout 
 to be at least as good as the previous ones, in terms of story and rpg feeling. But it's not. I 
 could probably get along with an action adventure type of Fallout, instead of the classic Fallout 
 feeling - which is what I was prepared for from the trailers - but this is something that tries 
 to do everything and fails at everything. 
  
  So to me it's either a game which was mistakenly labeled as Fallout, or just a washed up version 
 that only brings nostalgia for the original ones... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Wow. I finally got it done. Well, at least 1/3 of it done. I've heard there are at least 3 different 
 possible endings, and I will most likely play each one sooner or later. 
  
  But I have to say, I think Bethseda really got it right. Like 90% of it, I'd say.
  
  I played 
 the original Fallout when I was a kid, but didn't promptly follow up by getting Fallout 2 or Fallout 
 Tactics. 
  
  When I heard this game was in the works, however, I got very excited at the concept of an open 
 ended Fallout game, so I rangled up copies of both previously unplayed games to keep myself occupied 
 until Oct. 28th roled around.
  
  In hindsight, that may have been a mistake, as both Fallout 2 and Fallout Tactics (the non cave-spelunking 
 one, I'm talking the Brotherhood of Steel one) proved to be excellent games, so much so that both 
 of them could easily be placed in my Top 10 or 20 list if I ever got around to really thinking 
 about it. 
  
  So finally Fallout 3 comes out just as I'm finishing up Tactics and in this last week I've probably 
 played it at least 50 hours. The initial feel and ambience of the game is simply overwhelming, 
 and quite frankly I found it hard to tear myself away from it.
  
  Now I get into the nuances:
  
  Neutral:
  
  The voice acting was mostly good, with exceptional 
 performances by Liam Neeson and Malcolm McDowell, although I do wish they had a little bit more 
 to say in the main story. I did notice as I was playing that some of the players did essentially 
 the exact same voice for multiple characters. I read the credits at the end and saw that one actor 
 did FIVE characters! And these weren't exactly "Civilian 1" and "Civilian 2" roles either. They 
 were kind of important! I would have liked to see a bit more diversity in this department, but 
 maybe they ran up their budget on Neeson and McDowell. 
  
  The soundtrack and general conversational pieces were most likely the weakest part of the game 
 in my opinion. All of the followers you get seem to be reading from the same script, as their canned 
 responses to your inquires get tired quickly. And while the soundtrack was really good in concept, 
 I felt like it got really boring really fast. I think the main station you listen to plays probably 
 about ten songs or so. Constantly. and the DJ usually says the same thing over and over. I was 
 hoping for more of a GTA approach where you can literally listen to all the stations for a couple 
 hours without hearing a repeat. 
  
  The V. A. T. S system is initially really cool, but once you start using it constantly and realize 
 you can get almost anything killed with it in one fell swoop, it quickly loses it's "wow" factor. 
 
  
  The Good:
  
  The side quests were what really did it for me. All the one's I played (and I think I missed quite 
 a few so far) were great, some were even funny and just downright fun. There were even a few that 
 really made you question the essence of good and evil. Those were the best ones. 
  
  The ability to repair, customize, and create weapons was really great. There was also a pretty 
 good sized of scavenged weapons that could be found and very useful. 
  
  The general feel and ambience of the game was just amazing. There were a lot of tense random encounters, 
 tepid exchanges with apprehensive bystanders, and overall the entire framework of Fallout 3 made 
 you think you might really be in The Wasteland. A wish I could elaborate more on this but frankly 
 I think there is a lot more to the game than I can really put words to.
  
  The Bad:
  
  The ending. Well, not so much the ending, just what happens after the ending. 
  
  And yes, 
 I will leave you to ponder exactly what that means. 
  
  You'll just have to find that out for yourself, which I would definitely recommend anyone and everyone 
 doing ASAP. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatresssGiant
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off for all of those who will seek to smite me for the things I will say. Fallout 
 3 was NOT a bad game. I did get a bit sucked in and it was fun for the most part.
  
  HOWEVER
  
  First and foremost, the game seemed fairly linear. OK, yes there are a multitude 
 of side quests. The problem is that the main quest plus some side quests took me a little over 
 ten hours to beat on hard. Sure you can run around and do other stuff, but you don't have to explore 
 the game very much to beat it. This depressed me.
  
  Another point I'd like to hit on is the FEEL of the game. Okay yes it isn't a top down turn-based 
 game, but that's not what I'm talking about. This did not feel like a Fallout 3 to me, and let 
 me attempt to describe why for you naysayers (mostly people who didn't even play the first or second 
 game) . This game felt a little PG-13 to me. In the previous games, making stuff explode with a 
 shotgun at close range or dropping an F bomb were just appetizers, where as for Fallout 3 they 
 were the main course. I want to be able to do morally questionable things in the game. I want to 
 be able to ruin people's lives. Disappointing.
  
  Also, now I used to play a lot of FPS (first person shooters) , but a lot of our classic Fallout 
 fans may not have. This game requires at least a basic level of being able to aim. Sure the VATs 
 thingy can help you out, but unless you max your agility right off the bat you can't use it all 
 the time. Another point Id like to add to this is that there is no easy way to switch between weapons. 
 They even had this in Oblivion, yet chose to exclude in this game?
  
  TECHNICAL ISSUES! Not that bad actually (for me at least) . I played this game with the XFX Geforce 
 6800 XT (recycled from my old pc) and got very little delay with pretty decent graphics. However, 
 the game did freeze for me out of nowhere sometimes, mainly inside smaller buildings. My computer 
 was fine, but I was unable to start the game back up until I restarted my computer.
  
  I could go on, but these are my main points.
  
  Overview:
  -Not a bad game.
  -Could have 
 been more in-depth, longer, etc.
  -Kinda easy, in game play and to beat
  -Not very gritty, PG-13
  -Feels more like Oblivion
  -Not an RTS, hope you can FPS
  -Game 
 hung maybe 10 times in 16 hours of play
  
  Well hey Bethesda, you did a HELL of a lot better than most would have, but you still didn't quite 
 make the mark. My main issue with this game was the feel. Maybe they could have spent a little 
 more time on developing a game that felt like a Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archon920
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I have logged countless hours on Fallout 1 and 2, as well as Fallout Tactics, what amazing games! 
 Fallout 3 has upped the ante with it's first person perspective and amazing environments. It has 
 stayed true with the combat system (minus the detailed descriptions of weapons and armor such as 
 distance, type of damage, and damage thresholds) . The characters are great, each with their own 
 personalities. The setting in Washington D. C. is a welcome change from the west coast settings 
 of the first two, it adds to the depth of the overall history of the war that preceded the title. 
 The mature theme is especially fun for me since I grew out of kiddie games a long time ago. Overall 
 I think its a game no one should pass up, especially if they were fans of Oblivion. Definitely 
 pick this one up!!! 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FomarThain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  It's an excellent game in terms of feel and polish. The VATS system is great and seeing the mess 
 you can leave with the critical and kill shots is cool. Not quite as cool as the original Fallout 
 games but cool nonetheless. Why it isn't as cool I am not really sure. But I will admit it might 
 have to do with the novelty of it back then and I may have a little nostalgia going on.
  
  One thing I did not expect is that I am finding the game pretty hard. Resources are very, very 
 scarce. I picked Small Arms, Science and Lock picking as my skills and I find a fair amount of 
 time I have to rely on a sledgehammer because I run out of ammo. And that is even from firing up 
 close where the percentages are higher. I have gotten a little frustrated at times but it is one 
 of those games where you get a great deal of satisfaction when you pull out a close call. As I 
 have few levels under my belt and a few perks it is getting a bit more balanced.
  
  I find I rely on the VATS system a lot. While it is first person with guns the controls are not 
 tight enough to really play it straight up as a shooter. You can wing it sometimes when you find 
 yourself low on APs, but even then it is usually best to seek some cover and wait for those APs 
 to come back up. This isn't a bad thing or tedious (to me at least) but I thought it was worth 
 mentioning.
  
  I also need to mention the atmosphere. It's awesome. Bethesda nailed this. Though it is a modified 
 Oblivion engine the game looks fantastic. The landscapes are barren and harsh. The homes and towns 
 look run down and rustic and all have seen better days. The NPCs have had some good and logical 
 personalities (beat down) . Also I should say that while the voice acting was good in Oblivion the 
 VOers in this game are better. You don't feel like you are hearing the same 5 actors speaking every 
 line and the delivery is sharp and professional.
  
  My beef with the game, and the main reason I give it an 8.5 and not higher, is that basically I 
 played the hell out of Oblivion and to me this plays almost identical to that. So there is a bit 
 of a "been there done that" to the gameplay. This is why I classified this game as it grows on 
 you as some Oblivion fans will have to get past that. Now I thought Oblivion was a great game and 
 so I am going to keep playing FO3 but to those who didn't like it you won't find the next coming 
 in this game. If you are in this boat and are playing on a console you may want to try renting 
 this thing first. I am playing on a PC btw.
  
  All in all it is solid and I am enjoying it despite some frustrating moments and I know I will 
 stick with it to the end. I will probably play in spurts (which I rarely do) because, like I said, 
 the gameplay is familiar and I burned out a bit on Oblivion.
  
  One more thing. I am a big fan of the original Fallout games and I am pleased with Bethesda's take 
 on this. The gameplay is familiar yes, but the atmosphere and feel is dead on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidian
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 works for me. It's atmospheric with a Mad Max feel to it. Graphics are nice, provided 
 your machine is up to it, though it is a bit on the monochrome side - but, hey, this is a post-nuclear 
 game after all and DC is all but a wasteland. Soundtrack is a touch surprisingly a bit "obliviony", 
 but not to obtrusive. Haven't delved to deeply into the actual story line yet, since I like to 
 explore lots of side quests and the game, just like Oblivion, ends, once the actual main quest 
 is done. But as it far as I have played it just now, the story is immersive and compelling. Having 
 scratched but the surface of this game yet, it's thus far all I expected it to be. Like it very 
 much.
  One of the few gripes I have is that the non-VATS fighting system sucks a bit. It is enormously 
 inexact and one gets the impression that normally powerful weapons do nothing but decay and waste 
 ammunition when you use them outside the VATS mode. Stability is okay. Two crashes thus far, but 
 nothing major.
  So all in all a cool, expansive post nuclear joy ride... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerrob22334
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game out of sheer curiousity. My friend and I were checking if Red Alert 3 was out 
 yet at best buy so we could pick up our pre-order, however it wasn't and Fallout 3 was still in 
 stock and I bought it on impulse shame on me.
  
  At first I couldn't believe I actually bought it I was scared it might've been all flash, however 
 this game is very fun, from the way you can go from first to third person, the player to A. I. interactions.
 
  
  The game might get old fast if you just go around killing everyone and blowing every limb off the 
 town's people. If you do this game might only last a few weeks at max. Plus it's made be Bethesda, 
 The makers of Elder Scrolls... so you know with the mini quests and whatnot will add hundreds of 
 hours to gameplay which I unfortunately don't have time for.
  
  Overall really innovative RPG feel with a touch of FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerClown
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I am a hardcore Fallout fan and am reviewing this game having had high expectations for Fallout 
 3. Fallout 1 is my favorite game of all time. As a disclaimer I also really enjoyed Oblivion and 
 think that FO2 started the franchise down the path to 'babylonian whoredom,' so it's not all Bethesda's 
 fault. I'll often be comparing FO3 to other FO games since it is supposed be the third game in 
 the serries. If Bethesda didn't want that comparison they could have called the game 'Fallout D. C.,' 
 or something else which might have given them a little more wiggle room with fans not unlike myself. 
 It is a hugely ambitious title that needs a lot more work and polish. It tries to sew together 
 many disparate elements that made Fallout great, while omitting some key spiritual elements.
  
  Graphically the game is solid, but the wasteland feels like it was not completly realized and 
 a bit barren. It seems more barren than it ought to be given we are talking mostly urban and suburban 
 ruins and not a desert wasteland here. There is little variety in terms of the food stuffs and 
 salvagable junk you will find. They did do a good job of making the game look fairly unlike Oblivion, 
 even if too many of the gameplay features are lifted straight out. They did chintz out graphically 
 as the same computer terminals and lockers, etc. are everywhere. Even the Enclave, which is supposed 
 to have advanced tech uses the same terminals. They do have their own fancy footlockers though. 
 Stimpacks are hard to see in dark/cluttered environments, would have been easier if Bethesda had 
 left them bright red.
  
  Sound wise the game is really lacking. The voice acting really varies, and none of it feels inspired 
 by the source material. Though most of the parts are read competently, none of the characters are 
 memorable for their voice acting. There is nothing like Harolds gritty and wheezing ghoul, Aradesh's 
 rustic rural leader, the hard streetwise sherrif, the shifty gangster. Most characters seem pretty 
 normal and well adjusted depite the extreme dystopic setting. Also, it's problematic if I can easily 
 recall characters from a game I played 10 years ago, and I have a hard time recalling any from 
 a game I just finished playing for three solid days. Neeson does a good job as Dad, but why dump 
 all that money down a celebrity voice actor who isn't bringing anything particularly special to 
 the project? 
  
  Even Ron Perlman's voice work, which is a staple of the frachise, is missing it's ususal determined 
 grit : ( The radio stations are a nice touch, but they repeat content way too much. Three-dog the 
 radio DJ is probably some of the best voice work in the game. Like most of the NPCs, he could have 
 used a lot more dialogue. Was the licensed period music really so expensive the couldn't have had 
 twice as much, or are they holding it back for an add-on? The general sound effects and music of 
 the original Fallout games did a lot to create an atmoshere of fear, grit, deperation, the exotic 
 and the unknown. Not much of that in Fallout 3.
  
  The Chinese assault rifle is one of the best guns in the game. Strangely it is more powerful than 
 the plasma rifle. That is just wrong. Also, gunfire decaptitates all the time. So much so it sucks 
 and I didn't even bother with the bloody mess perk.
  
  The quests while diverse, some complex and occassionally interesting are also fairly generic. The 
 PC defaults to run, which is really just a fast walk like in Oblivion. I am pretty sure that the 
 walking speed of the character makes the game longer than it has to be by quite a bit.
  
  When it come to creatures, the game really misfires. The new Mirelurks are the most dangerous creatures 
 in the game, bar none. Glowing ones and Rad scorpions follow. All are bullet sponges. Rad Scorpions 
 don't poison anymore, but you can still collect their poison sacks for some silly reason. Supermutants 
 and Deathclaws, creatures that really got your attention in previous games are now mostly harmless. 
 There are three classes of Supermutant, when the game really should have just the Master Supermutant. 
 The other two lower classes are pure fodder. The Giant supermutant was a nice addition to the cannon, 
 and probably the only one in the game. The decline of the deathclaw/supermutant and the rise of 
 the Mirelurk really waters down that Fallout feeling. The turd hurling centaur draws too much inspiration 
 from John Carpenter's 'The Thing.' Radroaches are the new rats. Hopefully we'll get something better 
 than rats in the add-on. Another strange thing is that sometimes in the wasteland you'll be attacked 
 by a strange alliances of creatures that don't make any sense, Like Radscorpions teaming up with 
 those flying bugs, etc.
  
  Character generation and leveling don't seem to be as fun or meaningful in Fallout 3 vs. previous 
 Fallouts, and also have a watered down feeling. All skills cap at 100 points like in Oblivion. 
 Tag skills only give a 15 point bonus and don't increase the value of points spent when leveling. 
 I remember leveling up and adding all of my point to smallguns in previous outings and really feeling 
 a difference in the following battles. In FO3 it's hard to feel a difference when leveling up, 
 unless it unlocks a the ability to attempt a lock or a terminal which isn't all that fun. In FO1 
 and 2 you character would get a perk every third level or so and would often really help fleshout 
 your charactrer. In FO3 you earn low-grade perks every level. I mean who cares about a perk that 
 might increase two skills by 5% each? The perk system is almost meaningless now where in the past 
 it significanly distinguished the character.
  
  The game feels like a big bony skeleton with not a lot of meat. Games like Wastelands and Roadwar 
 2000 gave alot of feeling and atmospheric back story with a small amounts of text. This game wasted 
 a lot of my time reading tonnes of bland boring material on ubiquitous identical terminals that 
 didn't add anything significant to the story or franchise. Besides the gratuituous cartoon violence, 
 and the occassional F-Bomb the game doesn't do enough to earn it's M-rating. There's a whore in 
 Moriarty's bar that will sleep in the same bed with you for 120 caps, whoop-de-do. Also, why did 
 I lose interest in exploring the various vaults, previously near the heart of the serries? 
  
  The game does not feel punishing enough and needs a special difficulty level or some toggles 
 or something. Radiation is almost a negligible factor in the game unless you insist on being reckless. 
 Radaway is common so common you will be selling it. Ammo is pretty common too, and now weightless. 
 Limbs while easily crippled are just as easily fixed. Limbs should have been harder to cripple, 
 but much harder to fix. Stimpacking your way out of a crippled limb is weak sauce for gameplay. 
 1 hour in a bed can do all but reverse death and cure radiation. On normal difficulty I got through 
 the game easily without ever having to rely on a town doc. A couple of buys for the house in megaton 
 and there isn't any medical issue in the game you can't handle yourself gratis. The game should 
 punish bad choices more. Addiction is so easily dealt with as to make doing drugs the right thing 
 to do.
  
  On it's own FO 3 gets a 6.5 from me, but as a Fallout game it only rates 3/10 (kinda like tactics 
 plus) . Final score is 4.75 or 5. But I think that half the score of any sequel should be it's value 
 as a sequel. This is supposed to be the third game in a serries, and it just feels too much like 
 a reskinned Oblivion and doesn't do enough to stand on it's own, or within the FO universe.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerpirro
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I played all of the fallout games, all of them and i love them (even the scruffy ones) .
  I love this game also but there are a few major things i do wish to comment.
  
  1. of all the 
 brotherhood of steel is not an all out "save the world" organization, but ok, i can accept that 
 maybe they evolved that way.
  
  2. The range of weapons is a bit thin, the voice acting is great but if they had put that effort 
 into making mods and stuff for weapons along with more ways to kill one and other that would be 
 better spent time.
  
  3. The story is a bit short, maybe its good that it feels short since then you enjoyed the game 
 but in such a wast and rich world, the main quest should be a bit longer.
  
  4. Its a bit to easy, even on hard its pretty much childsplay.
  
  Except for that this game 
 is great, i would recommend it to anyone. It does have much of the heart and soul of Fallout 1 
 and 2.
  
  Have a nice day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game does Bethesda proud and is their best title since oblivion. 
  
  first of all i have to say for those of you out there who liked Oblivion (or any elder scrolls 
 game for that matter) then this game will be a great addition to your collection, however it is 
 about a million times more violent and is well deserving of its M rating.
  
  violence is not portrayed in such a way where it is a main feature, but simply a game enhancer 
 (in that a shot to the head with a pistol is far less destructive while a high powered rifle will 
 decapitate)
  
  
  Now, on to the graphics. This game looks very nice but is nothing spectacular in the way of graphics 
 enhancements and such. Fallout 3 does do a great job of creating the world around you though. everything 
 is very well detailed and it actually starts to feel like a real world. 
  
  part of creating this real world atmosphere is the scale of the game. you can see EVERYTHING, from 
 the smallest tin can to the biggest monument in the distance and everything in between. 
  Infact the best moments of the game are spent in about the first hour you spend outside. Fallout 
 3 presents you with a ruined wasteland and burnt out buildings that start to give you an scary 
 familiarity with your surroundings and really starts to get to you the first time you come across 
 a burnt out abandoned school or store.
  
  Now on to game play. This game plays like a shooter crammed up against an RPG. but sometimes takes 
 the worst from both genres.
  The shooting system is not that great (yes VATS is cool, but its not really enough to justify the 
 rest of it) and the leveling system is "a whole lot of work for not a whole lota reward..." leveling 
 once can take hours, and only get you a small return (like 0.5% health boost or 1% damage boost)
 
  Still even with every flaw stacked up against the positive points in this game, the light shines 
 through and you find yourself forgiving it.
  
  there is one thing that has the potential to ruin the game for some... you have an absolutely HUGE 
 area to explore, but you have to do it on foot. normally this wouldn't be an issue, however you 
 tend to run REALLY slow and many potential shortcuts (ie climbing a wall of rubble blocking a road) 
 are simply impassable. 
  you see an opening but damn... cant go through, guess im gonna have to walk around for an hour 
 and a half to get passed it. if you are brave, you can walk the subway lines too but i hate doing 
 that...
  
  Aside from a few serious, yet rare cases this game is pretty much bug free and runs like a dream 
 on very high settings on a medium/high end system. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  THE GOOD: 
  - The gameworld... very cool
  - The gameplay... also very cool
  - lots of action spaced out 
 enough to avoid becoming tedious 
  - characters/npc's/enemies are very well designed. they are all like-able and hate-able in their 
 own ways
  - very expansive and a HUGE city and countryside to explore
  
  
  The bad...
  
  - not a whole lot of inovation since oblivion. parts of the game engine actually 
 seem somehow identical to oblivions.
  
  - no vehicles and too many unclimbable barriers
  
  - not a whole lot of variety in your foes. only really run into about 6 different types of 
 baddies
  
  - not such a great storyline driver... nuclear apocalypse, barren wasteland, KILLER SUPERMUTANTS! 
 and you want to face all this to find your daddy...
  
  
  
  
  
  all in all:
  
  This game is really really fun if your into any of the following: expansive shooters or rpgs, post 
 apocalyptic type games/movies, being able to do pretty much anything you want without fear of consequence! 
 (don't like that dude? blow him away! whose gonna stop you right?)
  
  anyway, two thumbs up for fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dems06
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Many levels of depth that pull you in and keep you going. I can see some great replay value as 
 well, many paths to take. Even better than Oblivion. Bethesda Rox Again!
  
  It has an interesting approach to inventory management. If you bulk up your repair skill, you can 
 use it to combine duplicate weapons and armor to improve the durability or stats, and increase 
 it's selling price. Helps out a lot if you are a pack mule like me...
  
  I also purchased the game guide, but it isn't as useful as I would like. I use it sparingly, but 
 when needed, sometimes it isn't really any help. I found a ghoul in one of the metro stations that 
 needed some Jet ingredients, but even with the guide it's hard to find him again.
  
  Fallout 3 has player housing in the game world. A place to call your own and tailor to your taste. 
 It's something I've enjoyed since the early days of Ultima Online or Morrowind. Glad they put it 
 in.
  
  Dems in 08! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PogueZilla
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  OK. I have not finished the game yet, but I have never played an RPG that has gotten me this hooked 
 before. When I venture into the Wastelands I really feel as if I am there. I cleared out the Super 
 Duper Mart for the Lady in Megaton and brought back with some medial supplies and started helping 
 her write the Wastelands Survival Guide. While helping with the guide I have rescued Red and Shorty 
 from the clutches of the SuperMutants and helped Big Town fend off a SuperMutant attack. I delivered 
 a letter from Lucy West to Arefu but alas her mom and dad were already dead but I saved her brother 
 from the Family. 
  
  The graphics are wonderful and I have had no slow downs of course I am running dual 8800 GTs in 
 SLI mode on Vista with a dual core CPU and 4GB of RAM. 
  
  I have only had once crash but after I updated the Video Card drivers I have not had it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimoNator85
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm editing this review now that I've played whopping nearly 50 hours of the game.
  
  For new players and those who have no idea what Fallout is, I'd like to start by some background 
 story. Fallout 3 is a role-playing-game, set in the year 2277 in 
  post-apocalyptic Washington D. C. Pretty much everything in the world is just a radiated wasteland 
 after a big nuclear war between USA and China. The Elite of mankind fled to big underground vaults 
 when the 
  bombs started falling and have lived a rather "normal" life in the vaults for 200 years without 
 any knowledge or interaction with the outside world. The player is a resident of Vault 101 at the 
 beginning.
  Fallout 3 is a sequel to the old fallout-games from the 90s, but was developed by a different company.
 
  
  I must point out that I'm really an old school gamer and haven't really liked all these next-generation 
 games so much, and I don't care about graphics either (I still think fallout 1 and 2 are great 
 in every aspect and love their graphics too :) ) So you fallout fans out there, can probably guess 
 that I was one of those afraid of Bethesda touching "our little baby" and turning it to Oblivion 
 etc. I had high hopes, but my fear was much stronger, needless to say, still pre-ordered the game 
 months ago and now that it's here, I have to say it was needless to worry about it! Good job Bethesda, 
 hope you make a Fallout 4!
  Also, I will be comparing the game to the old ones a lot. You have been warned.
  
  The game 
 starts when you're born. Here you choose your sex and your appearance. Your childhood in the Vault 
 is then rewinded through small quests which determine the basic stats for your character and get 
 you used to how to play the game. When you're 10 you're given the Pipboy 3000, your wrist-PDA, 
 which will hold all of your stats and quests through your life and give information on your health. 
 One day when you're 19, you're woken to disturbing news that your father has escaped the Vault 
 and now you're deemed an outlaw in the Vault by the Overseer to prevent riots inside the Vault. 
 You have to escape the vault and start looking for your father. This is where the main game starts 
 and from this point on you can do whatever you want and go wherever you like. At the beginning 
 you'll have no knowledge of the outside world except to look for a town called "Megaton". Exploring 
 and finding new places gives you experience, so it's fun and rewarding.
  
  The game is simply huge, after the 50 hours, I've only done a few parts of the main quest! (on 
 a side note, a game-magazine here in Finland reviewed the game, giving it 93/100, but the reviewer 
 had played through the game in 20hrs :P) I've been exploring and doing side quests and still have 
 the feeling that I've got a lot more to do and explore. Still nearly half of the map is totally 
 undiscovered and even the discovered part is in many parts only quickly walked through. It's just 
 what Bethesda promised, an open world where you can do whatever you want. And believe me, you definately 
 want to explore the world and just can't get enough. The most important feeling of rpg's to me 
 is the "I'll just explore beyond that hill" or "A few more mutants to kill and then I'm going to 
 bed" and it's definately there in Fallout 3. One evening for example, I meant to go to bed early, 
 but the next time I noticed the clock it was already nearly 4am. There's always just so many things 
 you'll want to do and explore that you'll forget half of them in the process.
  You can probably walk through the game in roughly 10 hrs if you just focus on the main quest, but 
 you'll feel left out and miss out on a lot. I can't believe how many towns and small villages I've 
 discovered all around with different people in everyone and unique settings.
  
  There are two mini-games in the game. Lockpicking and hacking a terminal. In lockpicking you have 
 to turn the lock with your screwdriver while managing the angle of a bobby pin inside the lock 
 to find the right spot. This gets easier the higher your lockpick-skill is. This is fun when you 
 get the hang of it. Hacking is kind of a mind game, where you have a number of tries to find a 
 password. Words are displayed on the screen and when you guess one, you're told how many letters 
 were in the right place on that word. After testing some words you should able to eliminate words 
 to find the right one. This too, gets easier the higher your science level is.
  
  The scenery and graphics in general are breathtaking. I updated my PC just before this came out 
 so I'm running it maxed and it's looking so real that you get the feeling that the raider attacking 
 is really trying to shoot your head off or that dog is trying to bite you to the neck for real.
 
  
  Pipboy is a little complicated for start but you'll love the look of it from day one and once you 
 know how to use it you'll want one on your own wrist too. It just screams the fallout-spirit of 
 the old games if you know them.
  
  The freedom of actions and their consequenses looks to work perfectly so far and just like the 
 old fallouts (one of my concerns) everything you do actually has consequenses and people won't 
 forget really bad things, but will also remember good things (I'm doing good so one town's inhabitants 
 give me free ammo etc every day) Of course people can forgive smaller bad things like theft if 
 you work on it.
  
  Quests are one of the best things Fallout has to offer. Yet again, a portion I was very concerned 
 about after playing modern rpg's. I was afraid of getting simple, run where the arrow points to 
 and kill 10 mutants, or deliver a message to someone and get back. The kind of pointless new-age 
 easy quests with no meaning. Instead you get rich, long and engaging quests with multiple solutions. 
 Sure, most of the time you have that feared arrow there pointing your way, but many times you'll 
 need to do things or talk something and actually think in order to complete quests. Which again 
 in comparison to the old ones is just right. I've only done 16 quests in my 50hrs, but feels like 
 I had done a lot more, since most are long and you can easily get sidetracked while doing them 
 when you keep on finding new fun things to explore.
  
  Combat was one of the things I was most worried about in comparison to the old ones and true enough, I 
 didn't really like combat in the start. I did love V. A. T. S from the start, it gives you some of 
 the old fallout turn based feeling and a little touch of strategy to the combat too. After getting 
 the hang of the combat now though, it's getting really enjoyable. For those that don't know the 
 old fallouts and are stunned by the graphic violence and how much of it is there, it's supposed 
 to be in a ridiculous "fallout"-way and meant to be fun. This is definately a game for Adults. 
 In comparison to the old ones though, I have to say the old ones had the violence better blended 
 in and funnier. It gets a little too much in Fallout 3 at some points. All in all, I have to give 
 the thumbs up to Bethesda for creating a combat system that's sort of a combination of the old 
 turn-based combat and modern fps. Of course, this is the part where the old school gamer in me 
 pops his head up and would've wanted the traditional isometric view with turn based combat, but 
 considering the gaming of today, that would've been a suicide for Bethesda, so I am very happy 
 to get V. A. T. S. This is also a good point to remind all the PC gamers out there, our beloved platform 
 is suffering badly from piracy. So if you love games like these and are gonna play them a lot, 
 please go and buy them and support the companies that make these kind of huge games! This is the 
 only way we're gonna keep on getting this kind of games out in the future too.
  
  V. A. T. S (Vault Tec Assisted Targeting System) let's you pause the game and choose specific body 
 parts of the enemy to shoot at. For example try to cripple a fast opponent's leg to slow it down, 
 or go for a kill with a headshot. You can even target a weapon in the opponent's hand. For example 
 I once targeted a grenade in a raider's hands and it exploded or after seeing a raider was packing 
 a missile launcher I shot it off his hands quickly before he got to shoot. It's these small elements 
 that give you some strategy feeling in between the first person shooter-like feeling. In addition, 
 to fps-fans, your accuracy and damage aren't about how steady your mouse-hand is. Behind every 
 shot you take is a precise calculation against the enemy's armor, your weapon's condition and your 
 skill with that weapon. So your skills really have an effect. I picked up a minigun pretty early 
 on, but having low big gun-skill and poor condition weapon, I nearly couldn't hit a barn-door with 
 it.
  
  I put "hard" as the difficulty, it might be a bit off, but I'm playing on "normal" difficulty and 
 I've had big problems during some fights, but I've never played first person rpg's (old school 
 gamer :P) so I was a bit off to start, now that I've got the hang of it dropped it to "just right"
 
  
  Now the bad things about Fallout. Map design would have to be a small nuisance. It's mostly good, 
 but especially the centre of D. C is just very confusing with the need to go through several metro-tunnels 
 to get somewhere. You'll probably find yourself running to several dead-ends there before actually 
 finding the place you were looking for. After you discover the place once though, game's fast travel 
 ability eliminates that problem. Other than that the world is feeling very real and working.
  
  Another bad thing on the PC is the crashes. I think I've got about 30 crashes so far. (In all 
 fairness, I've had other programs running in the background too so if running this clean it could 
 be working a lot better)
  Also, the higher your graphic-settings are, the more the game seems to crash. My brother had little 
 problems before with his older computer on lower resolutions, but after he updated his computer 
 today and set settings to maximum he's had a lot more crashes in a small time. 
  Nothing awful in general though and the autosave/quicksave help with this, and I've never lost 
 many minutes due to a crash. so this is only a minor issue, in-game bugs have been absent so far. 
 Hoping a patch would help to get most of the bugs out though.
  In addition, if you like exploring things as much as I do and want to get most of it, the level-limit 
 comes up way too early..
  and you gain levels way too fast too. Gladly for PC owners, both of these are already pretty much 
 fixed with mods and more on the way.
  Skills could also use some fixing and the perks every 2nd or 3rd level, not every level.
  
 
  All in all, I can definately recommend the game to any mature gamer that likes either action/role 
 playing/questing/exploring anything. It's all here.
  and you old fallout fans, drop your guard and stop trying to champion the old games (even if they're 
 still the best) and give this game a chance, you'll love it!
  Keep up the good work Bethesda and get that Fallout 4 started soon!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaburan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an RPG-Shooter based on the post-apocalyptic scenario in the United States. With Fallout 
 1 and 2 being a very notorious benchmark in RPG's, there was a lot of reputation the third game 
 of its franchise had to live up to. The game sets you in character as a citizen of Vault 101, under 
 Washington DC. As the story unfolds, the player will make several choices that will effect his 
 status with the populations above ground. Fallout 3 is definitely rich in freedom, movement and 
 personal choices when it comes to communicating with NPC's, which makes the game all the more immersive 
 and alive. There are several elements that boost your reputation and just rewards for the choices 
 you make. From having your own post-apocalyptic room designed with your very own theme and trophies, 
 the game has a rewarding reputation system that will keep track, record and display your achievements 
 properly.
  
  The developers at Bethesda have done an outstanding job of presenting the world as it was, post 
 nuclear. Within every nook and cranny, there are places to explore and hours upon hours of side 
 quests to accomplish. The NPC's and attention to detail with the living monsters and beings within 
 Washington DC look and feel exactly in place. The combat system and mechanics work hand in hand 
 to provide the player an indulging experience in combat and travel. It goes without saying that 
 for anyone interested in RPG's, Fallout 3 is an easy pick that performs well, and looks beautiful.
 
  
  Probably one of the best features that I personal was happy with was the Microsoft Live implementation 
 for the PC. One of the cool incentives with Xbox 360 games were the simple fact that you accrue 
 achievement points that total up into your gamer-score. With a passion for PC games, this always 
 posed a challenge and a problem. With Fallout 3 however, users can log right on to Live using their 
 email and accrue those achievements and points while playing the game on PC. In all it's glory 
 and enjoyable experience, Fallout 3 is by far one of the top choices for any gamer who's been thirsting 
 for the next in it's epic franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBigKahuna
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Overall an amazing work. The world begs to be explored and there are many mysteries to unearth. 
 The character progression system is easily learned and quite fun, yet also has a level of depth 
 allowing for countless types of characters and strategies. The dialogue and story draw you into 
 the world well. Praise is also given for the scalability of the engine. I am playing it on a budget 
 laptop with an AMD Turion 2.0 GHz Dual Core Processor and ATI 3100 Integrated Graphics. On that 
 system I have Fallout 3 running at 800x600 with low/medium details and HDR Lighting activated. 
 The framerate is smooth and the game looks amazing. Watching the post apocalyptic sunrise on a 
 balcony in Megaton is a sight to behold. Wandering dead and broken highways, strolling through 
 ghost towns and empty shells of cities is engrossing. It truly feels like exploring the remnants 
 of civilization. The action that is mingled with the exploration is also top notch. The V. A. T. S. 
 targeting system adds more tactics to encounters and is a joy to use. That's not to say that you're 
 forced to it, regular first person combat works swimmingly as well and mixing the two is great 
 fun. I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arther-la-Blunt
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is loads of fun and very addictive. The plot is wonderful, a post-apocaliptic America; 
 however, the story is a bit underwhelming. The decisions are by far the best element of the game. 
 I have always wondered what a game would be like the player were able to make certain decisions. 
 The problem is once certain decisions are made others are lost forever. This ccan make a completionist, 
 such as myself, miss significant portions of the game. 
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing (on a good machine) . Nearly every item in the game was touched 
 by the nuclear explosion. The dark atmosphere really sets the tone of the game. In a park you'll 
 find kids toys, in a particular house you'll find the bones of a child with a destroyed book in 
 his chared hands. These moments are what make Fallout 3 a real treat.
  
  Gamespot correctly assesed that the gameplay is a bit clunky, but after 29 hours I cannot tell 
 anymore. Overall, a strong 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  I've always enjoyed Bethesda's games, ever since Elder Scrolls: Arena. Bethesda is the only company 
 that seems to understand that true role play involves going anywhere you like, doing anything you 
 like and to anyone you like. No restraints, only yourself.
  
  That's why I enjoyed Morrowind and Oblivion so much. And that's the reason why I enjoyed Fallout 
 3 so much. However, there were certain shortcomings in the experience, some which, from my point 
 of view, I couldn't overlook.
  
  But let's start from the beginning. You are a Vault Dweller, meaning you live in one of the Vaults 
 built to protect mankind from nuclear apocalypse. You live your life as any other Dweller would 
 (which is, by the way, an amazing tutorial and character creation process) , until one of your friends 
 tells you your father has left the Vault. Here begins your quest to find your father, though you 
 will find more than just your father...
  
  The main plot is expansive, and offers it's good 10 hours of gameplay just doing it. Of course, 
 side quests will improve on this number, as well as on your character level.
  
  One thing that immediately strikes you is just how similar this game is to Oblivion. While this 
 is by no means a flaw, sometimes the similarities are so obvious, you'll think you are playing 
 an Oblivion mod. However, some things ARE radically different, like the combat system, which is 
 now mainly ranged, with reloads and the wonderful, wonderful V. A. T. S.
  
  For all of those who STILL don't know what V. A. T. S is, it is a targeting system that allows you 
 to pause the combat and select specific limbs (including head and torso) from your enemy to shoot 
 at. After you have assigned your action points, then the combat resumes in glorious, gruesome slow 
 motion. It never gets old.
  
  What does get old is the inventory. I passed the whole game with just two weapons, because the 
 others I found were, either the same, too weak or too damaged to be of any purpose. Plus, the overspecialization 
 inherent to Fallout's skill system, makes it difficult to become proficient in all weapon styles.
 
  
  While it can be good for some, the fast travel option is limited to places you have already discovered, 
 which can limit exploration to people who don't have the patience to walk miles and miles without 
 too much of a bearing. The game world is big, and wonderfully detailed, but everything must be 
 done completely on foot, which further reduces the exploration desire.
  
  But these are all very minor gripes. The severe flaws I commented before are the terrible implementation 
 of human characters and a disappointing ending (which is great story-wise - more on that later) .
 
  
  After all the time that has passed since Oblivion, you would expect some sort of improvement over 
 the emotionless, plastic and terribly lip-synchronized characters on Oblivion. Well, wrong. They 
 all look as terrible as before, which greatly detracts from the experience, constantly reminding 
 you you are dealing with a bunch of polygons. It's a shame, given the wonderful voice acting and 
 terrific screenplay. It's so bad you can many times see that the head has a different skin tone 
 than the rest of the body, and that's just rude. Other than that, the graphics are fantastic, even 
 if some textures look a bit bland.
  
  About the ending. Well, while it is fantastic in the sense that is completely player dependent, 
 it still remains as an ending. You reach the end and that's it. Wouldn't be so bad if it weren't 
 for the fact that the side quests you would normally do to keep yourself from doing the main plot 
 quest are either too darn easy or too darn hard to find. I remember my Oblivion play-through where 
 it took me a nice 50 hours to reach the end of the main plot because side quests kept spawning 
 on my quest log. On Fallout 3 you must talk to almost everybody to get two or three quests, and 
 even those won't occupy much of your time. All this means the game is short, and doesn't exploit 
 the "after-ending, keep playing forever" potential that Oblivion did have. A shame, given the fact 
 that this one is even more free form than Oblivion.
  
  So, that's my gripe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukedeutsch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Well, here it is... its been over 10 years since the last Fallout. I can honestly say that it more 
 than qualifies itself to be a part of the Fallout family. 
  
  The graphics are great, the landscape is brilliantly designed to look just like what I'd imagine 
 an apocalyptic DC would look like. However, there are still many issues with character movements 
 and such, an issue that plagued Oblivion to an extremity. Movements are still pretty clunky but 
 the otherwise good graphics make up for this. 
  
  The story can be pretty impersonal sometimes, making you feel like an observer rather than a player. 
 The immersion at the beginning was good, VERY good I mean, it gave me chills because it was that 
 good. Toward the middle (where I am) I kind of felt like people were just talking at me, which 
 kind of pissed me off because I didn't feel important at all, except for just killing stuff.
  
  Another low point, perhaps the biggest problem that also plagued Oblivion, is the lack of populace. 
 I go into a 'town' and discover a whopping 10 people, then I go into the wastes and kill 25 raiders 
 on my way to the next 'town'. I know its post-apocalypse, but come on... its been 200 years since 
 the bombs fell, there are almost no people, and there are more raiders than there are civilians. 
 That's kind of funky if you ask me, I hope someone will address this in a user created mod or something 
 (Maybe I'll do it, who knows) .
  
  I like the FPS style that Bethesda has implemented into Fallout, it doesn't exactly feel like a 
 genuine FPS with all the sharp controls, but it really manages to pull it off without making it 
 seem like 'Oblivion with guns!!!111one'. 
  
  To all of those hardcore Fallout fans: Bethesda was really good about keeping the best of Fallout 
 and the best of Oblivion, managing to keep the best of both worlds and at the same time managing 
 to implement newer ideas and technology. Their sandbox style fit perfectly with the Fallout I remember 
 and loved. Bravo Bethesda, bravo. I can't wait for your next installment in either Fallout or Elder 
 Scrolls.
  
  **I bought this game, despite having the chance to download it. Why? Because I want more of Bethesda's 
 pieces of art, and those who make these games deserve all the credit they can get** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuRanVII
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  The game starts very nice. The story and the characters in Vault 101 are very interesting. There 
 you can see how the game conversation system is deeper than Bethesda's previous title, Oblivion. 
 You can solve the quests any way you want, there's a lot of possibilities, just as the first city 
 of Megaton. In Megaton and it's region you have a lot of possibilities to solve the quests. You 
 can kill, hack, steal, talk and even blow all the city and it's inhabitants.
  
  The game is very interesting until you leave the Vault 112. After that, there's no more cities 
 as big as Megaton, very few NPCs, even fewer with more than 3 sentences of dialog. There're almost 
 no more choices, just a few quests, and most of them very linear, a huge hallow map filled with 
 boxes and battles.
  
  It could be a lot better, especially if existed more cities as interactive as Megaton.
  
  My 
 impression is that Bethesda rushed to finish the development of Fallout 3. It's sad, there was 
 a lot of potential.
  
  As you can see English is not my home language ^~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I could vaguely remember what the original fallout games were like, all I remember is that I was 
 always attracted to this post apocolyptic setting. I was sceptical in the beginning, because I 
 have played Oblivion. I played it for about 15 hours and grew tired of it, something felt boring 
 about it. I feared fallout 3 would be the same.
  
  I was wrong. They pretty much fixed alot of the things i didn't like about Oblivion and now set 
 in one of my most favorite type of themes, "post apocalyptic".
  
  I really have to give Bathesda credit for their art design which really transports you into this 
 world and makes you want to look around alot. It really creates a feeling that you are adventuring 
 and there are no restrictions to this fully non linear game.
  
  I haven't been playing for that long but so far this game really rocks. 
  
  I actually have 
 alot of fun just taking my time because there is so much you can do and explore.
  
  The realism through out the game really compliments the rest of the games features.
  
  There 
 is I'm sure alot more to be said about this game. I really like it so far.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmebaby25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Ok,
  
  I admit it, I'm an original Fallout junkie. I can't believe how long ago it was since I first picked 
 up my copy of Fallout - but I feel old thinking about it.
  
  No doubt, Fallout was a classic. Fallout 2 was great, if not a tad disappointing. (we won't speak 
 of the bug ridden Brotherhood of Steel) .
  
  I was pretty indifferent when I heard about Bethesda taking on Fallout 3. Sure I had my concerns 
 - for all the beauty of Oblivion - the level scaling was a disaster and the citizens felt lifeless. 
 They were too ambitious. However, I thought I'd never again get to visit post-apocalyptic America, 
 so I was pleased with the possibility.
  
  My special edition Fallout 3 arrived on Friday and I'd taken the day off work (yes - I'm that sad) . 
 Here's my verdict:
  
  Fallout 3 is clearly a Bethesda game AND... it's better than 1 & 2. SHOCK.
  
  I've heard most 
 of the complaints - "This just isn't Fallout any more".. "it's just Oblivion with guns"... "it's 
 bug ridden..."
  
  In a way they are correct. It's ten years since Fallout and clearly it's a visually different game. 
 I LOVED Fallout but having played it again last week - it doesn't really do it for me any more 
 - not because of the graphically advancements and more powerful PCs, but perhaps because I'm a 
 little older and perhaps because I'm concious of the effects of nostalgia - I see it for what it 
 is... a classic and a ground breaking piece of work which has enabled better games to follow. The 
 FPS viewpoint is the most striking difference, but you can't put fully into words just how magnificent 
 it is once you step out of the Vault and catch your first glimpse of the desolate wastelands.
 
  
  Bethesda have changed the look of Fallout, the combat and much more, but they've captured it's 
 spirit. From the broken and crumbling view to the bitter and diseased people, Fallout 3 is brimming 
 with futility and a dark brooding humour. VATs brings with it FPS action and stats based combat. 
 It's an RPG dream for a new generation.
  
  Whereas Oblivion was all about the skill of the player, Fallout focuses on the skills and development 
 of your character. It's the same team and engine, but the games are worlds (literally) apart.
 
  
  With regards to bugs... I haven't encountered any (altho I am running it on a new monster rig - 
 VISTA 64, Striker II, Q9650, 2x 280GTX, so that may be why) .
  
  I'd say this: If you loved Fallout, do what I did, embrace the future and take this game to heart, 
 it's not how we remembered it - but that is a good thing.
  
  I adored Baldur's Gate and loathed the appalling Neverwinter Nights. They destroyed the soul of 
 the genre with reckless abandon. Bethesda clearly share my love affair with Fallout. Sure they 
 got some things wrong, but they got a hell of a lot right. From magnificently realised Vault 101, 
 the glorious Pip-Boy to those dreadful choices they made me make in Megaton. 10 hours later and 
 I still wonder if I made the right decision. However, it's too late to go back and I've just got 
 to live with it.
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warghost2k
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the original two Fallout games, and I had heard a lot of naysayers condemn 
 Bethesda making a new game. I can honestly say that the naysayers were WRONG. 
  
  The atmosphere is bleak and perfectly matches the post-apocalyptic world that the first two games 
 were set in. It is run-down and dreary, and that is what makes it so engrossing. The city really 
 looks like it was hit with a nuke. However, there are famous landmarks scattered among the remains, 
 reminding you that this is the good ol' U. S. of A. 
  
  Getting to know people and their stories is the most rewarding part of the game. Don't expect to 
 encounter happy people who smile and tell you how wonderful their lives are. In fact, most of Fallout 
 3's citizens are depressed, poor, beaten-down wretches who are desperate for a savior. Dialogue 
 options can be funny, or just rude at times. If a character give you a hard time, you can give 
 it right back to them. The NPC's react to your deeds, and misdeeds. Don't be surprised if killing 
 someone gets a town riled up and gunning for you.... if you are noticed. The point of the game is 
 to think of clever ways of handling dirty jobs. Perhaps using stealth and sneaking up to a person 
 and slipping a live grenade into their pocket would be a better way of taking care of them. 
  
  The best part about Fallout 3 is the wide-open freedom you have. If you want to be a truly 
 evil bastard, killing everyone you come across, you can. If you want to take the moral high ground 
 and save people, you can also take that route. If you want to relive the "Mad Max experience" and 
 try to survive out in the wasteland, scavenging corpses for weapons and bottle caps (Fallout 3's 
 currency) ... you can. It's this freedom that really makes you feel like part of the game world, 
 and it's something that Bethesda does very well. The world is even more convincing than Oblivion 
 was.
  Just when you think you've seen everything the game has to offer, you see something that totally 
 blows your mind.
  
  While the textures aren't as beautiful as some other recent games, they do convey the appearance 
 of a desolated wasteland very well. However, the overall graphics are very good, and even beautiful 
 in some areas. The sound is also very good, and the haunting soundtrack is excellent. It fits the 
 game well and is even chilling at times.
  
  The V. A. T. S. targeting system is outstanding! Turning it on will stop time, allowing you to pinpointing 
 which body part you want to attack. Aim for a leg and you can disable it, causing your enemy to 
 slow down. This strategy allows you more time to react to their actions and to select the best 
 weapon to kill them with. Or, go for headshot and you will likely do more damage, but at the cost 
 of reduced accuracy. You can even shoot the weapon right out of their hands, which will usually 
 cause them to run in fear. Or, they may pull out a board with nails driven through it, and charge 
 straight for you. 
  
  I had read one reviewer who said the game is too short, but I don't agree. I am currently level 
 11, and I've been playing for over 40 hours now. The maximum level is 20, and I have not even finished 
 the first major quest line. Keep in mind that there are a lot of hidden locations scattered throughout 
 the wasteland, and you should explore them all. 
  
  The game is very addictive, and everyone owes it to themselves to play it. This should be Game 
 of The Year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Posnik
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  It's simple as said, this game is awesome and great, it's not fallout, realy not BUT It's still 
 awesome.
  Game gots great graph.
  Great Sound
  you WILL want to explore the wasteland
  It's not like a standard shooter because does not matter wherever you hit the head, in the begining 
 you will not kill nothing with a headshot, you need to build skills up for it, and as far as I 
 have played, the balance is nice.
  Voice acting is okay also.
  well for this specs i recomend gs review but lots of ppl (mostly die hard fans) say this is no 
 fallout. 
  They are absolutly right. when it comes to fallout only very small resemblences. You won't find 
 the Tb rpg game that you waited for x years.
  If you're more open minded, you'll see that even it is oblivion with guns, oblivion got "game of 
 the year" and thats something you've gotta count in. 
  Even though looks like oblivion bethesta did a great job tweaking the game engine, i played oblivion 
 over 200 hours and i noticed really quick the diferences and the traces in oblivion, it's a lot 
 diferent and it's better than oblivion. 
  My recomendations are for you to PLAY this game without thinking:
  - not tb rpg
  - oblivion 
 w/ guns
  ignore this thoughts and you WILL have a great time playing this game.
  Otherwise. This game should not be called Fallout 3 for it's not a real fallout. it should be called 
 "adventure/shooter/whatever in fallout world" (i think it would be better accepted in public for 
 it's fans) as happend in "fallout tactics brotherhood of steel" 
  
  Totally worth playing, as bethesta did a awesome game (not an awesome fallout, but still)
  ps: 
 When i started to see the tv commercials i though this game would totally suck (for a game - not 
 for the fallout issue) when i've got it, I instatly took back my thoughts.
  
  To hell with spell check 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addicted2050
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Ok, so Oblivion was a very good game (although I didn't like it, as I'm one who likes RPGs with 
 good stories and character interactions) . It had a lot of exploration to do and a lot of enemies 
 to kill.. It didn't have a very good story, but it was acceptable. People who loved action RPGs 
 had a blast with it. It got rave reviews from critics and users alike. Went on to win a number 
 of awards too..
  But it seems that all that went to the developers' head. Maybe they seemed to think that they can't 
 get any better than Oblivion, so they set out to make Fallout 3, based on the same engine, with 
 the same graphics, and the same character models (with a few additions) .. The result: Oblivion 
 with guns, and a desolate post apocalyptic setting..
  
  The gameplay is almost the same as Oblivion, except for the HUD and the weapons.. Having played 
 Oblivion just an year ago, I was simply in no mood to play another Oblivion styled game. But it 
 seems the developers think Oblivion's gameplay is wonderful, so they didn't bother to do something 
 new. Adding a V. A. T. S (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System, which you can use to target different 
 parts of an enemies body) doesn't make it much better. The third person view is still as useless 
 as Oblivion.. The game also crashed a lot, mostly while loading a saved game. But this problem 
 doesn't seem to be troubling everyone, so maybe there was a problem with my computer. The dialogue 
 is good, but always has straightforward good and bad options.
  
  The graphics are the same as Oblivion. The artistic design is pretty convincing for a post apocalyptic 
 world, but otherwise there's nothing striking about them. The textures are bleak (which makes the 
 game look pretty desolate, but also boring) , character faces don't have any expressions on them 
 (although there is a slight improvement over Oblivion's characters, but not much) . The characters 
 still move in the same lifeless way as Oblivion. Compared to games like Mass Effect, and even the 
 Witcher, the graphics here are pretty old.. Seen in 2006, they would have been pretty good, but 
 this is 2008, and Bethesda would do well to understand that before setting out to make their next 
 game.
  
  Sound is a little strong point here, with good acting by the main characters, and almost good by 
 the other characters. The sound effects are good, so no major complaints in this aspect. Voice 
 acting still has a long way to go for Bethesda, although it has been improved since Oblivion...
 
  
  The story here is pretty good, but as Gamespot's review says, does feel a little sterile. It's 
 only worsened by the fact that you have to travel long distances between quests, which takes away 
 all the excitement you might have had when the story progressed to a certain point. I got so bored 
 with the Oblivion style of gameplay, I started using a cheat which directly takes you to the selected 
 quest, along with God mode.. So not up to the mark, in terms of story too..
  
  I know you must be thinking that all I've done here is criticize the game and compared it with 
 Oblivion throughout the review. Well, having not liked Oblivion, this game had nothing that impressed 
 me. It just does not feel like Fallout. The black humor is there, but not so much as the older 
 Fallouts..
  
  So the moral of the story here is, if you didn't like Oblivion, this game is not for you. Also, 
 Bethesda needs to understand that you can't make two games with the same kind of gameplay. A new 
 game has to have something, usually everything, different.
  
  This game would have been a lot better if it had been taken over by Bioware, who are certainly 
 very very much better (if not the best) RPG makers. Bethesda seems to be stuck with the Elder Scrolls 
 series kind of gameplay.
  
  The last proper RPG I remember playing is Neverwinter Nights 2. Let's hope Bioware's Dragon Age: 
 Origins is good.
  
  Well, I'm off to playing Mass Effect again (need to take out the bad taste Fallout 3 left in my 
 mouth) ...
  
  PROS: Another Oblivion type game for Oblivion lovers.
  Above par story and voice acting
  
  CONS: Too much like Oblivion, almost similar. 
  Story 
 could have been much better
  Voice acting also needs more work.
  Graphics need to be improved a lot..
  Buggy (for some people. crashes a lot) .
  Dialogue needed 
 more sprucing up..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcek
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  the more i play Fallout 3 it does feel like a complet addon of oblivion.
  
  Its like you know the Father, he was amazing, then you get to know hes kid, hes great, but he will 
 never be like hes father was.
  
  Overoll an improved Oblivion version.
  Shootemup wasnt fallout, this game help me missed the first 2... guss going to install and play them 
 again. This game is aimed at the crowds and kids giving them effordless enjoiment...**** that sacrilege, Fallout 
 was never a console game...
  I hate games that have multiple versions for diffrent consoles... it just means this is a part of 
 a well oiled machine aiming to please the crowds.. and stuming anything good in its way.
  There are enought "doom" replicates outthere... couldnt they just went from commercial to unique? 
 pitty.
  
  want to buy a "real" fallout game i mourn fallout... i guss its finally came to me that this game 
 is dead... rip best game i ever played...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cianmoran
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  Excellent game, I was unsure if it would match my expectations but I'mm enthralled.
  
  Nice meaty guns, ominous crumbling cities and bandits make this an excellent game for anyone wondering 
 what it would be like to live in a post-apocolyptic wasteland.
  
  Highlights are definetely the towns, especially the unease you have when travelling through the 
 ruins of D. C, never knowing when some raiders straight out of Mad Max are going to run at you screaming.
 
  
  Downsides are the sheer lack of ammunition at the start. Ammos is very hard to come by initially 
 and at around level 8 my character was forced to carry around 5 different types of guns to ensure 
 he wasn't reduced to fisticuffs. Definetely adds realism and makes you careful about engaging in 
 warfare.
  
  Other than that, a fantastic game and well worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_bingham
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  The last time I found myself immersed in a game like this was 2004 -- Far Cry, Doom III and HL2.
 
  I've gotten several games since then: Unreal Tournament 3, which I played a few times; Bio Shock, 
 which I somehow couldn't connect with and played for 1 hour (but plan to try again soon) ; Quake 
 IV, which I have tried 10 times to enjoy and just can't; and others which fizzled out after a few 
 hours of play.
  
  This game just clicks though. You can wander around and do whatever you want: explore, find, gather, 
 fight.
  
  There's so much involved, you'd spend countless hours making different items and trying different 
 things, and finding all the stuff strung out over the landscape. 
  
  As others have said, it is a post-apocalyptic Oblivion. Definitely the same engine. That's not 
 a bad thing to me though. Using the same engine for a new campaign is like using the same rules 
 for a different role playing module; that's perfectly fine. I hope they use this engine to make 
 a space/sci-fi adventure now.
  
  I only planned on playing the game for a few hours, but I've spent more time than I care to admit 
 this weekend playing, and I'll probably go play a bit more before bed tonight. Staying up to play 
 a video game is absolutely not something I've done in years.
  
  I don't have any time to waste on 3rd person console ports. How Dead Space got a 9 without keyboard 
 remapping or the ability to change the viewpoint is beyond me. This game however, delivers.
  
  All and all, this is the kind of game old-timers like me will enjoy, and I would recommend 
 it for 30 and 40 somethings who loaded Doom Shareware in 1993 on their 386s and who got a Pentium 
 60 in 1996 just to play Quake I. 
  
  It's not a roller coaster ride. It's like a good bottle of wine. You'll savor it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muggz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much what the description says.
  
  This game is too much Oblivion and too little Fallout.
  If you're a die-hard fallout fan like 
 me you will most likely get disappointed.
  
  The only thing left in the game from Fallout, is the graphical style, which isn't quite spot on 
 either.
  
  Everything else about the game has been changed into a Oblivion, year 2277 game.
  As such, a 
 decent game, worthy of a score of 7-8 and definitely worth the money. But it ain't Fallout.
  
  
  Now some people will say "well it's not Fallout 1/2, so don't expect it to be". 
  While 
 I do agree and also do acknowledge that it's worth the money, what frustrates me is that the changes 
 they made are obviously inferior to how the originals handled it.
  
  Combat system simplified to Oblivion level run and gun with no tactical depth, interface changed 
 to Oblivion style which is really poor, including inventory which is really unintuitive. World 
 map is also changed to the worse, stats and items have changed. All stolen from Oblivion, while 
 they could've used what Fallout 1 & 2 gave them for free, and did much better.
  
  As you can see, with all those changes, it's not Fallout on any other level than the visual appearance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I entered the new 1st-person view of the Fallout world, something felt off about the 
 universe. The charm and aesthetic of the original games seemed like a distant memory as opposed 
 to a revitalized reality. Sure, the graphics are more polished, realistic, and detailed than those 
 of the previous two iterations, but it's simply not as immersive despite all the added bells and 
 whistles accompany the latest update.
  
  While my initial impressions were very unfavorable, I have to point out that Fallout 3 is definitely 
 a complete game. The world feels pretty complete, and, through the 20 hours of play I've experience, 
 the game feels nicely polished. It's a decent game, and it's worth purchasing and playing. However, 
 for people who played and loved Fallout 1 & 2, I'd liken it to the original Star Wars Trilogy having 
 to endure the newly attached prequels. The Star Wars prequels were entertaining films worthy of 
 a viewing, but, despite the amazing special effects and star-studded cast, they lacked the intangible 
 charm and innovation of the original 3 movies.
  
  I can't harp on the game-play experience of Fallout 3 too much. As I said previously, it is a respectable 
 game, and it deserves recognition. I can find little fault in the Oblivion formula, and the modified 
 leveling system, the V. A. T. S. targeting system, and improved NPC characters all improve on the 
 formula. Still, I cannot help but to be reminded of 2 games I played 10 years ago, games that helped 
 inspire my creative vision. It seems a little unfair, but I docked this game a full point for not 
 living up to its predecessors, and I feel justified in doing so. In short, Fallout 3 is a reminder 
 to all designers and artists that it's usually best to leave masterpieces alone unless you are 
 sure that you out-skill the masterpiece's creator.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I finally tore myself away from Fallout 3, as I feel it is my duty to let all those of 
 you who anxiously await reviews to figure out whether to buy this game.
  
  On the review deck statement.
  War indeed doesn't change. It has gotten prettier (or grittier, 
 depending on your angle of perception, just so you know my position, I have 7 perception) . I do 
 not consider that a change, just a natural evolution of gaming technology. Any franchise is bound 
 to become 3d, and hopefully hologram. Things have been added, such as armor/arms degradation, proactive 
 hacking and lockpicking, which brings previously useless skills like science, repair and lockpick 
 up to par with the stuff we loved long time: speech, small arms, pickpocketing. Lots of annoying 
 stuff got removed. Traps got fused with repair, gambling got the boot. Best of all, the most unbalanced 
 perk of them all, Gifted was removed. God bless you Bethesda, I've spent hours in the character 
 creation skill of original Fallout fighting with myself not to take it, but lost every time. But 
 lets talk about each aspect of the game, starting with
  
  The Gameplay
  You can play this game as a straight up FPS, in which case you'd be delighted with a broad selection 
 of weaponry, from knives and knuckles to rocket launchers and plasma guns. As a side step, this 
 game features a bible blaster. No, this is not a typo, a Bible blaster. Now sure, you can load 
 your Rock-it-Launcher with other stuff, and there's no guarantee that all the scorched books you 
 find lying around are bibles, but do you really have the time to read the title as hard-bound books 
 blast forward, smiting heathens and usurpers of faith alike? Anywho, if you love FPS aspect of 
 the game, you'll be delighted with the physics of the game: bullets do fall, grenades do launch 
 enemies up in the air, and running with a flamethrower ablaze reduces its range. If you like the 
 turn based combat, you will certainly indulge in what V. A. T. S. has to offer. This baby not only 
 allowed for a turn based combat to be applied in a first person game, but single-handedly fixed 
 the most useless perk of the original game, "Mysterious Stranger." Ladies and gentlemen.. Who am 
 I kidding... gentlemen, Mysterious stranger kicks ass. He is the Brock Sampson of the Capitol Wasteland, 
 if Brock Sampson put his points into guns instead of melee weapons.
  
  Graphics
  I'm not the one to talk about graphics, as I sport a Radeon X1900 graphics card. All I can tell 
 you, is that on similar graphic settings Fallout 3 runs a lot smoother for me than does Oblivion. 
 So there's obviously some engine optimization involved. If your computer and run Oblivion, it can 
 run Fallout 3 better. Sorry I can't be more specific.
  
  Sound
  Ambient sounds are good, explosions, gunshots, ricochet, wind are all nicely done. Voices jobs 
 are excellent, but could someone please tell the guy who's voicing Mr. Burke that he's overacting 
 again. The addition of radio was a stroke of genius on Bethesda's part, as it listening to the 
 wind all day would probably get old after a while. I approve of the choice of songs, not only do 
 they fit the atmosphere, but they are also quite good, and I've already downloaded some of them 
 to listen to on my i-pod.
  
  Story
  I won't spoil it for you, but this game features some of the most twisted plot elements, that will 
 make you remember the original games and palm-face yourself. Now, I haven't done many sidequests 
 yet, but the main storyline quests are epic. And when say epic, I mean Return of the King battle 
 scene epic,  epic. You'll see plenty of references 
 to both the Vault Dweller, and the Chosen One throughout the game, as well as references to other 
 characters and events from the original two games.
  
  Children
  Now I know alot of you are gravely disappointed that you cannot kill children in Fallout 3. However 
 you should consider that they do not try to steal from you here. There's nothing preventing you 
 from striking them, though. And when it comes down to it you can always sell them drugs and weapons, 
 which will kill them in the long run. You can also make them miserable by killing their parents, 
 or foster parents, and then rubbing it into their faces. Oh, they look so brokenhearted, god bless 
 their little hearts.
  
  Humor
  Being a twisted **** that I am, I found alot of pleasure in the dark humor of Fallout 3. It reminded 
 me of the original Fallout, and I saw it as quite an improvement from Fallout 2. As the story unwraps, 
 you'll find yourself splitting sides over the antiques of Brotherhood of Steel and Enclave, which 
 while do play in with the games atmosphere resonate with the current real world situations. Yes, 
 there are 2008 US presidential elections references here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: closer101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Atmosphere! That is what this game is soaking in. Oblivion with guns? Once you start playing Fallout 
 you will realise Fallout is a different animal!
  
  First of all for all those looking for a storyline, it has one. This is one of those RPG's where 
 you get as much story as your willing to put in, kind of like Bioshock or Oblivion.
  
  It helps that the graphics/art direction, and sound/music are first rate.
  
  The attention 
 to world detail is just flat out amazing. 
  
  All these things put together adds up to total immersion.
  
  Yesterday I started playing at 
 about 5pm and was only going to play for 2 hours. I was going to go see a movie. Next thing I know 
 it was almost midnight before I tore myself from the game. 
  
  This is one of those "just one more quest" "just one more place to go" type of game.
  
  If 
 thats the type of game you want, this is the game you need to buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I started to play instantly as came out. I played both Fallout 1 and 2 so my expectations was high. 
 I was excited when started to play and can tell I was not disappointed. I truely enjoyed the game 
 right from the begginning. It was so good, that I hardly realised its morning already. The story 
 is captivating with lots of humor. The gameplay is diverse, practicly you can do whatever you want. 
 The graphics is nice and realistic. Generally its addictive and fun to play.
  On the other side I found nice graphics and getting closer to reality has drawbacks. Blowing heads 
 off, tearing people apart, shooting ghouls and mutant creatures in a filthy bloody sewer or undergound 
 vault can be frustrating, frightening, disgusting and depressive on the long run. It captures your 
 mind and cannot get rid of those pictures easily. When I finish to play, or get to bed I had no 
 good feeling after all.
  I don't recommend for those who would like to think positively....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xCasadoRx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  If I leave for a second the previous two Fallout games, you know the classics, I can really say 
 that Fallout 3 is a great game ,it's basically why I have given it a 9. What I didn't like about 
 it was the story or more like the ' main quest', the ' project purity' stuff. So the whole purpose 
 of this project is to create a permanent source of fresh water which I tought was weird ,because 
 I can't really recall water being an issue in the first Fallouts, don't get me wrong it's noble 
 purpose but in the year 2277 that's like 200 years after the apocalypse so to say, if water was 
 that much of a problem it would have killed off everyone that lived outside a Vault, so it kinda 
 comes a little late to the game lore as a 'Problem that needs solving if humanity is to survive'. 
 Another thing, not enough NPCs in my opinion even for the post apocaliptic world of fallout 3 , 
 just New Reno from Fallout 2 had more or as much people in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachilders
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Im going to keep this pretty short, but I was not expecting much from this game. After playing 
 almost the whole game, I can say that my fears were alleviated. The story is great and there are 
 far more choices than I expected after playing Oblivion. Most quests allow you to be a bastard 
 if you want to be, and you can do pretty much anything you want.
  The presentation is great, much improved over Oblivion, although the music is awful. I just keep 
 one of the radio stations on usually. 
  If you liked the original Fallout games, I can't guarantee that you will like this game, but it 
 does offer far more choices than most rpg's out there. Most heavy critics have had pre twisted 
 views that made them hate this game before release. Although it does feel like oblivion at times, 
 it captures the original Fallout atmosphere great. The game is also very stable, after 15hrs of 
 play, 1 crash. This game isn't perfect, but there were no flaws significant enough to garner even 
 a 1/2 point deduction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breck3322
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  To begin, I may be biased, I have been expecting this game to be horrible for the last two years. 
 Good thing I was correct.
  
  
  With the exception of VATS, it plays out exactly how Oblivion would, except with guns. This means 
 the horrible AI, non-existent tactics, and anything else conjured up by thinking of Oblivion's 
 joke-of-gameplay comes with it.
  
  The story is horrible. I honestly can't think of a way for the story to become any stupider or 
 hole-ridden. The Dialogue was more than likely written by a slow child with no ability to make 
 a cohesive sentence, let alone a conversation.
  
  The graphics are alright, but that's only because oblivion's were. This game is basically an Oblivion 
 re-texture with 90% of it's color pallet turned gray.
  
  The bugs are more than just a handful. There's literally a bug every step if you're unlucky enough. 
 Constant crashes and graphical glitches mar this already poor game.
  
  
  But none of this matters, considering how many morons were infatuated by Oblivion and Bethesda's 
 fanboy's will hold out that this game 'IS TEH AWESOME' with no previous experience of the Fallout 
 series. The perks are, for the most part, retarded, the stat system has been cheapened by stat 
 increasing equipment laying behind the next boulder. This game is less of an RPG as it is an action 
 game with RPG tendencies.
  
  
  
  This game is a perfect example of a society with cheapened ans lowered standards. This game does 
 not deserve all 10's or 9's. It deserves to be in the garbage bin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  I know it's very likely not many people will agree with me on this review, but I really feel these 
 things have to be said. 
  
  Fallout 3 is a great game don't get me wrong I really think it's worth the money and all. It has 
 great graphics, an okey story but for me and a lot of other old Fallout fans it's missing quite 
 a lot. 
  
  I think the old ones had a lot more content and weren't so fixed on the graphics. Personaly I would 
 not have minded that Fallout 3 used it's original engine, maybe a few tweaks here and there. 
 
  
  Fallout 3 is feeling more like a "do this and return game" thankfully the developers where kind 
 enouch to give us a instant travel button, although I would not have minded the old system when 
 it comes to traveling.
  
  Voice acting is rather okey I suppose, although I would not mind hearing some different voices 
 rather then the same people over and over again wich is becomming a real Bethesda trait it seems. 
 Apart from that, it's sort of sad to see that from the countless response options you had in the 
 previous series it's now reduced to four different types, the nice one, the neutral one, the agressive 
 one and ofcourse the passive one. Unlke in the previous series you cannot kill important people 
 in the stories and you cannot piss them off so they won't help you anymore. I remember all to well 
 the discussion you had with the First Citizen of Vaultcity how touchy she was a few bad words and 
 you'll end up at the entrance of Vaultcity unable to enter ever again or being able to go to the 
 mainframe to enter. 
  
  They advertise with complete freedom and it offers a lot more freedom that you have in most games 
 on the market, yet they took quite a lot of freedom away from us compared to Fallout 1 and 2.
 
  
  I really enjoyed playing Fallout 3 I really did, yet the name sort of feels bought rather then 
 earned and it's sad to see a game you have come to expect so much from is destroyed and rebuild 
 to look like all the other games out there. This game has become more of a Sandbox game. 
  
  This game really feels like it's built for the crowds who never played Fallout rather then 
 the people who played Fallout more then 10 years ago.
  
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  Definitly a very good game, it's created for the general public so probarly everyone will like 
 it unless you are a phobic for shooters or something then you won't like it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rashimy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  War.
  
  Well.. it changed a little bit since fallout 2. thats this thing that everyone has been saying. 
 This is not fallout. but, oh well, do not trust them. Bethesda did a great job on changing most 
 of the gameplay style, turning the player to the next level inside fallout 3. you'll feel more 
 and more addicted to the game for every hour that passes. All the good thing about it was left, 
 skills, stats, "grabeverythingyousee" system, trades, side quests, but this time the turn based 
 system had a big change. The V. A. T. S. system, the way it was called, is a new type of battle, just 
 to be as the fallout 1-2. of course, they had 2 options, or let the 2d graphics and make it just 
 like the new diablo3 game, or just like they did. And I think that was amazing. 
  
  You'll realize it just whem you begin the game.
  
  In fact, I thing this is the best one on 
 series. The other 2 was classics. But here is the real thing.
  
  10/10 - buy it, play it and have a great time, cause war... war never changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  great game.
  
  faithful to the original in the most important respects.
  
  this is a phenomenal game. think it is unjustly put down by some of the die hard fallout fans. 
 eh. we guess they wanted another fallout 1 or 2... eh. it was good, but we've been there and done 
 that already. playing top down and having to navigate a character whose identical to all the other 
 NPCs just doesn't seem nearly as fun anymore.
  
  know this game is compared frequently with oblivion. we concur, it's very oblivionesque. that said, 
 it's an improvement. we were never one for wizards and elves.
  
  haven't completed fallout 3 yet. still stalling to drag out our first play through. doing a lot 
 of side quests and just general exploring. keep remaking our character every few hours. pretty 
 fun.
  
  it looks great. some NPCs sound too much alike like oblivion, but at least they don't all look 
 the same. it is less noticeable. landscape is nice. know others have called it depressing and dreary... 
 which is sort of the point... so yeah... those that make those comments intended to be critiques 
 just don't get it.
  
  music is good... what of it there is. we dig the enclave station playing john philip sousa, very 
 reminiscent of the film "a boy and his dog." creepy.
  do think they should have done more with the intro. vault life by itself would make a pretty cool 
 game setting if done right.
  
  we don't have any real complaints against the game. it's pretty damn good. ugh... the worst we 
 can say about this game is that it has kept me up at all hours of the day and night playing it... 
 and it doesn't appear to be letting up... still really haven't touched the main story quest yet 
 either.
  
  ugh... great game... no... sleep... ugh... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Well really, i was a pretty big fan of the fallout games, though i was like 7 when fallout 2 came 
 out. The game, as the title says, is oblivion.
  
  Good: Graphics are as good as Oblivion. Its not mass effect, the gunplay is alright. i would not 
 consider it FPS material, but not mass effect as well. massive, massive map. Voice Acting is great. 
 *SPOILER* You get to follow a giant robot at the end!!! thats kool as. there are a lot of quests, 
 not as much as oblivion, but still there is a fair amount, but you have to find it first.
  
  Bad: Graphics are as good as Oblivion. VATS takes the fun out of the gunplay, and you start 
 relying on it.
  There are no mounts or anything, WTH!!!! Guns mostly feel, useless. besides the normal guns like 
 the assult, shotty and sniper. main story line is short, mostly full of just running around. its 
 hard to get around, the problem is that you travel mostly through the underground tunnels, and 
 its ahrd to navigate through it. Not a lot of variaty of things to kill. most perks are basically, 
 useless. Animations are ridiclious. especially when you move.
  
  Fallout 3 is a good game thats 4 sure, but with all the hype it produced and behind the due date 
 by what 6 months, it was disapointing. they should have made another game engine, not jsut useing 
 the oblivion one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama99
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Old news for those of us who kept track of this game's evolution in the press.
  
  Fallout 1 and 2 were considerably successful CRPGs (Computer Role-Playing Games) back in the 90s, 
 a time when some quality and diversity still existed in the video gaming scene.
  
  That was before the tidal wave of copycat 3D engine FPS (First_Person Shooter) games poisoned this 
 market and brought it to the sad, sterile, unimaginative status quo it is today. 
  
  99% of today's games are no longer made with love, imagination and dedication. They're just another 
 corporate product, exactly the same as fast food, same taste applying. A reflection of today's 
 entertainment industry in general (Hollywood, and so on) . The number of quality, intelligent, mature 
 games today can be counted by the fingers of one hand, and this so-called "Fallout" 3 isn't one 
 of them.
  
  "Fallout" 3 is a cash-in in the name of an honorable, respectable series of RPGs. Now it's just 
 another 3D FPS arcade shoot-em-up, all flashy and noisy and filled with an aura of hype courtesy 
 of a nice marketing campaign and a batch of corporate-endorsed reviews which all say the same and 
 give virtually the same exact score to each and every game, but devoid of any real substance.
 
  
  The dialogue, one of the three key factors in any quality RPG, is adequate for the next Aliens 
 Vs Predator movie. The world depth and detail, the second of three key factors in any quality RPG, 
 is about the same level as the average Gameboy title. And the combat system, the third and last 
 key factor in any quality RPG, has as much to do with a RPG as Quake and Doom do.
  
  Don't get me wrong: "Fallout" 3 can be looked at as a cool little game if you're looking for another 
 3D FPS and you ran tired of Far Cry, COD, Crysis, etc. But it's not a RPG nor does it have anything 
 resembling of intelligent, mature gameplay, and if that is what you're looking for, you better 
 save yourself valuable time and money and start looking elsewhere now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  WOW... im truly speechless. The gameplay is great. let's set something straight, although all the 
 footage released up to launch look otherwise, this game is NOT a first person shooter. The RPG 
 elements in this game are massive, from learning certain skills, to getting perks (which allow 
 certain abilities) that increase by rank, you also have S. P. E. A. C. I. A. L. which is like your base 
 stats. By leveling up you can add points to all these. This game plays in both First and Third 
 person, however i would advise you to stick to first as it's just so much simpler. There are many 
 quests and they are fun to do and not repetitive. The main mission is straight forward and linear, 
 however there is a massive open world to explore and many quests to undertake. The Pipboy 3000 
 is like a mini computer strapped to your arm. Using it, you can equip armor and weapons, you can 
 check your map, use a flashlight or just listen to the radio. There is also a new combat system 
 introduced known as "VAT" by using it, you slowdown time in order to target certain area's in enemies 
 body and by activating VAT, you are rewarded with a great third person murder cam shot. There are 
 many RPG elements that play a factor, these range from lock-picking to stealing and hacking, and 
 they all increase as you level up and spend your attribute points.
  
  Graphics:
  
  No doubt about it the graphics in this game are great, they are truly next gen and the best part 
 is that they are totally optimal with your system and the frame rate will not drop once. The wastelands 
 look gorgeous and blowing peoples heads up never looked better. The only problem is the animation, 
 it seems a bit outdated. Nonetheless though the graphics are gorgeous
  
  Sound: 
  
  The sound is great. The accents are nailed and listening to conversations is really fun. The radio 
 feature is also interesting, featuring music from the 30's and trust me the tunes never get old. 
 It's fun to just chill and listen to some old music while exploring the vast open wasteland
  
  Value:
  
  Worth the price? Yes. It's a unique RPG experience that probably cannot be topped. 
 This game is a true masterpiece and it's worth every penny. Sure there is no multiplayer but the 
 single player is enough to get your money's worth. A long, outstanding, RPG/Shooter by Bethesda... 
 I don't think i need to explain more.
  
  Lifespan:
  
  Hmm, there is no multiplayer so lets get that out of the way. The adventure isn't too long and 
 you can finish it way before reaching the maximum level cap. Although you can play this game again 
 and again to try out new attributes and S. P. E. C. I. A. L. S. Also if your an explorer then it will 
 last a while because its a massive open world waiting for you, if your a helpful person then there 
 are tons of side quests that drag you from location to location and you can spend time finishing 
 those. So yes it will last a while and you will enjoy the time you spend playing Fallout 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogre7222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I pirated this game. I downloaded the Skullptura release which was very well packed, 
 BTW. The game was very immersive. I truly got into it, until the game crashed every time i attempted 
 a plot sensitive event. Up to that point I saw a world that was huge, desolate and ready for me 
 to explore. Bethesda better this game patched before Christmas or sales of this game will be screwed 
 (especially considering the console versions have these crashes.) . 
  
  The game is surprisingly similar to Oblivion. Without the brand name, it looks like a very meticulous, 
 and detailed mod. But this doesn't matter considering Oblivion was great, and this game improves 
 upon Oblivion so much that it works. 
  
  Again, if Bethesda can quickly fix these crashes then they will have a game of the year on their 
 hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jutetrea
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I finished STALKER: Clear sky the night before Fallout 3 arrived on release day. While CS was horrible 
 on the technical side, gameplay, story and ambiance completely demolish F3.
  
  Itemization: Utter crap. Too many plates, tin cans, spoons, etc. No earning curve, no sense of 
 accomplishment on discovery. Repair scheme is flawed in that "parts" are wasted on repair. No customization/upgrade 
 is pathetic. Choice, utility and attraction of "crafted" weapons are poor. I'd really like a mod 
 that completely removes all the 1wg/1 val items from the game.
  
  Story: Weak, fragmented and completely non-immersive. Bleh.
  
  Maps: Way too many tunnels, 
 interiors are overdone without the benefit of drama. Exterior is boring and bland.. primarily bland. 
 The color palette is boring/difficult to see items.
  
  World: Boring. F1 and F2 got away with focusing action on hotspots, even when the hotspots were 
 open. Trekking though the countryside is boring, you can see only so many collapsed roadways and 
 rocky hills. 
  
  Combat: Sigh. What used to be a strategic matchup with LoS and AP considerations is now an FPS 
 with a frequent "easy" button. Vats is somewhat nice, yet after the first volley its a pure FPS 
 until AP regen. Minimum strategy, hugely disappointing.
  
  Stalker CS beats it out in ambiance, character progression, itemization, quests (although not story 
 really) , faction play, visuals, and combat. The best thing going for F3 is the playability, after 
 ditching HDR I've been bug free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Corinthian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the tops down views of Fallout and Fallout 2 you may be disappointed at the new 
 first person perspective but there are some dynamics that this adds to what has been a PC classic 
 for years.
  
  It's with great anticipation that I loaded up the new Fallout 3 and I must say it's generally surprising 
 how much Bethesda got right considering this was an Interplay product over five years ago.
  
  Playing in normal game play mode, the new version of the Wastelands has its ups and downs. 
 I would have preferred to see more readily available ammo and health packs coupled with a more 
 densely populated world but instant travel option makes up for this. It was always a nice feature 
 and it cuts down on what is universally recognized as monotony.
  
  Amazingly, many of the small options that made Fallout great are included, most notably the option 
 to be attacked in the course of traveling or even sleeping for that matter. Countless items from 
 the old series are proliferated throughout the world. Radscorpions, Raiders, the Enclave are just 
 a few recognizable characters.
  
  Before I get too far ahead of myself, let me say that I was completely surprised at the character 
 creation scenario which has you as the main character actually being born into the world and as 
 you grow through childhood your characteristics are granted through actual activities rather than 
 just opening up a scroll sheet and being done with it and of course, there is always the Pip Boy 
 which is the standard gift for 10 year olds in the Vault.
  
  The story is very involving from the start with your daddy opening the door and departing the vault, 
 leaving you as a young man and now target of the ire of the Overseer of Vault 101. With the help 
 of the friends you have made and the Overseer's daughter you manage to escape its confines.
  
  That's when the adventure begins. Interestingly, you have no idea where to go or where to start 
 which gives one an initial disjointed feeling until the realization hits that this actually is 
 how the ordinal Fallout was; it just looks different in a first person perspective.
  
  Like the original, you'll explore the landscape encountering the good, the bad and the ugly. A 
 karma rating travels with you and increases or decreases with whatever actions you perform. This 
 karma also affects how those around you view you, either as a trusted confidant or someone they 
 are afraid of and in many cases want to expunge off the face of the Earth.
  
  Attributes, skills and perks that made Fallout and Fallout 2 very diverse are included in the new 
 version. In fact, most of anything having to do with character development have been restored which 
 sways you to finally accept that you are indeed in the Fallout world.
  
  Of course, no Fallout game could be complete without the V. A. T. S combat system which allows you 
 to stop the action and pick the parts of the body you want your weapon to focus on. It is bloody, 
 make no mistake about it but it's also pretty phenomenal as well considering it's similar to the 
 slow motion combat scenes in the Matrix movies.
  
  However, as usually is the case, it's not without its flaws and for Fallout 3, they are on the 
 technical end which feature an abundance of crash situations. Oh so many crashes. Although annoying, 
 the auto save feature is well crafted to deploy whenever you enter or exit a loading screen. The 
 save anytime flexibility also aids this but truly, Bethesda needs to invest in a patch very soon.
 
  
  Other than this minor instability, it features tight game play mostly controlled through your Pip 
 Boy and the environments are creepy as you'd expect from a post-apocalyptic world. The effects 
 of radiation do affect you should you get too close to a radioactive source and mutant animals 
 and humans dot the world, some aggressive and some benign.
  
  I do give Bethesda credit, they have crafted an atmosphere that has had me almost jump out of my 
 seat on occasion and that's no small task considering the hundreds I've played that bore me to 
 tears. 
  
  It's a familiar engine for Elder Scrolls fans but it doesn't lessen the experience. I'd say this 
 one will find its way into many Christmas stockings this season and for good reason.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Highly detailed even on lower resolutions with blazing fast framerates on my dual core 2.5 with 
 2 gigs of memory and a Radeon 3870 at 1280x resolution. Creature models and textures are photorealistic. 
 Those rad roaches are sure to creep out bug haters not to mention the inhuman giant ants which 
 remind one of the classic horror black and white movie THEM. Animations look great and the complaints 
 about them are a bit over exagerrated from what i've seen so far.
  
  Sound
  
  Totally immersive sound effects making me feel like am actually in a burnt out husk of a world. 
 I have not felt such audio desolation since playing TERMINATOR FUTURE SHOCK in the early 1990s. 
 Audio of Npcs brings them to life with a very natural "real" feel about them instead of a movie 
 script being read from. Though the campy flavor of the dialogue might not be to eveyones taste. 
 Just think what you might say in real life under the same condition. I doubt you would sound like 
 Shakespeare :D With that said the npc taunts in the game are inspiring to my violent tendencies 
 to hurt them in the worst way.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Very intuitive. Not once did i have to read the manual to learn how to use and navigate Pip Boy. 
 Combat is alot of fun and VATS is a riot targeting areas and enjoying what visual situation will 
 play itself out. Truly a sweet sight to see a wise cracking wasteland thug get a knife to the thigh 
 and watch em fall in agonizing pain.
  
  I can see how combat might be a bit clunky for some but i think its just a matter of not rushing 
 into a hostile environment and instead being cautious when entering known trouble spots. This aint 
 OBLIVION where you can take out three bandits carrying axes. These wastelanders use guns!
  
  The world feels very alive with alot of things going on. It was a nice surprise to see some 
 patrolling outcasts from the Brotherhood Of Steel and following them around to see them in action.
 
  
  There are plenty of choices for the player during dialogue which help to flesh out and roleplay 
 ones character. Unlike in OBLIVION where you only had one or two choices in FALLOUT 3 theres alot 
 of ways you can respond to npcs.
  
  Character creation is excellent and very unique like all Bethesda rpgs. From being born and the 
 growing up process in the vault to the appearance of your character you can mold to suit your tastes. 
 Plenty of variety. Me i went for a Quentin Barnabas looking character out of the old television 
 series DARK SHADOWS.
  
  Leveling is done well and i love how certain skills are only available once you've reached a certain 
 level.
  
  Music
  
  Top notch music which fits the setting really well which surprised me considering some of the gameplay 
 videos on YouTube i saw which had music in the background that sounded too rpg fantasy. The music 
 in FALLOUT 3 is full of atmosphere and with subtle shades that never feel out of place.
  
  FALLOUT 3 is another winner by Bethesda the master creators of huge gaming worlds to lose ones 
 self in a virtual dream of stress relief. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moognus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  After the disappointment of Far Cry 2, I was hesitant to blow another thirty pounds only to be 
 bored after the first couple of hours.
  
  Twelve, red-eyed, fast-forwarded hours later and I've forgotten to have dinner.
  
  The presentation 
 is top class (Liam Neeson plays your dad for goodness sakes) . The fallout world humour counteracts 
 the (admittedly fantastic) gore. The weapons are meaty and pack a punch, levelling is great and 
 the chance to roll through the world as either a goody-two-shoes or a complete stinker, with consequences 
 for each approach, is too good to pass up.
  
  If you're still unsure, then the real clincher is the VATS system.
  
  The ability to target 
 any limb of an enemy, with all weapons, even meleem is A BLAST.
  
  Slow motion mini-nuking a super mutant is one of the most satisfying feelings in gaming full stop.
 
  
  It also makes for some hilarious quicksave buddy massacres, if you're a sicko.
  
  In short - Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magana
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Like everybody I had my doubt about bringing Fallout to first person... I wanted so bad for that 
 game to be at the height of my expectation... that's it now that it's out and that I've played 
 it for few hours (about 20) man my mind is totally blown... just like somebody would have selected 
 to hit my head in V. A. T. S. They hit right on spot! Game is filled with previous games references, 
 plus you have that feeling that you are actually making things evolve all around you, not like 
 you were just a single dude running and gunning free. You have a purpose and you sense it. (Three 
 dog, people noticing about exploits, things like that) The RPG side is really there, there's no 
 doubt about it! Really worth buying. By the way, collector's edition is awesome too! Enjoy! And 
 mom... that game is not for your sensitive lil one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milkmonk22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a huge fallout fan since i first played fallout 2
  i knew i had to play number 1 so bought it off eBay and played it I wanted more when I heard they 
 canceled van buren I was saddened but now this is out and I'm in love the graphics are just amazing 
 but it takes some kind of super computer to run Ive already had hardware issues lol. Though at 
 some parts that game does get aggravatingly hard. Oh and watch your back things tend to play doom 
 by jumping you in the dark and behind you in the subways... anyone who plays this game should try 
 to get the hunting rifle early and some good armor even in combat armor I've nearly die on many 
 occasions and I've literally jumped out of my seat the first time a ghoul sneaked up behind me 
 and started bashing me in the back. AMMO IS IN SHORT SUPPLY GET TO RIVET CITY QUICKLY THEY HAVE 
 AN EXCELLENT AMMO SHOP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serge
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Could have been a great game but the initial release not even close to beta.
  
  Graphics are great.
  
  Sound is fine.
  
  Voice Acting is good too.
  
  Storyline seems 
 very promising.
  
  Still, the game keeps freezing. Sometimes after 2 mins sometimes after 30. Some people have no 
 issues at all, others can't even install the game. For some, having Alcohol 120% or deamon tools 
 makes the game uninstallable, for others it's no issue. Sometimes the game just freezes at 100% 
 CPU but most often the PC stops altogether and needs a hard reboot.
  
  I'm using a new PC with sufficient RAM, above spec Graph Card and up to date drivers. So there 
 should't be any issue on that side.
  
  This game needs some downgrading by gamespot due to low production quality. Happened before, will 
 happen again and the companies giving honest games a raw deal will have to learn to provide decent 
 quality software.
  
  I'll send my game back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gthicjohn
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I have only played the game for 10-20 hours and have already been imersed into the game play. I 
 seem to cant stop playing it because I just want to explore more and more of D. C. and look at all 
 the post apocalyptic scenery. Game play is great, yes it is alot different from Fallout 1 & 2 but 
 I still think it is true to the series. There is so much to find and explore, right out of the 
 vault in the first three houses that you see there are a vault (easily lock picked) , suit case 
 and a trunk that all contain stuff. My first run before I died at megaton because i accidently 
 stole from the crazy atom cult people and then it auto saved as they chased me, The trunk was full 
 of drugs. when i restarted to the point I exited from the vault it had a .32cal pistol in okay 
 condition. So when ever you die or reload a game the thing you find may never be the same. It sounds 
 similar to the diablo dungeon layouts. I give this game a 10 not because I have been waiting for 
 it for over year, but because I am happy with the results, the gameplay, art and combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsivertsen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  the game going over to be a 3rd person game instead of the classic bird-view. Anyway, I eagerly 
 started the game and at first it was quite fun, the spectacular slow motion hits in V. A. T. S mode 
 was very satisfying, but I missed the comments from the first two games like "her child-bearing 
 days are over" or "ouch, that gotta hurt" (btw, you cannot hit in the groin anymore : () . The graphic 
 of fallout 3 is definately good and I enjoyed exploring the wasteland, but after a while, I started 
 to miss meeting people with interesting dialogues. There are just too few NPC with personality 
 out there. It seems to me that the game mostly focus on the violence. And one thing I also miss 
 is nudity (it's a mature world out there) . If Bethesda had one more shot at making the game, here's 
 what should have been done different:
  
  - Top-down bird view like the original
  - Many more quests
  - Easier to get around. I have been playing for hours, but still haven't 
 been able to get to the news-station (too much rubble in the way)
  - More depth and preferable some nudity and cursing
  
  I think it's a shame because Fallout 
 1 and 2 were such classics and I don't believe fallout 3 will make it into a classic game. It feels 
 too much like Oblivion which also according to me failed in most areas. Graphics aren't everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yianaki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  After hearing that Fallout would be a 3d game published by Bethesda I was both happy and a little 
 upset. I mean after playing the first two Fallout games, as well as all the badly made spin offs, 
 I didn't think this version would properly take place in the Fallout world I remembered. Well I 
 was completely wrong, and have never been so happy at being so wrong.
  
  Thank god this is a true fallout game in 3d. I do not feel like this is oblivion at all. I always 
 thought of Oblivion as a great game but for some reason it felt like a generic RPG to me. It just 
 lacked personality, in the people, the places. It just felt dead. Fallout is the exact opposite. 
 You feel from the outset that all these characters are alive, have a purpose, and a backstory. 
 The difference between Fallout and Oblivion is night and day. I just can't believe this company 
 made both. The Development team really immersed themselves in the Fallout ethos.
  
  The world is so immersive. The 3d graphics on my middle of the line computer are unbelievable. 
 I don't have a very powerful PC. It is a dual core amd 4600 with a 8800GT 2gig ram on VISTA. This 
 is the first game in a long time I have been able to max out. With everything on high at 1080 it's 
 like playing a movie. The game looks just like you think it should and there are nice details everywhere. 
 
  
  There are so many missions that you can do. The way they are setup you never get bored tackling 
 new challenges. You can stumble apon an area and out of the blue you have a new challenging quest. 
 Whenever I am not playing the game I feel myself thinking about what quest I would like to do next, 
 or if a new area I explore will bring a exciting challenge. 
  
  The combat is just the right challenge. At times it can be pretty difficult, but then you figure 
 out a new strategy or weapon and problem solved. Thank goodness I got the PC version, the mouse 
 aim is great. People complain about the targeting, but this is an RPG not a shooter! If your skills 
 are not high enough you will miss it is as simple as that. The VATS system is great and I hope 
 they bring something like it to Oblivion.
  
  Fallout 3 was crashing for some reason at the beginning on the second area I explored. I was using 
 melee a lot, maybe that sets it off? I don't know. After about 4 times in the beginning it hasn't 
 crashed again. Except when I quit, not that does anything but it is strange. I am sure the first 
 patch will fix the problems.
  
  Also I have a 360 so be sure to setup LIVE. You will get Achievements and add to your Xbox Live 
 gamerscore. Nice, that was the only reason I would have gotten the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old gamer who started playin games in 1984 and few games have surprised me so well like 
 Fallout 3. 
  It has great graphics, a huge game world full of side quests that will entertain you for hundred 
 hours, cinematic combat, good weapon choices, detailed scary monsters and much much more. 
  But most of all, the gameplay immersion.... oh God, the immersion with this game is absoloutely 
 wonderful: the breathtakin' nuclear landscape of D. C., the sad '50s retro-music and the attention 
 put on details are all amazing and makes you feel like you were really left alone wandering around 
 in that raped postnuclear world. 
  Even the sophisticated AI routines of the NPCs make them look alive and real. 
  What more could 
 you ask from a game? Nothing is my answer. I thank and bow to Bethesda team for this gorgeous game 
 that will enter the videogame history for sure. 
  Now come with me into the Wastelands..... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarto_gl
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Ok, the game is here. It says fallout 3 but it's not a fallout game. Where is the turn base, why 
 do they make them all first person, why do graphics matters the most? It's disappointing to see 
 that the games that made history are transformed, and lose the very best thing that made them so 
 popular "originality". I don't understand why do they fail? They had the idea, they saw what people 
 like about the game, why do they fail, why do they change things in bad..... I DO NOT UNDERSTAND! 
 I imagine they read what people were saying and what were expecting from the game. I don't think 
 that a fallout fan would of liked to play a first person game. The game lost along with the turn 
 base, the hole strategy and beauty- This game it's purely commercial, and makes me wonder what 
 follows?
  Sadly the game industry becomes a movie industry, all flash but no substance. Too bad thou, i am 
 a fallout fan, but fallout 3 it's not what i was expecting.
  
  Regards,
  Scarto_gl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellegr
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  I can't believe that Gamespot's review makes no mention of the fact that Fallout 3 is buggy, unplayable 
 piece of crap for a huge number of pc gamers that bought this game. Just check out Bethesda's forums: 
 http://www. bethsoft. com/bgsforums/index. php? showforum=36
  
  This is just the usual bugginess found in pc releases. The game is literally unplayable with random 
 freezes and crashes, while many people can't even install the game because the DRM conflicts with 
 legitimate software already on the user's pc. Bethesda doesn't even acknowledge the problems that 
 their customers are experiencing. 
  
  My experience with the game has been entirely frustrating. I've had to start the game over 3 times 
 and still can't get past 30 minutes into the game. I'm not even going to start it up again until 
 Bethesda releases a patch, but I would rather just get my money back at this point. Spend your 
 money on another game coming out this holiday season.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircealzr
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  This is a game that i've been waiting for years and from which i had very high expectacions.
  I've been playing for a while now and i cant get off the feeling that there is something wrong 
 with it.
  The game looks good but the controls are somehow messed up. Every time u need to do something you 
 have to access the PIP boy and it gets very frustrating.
  For example if you need to access the map u have to access the PIP boy first and scroll the tabs 
 to which map u want (local or world map) . All important functions are linked to PIP boy. 
  Another frustrating thing is the RPG part. Bethesda simplified the atributes, skills and perks 
 system to the point that is no longer fun. Maximum character level is 20, maximum skill level is 
 100%, u got only 13 skills compared de 18 in previous games, lots of perks are gone etc..
  Camera also sucks, because only use the first person view. I tried to zoom out but instead of having 
 a view from the back of my char, the camera moved sideways which was very confusing.
  
  There are many things i could say about this game, both good and bad, but i'll jump to the conclussion: 
 
  - Fallout was meant for PC, not consoles. The feeling that you get ingame (PC version) is that 
 u are playing a console game that the developers tried to put on PC.
  - Fallout was not meant to be FPS. Gun skills only help in VATS, outside of that you cand fire 
 very well with a rocket launcher having just 10% skill.
  - the game lacks depth and tends to get repetitive: all you do is enter dungeons, shoot everything 
 that moves and loot all.
  - the new skills are not fun at all: hacking into computers is fun the first times you do it but 
 afterwards it gets very boring. 
  - the items that helped you with the skills are gone: no more lockpicks, tools, doctor's bag etc..
 
  - this is a game that you only once, and after you finish you unninstall it and put it away. I 
 remember playing fallout 2 for weeks, and finished it 3-4 times.
  - this game respects the tendancy of today's games: good visuals, decent gameplay, very low depth.
 
  - the game has a huge amount of gore in it. I dont remember the orginal fallout being so brutal. 
 They exagerated with so much blood and human parts being displayed everywhere and I dont remember 
 from the past games that supermutants ate humans.
  - Finally, all i can say that i dont recognize Fallout in this game. I mean: this is a good game, 
 that is placed in Fallout universe, but THIS IS NOT THE FALLOUT i was expecting.
  
  Thank You for reading...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jplawrie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I own, and have played, every Fallout game to date. I must say that the shear genius, and detail, 
 that Bethesda has put into this game is overwhelming. It speaks for itself. Not everyone, as you 
 may have noticed, can get into the fallout games. That's OK, because not everyone can survive in 
 a post-nuclear wasteland. Th ease of controls, spectacular graphics, and variety of Characters 
 and enemies make for an awesome fallout experience. On the down side; the music could have been 
 a little truer to the fallout fans, the wide openness of the game could be a positive or negative 
 thing, because when you first set foot into the wasteland you have a vague idea of a direction, 
 but not much else. Also, it is also missing much of its adult elements that made the classic fallout 
 games so successful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I will do my best to be objective and straight forward with this review for those who have not 
 yet played it. I will not delve into the content, the story, or any spoilers. 
  
  I played Wasteland on my Commodore 64 in the late 80s. That was my introduction to this genre within 
 the context of computer gaming. I played through each installment of the Fallout series as they 
 were released. I could not have been more excited about Fallout 3. Unlike a lot of the people who 
 worked themselves into a hype frenzy, I didn't pay attention to the development and I didn't post 
 in forums about it. I just waited for it to be launched.
  
  I have noticed that a huge portion of the negative reviews are from people who finished the game 
 within 2 or 3 days of it coming out. This should tell you something. This game is sandbox style 
 and is meant to be savored, explored, and enjoyed like a fine Nuka-Cola.
  
  When I first loaded-in I was slightly disappointed. I felt as though it was Oblivion with guns, 
 decorated with Bioshock retro imagery. While this initial impression has some validity, I learned 
 that it was not entirely accurate. It is easy to get that impression when you haven't given the 
 game enough time. What I discovered was that Fallout 3 quickly starts to stand on its own unique 
 merit.
  
  I concur that the user interface leaves much to be desired. I grew more comfortable with it as 
 I progressed. Still, it could definitely use some tweaking. In the end, it was not a major issue 
 or a deal breaker. 
  
  The VATS combat system is fun. The voice acting is not awful at all, despite what some people have 
 said. There are a few characters who are particularly annoying but not because of the actors. The 
 voice acting is far better than most games.
  
  If you like sandbox style gaming where you can do virtually anything you want, this will probably 
 scratch that itch for you. Fans of the Mad Max post-apocalyptic genre will also find something 
 to get into here. It is more of a FPS/action-RPG hybrid and expecting it to be ONE or the OTHER 
 will certainly lead to disappointment.
  
  The more you play Fallout 3, the more you will become immersed. I constantly read reviews from 
 people who give rather solid games abysmal ratings. I have to wonder, what games fit their standards? 
 As for people who complained about the ending, what happened to ENJOYING THE EXPERIENCE of gaming 
 itself? What about having fun with the journey? Isn't that what gaming is all about?
  
  That is what is wrong with gaming today. The emphasis is on being the most "powerful in real life" 
 avatar or "l33t pwner d00d". People spend weeks grinding on killing 10,000 pigs in an MMO to get 
 faster levels, but there is no enjoyment in the process. 
  
  So, sit back, relax, and smell the radioactive cinders of Fallout 3 and you might just have a good 
 time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aasvesta
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply Oblivion with guns. Everything that was great about Fallout is missing. I am 
 making this short, because there is not really much else to say. I am a great fan of Fallout 1 
 and Fallout 2, and this is a TOTAL letdown. What happened to EVERYTHING that I liked about the 
 series?
  
  Pros: 
  Fallout world
  Atmosphere
  OK graphics and sound
  
  Cons:
  Simplistic and simplified version of Fallout.
  Turn based combat is gone, and with it, tactics.
 
  Character development (skills, experience, perks etc) has been simplified, and only a sorry excuse 
 is left.
  Where did the world map go?
  Where did everything good about Fallout go?
  
  
  Conclusion:
  Do not mistake this for a Fallout game - it is not. This is really not a review 
 - it is a warning. Lets just pray for someone competent to pick up where Fallout 2 left. That someone 
 was not Bethesda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManiacKawaii
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Its not like a sequel more like other gamy in this university.. you can't say that this game is 
 bad because it is on oblivion engine and has fps elements.. who cares? Still Fallout 3 great RPG 
 and must buy to all PC owners
  Yeah engine of oblivion is kind of old but answer me one question.. graphics.. is it that you search 
 in this game?
  You buy this game to have great rpg experience or to find great graphics?
  It has great dialogues great perks and many choices to do
  Just one quest have at least five 
 varieties to do.. well i don't talk about main quest line because it not very interesting.. side 
 quest are rather interesting... And good old fallout humor is still here.. and pip boy here too.. what 
 else you need to happines? Good quests, fantastic gameplay, fine humor..
  My verdict: MUST BUY!............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomberrun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is little a copy of oblivion. some cheats are the same, but this game is so MORE than 
 oblivion. just kill with cool weapons and a slo motion action. very cool! I hope fallout 4 comes 
 in a couple of years, then I hope there are more cheats, because im a cheater man!: P and one funny 
 thing: Oblivion is in the middle ages and fallout 3 is in the future: P Then Fallout 4 comes in 
 the middle ages and in the future? you know a kind like a portal. so you can teleport. that's funny 
 i think. a mutant from a other world finds a portal and comes in he will be zapped to the middle 
 ages. my my my.... i don't hope the mutant would kill anybody with his lasergun: P 
  
  This game is worth to be played. I say to the company:
  
  GOOD JOB! MAKE FALLOUT 4! :P
  
 
  if fallout 4 comes im the happiest man in the world!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamianW
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  - The overall fallout flavour is kept intact; 50's feel still there, characters done right etc. 
 etc.
  - Combat system is solid although nor ground breaking and sometimes has it's bad moments.
  - 
 Sounds and graphics make this pretty immersive together with a pretty good setting and characters 
 with actual personalities.
  
  The bad:
  
  - Not all it's cracked up to be.
  - Some of the time it feels rather clunky with its fighting system and overdone humour or tacky 
 voice acting.
  - Linear quest design plagues this to doing stuff over and over again.
  - Almost no replay value after two playthroughs which are short anyway.
  
  The big bomb here 
 is the ending. You get such a great buildup and so much fun on the way, you wanna punch the screen 
 when the ending just basicly goes: "Thank you. F*** you. Don't come again!". It deletes what's 
 left of the replay value and doesn't even allow you to play on. It is so bad, it makes you cry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobthesponge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  (sorry about the spelling i am Greek) This game is a masterpiece it looks like oblivion at the 
 first look , end so what ? At first: the gamemachine gives lot's of fps without pushing the pc 
 to it's limits very important at my opinion, i am a game collector seens my 8 and i can tell what's 
 the point to have amazing grafics to a game that will give you a headache produsing 10fps trying 
 to render all the uneccesery grafs and trying to play throuht a crapy gameplay full of bugs i know 
 plenty of that kind of games but enought will all of that, about fallout :
  1) huge selection of misc stuff/weapons/armor/healthkit
  2) huge map to explore full of things 
 to uncover not like oblivion which there were places full of tree ,grass, but nothing to actually 
 do !
  3) who need's amazing graphics to play a game (i gust read it in a review and i fully disagre) who 
 wont play diablo even in this days and say whaaauuu who wont play fallout 2 and say what a great 
 game , and now comes fallout 3 and you are talking about graphics ??? take a picture if you want 
 so much things to look real....
  4) i played for 6 hours strait and i didn't get tiered at all
  5) this is my first time to review 
 a game and i don't now that much english but i'm trying because this game worths it !
  6) dismembered bodies everywhere what a nice view for a hardcore-bloodthirsty-gunnut gamer
  7) the 
 blood looks a little bit fake but so what at soon it's plenty i'll take it :)
  8) third person view sucks but i play in first so no big deal !
  9) whoever doesn't have the game 
 yet and looks reviews to deside "run and get it you whon't regret it "
  10) it doesn't require high end pc to take high graphics in good frame rate that it for me, good 
 job to the guys that worked on this game you teached ass that gaming does not die that good eventually 
 will come and we will be here to play them ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Borodon
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  People keep giving a high score to Fallout 3 but it doesn't deserve that much, cuz it's pretty 
 much of an Oblivion's mod than a game of Fallout series.
  
  There are good points, sure there are. Some people are underrating it more than I do, but they 
 should remember Bethesda added "light" to some Skills that were absolutely useless, like Science 
 and Repair. Although I don't feel like it's Fallout yet. The NPCs are just too empty, without real 
 emotions and you can have just one hireling. Drugs? Sex? Nah... I didn't finished all the quests 
 but I liked'em so far. Some people say they're too simple but I liked'em anyway.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous but a critic for a game shouldn't rely only on that. The V. A. T. S. system 
 is useful, although not really necessary. It doesn't matter if you used all your action points, 
 you can act again in the next few seconds. The Agility is a stupid attribute, really, just for 
 people - like me, I would add - that prefer to use V. A. T. S. It's more useful later in the game, 
 cuz some perks gives good bonus to whom uses it but it doesn't matter for those who don't. Actually 
 most of the perks doesn't matter for non-V. A. T. S users.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I liked the game. But it's an Oblivion with guns. Maybe some mods might help 
 F3 but until there... Fallout series died a long time ago for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lotus69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Bethesda's Fallout 3 maintains many elements that made the originals special; great characterization, 
 excellent combat mechanics, loads of items and customizations and a believable, livable world. 
 For those of you that say it's Oblivion with guns you are correct to a point. There's no hiding 
 the fact that the engine is the same, even the exit from Vault 101 was similar to exiting the prison/dungeon 
 in Oblivion (probably done on purpose) . This game should track higher than Oblivion did, its more 
 polished with fewer bugs and flaws and the leveling system is a vast improvement over Oblivion. 
 There is just so much to see and do it makes the post-apocalyptic world seem like place I'd like 
 to holiday! :)
  
  If I had any negatives to say about it it would be that many of the animations & character interactions 
 feel too much like Oblivion but the more I played the more I forgot about it.
  
  Great work Bethesda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics and sound are top notch. This is, hands down, the best looking game out 
 there right now. However, they sacrificed the most basic elements of user interface and gaming 
 playability. 
  
  The playability is ABYSMAL. First off, the "open ended" ness of the game is just not fun. The quests 
 are "meh" and it lacks direction and cohesion. I'd like to have seen more of a through line and 
 more of a linear play option. As it is, it's too jumbled and open ended, and it seriously affects 
 it's playability. 
  
  Second, the user interface is terrible. You've got a FPS/RPG style game, and YOU CAN'T HOTKEY WEAPONS 
 OR ITEMS!!! You have to open your mapping device and manually enable your weapons and devices. 
 This seriously affects the playability of the game because you're constantly having to stop the 
 action in order to do something as simple as switch weapon types. 
  
  Dialogue is tedious and the acting is sub par. There's so much dialogue and you can choose to skip 
 a lot of it, but because they went "retro" with the interface, you have to manually click down 
 on the box, you can't scroll or esc. or tab out of it, which means you spend an inordinate amount 
 of time clicking the little arrows to scroll down to the "get me the *!@*! out of this dumb dialogue 
 box" option. It's frustrating. 
  
  And your mapping / info device (Pip-Boy) is supposed to be this "retro" 50's computer thing, but 
 it looks like crap, and makes trading and accessing items boring. There's no good visual representation 
 of the items or their qualities, there's no 3d body of yourself to equip to so that you can see 
 what they look like or how they affect your total scores, etc. All you get is this silly dot matrix 
 Apple 2c looking interface on the pip boy that is, well.... boring. And since you have to spend 
 so much time in that interface screen, it gets infuriating pretty fast. 
  
  Combat is not bad, per se... it's just NOT FUN. The weapons feel clunky and cheesy, the aiming system 
 is "bleh", bugs like scoring a total point blank head shot that doesn't kill or even drop the opponent 
 at all. Then, you've got VATS, which gets old after using it about 2 times. VATS is, to put it 
 bluntly, just a cheesy little gimmick that doesn't really do anything. It's cute for the first 
 few times, and then I just basically ignore it. The Oblivion style combat engine just sucks for 
 a shooter... 
  
  Additionally, there is none of the really black humor and relistic grittiness that were in the 
 other fallout games. It's been whitewashed to appeal to the masses, and they've taken out all of 
 the good violence, sex, all of the drugs and crazy killing, all of the dark, gritty back stories, 
 and replaced it with a Disney-ised version. Think about the difference between the rich, deep darkness 
 of the LOTR novels and how that was raped by Peter Jackson and turned into a shadow of itself; 
 a comic book mockery of everything that made it exceptional... well, it's that same type of thing. 
 
  
  The voice acting and characters are all exactly the same... there are no distinct personalities 
 or anything about the characters that gets you interested in them or connected to them as characters. 
 
  
  There are so many other games out there that have managed to do all of the things that this game 
 does not.... and OLD games. It amazes me how little of anything new or interesting they put into 
 this game. 
  
  
  Basically, after playing this game for a few hours, you just feel like you've DONE ALL THIS BEFORE.... IN 
 BOTH BIOSHOCK (the "retro" 50's thing) and OBLIVION (The game is basically a post-apocalyptic OBLIVION) . 
 There really is nothing new... it's just re-hashed ideas and old templates with new fancy graphics. 
 
  
  I enjoyed STALKER much better. Although it's not as big or as good looking, and Fallout doesn't 
 suffer from the bugs that STALKER did, at least the interface and playability and combat systems 
 were MUCH BETTER than this game. 
  
  Boo, Bethesda. Poor job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki84
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is made for Oblivion fans, not Fallout fans. I know, people call me a fanboy because 
 I keep bashing at Fallout 3 for not being like precious two games. But my (and other Fallout fans) 
 reaction is justified. Read on to understand why.
  
  What made Fallout 1 and 2 popular was the harsh, open world filled with black humor. There were 
 entire towns dedicated to drugs, sex and violence, you could shoot brains off children or ger married 
 or sleep with someone elses wife.
  You could just make a very charismatic thief, and with some luck wander very very far in the world 
 and obtain (read steal) top notch gear.
  
  All that is gone in Fallout 3. Sex is limited to paying to a hooker and then watching her go upstairs 
 and lay in the bed. Foul language is there, unfortunately not much. Drug reference is almost gone, 
 now it feels underground, like it's something you're not supposed to do, while Fallout 2 had a 
 whole town dedicated to it (New Reno) . Violence is limited to V. A. T. S. (targeting system) , and 
 it mostly is all about shotting limbs off your targets.
  Not all NPCs are killable. You can't for example start a war in Brootherhood of Steel. You can 
 shoot one, and he will be an angel and just stand there, eventually falling down uncouncious. If 
 a monster gets lucky and kills one, you can loot his Power Armor. But unfortunately you lack the 
 training for it, and it's not available until you progress in the main quest at which point you 
 will get trained.
  
  But there is no black humor at all, this is a very, very bad thing, since that's what MADE Fallout 
 so popular.
  
  Fallout 3 is a console port. It means it plays like a console game, not a PC game.
  However it 
 also plays like Oblivion, since it's using Oblivion engine. And to be honest, if feels more like 
 Oblivion post apocalyptic mod, than a stand alone game.
  
  Unfortunately Fallout 3 is made for mainstream, Bethesda didn't make Fallout 3 because they thought 
 it's a cool game, they made it because they thought it will sell. 
  It's a good RPG, but it's not what Bethesda promised to Fallout fans. That's why I gave it a 6. 
 If you're not a Fallout fan, you might like this game, if you're Oblivion fan, you'll love it, 
 but if you're Fallout fan, just download it to try it, don't waste your money on it.
  
  It IS Oblivion with guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalogias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  This is my first review on a game. A game that I have been waiting for 5 years but as I can say 
 from playing it, it was worth the wait.
  First I'll talk about the game-play which it similar to TES: Oblivion. What I want to say is that 
 the freedom of the game and the variety of choices you can make are endless. You can do whatever 
 you like, can go wherever you like and can be whoever you like. This is one of the best features 
 of the game. I want to mention one of the first quests that you can blow up megaton. It was fun 
 :D
  Anyway, enough with the gameplay. The graphics now. Because the similarity to oblivion in many 
 ways Bethesda Devs had a lot of time working on graphics, which in my opinion made a very good 
 work. They are well made and can run on a little older machines without a problem. Also the atmosphere 
 is as I was (but not only me of course) expecting it to be. Everywhere destroyed buildings and 
 nothing in sight only ruins. And the whole thing of exploring the map is very exciting.
  But I can say there are some "problems". In Fallout1 & 2 the cities where more crowded and where 
 walking outside the buildings (inside the town area of course) . In Fallout 3 only in some places 
 you can see that but I think it's not a big deal.
  Also there is a little bug that I saw at destroyed Megaton. In some places near the scrap iron 
 the player passes through but cant god inside the town.
  Anyway that was my first review on a game so I wrote whatever I felt :D Also sorry about the crappy 
 English. I hope you like the game and I think if some1 has played the other games of Fallout series 
 will love this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klanora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Fallout 1 and 2 left me wishing that newer, higher end computers could run the game and you could 
 immerse yourself in a post-apocalyptic future. This is exactly what Bethesda has done with Fallout 
 3, delivering the world of fallout and it's rpg elements into a more immersive, more personal level. 
 Sure people would complain about the FPS style of gameplay involved, but that is what is so amazingly 
 immersing in the game. I bet alot of you boys would just called it revamped if it stayed as an 
 overhead view with improved graphics. The experience of utilizing today's technology and carrying 
 on a much loved franchise is what Fallout 3 does. Though the amount of time you spend in this post-apocalyptic 
 future is somewhat lacking, and I wish Bethesda could have delivered more regarding the world and 
 time played. Otherwise, can't wait till out Fallout 4 and thank you Bethesda for giving a game 
 that was not only well made but well planned as well, this is a franchise that I hope does not 
 die out and it is definetely worth buying and worth playing (more than once) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joomberz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of those games that - besides some issues that might bug some (FPS) players immensely 
 - offers hours of gameplay and keep you glued to the screen.
  
  I can imagine that players looking for a FPS might not find what they are looking for as I've noticed 
 that:
  
  - Enemies can get stuck
  - Character movement is clunky
  - 3rd person aim is way off at times
  
  Nevertheless the game starts brilliantly and I immediately 
 felt sucked in from that point. One of the best elements of the game is the setting. I found myself 
 saving my game after each corner as I was expecting something freaky at every corner. It's absolutely 
 worthwhile (in between shooting all kinds of baddies) to take your time and look at the scenery 
 which is beautifully made.
  
  The combat system (V. A. T. S) is great, and makes for hilarious cut scenes; even more so when selecting 
 the perk bloody which increases the gore when hitting enemies. These 'funny' elements really increase 
 the value of the game as well. 
  
  One of the most jaw dropping moments was when I found a garden gnome perched on a rock. This struck 
 me as odd so I went on to investigate only to discover it was a trap set by a group of raiders. 
 The programmer who came up with that scene should get a raise.
  
  Well done Bethesda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fancelot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow just wow, it's a simply amazing experience for someone who's played fallout one and two to 
 death. I've even got fallout mods for games such as hearts of iron. I just fell in love with the 
 gritty and bleak atmosphere of fallout. Yet despite it's bleakness it has an unique sense of art 
 and humor. 
  
  I've always wanted to experience the fallout universe in a first person view. Fallout 3 has allowed 
 me to immerse myself into fallout on a level where I only dreamed of.
  
  It's quite an awesome experience to fight amongst brotherhood of steel against super mutants shoulder 
 to shoulder instead of the slower paced overhead view. It truly feels as if I'm fighting in a chaotic 
 yet desolate wasteland. I want to write pages more about this game... but I gotta get back into 
 fallout 3... got too many places yet unexplored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venusivy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  A lot of smaller reviews labelled Fallout 3 'Oblivion with guns.' That's not true. Also, there 
 are a lot of people that are upset because Fallout 3 deviates from the original Fallout 1 and 2. 
 Unfortunately, a game whose predecessor is a decade old is inherently going to be different because 
 developers move on and it makes sense to take advantage of the new technology. Other than that, 
 though, the new developers have been careful to try and make the texture of Fallout true to the 
 original and they've done a good job. I felt a swell of pride when I spotted my first Brotherhood 
 of Steel logo deep in the pits of a ruined subway line.
  
  The graphics on this game are quite good, though not necessarily cutting edge. However, the engine 
 is highly scalable and so a very wide range of computers are going to be able to play this game 
 well as a result. Standing at the top of a hill, looking out over a ruined Washington D. C., I can't 
 help but think that the REAL thing would like eerily similar. The graphics strive for authenticity 
 rather than being a caricature of reality, like the first two games did. This is a good difference. 
 
  
  The sound track is the only lackluster part of the game. I am not feeling the theatrical tilt that 
 the sound track often gives a game. However, this might have been intentional; instead of feeling 
 theatrical, I feel like I am actually stuck in the wastelands of a post-nuclear world. There wouldn't 
 be ambient music in the centre of Chernobyl, right?
  
  Gameplay is exceptional. While the combat system is real-time, the unique VATS system allows a 
 person to play the game almost on a level that is like turned based. This gives the game a nice 
 balance and allows people who are not necessarily into first person shooters to enjoy the game 
 without actually turning FPS fans off. It's amazing how much of the environment you can interact 
 with. You don't really become a 'scan-and-see,' where you immediately recognize everything in the 
 environment you are suppose to interact with. The voice acting is quite rich and consistently good 
 and most of the characters are memorable. Lastly, the array of weapons is astounding! Snipe, explode, 
 shred, however you like to deliver death to your opponent, you can find it here. There's a whole 
 lot more to this game then what is here, but the rest is for me to know and you to find out.
  
  Fallout 3 had an enormous legacy to live up to. While some Fallout fans might still be 'chasing 
 the dragon,' if you are open to a Fallout sequel that brings new elements to the table, elements 
 that improve on the original Fallout (though not necessarily the genre) , then strap on your PIP 
 boy and meet me in the wastelands.
  
  I rate this game a PAY, don't pirate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3rb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow... just, wow. I don't know where to start. From the epic character creation to the revolutionary 
 VATS combat system, Fallout 3 satisfies in a way I haven't experienced since I don't know when.
 
  
  There are a few disappointments, though, and I guess I'll start with those. The animations are 
 definitely a reminder of those seen in Oblivion, and if you didn't play Oblivion, let's just say 
 they are a bit unnatural. If only Bioware and Bethesda would merge up and exchange resources, we'd 
 see an amazing creation. The Mass Effect smoothness is just not seen in this title.
  
  Another bummer is the voice acting. While it's not downright terrible like you might find in a 
 game like Two World, it just seems to be missing something. The writing isn't bad, but the voice 
 actors obviously had little direction and were simply reading the words they were to say without 
 actually getting into the role, showing too little of the emotion that needed to be expressed in 
 each dialog.
  
  It would have been nice if the camera controls would a allow a bit more freedom. You are forced 
 to hold the vanity cam button down in order to pan around your character. Once the button is released, 
 the camera snaps back to the OTS or FP views. This is mildly annoying.
  
  But these few complaints are easily ignored, when you dive into the environment that Bethesda has 
 created. There is a real lived-in (and died-in) feel to the world, and the audio and graphical 
 marriage is one as creepy as it is harmonious.
  
  Freedom... All the freedom you've always wanted... you'll find it here. You won't have your cousin 
 Roman calling you up while you're in the middle of an adventure, requesting your attention, only 
 to punish you for denying him. Nay, Fallout 3 is a "true" sandbox experience that seductively brings 
 along the RPG experience as a bonus to what would otherwise be a great action game. The Perks that 
 your character can earn as he levels up are both numerous and drool-inspiring. You have the freedom 
 to play how you want, do what you want, and I have so far not seen any punishment for making any 
 choice, however outrageous that choice might be. A melee focused character can have just as much 
 fun as one who puts all their points in firearms. Clearly this is a work of genius, as it must 
 have been incredibly difficult to create something this epic, without forcing a character to follow 
 any sort of rules or guidelines at all. You can't mess up your character by making the wrong choices; 
 you can only make he/she that much more unique.
  
  I can't begin to explain how enjoyable it is to sneak up on an NPC, and play T-ball with their 
 head. Maybe they had a quest, or maybe... maybe you don't care. With Fallout, I've yet to find 
 that common RPG situation where some NPCs are just "unkillable". It ruins the experience when these 
 character defining walls exist. Bethesda has torn down those walls, and miraculously, you aren't 
 punished for it. Rather, you're still rewarded. Because it's FUN.
  
  This game is just FUN. Play it. If you're any kind of gamer at all, you owe it to yourself to play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmconstable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for maybe 10 hours or so now and I cannot stop playing and thinking 
 about it. I had a similar experience with Oblivion, but this world is more immersive because it 
 is a variant of our world. It is a beautiful game with mountains of things to do. I feel lost at 
 times in the variety. Which is why I work the main quest and then a side mission and back. 
  
  I love the weapons and the VATS. I am still getting the hang of healing myself and combat. 
 This only shows me the depth of the game as I am getting better as I level up of course. It is 
 true there are a few camera issues when using VATS, usually seen when I go into VATS when too close 
 to an enemy. I also notice the character animations and facial shading is similar to Oblivion, 
 but I did not mind Oblivions character models except they walk a little stiffly. I would recommend 
 playing this game from first person perspective as it is much more immersive. I do not think combat 
 feels clunky, but many enemies rush you, until they are seriously hurt then they beg for their 
 lives. 
  
  The map is similar to Oblivion in that you can fast travel to places which is nice as I don't always 
 want to travel back and forth. That being said it is good to just walk around and see what you 
 can. The pipboy works very well and is a pretty simple interface as is the leveling up portion 
 of the game. 
  
  This is a game of riches upon gaming riches. There are just so many things to do, from repairing 
 your own weapons, exploring, side missions, main quest, and great combat that I cannot get enough 
 of it and am almost too overwhelmed by my options. What a great problem to have! I gauge a game 
 by how much I want to play it and if I keep playing it. So far I cannot stop playing this one despite 
 having BIA - Hell's Highway, Far Cry 2, and Dead Space. All of them are great games, but Fallout 
 3 stands above them without a doubt. 
  
  
  
  BTW as my intro statement implies I think Gamespot has become a bit snobby and stingy with their 
 ratings. Do they really think GTA4 is better than Fallout 3? Is it really a better story and better 
 graphics? I am certain it is a great game, but I think Fallout 3 lost some marks because they know 
 Bethesda made the game and they had some niggles from that game that they used to mark this game 
 down, thus their detracting comments.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  As with many other players, I went into this game with a mixture of excitement and trepidation. 
 I am a fan of the original 3 games and can remember playing on my PII-266 10 years ago, so like 
 the 30 year old fanboy I am, I hoped that Bethesda would give the series all the love it deserved. 
 I am more than pleased with the results!
  
  This game is so much larger of scope than the previous versions and it is so easy to get sucked 
 in for hours at a time. Each location is unique and has its own story, and part of the fun of the 
 game is exploring to see just what is around the next corner or over the next hill.
  
  That's not to say that the game is entirely perfect. Many of the issues that plagued Oblivion such 
 as weak character animations and voice acting as well as an overly sensitive physics engine are 
 still present here, but they are easily overlooked when the game is looked at as a whole. It's 
 also a shame that the console versions seem to have more issues than the PC version (but that's 
 of little consequence to me. The current consoles are pretty and all, but until they have a control 
 option with the precision, fluidity, and customizability of the keyboard/mouse combination, I will 
 stick with my platform of choice)
  
  Thank you, Bethesda, for releasing a worthy successor to the Fallout franchise, and I hope the 
 few issues there are will be ironed out for the next game. Cheers!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Fallout 1 & 2, but didn't care much for Tactics or Brotherhood of Steel spin 
 offs. This game, is also amazing! The game engine is similar to Oblivion but alot more up-to-date 
 and more features. The world does definetly feel Fallout and alot of the features that make Fallout 
 is there; like random encounters and lots of places to explore. Alot of familure sound effects 
 really add to the original feel of the game. Dialog tree is still there and the theme and visuals 
 would make any Fallout fan like this game. But with the idea of DLC (downloadable Content) makes 
 me very excited thinking what other cool things we will have instore for this game. The only thing 
 I think would have made this game better is some kind of note book you can type in so you can make 
 notes regarding locations where there are locks you can't open yet due to lack of skill, so you 
 can look back and go get them. This game is soo big that I can't remember them all. This game is 
 an amazing addition to the Fallout series that is really well made! GREAT JOB BETHESDA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paragus1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is rock solid. I had high expectations from Bethesda after Morrowind and Oblivion, and 
 I can say that I am not disappointed.
  
  The game is very open-ended. I have spent most of my time playing not even doing the main story. 
 The world is extremely immersive and runs great even on mid range systems. You will feel the sense 
 of wonderment as you explore the wasteland. There is such an amazing level of detail to everything 
 you see and everywhere you go.
  
  The combat system is interesting and fun. The ability to target specific parts of your enemies 
 body adds a new element to the game. Often time you will be rewarded with a cutscene of amazing 
 carnage that will leave you with your mouth open or laughing with glee as your targets head explodes 
 into a fine red mist mixed with roast beef.
  
  The game looks like it will have good replayability as well. Already I am finding myself looking 
 forward to another playthrough to make decisions differently that will vastly change the game for 
 me.
  
  The game is worth your money, and once again Bethesda brings you a game that will most likely be 
 in contention for game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrlordelo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Left me tense, with a willingness to go uncovering the story, ta faithful to the past, a fantastic 
 atmosphere, AI very good, boy 300 IIP perfect, combat systems, too!
  
  Character very well detailed, I felt really in a human situation to survive after a nuclear war, 
 very good system of life ... contaminated food and water as well, all you consume is radiation, 
 you need to take medicine for it, are old weapons, and armor ..
  
  The biggest of all is the feeling you are living there because of what humanity of his character 
 and also the hambientao the game real well and faithfully the original idea of Fallout ... I'm 
 very happy with the result, not yet finished the game but footnote 10!
  
  
  Note that pekrs are very good, you earn 1 per lvl, and has a great variety and you know they can 
 turn combine expert in a particular function! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohan_juneja
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  still prefer good old source engine over gamebryo . water just not as pretty ! maybe it's my video 
 card ? playing on a macbook pro with 512mb gpu . playing clear sky - now thats pretty , even at 
 medium specs . exploration - nice . scarce ammo has me thinking and innovating - was forced to 
 take down rad scorpions in school with frag mines and grenades in tight quarters ! was fun . met 
 some bandits and had to rush attack them with a salvaged flamer ! was hilar . oooooh VATS . john 
 woo my ass , son . the system isnt too realistic , because i end up dodging and hiding till my 
 APs regen , but who gives a hoot ? im up to my neck in realistic fps shyte . imho moving away from 
 realism is whats hot this season or two , addicted to norman rockwell-esque tf2 . alot of people 
 are saying VATs gets old real fast . well , not so far . love making head crits on anything !
 
  
  npcs coulda had more charachter i think . the voice acting is a tad amateur - everyone talks waaaaaaaaaay 
 to slow . fake ! i dont have the patient to freeking wait for people to finish talking . needs 
 more slang and flavour . just cussing hard core doesnt make dialogue fun , witty , gritty or real 
 . and how about funkier taunts from baddies ? you guys at bethesda should have had a taunt competition 
 ! you would have had 10 million hits ! i would lurve to hear my taunt in-game ! "eat cock meat 
 sandwich **** !!!!!"
  
  all in all quite enjoyable . needs more grit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Incrognito
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  To tell you the truth, I didn't quite make the hype train when it left the station. But from where 
 I sit now, I can say that it was well deserved. By spending any amount of time playing this game, 
 you can tell that Bethesda went well out of their way to include some gritty realism, with everything 
 from persistent vendor inventory, to limb-specific damage mechanics, as well as the occasional 
 bit of comic relief to stem the tide of misery. In every possible way, this game makes you feel 
 like you are living in a post-apocalyptic world in which you sometimes need to do terrible things 
 to get by. Decisions I myself have made have come back to haunt me more or bless me than once, 
 and I have been playing for less than ten hours. The amount of bugs are nominal. The transition 
 from Vault 101 to the outside world included some Crash-to-desktops, but none have been encountered 
 since. I won't reveal anything about the story, suffice to say that it keeps you interested. And 
 if you feel so inclined, you can ignore the main story and simply do all the side quests, though, 
 needless to say, the game would then never end. And to address those who believed this would be 
 Oblivion with guns, the answer is neither yes nor no. While the AI behavior and conversational 
 mechanics are Oblivion-esk, the general feel is completely different. I myself grew bored of Oblivion 
 after only a few hours playing, while Fallout 3 is something I simply can't put down. I would recommend 
 this game, literally, to anyone who likes RPG's or FPS's, as this game is probably the best example 
 of the best of both worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I started Playing it was cool the way the story was going... you were born, you could choose how 
 you will look like in future, then being a baby, the school all that was kinda cool, but I was 
 noticing too much "Oblivion Look-A-Like". Also can't NPCs have emotions? I don't know atleast look 
 angry? or sad? or happy? or cry? something! Because they always have a "careface" =|
  
  Well i tought it was just look a like, when I left the Shelter... it reminded me of the very beggining 
 of oblivion, but now, it wasn't all green and bunnies jumping around, it was a post apocalyptic 
 place, near DC, called Wasteland. The radio gave it quite a cool feeling, and the music there was 
 awesome. There is a humor touch in this game which is also great... but it just reminds me of playing 
 oblivion... maybe an Oblivion Mod?
  
  Let's go specific:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  To start, I must say that in first-person mode it is pretty cool, jumping and stuff, Combat mode 
 is kinda... I don't know crappy? while using guns because basically you don't have this cool things 
 we have today in FPS, blindfire, cover, etc. So if you have a gun shoot fast, or use the VATS system 
 to kill faster or you will die.
  By talking on that, VATS is a cool addition to "Oblivion" i like the way it goes, other good thing 
 is you cant use it forever so basically you must know how to fight also. 
  And now, when we play in "Third-Person"... the walking is bugged, and looks stupid. Fighting is 
 also a bit harder, but its cool to see when there is someone behind you. Basically I use it while 
 traveling on foot long distances.
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  Damn! This one is good, it is really nice and doesn't require much from my PC. I must say graphically 
 it is awesome, and all that blood, and how VATS flows with all this, IF, and i repear IF I ever 
 rated a game by it's graphics it could be one of the best.
  
  Score: 9.5/10
  
  Sound:
  
  You gotta love the soundtrack, it adds a great feeling to the game, the menus, the 
 radio, the bosses... except for NPCs I think there is some bug with them. But damn i just love the 
 radio... You are walking on a wasteland full of nothing and destroyed buildings, and you have this 
 Funny, Old music...
  
  Score: 9/10
  
  General:
  
  This game could have been something way better, don't get me wrong, not saying it's bad, but I 
 think there was a lot of potential wated with this one. It is true we have lots of quests, and 
 graphically this game is insane, but there are flaws. If it was my call i Wouldn't put Bethesda 
 or whatever they are called. I may always tell you its true and everything but we must accept that 
 in RPGs Japanese are the best... Yes that is correct, we may have good RPGs but they never can 
 be compared to the Uberness of a Japanese RPG... The quests after doing 10 Optional quests you 
 can't play more, because they all get to be the same at the end.
  
  Final Score: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris1975
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  The comparison is inevitable. When a company like BethSoft acquires an IP as legendary as Fallout, 
 it is natural to expect the game to resemble those made by BethSoft previously. And in this case, 
 the expectation (or fear) has been somewhat justified. You will hear that Fallout 3 is just Oblivion 
 with guns, and thats not far off the mark. 
  The game feels most like Fallout when we make it to the vast, beautiful, and tragic Wasteland surrounding 
 Washington DC. The PipBoy 3000 has a familiar feel to it, for those of us who played the original 
 Fallout games. Many of the items, weapons, and other equipment also are reminiscent of the Fallout 
 franchise. Sadly, this is where the similarity ends. That doesn't mean Fallout 3 is a bad game, 
 it just means it does not feel like the rightful successor to the Fallout series. This is because 
 when it comes to gameplay mechanics, this game borrows too much from Oblivion and the FPS genre. 
 Combat is by far more enjoyable when using VATS, but unfortunately we run out of the Action Points 
 that govern when you can use VATS far too easily, leaving you with either the option of running 
 or hiding while the APs regnerate, or using the clunky real-time FPS combat system, which because 
 it is based on RPG die-roll mechanics, will lead to players "missing" even when the targeting reticle 
 is squarely centered on your target. 
  
  The good news is that the overall experience is enjoyable, and those who are new to the Fallout 
 franchise will certainly enjoy the game more then those of us with nostalgic feelings for Fallout 
 1 & 2. The game will likely benefit from either patches or modding community which will likely 
 try to make the game more like original fallout games where possible. 
  
  It would have been entirely possible to make a true Fallout successor, but unfortunately it seems 
 BethSoft was not quite up to the task. Had the IP been purchased by BioWare or Obsidian Entertainment, 
 developers of Knights of the Old Republic 1 & 2, we would have seen a game much more faithful to 
 the Fallout franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I am very pleased with this game. It is truely a killer single player RPG that has the story, the 
 atmosphere and the game play that is so crucial to a great RPG. This reminds me of the greats like 
 Auto Duel, Wasteland, Fallout 1 & 2, etc. Just a killer game with a killer story, and plenty of 
 detail that really gets you into the game and the environment. 
  
  I didn't give the game a 10 because I feel the map is a little cumbersome and inventory is a little 
 cumbersome too. I kinda wish that you could switch weapons easier than having to go back and forth 
 to the Pip Boy inventory every time. But, other than that, I am actually very pleased with the 
 quick travel feature. You do plenty of exploring, and when you identify destinations, when you 
 want to go back you can quick travel. very cool.
  
  So far the guns and repairing are sweet. The quests are fresh and unique so far, and the enemies 
 go way beyond just the raiders and ghouls. The fire ants for instance are amazing, and the AI is 
 pretty awesome too.
  
  You cannot afford to miss this game. I am going to shock everyone here and say BEST IN SERIES. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mreggiardo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  I start the game almost without any hope.
  But just at the start the load time were very fast, is very important, when you play a RPG game, 
 were ability is not the fun, to try again and again.. so reload, and load time have to be very 
 fast, and really they are.
  1 point..
  I start continue playing, and the game translate you in the world, the out of the vault, is terrible, 
 just found outside.. and you see all devastated, with only one question in you mind is... what 
 do i do now?
  Is the key to all good role playing game..
  
  Vats works very well, in almost no time i just set my default view to 3er person, and a little 
 away, close to an isometric view, and use vats.. , the game switch to 1rst to 3rt in a way so simple 
 you don't notice , i feel really comfortable with the game, the game respond very fast never hangs, 
 everything is so polished, is technically a fantastic game.
  
  Really they made and excellent work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vashy88
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  I refuse to accept this as a Fallout-game, like people say "it's oblivion in disguise".
  
  The Combat in the game is exactly the same as in oblivion, it is really clumsy. even the melee 
 and unarmed fight animations are the same as in oblivion, only change is that swords and axes have 
 been changed to baseball bats and tire irons.
  
  I made an unarmed-character because I liked punching and kicking in FO 1&2 where the enemy flew 
 long distances when you did a critical. In this game however, the fighting is the same as in oblivion 
 hit... block... hit... block and hope enemy runs out of hp before you do. There is no cool VATS-critical 
 in HtoH-combat (expect when you get the Power-Fist... or was that cut out?) .
  
  Other things this game failed to do are the famous "random encounters", since you just run around 
 the city (which is half the size of oblivion) . It was fun to move on the map since you never knew 
 what you would face and with outdoorsman-skill (which FO3 doesn't even have anymore) you could 
 avoid these if you knew the opponent was way too strong. The game doesn't have gambling-skill also 
 but that isn't a big problem since I didn't really take that skill in the earlier FOs.
  
  The voice-acting is also rather bad occasionally, I was expecting Burke to say:"IT'S ALL OVER LAW-BREAKER!" 
 every time he said something. Liam Neeson was nice though and he felt really natural as the father 
 of the PC. The good thing at least is they have hired a few more voice actors than in oblivion 
 where every Imperial Guard sounded like Burke in FO3, and conversation was more like "yes, no, 
 maybe?"
  
  
  In the end Oblivi... I mean Fallout 3 is a good game but it's definitely not worthy of it's title. 
 Better name would have been Oblivion: Post apocalyptic adventures.
  
  Good thing Interplay is back on it's feet and is planning a fallout MMO, I have high hopes that 
 it will bring the real fallout feel back with better graphics and lot more fallout-antics. I would 
 get it even if it was Fallout 2 with only multiplayer added, I still go back to fallout 2 when 
 im feeling like playing a real RPG-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haradim77
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  This game is just as revolutionary as it's prior games! The only major difference in this game 
 that distinct it from Fallout 1 and 2 are that this is of course better graphics, you have the 
 option to modify your character, and you can switch between turn-based game or a real-time game!
 
  I really like the start of the game, it is so different from Fallout 1 and 2. The first scene 
 in the game takes place when you are born, and then it goes on to birthdays and so on. You actually 
 get to live a bit in the Vault before you have to go and discover the amazing wasteland!
  
  Btw, i have seen a lot of comments, on many websites, that says it is a crappy FPS game might want 
 to take the following in consideration. This is an Action-RPG game NOT an FPS!!
  Fallout 1 was action-RPG, Fallout 2 was action-RPG and Fallout 3 is also action-RPG. So let me 
 put it like this, if you loved the good old Fallout games as much as i did, you will want to marry 
 this game, and if this is your first Fallout game, you will be blown so hard, that if you were 
 standing in Florida, you would land in Denmark!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  For starters, this game has the most unique setting ever in a video game. The game is set in a 
 alternate reality, but at times it can fool the player. There were times that I was literally getting 
 chills all over my body. Just seeing the desolation to our nation's capital is disturbing because 
 it could actually happen someday. Washington is a symbol of how far our country has come. All of 
 the monuments and history that represent the most unique form of government the world has ever 
 seen. The most powerful military the world has ever seen-all completely destroyed. 
  
  Needless the game looks and runs great on a good system. I have an AMD X2 5600+, 2GB DDR2 RAM, 
 and a Geforce 8800GT (512MB) . The world feels bigger than Oblivion ever did and I think that has 
 to do with the amount of buildings. Oblivion was mostly forest and fields and the modern setting 
 makes it feel bigger for some reason. 
  
  The story is incredibly engrossing and the side quests keep you entertained along the way. The 
 most interesting side quest so far has to be going to the National Archives and stealing the Declaration 
 of Independence. It's funny to ask people about the Declaration while doing the quest. No one really 
 knows what is it. Just some ancient document (God bless the Department of Education...) .
  
  The lock on system for shooting is an awesome new method of combat. Being able to target specific 
 parts adds a whole new strategy to the game. Funny how both this game and Dead Space use this method 
 and they released at similar times.
  
  I recommend this game to fans of FPS who are looking for something unique from the typical shooter 
 genre. I also recommend it to any RPG fan looking for a unique twist as well. Fans of Oblivion 
 do not need to be told what to expect. They will love it. 
  
  Oh, and it's the only game that I can think of that gives the player the choice detonate a nuclear 
 weapon to destroy an entire city. Props for that alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Data463
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  It was obvious that this game would get ludicrous mainstream praise. Bethesda knows how to buy 
 reviews probably better than any other developer. However, I tried to enjoy this, really I did, 
 and I simply couldn't. I realize it's fashionable to list some kind of cred to qualify a review, 
 so here's mine. Fallout 1, 2, and Tactics. Other spiritual successor-type games like Arcanum. Even 
 dabbled with Wasteland, but there's only so much "retro" I can take before it affects my gaming 
 enjoyment. I even liked Oblivion at first, before level scaling, limited voice-acting, and all 
 the usual complaints about the game started to turn it from "Hey, cool!" to "Meh". 
  
  So where do I begin with Fallout 3? Well, rest easy, folks. I'm not going to blast it because it's 
 not a 3rd person isometric RPG. I am a huge fan of Vampire the Masquerade: Bloodlines and feel 
 that it, despite it's numerous bugs, is proof that an RPG in first person can work. First of all, 
 the world is extremely bland. Bethesda did increase the number of voice actors, but the voice acting 
 still suffers -- both in delivery and in source material. Yes, that means writing. FO3's writing 
 is moronic at best, horrid at worst. It's as if it was written by a 3rd grade creative writing 
 class, with an adult going over it to sprinkle in the occasional curse word to make it OMGEDGY! 
 
  
  The characters in the game are completely lifeless. It's like the concept of "uncanny valley" multiplied 
 a hundredfold. Oblivion was the same way, and this is due in part to shoddy design with a shoddy 
 engine. By contrast, VampireTM: Bloodlines came out 4 years ago, and every character has a distinct 
 and memorable personality. You would think Bethesda would try to improve on that for FO3, but they 
 didn't and it shows. Same idle animations, same blank stares, same stiffness. 
  
  The biggest flaw, however, was the game's inability to hook me. Try as I might, I simply cannot 
 bring myself to care enough to play it out and see if it improves. It's... well, boring. It's so 
 bad that I would rather get back to Far Cry 2, which for me is saying a lot, as I have always, 
 ALWAYS preferred RPGs over shooters. 
  
  Bottom line, if you have to play this, try to borrow it from a friend for your console. It's not 
 worth buying for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchies
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  So my review doesn't get kicked for "trolling" let me explain. I am not into the role playing scene, 
 I don't like roaming around aimlessly; But I thought I would try something new because of the shooter 
 aspect. The environment and character customization is pretty awesome. The landscape seems to go 
 on forever. So as an RPG the game seems endless, virtually everything is explorable.
  
  Unfortunately, the shooter aspect of the game is disappointing. The V. A. T. S looked pretty intriguing, 
 but it doesn't seem that helpful. If you aim at someones arm, you put a few rounds into it, they 
 should lose it. The damage you inflict on other characters seems a little off balance. A few shots 
 from a bb gun goes through the exoskeleton of a roach and kills it; but 5 close range shots from 
 a 9mm into someone's face doesn't kill them. It would be nice if your opponents coordination would 
 at least be affected; you shoot them in the face, then they'd be blind.
  
  If you kill someone everyone knows about it and everyone tries to kill you. Even if you do it and 
 no one is around. I don't know if it is a glitch, but people don't open doors, they walk through 
 them.
  
  As a shooter this game is disappointing; so if that is why you are interested in this title I'd 
 reconsider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgobeil
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Boy, oh boy this game is a masterpiece! Quite unique and I'm not even a fan of the Fallout series 
 since I didn't play the first two games but Fallout 3 delivers such high quality gameplay, ambience 
 and story that it makes me consider it as the only game to ever be worth a real 10 out of 10.
 
  
  The way everything seems to fit within the game and the story is fabulous (like the way your health 
 and Rad level interact and all) , and the way that you can adjust the game to be the way you want 
 (FPS or 3rd person) for a maximum experience.
  
  I was expecting a lot from Fallout 3, since I heard it was in the making and now that I'm playing 
 it I can say that it's way better than what I was expecting!
  
  This game is so rewarding and I especially like having my own house in Megaton and buying things 
 for it that come in various themes.
  
  My advice is: buy Fallout 3 and play it like you want to play it... be good or be evil but be warned, 
 if this game doesn't win you over you can't blame it for trying :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teg2006
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Look people some may not like it. But it is a very good game if given a chance. I do see some things 
 that make you thank of oblivion but it has plenty to make it stand on its own and make it even 
 better. i run it on a low end home pc and it still looks good its not all about the graphics all 
 the time what about just a fun game to play people these days only look for eye candy this game 
 looks good fun to play and makes you come back for more. People say it is all cramed in to to small 
 a place i thank it is just right you cant please every one love the vat system it is cool to roam 
 and look in all the corners and stuff and not have to fallow a path right off if i want i can go 
 get my butt kicked by any one lol then go back to the main quest
  so set back and have fun play it or not. and give it a fair review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l337Bossman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I really, really was not looking forward to Fallout 3. I felt I had to buy it because the first 
 2 were some of the best games I had ever played but my expectations were very, very low. Needless 
 to say, Fallout 3 is the best game I've played in the past few years.
  
  This game captures the atmosphere, quests, characters, and humor of the first two games. I love 
 how they've taken a lot of the 2D objects that we've come to know and love and transformed them 
 into 3D. You can really tell that Bethesda did their research and are fans of the original games. 
 People may complain that the game is brown, tan, brown, and some more brown but so were the first 
 games. In my opinion the game should be brown, dirty, and dingy and it is. I don't imagine beautiful 
 green grass and spring flowers following a nuclear apocalypse, sorry.
  
  VATS exceeds my expectations as well. It feels like the old turn based system and improves on it 
 in certain ways. I love how the game kicks into slow-motion and changes up what view you see as 
 you go through combat. I'm trying to play the game strictly through VATS and feel that the pace 
 of Action Points accruing and the more tactical feel is very, very cool. I'll duck behind a door, 
 maybe throw a land mine in front of it, and sit tight while my Action Points regenerate. 
  
  The NPCs feel like they have a personality which is a far cry over what the NPCs felt like 
 in Morrowind and an improvement on the "main" NPCs in Oblivion. There are bad guys, there are good 
 guys, and there are a lot of more generic NPCs that populate the isolated settlements and towns. 
 All of the NPCs look significantly different and there have been a few that I was tempted to kill 
 simply to steal their clothes. The quests have been different, fun, and full of the dark humor 
 that made Fallout such a hit in my mind. I don't want to ruin anything but suffice it to say that 
 many of the quests could have been pulled directly from the first game.
  
  I think this game also strikes closer to home to me because I am from Bethesda, Maryland. I know 
 many of these metro stops and locations that are found in the game (a lot of them are fictional) 
 and was kinda spooked to find the metro stop that is next to my house. I love how they took D. C., 
 the capital of the United States and symbol of freedom and utterly destroyed it. It really strikes 
 home when you're wandering along dust strewn streets amidst dilapidated buildings and you hear 
 patriotic music blaring form an Enclave robot.
  
  The music in this game is excellent. It has that creepy, happy feel that we've come to associate 
 with Fallout.
  
  Whether you're a fan or not, I highly recommend this game. There are going to be people who hate 
 it because it's not isometric, not turn based, and is developed by a company people hold a personal 
 grudge against. To those people, I'd say broaden your mind and be receptive to new ideas. The old 
 Fallout isn't going to come back, so take the plunge and head back into the wasteland again. You 
 won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedMindz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I never really paid any attention to the Fallout series. To be honest I never even played Fallout 
 1 or 2. But for some reason I wanted to play this game and so I went out and bought it and installed 
 it. It wasn't too demanding in specs (my computer isn't exactly a state of the art machine..) and 
 worked great at the beginning. Graphics looked pretty good, and the controls are fairly simple. 
 I liked how they added the option to go in and out of first & third person. It was pretty creative 
 in allowing the user to see the character grow up. This game looked so perfect.. or so I thought. 
 It played perfectly through the first quest no crashes or freezes what so ever; however, when you 
 get out of the vault you'll be plagued with constant crashes. It crashed on me every ten minutes. 
 It was horrible because I really loved this game. So if you want to purchase this game I suggest 
 you wait for a patch to come out otherwise you'll have to play through constant crashes like me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chefman1965
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  great game if it would stop crashing and freezing every five minutes, i bought this off of steam 
 maybe thats the problem, tired of buying games when they are not ready, whats the problem. im using 
 vista with phenom chip everything is top of the line on my pc, should not have these problems.
 
  
  the game is awesome, as far as I have went great, hope they patch this soon. i cannot wait to get 
 in to more playing. it is very addictive, one of the best RPG games I have played. i like the karma, 
 i was going to try to be good all the way through but being bad is so much more fun HEHE. 
  
  fighting is a little cluncky but the vault system rocks, the scenery is awesome, i have to 
 say they have done a great job through out the game but, I wish they would have tested alittle 
 more on the crashing and freezing. i have been reading the STEAM forums and it seems that everyone 
 has been having this problem. hopefully for all of you that have bought the game from the store 
 you wont have this problem.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rippletonz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda is the only prominent developer who could have continued the Fallout series with any success. 
 However, all similarities aside, this game is NOT Oblivion. This game is far more open and far 
 more in-depth in every way, from the variety of ways you can complete quests and objectives, to 
 the fact that exploring is actually rewarding! I've spent the last couple of months going back 
 to my old Fallout games just getting psyched up for this. I was also getting scared because I know 
 how difficult it is for games to live up to my expectations, especially when a new company is revamping 
 such a significant game from the past. All my worries have been put to rest, though. Bethesda did 
 a great job of modernizing what the game already had, and cutting out the unnecessary stuff. The 
 pip-boy is a much bigger and more useful part of your life now and the character creation remains 
 a nearly endless source of replay incentive. The thought-provoking wasteland and its world-weary 
 inhabitants are faithfully preserved (and they all have voices now!) The gritty, humorous world 
 is brought to life more vividly than ever before. 
  
  So far, I have spent the majority of my time in-game just exploring the wastes and finding different 
 settlements. One of the most important and identifying aspects of Fallout 1 and 2 were the random 
 wasteland encounters. Some of them you have to fight your way out of, others you can get a lot 
 more creative - Bethesda has nailed it in this regard. The combat (and exploring in general) really 
 give you the feeling that you're scrapping by in the wasteland as you do your best to find less-contaminated 
 food-sources and deal with survival issues such as crippled limbs, radiation poisoning, and even 
 drug addiction! Actually, the survival aspect is just barely reminiscent of the survival in Metal 
 Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. 
  
  So I give Bethesda proper recognitions (or "props," as the kids say) on a job that is ceremoniously 
 well done. Fallout has long been, and now remains, one of the most in-depth, evocative, and unique 
 game experiences in the history of the industry. Bethesda has produced a tribute to the timeless 
 classics that is truly tribute-worthy. 
  
  p. s. If you haven't already, go back to Fallout 1 or 2 once you're done with 3! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan2777
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  i like this game alot, i especially like the V. A. T. S. system. the only thing i dont like is that 
 the aimers for the guns are so small. i love exploring buildings and checking every nook and cranny. 
 Large battles with many people fighting are also very exciting. i also like how you can customize 
 your own character. i always laugh when i put a live grenade in a ghouls pocket, and i like open 
 world games, but i already learned that straying off the path at the started of the game isnt a 
 good idea. it ends up with you getting killed by a bunch of super mutants. my favorite weapons 
 are probably the minigun and a metal glove that blows peoples head off, (i forgot the name) which 
 is very satisfying. I also love the atmosphere, which is like bioshocks. (one of my favorite games) 
 it has crazy ghouls and zombies and a 50s theme. it also has some stuff that is highly addictive, 
 just like EVE in bioshock. it is very similiar to oblivion, but has alot of different twists. i 
 think it also has a great story.
  i recommend this game to anyone that likes the Elder Scrolls series and fun shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ras668
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic! Looks great, sounds great, plays great! VATS system is a lot of fun to play around with, 
 gives a nice switch up to a simple FPS. 
  
  HIGHS: Combat rocks - - map is expansive, not on the scale of the previous games, but you really 
 feel the distance between places of interest because you have to actually run there before you 
 can quick travel - - quest system is great, gives you just enough information to force you to figure 
 things out for yourself.
  
  LOWS: Not much here - - could be funnier, missing some of that classic Fallout dark humor - - Rated 
 M but mostly only for gore, little use of foul language (real people swear, even more so after 
 an apocalypse I imagine) , not looking for hot coffee, but a little visual or auditory stimulus 
 during say sex with a whore would be better than just waking up next to her. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avfortner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Overall I really love this game and give it a 9.5, can't give it a ten because it didn't quite 
 reach the hype.
  
  I have to admit I am a bit bias when it comes to Bethesda, they made two of my favorite games ever 
 - Morrowind and Oblivion... not to mention the expansions.
  You can really see a lot of Obliviion in this game even some of the character voices are the same. 
 But, I expected them to improve the graphics with Fallout 3, they are basically right there with 
 oblivion. And of course I have been playing games like Crysis on the PC so my demand for graphics 
 is quite hard to reach.
  Overall I would give the graphics a 9.0, the sound a 9.5 - I am playing in 1080p. This game does 
 everything with style - from the enclave radio, to the VATS system.
  I love this game but it doesn't have the replay value of Oblivion. If I gave oblivion a 10 I have 
 to give this game a 9.5. But go out a buy this game it is definitely worth the money... 
  
  I know some people will say "don't compare it to Oblivion", but I am not the one that made Fallout 
 3 a First Person role playing game, so you have to compare it to Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seattle0828
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Truly one of the deepest and most awe-inspiring rpg's I have ever played. The Capital Wastes are 
 rendered perfectly and each location you come across seems to fit the scene and mood perfectly. 
 Combat is glorious with the implementation of the VATS system despite some minor quirks. If you 
 are looking for a FPS this has a bit of that feel to it but let it be known that this is a RPG 
 first and foremost. The balance between shooter and rpg is handled very well and will keep you 
 exploring every blown out building you come across in the hopes that you find some more marauders 
 to paint the walls with. Quests feel deep and meaningful with each offering a myriad of ways to 
 complete for whatever style of play you are in the mood for. The large number of skills to focus 
 in and the fact that you simply cannot see it all in your first play through makes the replay value 
 extremely high. I'm only 15 hours into the game and already looking forward to my second play through. 
 This game is truly an instant classic and well worth your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyercho
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Fallout has been my favorite game ever since I played it!
  No substance, I've walked over both first Fallouts countless times. And when I found out - "Bethesda 
 will make Fallout 3 and it will be first person" I said ... "oh crap, why God?". I never liked 
 Elder Scrolls either but the child Bethesda made really got me and can't release me two days in 
 a row now!
  
  The game is "Super Duper"!!! I'm getting my ass radiated to help a chick write a Wasteland survival 
 book! 
  
  Oh Bethesda thank you! 
  
  Graphics 9.5/10 - Whooaaa you just have to look at the Wasteland horizon!!!!
  
  Gameplay 10/10 
 - I'm purely speechless here!
  
  Value 10/10 - You will see what I'm talking about!
  
  Story 10/10 - Well Bethesda can get even 11/10 for the story!
  
  Audio 10/10 - The music is 
 awesome. You can listen to radio stations you catch in the Wastelands. Weapon and other sounds 
 are perfect!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungry4pho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Great graphic!! Awsome game play. If you don't have too much time to play game. I suggest don't 
 start. Because you will be spending a whole of time in this game. I am a big oblivion fan and this 
 game I would say is as good as ovlivion. The graphic in this game is really good. If you are looking 
 for good rpg and shooting game, this is the game for you. This game has probably the best graphics 
 out there now. Gameplay: The gameplay is absolutely amazing. There are not many games like it. This 
 game is not for kids for sure. There are a lot of killing things and limbs flying every where. 
 Everyone is trying to survive in this harsh world. You can go around and just pop everyone's head 
 off for the fun of it. Even though that may be very fun, that's not the whole game. The quests help 
 you feel very involved in it. The world is absolutely gigantic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnord_1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Fallout 1 and 2 (Tactics was alright) , and I have been waiting a very long 
 time for this game.
  
  Of course, lots of people are saying it's a combination of Fallout and Oblivion and they are right, 
 to a point. The graphics are reminiscent of Oblivion, but the whole post-apocalyptic wasteland 
 feel is done right and I didn't feel like I was in an Oblivion clone.
  
  The biggest relief, in my opinion, as far as comparisons to Oblivion are concerned is the voice 
 acting. It's decent and they have more than five voice actors. One of my biggest complaints in 
 the whole Elder Scrolls series was the same voices over and over. They wised up. Sure, you can 
 recognize some of the voice actors between different characters, but there's enough variation that 
 it's not distracting or annoying.
  
  The movement, as has been mentioned elsewhere, is rather sluggish, but it doesn't detract too heavily. 
 This is not a world you want to speed through anyway. There's too much to discover, and it will 
 take several times playing through to see most of it. It's quite unlikely you'll see everything 
 in one game. 
  
  As far as what is carried over from the classic Fallout games, Bethesda made some faithful and 
 well upgraded versions of super mutants, centaurs, roaches, radscorpions, brahmin, and other creatures 
 as well as familiar items like stimpaks, Nuka Cola, Psycho, Jet, and of course, the weapons. 
 
  
  Ah, the weapons... you can find them in abundance and you will find the big guns much sooner than 
 you'll be able to use them well. I also like the new ability of being able to construct your own 
 weapons.
  
  The karma system has a depth unlike I've seen in almost any other game. The choices feel much more 
 dramatic and difficult. In order to follow the evil path, you really have to be a heartless, remorseless 
 bastard. 
  
  The VATS combat system is a lot of fun and is something I use a lot more than in the previous Fallout 
 games. The graphic, gory scenes that accompany a kill are satisfying and certainly not for children. 
 
  
  The game is difficult enough to be challenging and engrossing, but not so bad that you end up frustrated 
 and feel like giving up. Plus, you can always adjust difficulty on the fly. 
  
  Overall, this is the best game I've played in a long time. It's been a very long wait, and I am 
 not disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BananaJello
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Over the last few years, game developers are starting to realize that a good story is just as important 
 as impressive graphics and sound, especially in roleplaying games, which for too long were the 
 'kill the monster, gather the treasure, rescue the ', and it seemed that one area that was always 
 lacking was in science fiction. Yes, we have had some winners, like Mass Effect and Bioshock, and 
 of course KOTOR, but in general, the sci fi roleplaying genre was not nearly as fleshed out as 
 the fantasy based ones. Bethesda has done an incredible job of taking the methods of roleplaying 
 that they perfected in the Elder Scrolls series, and transferred them into a science fiction story. 
 Not being real familiar with the original Fallout games, except for some of the back stories, It 
 was kind of hard to know what to expect, but I must say I am very pleased with the result. I played 
 this game for nearly 6 hours last night, and didn't even realize that much time had went by. This 
 game is just as immersive as Oblivion and Morrowind, and it is just as easy to lose track of time. 
 There's so much to do, and so many people to talk to and so many places to find, that I doubt that 
 you would be able to do everything with one character. The open environment and do as you please 
 atmosphere is still there, and even though the game ends when the main quest is completed, (no, 
 I haven't got nearly that far yet) , It is very easy to get sidetracked. This game is all about 
 exploration and discovery, but also with the satisfaction of blowing enemies into small bits. If 
 there is one complaint that I have (so far) about the game, it's that the frame rate gets just 
 a tad choppy on occasion, and that graphically it's not quite as impressive as Oblivion, but overall, 
 I would recommend this game to anyone that enjoys the more open ended style of roleplaying, and 
 is looking for something more than just a dungeon crawler.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richmond5
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I just got this game right after my day of work ended and after getting sucked in for 4 juicy hours 
 of gameplay, I loved it as much as ES: Oblivion. The VATS was very interactive and innovative when 
 applied to an FPS perspective & blowing off body parts was AWESOME!, the original Fallout (tm) gimmicks 
 and atmosphere were definitely there, exploring and searching for items from baddies and good-guys 
 feels so fun and neccessary (due to the fact you are in a eat or be eaten social environment) , 
 the graphics (especially environmentally) out into this game are as good as we expected, and the 
 dialogue applied to all the cast members (espeically Liam Neeson as your father) was done top notch. 
 I really gave this game a 9.2/10. Now to the complicated part, why it does not warrant a 10 from 
 me.
  
  1) I feel there might not be enough quests in the game. All the quests are great and the emotionally 
 involve you and you can end them in multiple ways and they can affect you through the entire game. 
 It is our and my own human greed that asked for even more quests, but this is not as much as what 
 Oblvion offered for sure by a noticable significance. Ppl say they have not explored everywhere 
 and it should be that the quests or side-quests that are suppossed to draw you into more of these 
 unknown places for you to discover.
  
  2) You should have a voice! Bethesda probably keeps the tradition that the player should not have 
 a voice, but considering how far Mass Effect made the main character speak out himself, the Wanderer (YOU) 
 should be able to speak the responses that are given for you to speak out, especially when they 
 are flat-out HONORABLE, HILARIOUS, and Ridiculously EVIL! Both Male and Female voices should of 
 been provided and provide more sugar to this well-stacked cake of a game.
  
  3) Pipboy 3000 Layout. The screen does a good job to display that scrappy 286 screen, but I find 
 it too small. The detailed feel and tradition of the Fallout future is awesome, but I rather save 
 my eyes a bit . How about having the screen be brought a lil' "closer" to your head to make the 
 menu larger to see. The map is sometimes hard to look at as well because of the tradition of making 
 the display "crappy" to fit the mood of the game. 
  
  4) 3rd Person Animation. EVERYBODY knows this issue about the 3rd person and how your character 
 does not move like he/she is one with the environment, and rather kinda "floating". The developers 
 probably put so much effort to everything they forgot about this issue, but I play the game in 
 1st person anyways so its not a huge big deal. After GoW1 and then will be Gow2, GTA4, and other 
 FPSs, the 3rd person view should be widely refined and consider to show gaming fans that Bethesda 
 is able to suit every need of an "action" gamer.
  
  5) NO HORSIES OR HORSIE-THINGAMABOBERS. If Oblivion has horses, then Fallout 3 should have mounted 
 animals, either horses, mutant-freakers with horse legs, or something breathing that you can ride 
 on for extra traveling speed. You should also shoot rifles and pistols from the "horsie" as well, 
 and so should your enemies. It will add or reinforce that Vagabond Western feel in the game as 
 well.
  
  I'll stop being a negative hussy now and conclude this review. This game is great, not great... AMAZING 
 and SATISFYING! There can't be a better time to release this game as well. Some problems I addressed 
 earlier, Bethesda should of considered adding to satisfy the gamer to near parfection. But hey, 
 there will be downloadable content from XboxLive and an expansion packs and patches will arrive 
 in months or a year (hopefully not two) . To prime yourself to a highly qualified game for November 
 before Gears of War 2, GET THIS GAME NOW if you are a Fallout traditionalist, an Oblivion lover, 
 blood & gore-fan, story-driven person, GreenPeace, or if you just bloody-love games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandmoffspiker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Poor graphics in what way? I don't know how anybody could complain about the graphics if you're 
 playing on a decent PC. Actually, on my PC the graphics are kickass. Try turning your settings 
 up. If your CPU isn't good enough, don't harshly judge the game simply because you're a cheap bastard. 
 The game is better than I expected it would be, and I'm hooked. I actually sold Fable 2 (which 
 I also loved) for this, and I don't regret it. The intro is very creative, and once you're out 
 of the vault and in the Wasteland, your jaw will drop. Graphics, in my opinion, are actually killer. 
 I can't figure out how anybody can complain about them besides those just trying to bash the game 
 for some reason. The only thing that holds me from giving it a 10 is the third person camera is 
 a bit awkward for me, although that's a personal opinion. A great game. I would highly recommend 
 it to anyone. It really does immerse you into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scerbina
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Edited: I play on Ultra high. My PC is advanced and pulls engines like Crytech 2 (Crysis) and Far 
 Cry 2 smooth. Graphics in this game is exactly as in Oblivion, very outdated. It is not comparable 
 to the graphics in other games comming out these days.
  
  
  Also, look what the combat is like - I just uploaded this video: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=KxzyEkwfUTM
 
  
  Original review:
  I am sure most of this game's fans will disagree with me about this review. I have only been playing 
 for a few hours. Here is my first impression:
  
  - The very beginning of the game is quite interesting and very creative, i was impressed.
  - 
 The graphics is really, really bad. Basically nothing has changed since Oblivion. But mind you, 
 it is not the Q1 2006, it is almost 2009. Games with graphics like this should not be released 
 these days, and more over should not cost $60. I am so turned off by the graphics, I do not really 
 want to continue playing. If you're one of those players who do not care about the visuals, and 
 gameplay is all that matters, then you will probably enjoy this game. I personally can't enjoy 
 playing something that looks like a very outdated game. 
  - This is what the gameplay is like at the beginning of the game after you escape the Vault: 
 
  
  You speak with people. Nearly everyone asks you for favours (for something in return - can be money 
 or information for example) . You walk the distances to complete these quests. And in-between, while 
 you walk, you get to fight the mutated bugs, like cockroaches and giant ants, and other enemies. 
 As you do that, you gain combat experience and collect different items. At least that is what the 
 game is like at the beginning.
  
  Yes, if you ask me, in short the game is - Oblivion with guns, probably with new innovations. I 
 liked Oblivion for it's world and atmosphere: Medieval times, Magic... but the constant work on 
 quests like collecting certain types of flowers in the forest, made me feel like being at work, 
 only with no pay. Unfortunately, it seems that Fallout 3 has adopted these negative aspects of 
 Oblivion.
  
  It is sad that gaming industry is still quite inadequate today. This has been probably the most 
 anticipated game of this year. And the fact that many people like it so much, is probably an indication 
 that the gaming industry as a whole is at the very low level today. So much more can be achieved 
 with today's technology. I just hope that some day soon we will look at this game laughing, just 
 as we look at cheesy sci-fi movies made 50 years ago with special effects that make us laugh today. 
 (just a rhetorical comment. It has nothing to do with the purposely designed futuristic imagination 
 of the 50's atmosphere in the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goodman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  As a great Fallout and Fallout 2 fan I waited this sequel with awareness, will the great feeling 
 of previous 2D games remain in it`s 3d Hi def sequel? And I liked what I saw. After completing 
 the tutorial, witch is made in interesting and original mode, when You are standing outside the 
 cave of vault 101 and feeling this post-apocalyptic world full of adventures and unknown. I thought 
 that after first steps outside the vault, the army of mutated animals and beasts will attack me 
 with a risk to turn the game to absolute action shooter, but I felt relieved when after some minutes 
 of exploring the nearest area no one disturbed me except radio and sputnik-like flying robot. It 
 really felt that I am in the world of apocalypse where everything is wasteland. Only after 5 minute 
 exploring I finally killed one mutated ant. I just caught myself thinking that this sequel probably 
 can be even better than original Fallout. But it`s the first impressions only, so let`s play it 
 through and I hope my thoughts won`t change a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonexistant
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  In the time I've played this game it has lived up to and beyond my expectations. First of all any 
 game with slow motion head rolling gets a automatic +3 in my book, but beyond that the options 
 so far seem limitless and the character depth is great. The good an evil choices are well done 
 and none are clear cut. You may be thinking hell yeah we are gonna whoop some ass then next thing 
 you know the bad guy, or good guy whatever you choose is dead but unfortunately the Npc you needed 
 for the quest is dead. Now usually there will be a backup Npc for the quest but the effect this 
 has on the player is far better than just straight out good/evil. The good/evil system (Karma) 
 can also determine what kind of sidekick's you can acquire along the way as they are also good, 
 evil or somewhere in between. Overall Fallout 3 delivers all that is promised, and I have barely 
 scratched the surface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oshava
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Awesome. Truly the only word to describe it. While it is not a perfect game, it comes close. 
 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The art style in this game is fantastic. A truly realized post-apocalyptic city. The feel of the 
 game is fantastic. Whether you wander around the wastelands or through the alleys and streets of 
 a burnt-out D. C., it feels bleak but real. From a technical standpoint, the game excels, but doesn't 
 set any new standards. While still an optimized Oblivion engine, it has moments where the 2 years 
 of age shows.
  
  Sound 10/10
  The 50's nostalgic music is eerie when in firefights, but definently sets the mood for the game. 
 Guns sound unique and have a punch behind them. Environmental noise is enough without being overwhelming.
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  First things first, this is NOT Fallivion, get over it. V. A. T. S. is not overpowering, but definently 
 is an advantage when you use it. It is both possible to play Fallout 3 completely as an FPS, or 
 as a strategic RPG. However, the true beauty is in the way Bethesda allows for you to play the 
 way you want to. The game plays differently for each person, which is obvious if you read the forums 
 or other reviews. The morality system actually provides incentive to be either good or bad, and 
 there are actual consequences and rewards for both. Balanced combat and a fleshed out morality 
 sytem make for important decision making, and fun combat.
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  Keeping this game from being a 10:
  Your character doesn't talk.
  Stores are not useful enough, 
 whatever you can get there, is more readily available in exploration.
  Melee dosen't feel as useful as ranged combat, but hey, could just be me.
  
  
  But all these 
 complaints are fairly trivial. Fallout 3 is an engrossing, emotionally charged experience that 
 delivers in all aspects. It is what it promised to be, and thats just the beginning. The story 
 goes deep, and even as i write this review, i really wish i was exploring D. C. and the wastes.
 
  
  Damn school.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggrognard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  (PC Version Played Only)
  
  If you like RPGs, can deal with brutal violence and adult themes in a post-nuclear environment 
 then this is a game you should not miss. I loved the other two games in the series and they were 
 some of the best (in their day of course) and Fallout 3 continues in this tradition of being one 
 of the best RPGs in its day (now) .
  
  The somber graphics seem to take a hit in the GameSpot review, but I feel they fit very well. And 
 I think the personalities are as good or better than any of the other RPGs on the market today 
 as well. I am not sure what they are comparing them to that is "better"...
  
  And all the whining about VATS by the "twitch" gamers was for nothing. I am a (very) old-school 
 gamer and had planned on using VATS almost exclusively. But having played Oblivion I found myself 
 leaving the vault and into my second combat outside before I really even tried to use it. And I 
 am not sure what is "clunky" about the interface either... maybe I am just too old school but I 
 had no problem with my feeble old limbs bashing heads with a baseball bat or blowing arms off with 
 my 10mm and if I can do it I would surely hope the twitch-teens can.
  
  My only nit is it would be nice (as a parent) to be able to tone down the violence and adult themes 
 so my middleschooler could play. But as a systems analyst I also realize it would be impossible 
 in a game like FO3.
  
  Oh, and I wish it was bigger! More! More! More! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RenfieldX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  I'm really enjoying this game so far. I haven't spent enough time playing yet to comment on the 
 main story, but the quests that I've done so far have been varied and interesting. 
  
  Graphically, this game is beautiful and immersive. The audio really suits the game, and the voice 
 acting is top notch.
  
  My only real complaint so far is the 3rd person view. As has been mentioned by others, Bethseda 
 did a really poor job on the 3rd person view. Your character doesn't look like they're interacting 
 with the environment as they run around. I use the first person view almost exclusively, so this 
 isn't a big issue for me. This game is also lacking somewhat in the trademark Fallout humour, at 
 least compared to FO 1 and 2.
  
  I'm a big fan of Fallout 1 and 2, and I think that this game is a worthy addition to the franchise. 
 It's definitely a different style of game, but they captured the look and feel of Fallout. You 
 can see the influence of Oblivion in this game (which I don't see as a bad thing) , but to call 
 this game 'Oblivion with guns' would be IMHO inaccurate.
  
  Bottom line - most people are going to really enjoy this game, and I highly recommend it. That 
 being said, this game isn't for everyone, so you should read up on the game or rent it first if 
 you don't enjoy RPG type games a la Oblivion. This is not a FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParisSun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. Period. I've never played the Fallout series before this, so I can't make 
 that comparison. But when it comes to engrossing storytelling, breathtaking settings and pissed 
 off Mad Max wannabees; Fallout is hands down a glorious achievement. Once you leave the vault, 
 you are overwhelmed by the scope of this game. It's hard to decide where to go first. I suggest, 
 like most, Megaton. Anyway, I picked this game up yesterday, got home at 7:00pm and played till 
 1:00am. I would have stayed up longer but I have to be to work. This is definitely addictive, so 
 be careful and expect to be owned early in the game. The enemies attack in groups and can be difficult 
 to beat. But the game does fell well balanced. This is a definite must buy for any rpg lover and 
 general gamer. The FPS guy may not like the pace but should definitely give it a try before Gears 
 comes out. One last suggestion, be careful with your ammo, I found myself running out and then 
 running for my life. The AI will also attempt to trap you in cross fire. I found myself getting 
 killed multiple times. And they can kill you from a distance. I'm rambling now, but this is the 
 best RPG of the year. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronikas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  I won't bore you with journalistic accounts of my in-game experience. I will only say that if you're 
 thinking about buying this game... DO IT. Some people will try to tell you that it is oblivion with 
 guns, but it is SO much more than that. The development of your own character and the interaction 
 with others in the game world is some of the best I've seen in a single-player experience. My roomate 
 and I have been playing for the same amount of time (since release day when we got off of work) . 
 After only a few hours our character and experience within the game is vastly different. 
  Although I wouldn't say Bethesda has broken new ground in a graphical sense. The visuals are pleasing, 
 the HDR and lighting has a nice look and feel, and the wasteland setting is almost too convincing. 
 If you have ever enjoyed fallout, an rpg, or any game period for that matter... pick this one up!
 
  
  My only complaint as of yet is that the pc version mouse is quite sluggish. I'm using a Razer Lachesis 
 and no combination of DPI hardware settings or in-game sensitivity settings gives me quite the 
 performance I'm looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Kegger-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Well to start with... I'm glad they didn't include my perk, as I got it before knowing this would 
 come out. I've played both 1 and 2. 1 with a full 3 minutes before zone load times, I loved the 
 atmosphere so much I read a book during the game load sequences. 
  I like where the game wants itself to be, but without the humor of the random encounters, I find 
 it lacking. I miss the Enterprise, and the fellows chasing an insane rabbit. It was charming and 
 helped endear me to the game. 
  Niggling qualms aside. The game world is well developed. I've heard people gripe about the travel 
 time between factions. IE It took so long to travel between this caravan and this faction, but 
 given the new realization I could see how the territory of a faction could be significantly shrunk. 
 Who's to say raiders aren't out gathering goods when we aren't around?
  I do agree with those who said the V. A. T. S. system if off kilter. I remember how difficult and 
 gratifying it was to kill a super mutant. In this game if you shoot and duck, you're capable of 
 killing many by level 5. This is something that would never fly in the older games. Take a shot-gun, 
 run up close, and bam. Mutant dead with enough action points for a head shot 3 times. Rinse and 
 repeat and they are all dead.
  Overall I found myself satisfied. If this game was to be brought to the next generation, and given 
 3d graphics, I honestly can't find a better implementation. They threw Oblivion to the wind and 
 favored a leveling system akin to an older RPG and the perk that allows a new S. P. E. C. I. A. L. point 
 every level aside, I found it to be well balanced and I often got caught in an engaging side quest 
 on my way towards the main one. 
  Overall I found it to be a good adaptation, and I would recommend it for any Fallout Fan. Those 
 who view it as less should understand the disparities between now and 10 years ago, and realize, 
 that for it's time, this is a good game, and well deserving of the Fallout Title. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niksis
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  I must admit, when I hear that Fallout 3 was gonna be made by Bethesda Softworks (The company that 
 made The Elder scrolls) I was more surprised than sad, mainly because I am such a big fan of the 
 first 2. That it broke my heart to hear they changed almost everything we love about Fallout 1 
 and Fallout 2 in Fallout 3.
  
  But after having played the game for a couple of hours I am proud to say that Bethesda Softworks 
 pulls it off again, they scored big with Oblivion and they scored big with this on as well.
  
  The graphics are great, they did well updating the Oblivion engine and the whole gritty feel 
 makes you feel right at home in the wasteland.
  
  It has some great sound effects, the voice acting is great, full of famous actors such as Liam 
 Nelson and others.
  
  The whole V. A. T. S. system was sounding quite ... Complex when first announced, but it feels just 
 right, the controls seems normal to any FPS-RPG.
  
  I would give this game a straight 10/10 just because it aims high and hits every time.
  
  Good 
 Job Bethesda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aslientkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, from every aspect. When I picked up my fallout 3 copy from gamestop today, 
 I could hardly describe my feeling about this game.
  
  Yet, this game continues the legend of fallout series, though different stories, different characters 
 and different vault. This game still offers the best gameplay I have since played in the field 
 of RPG.
  
  It is hard to describe what kind of this game belong. RPG? or FPS? I would say RPG, this game, 
 like other typical western rpgs, has attributes, perks, and skill points. FPS is just the way to 
 express the whole game.
  
  The graphics, you can tell, either PS3 or Xbox360 shall have similar graphics. There is not much 
 difference, but take a closer look, still some small glitches can be found in the game. For example, 
 a guy vanishes when he enters a room, which makes the game discontinous. Shall let the guy open 
 the door instead would be better? Just a thought, not really big deal. Overall, graphics is awesome.
 
  
  How about gameplay. In fact, fallout 3 offers you a whole new different gameplay from fallout 1 
 or 2. It is real time, but u can think using VATS, which means, let u stop for a moment. (Quote 
 From Somewhere.) So, you may lose the original fun of thinking tactically, i shall walk here, and 
 my Sulik walk there, and let my Vic kill that raider. I havent got any follower yet, becuz I have 
 got too high karma. But i believe it should be a way to recruit someone at the beginning. Well, 
 getting more ppl in Party may be fun. And how game play is a difference, but it works. And I bet 
 this style of playing is only viable on Fallout series. Hopefully other games wont copy it or borrow 
 it.
  
  This game does not require any prerequisite of previous fallout series. Just grab the new story 
 and you dont need to know who is Vic or who is Sulik. They died for sure, after 200 years. But 
 strangely, Enclave is still there. I dont know why it is there but it is still there. I hope i 
 can find answers more. By the way, if you have some knowledge of fallout series should be helpful. 
 Like what is an overseer, what is a pipboy, lol, what is a vault, umm.. Unforunately, most people 
 who play either 1 or 2 shall be born before 1980, because they have to meet requirement to play 
 the a mature game. so they will be like 30 now.
  
  Well, I guess i shall not spoil too much. Have fun playing it. If you dont have it, buy it now.. 
 (LOL, another commerical)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: butcherwarlord
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok people i love this game 
  because
  
  
  1. Have beaten all fallout Game's 1,2, FALLOUT tactics 
  2. I love the Game play that they give 
 you they really kept the original plot and have many outcomes because 
  life is Random life is Choice's life is Good/Evil 
  and all that stuff. The point is that you 
 need to make hard decisions in life"Bethesda"really brought that into the fold in this 3rd installment 
 into this legendary 
  
  Game's series line. Interplay HAD THE RIGHT IDEA BECAUSE there the one's that made this hole thing 
 possible and even though they bought them out. Bethesda Game software. stayed true to there word 
 and kept the dream and the Idea alive. which comes to my 3rd resown this is a GREAT GAME!
  
  3. I loved that they put Revelations into this it really speaks for the game and what has happened. I 
 so yes i would recamend buying this great game to eney one that 
  would believe in what this GREAT company is doing for this grand idea. Bethesda please keep this 
 legacy alive also i like the fact that the game detractor got the notes on the Game was built upon 
 GREAT WORK so keep up the GREAT work and God blase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentencer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the few that was lucky enough to have a midnight release of Fallout 3, and as such, 
 I decided to forgo sleep in lea of experiencing Fallout 3 as a masterpiece of modern games. 
  The first computer game I was introduced to was Fallout 1 (the demo to be precise) , and I was hooked. 
 Even though it was a game more geared to "adults" at the time, I as a youth quite enjoyed the story 
 and freedom I could experience in the fallout world. I was sucked into the series and loved it 
 ever sense.
  Fallout 3 does the same to it's players. Even the opening screen to the menu, with its slide show 
 style adds a dramatic realism to the universe you are about to embark in. Among that, the opening 
 cinematic is quite amazing as well.
  Although much has been commented by now on the aspects of starting the game, I won't venture into 
 those details. I will however say that Bethesda really loves Fallout as much as the fans do. It 
 truly is quite a wonderful experience to play Fallout 3. 
  Many people have given opinion to Bethesda keeping Fallout 3 native to it's origins, and on that 
 subject I have one thing to say. As an avid fallout fan myself, I truly love Fallout 3, and would 
 recommend it to anybody. The combat system is exciting (with VATS anyway) , and I just can't get 
 enough out of each moment.
  On a high-end computer, is look beautiful and flows effortlessly without any crashes to date. This 
 truly is a game that performs well on all developmental levels. You should play this game... and 
 I should get some sleep.
  
  Note: This review was posted after about 18 hours of non-stop action, and no sleep beforehand. 
 Your mercy in my grammar and spelling is implored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, im sure alot of ppl expected it to be pretty much just like Oblivion but with guns and mutants, 
 and while there are certainly some parts of the game that will remind you of oblivion, it definately 
 feels like a completely different game.
  
  I was expecting slow, unsatisfying combat, kinda like oblivion had ( albeit i loved oblivion despite 
 that) BUT i couldnt have been more wrong. The weapons all feel realistic and the combat can be 
 pretty much however you want it, realtime fast and furious, or a more strategic route via VATS. 
 Its nice and satisfying to see body parts that u have specifically targetted go flying apart, heck 
 even the melee weapons have a satisfying THWACK when they hit something. Its definately a gratifying 
 experience when it comes to flat out combat.
  
  The graphics are top notch but we all expected that im sure.
  
  The sound, spectacular, great 
 sound effects.
  
  Its hard to find any faults with the game really, i suppose the animations could be better, infact 
 they at times seem to be a lil out of place in such a well polished game its awkward to see stiff 
 jaggy animations on characters not all, but some dont seem very life like.
  
  And while, it hasnt happened yet, the lack of terrain variety is bound to get monotonous despite 
 how detailed and great it looks, there are only so many variations of gray and brown.
  
  And the lvl 20 cap is kinda... lame but im sure after an addon or two it will be bumped up.
  
 
  Its well worth buying, and i can promise you, you will not be dissapointed. Theres something for 
 everyone, from strait gory action, to exploring and looting or building your own weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surgency
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Worth the hype, worth the cash, and worth your time. Normally I am scared to drop $50-$60 on a 
 game now days. With so many crappy titles not living up to the insane hype they create before release 
 I usually try games by pirating them first. Being a HUGE fan of Oblivion and Fallout I decided 
 to buy the game at midnight. I have not quit playing the game yet.
  
  Pros:
  Great story!
  Excellent Atmosphere
  Potential Mod capabilities
  Replaying the game with a 
 new experience
  
  Cons:
  FPS Dips sometimes
  VATs can make things a little easy sometimes
  Traveling can sometimes get tedious
  
  All-in-all 
 if your looking for a game that you can be sure will make use of your time for a while to come. 
 Pick up Fallout 3!
  
  Instant classic
  Highly addictive
  Immersive
  Masterpiece
  All it's cracked up to be
  Innovative
  Revolutionary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taiedman45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  so much to do and so many things you can do in this game make it one of the most engrossing games 
 of the year. this game will have you playing for hours on end without you even noticing. i played 
 for an hour and a half in between classes today and didn't notice i played for a while. (I also 
 was considering skipping class to play longer.) the atmosphere actually startled me when i was 
 walking through a destroyed suburbia and made me look in awe over the horizon seeing the capitol 
 building with metal hanging off it in the distance. the battle system is a little quirky, could 
 be because its a entirely new way of fighting, but vats makes up for all of that. only found a 
 couple of glitches in the game but aren't anything to not buy this game, i had some weird thing 
 where it ran really slow and could see through walls (could be my comp haven't had time to test 
 it) . i never really played oblivion so i don't know how the characters chalk up to being the same 
 but for me they seem like they are all pretty well acted out. i agree with the gamespot rating, 
 they did a really good job at rating this and far cry 2. i also recommend dead space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  After ten years, the original Fallout series return with its third sequel, which I belive is able 
 to compete for the Game of the Year award, for many different reasons.
  
  First of all, the storyline is very good: Fallout 3 takes place in a post-apocalyptic United States 
 in the year 2277. You are a member of Vault 101, a fallout shelter serving Washington D. C. You 
 live with your widower father until, one day, you wake up finding that your father has left the 
 vault and ventured into the wasteland for unknown reasons. The vault overseer becomes suspicious 
 that you had something to do with the father's disappearance, and the character decides to go out 
 into the Capital Wasteland in search of him. Along the way, the player will encounter organizations 
 such as Brotherhood of Steel, a group of technology-coveting survivors, and the Enclave, the elitist 
 and genocidal remnant of the U. S. government.
  
  The gameplay is also exiting. You can explore the map whenever you want, and you can go wherever 
 you want to. There are memorable quest, which will thrill every player. These quests can be done 
 away with more than one way, which gives even more freedom to the player. And most notable is the 
 VATS system, which results in every kind of encounter with enemy creatures, and making combat look 
 awesome.
  
  The game can be played both from a weird 3rd person view or like an FPS, which I prefer, as it 
 is easier when in combat. Nevertheless, I think that combat itself is not as brutal as it is required 
 for such games and requested from many gamers around the globe.
  
  The graphics of the game are really outstanding. They make the game more realistic, while there 
 are no problems with bugs or glitches at all. The sound and music of the game is also a positive 
 point to be noticed.
  
  Fallout 3 is a respectable game that should be played from everyone over the age of fourteen. It 
 is really a sample to be copied, if there is a possibility for other companies to produce better 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vargre666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I got it at Midnight, last night. Been playing ever since. From the first part, the load screen, 
 your completely immersed. The slide show load screen is just one example of the attention to detail 
 Bethesda put into this game. The game loads, and you here that familiar voice... Ron Pearlman, "War... War 
 never changes." My shorthairs were standing on end, I had gooseflesh... for me, it was a defining 
 moment in game-dom. Full circle so to speak. FO I and II were two of the first games I ever found 
 that were geared towards adults. I had loved Bards Tale and Wizardry when I was younger, but when 
 I found FO II, it blew my mind. Funny enough, I was reading Swan Song by Robert McCammon at the 
 time, which is an amazing post apocolyptic novel. Toss in a liberal dose of "Master of Puppets" 
 and I was in a dystopian heaven. Any road, hearing that voice again for the first time, in that 
 context, was like stepping back and forth in one movement. It brought me back to FO I and II, but 
 it threw me forward into Bethesda's own faithful rendition of the series. Pulled me in so deep 
 that I didnt think Id ever be able to turn the game off. I spent the first hour just messing with 
 characters, and finally decided on making a girl, simply because she was cuter. Its nice to note 
 that this is one of the few games that does differentiate between sexes. Playing a girl will get 
 you lots of "honey's" and "sweety's"... somewhat odd feel when your a 200lb ex infantry soldier, 
 but none the less...
  The character creation system is rather cool, whats really cool is that your fathers face is covered 
 when your born, and depending on how your character looks influences your fathers face; family 
 resemblance and all that. That attention to detail is what puts FO over the top, from a great game 
 to a simply amazing masterpiece.
  Some.. many... people have expressed doubts that this is nothing more than Oblivion with guns. Far, 
 far from it. It IS made by Bethesda. They do use the same engine. There are similarities (go figure) 
 and its obvious the two are made by the same developers. But this game has so much more... If you 
 thought Oblivion was beautiful, you havent seen anything yet. The first time you step out of the 
 Vault, I promise; your breath will literally be taken away. The vista before you stretches beyond 
 the horizon, a vast expanse of broken, burnt out hulls, every inch explorable. It took me two hours 
 just to get to Megaton. Scavenging in the Wastelands is fun and incredibly addictive. If its not 
 nailed down, you can pick it up. I would highly suggest keeping any motorcycle gas tanks if you 
 come across one... (hint hint)
  Final thoughts. Fallout III DOES have its flaws; some of the voice acting is less than stellar. 
 There are some twitchy AI's in there... sometimes youll see someone walking into a wall and continue 
 on walking. There are moments when youll try and talk to someone and not be able to; apparently 
 they have something else in mind. It seems to happen when theyre sitting down and about to stand 
 up. As if once the AI has committed to an action, it needs to finish that action before it can 
 start another. Which is very likely true. And its such a minor flaw that its barely worth mentioning. 
 All of the flaws are like that; minor, mostly not worth noticing (PC version anyhow) . I only put 
 them in the review to note that they do exist. Nothing Is perfect I suppose, but Bethesda certainly 
 gave a good run at attempting to make something so. Fallout III is by far the best game ive played 
 in a very long time. I cant remember the last time I played a game I enjoyed this much; probably 
 Fallout II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engage999
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  fallout 3, wow i can not find a better word to describe this game. It does everything well, graphics, 
 combat, and dialoge. you will drawn in at the very beginning. the music is outstanding normally 
 i would shut off the music, but not this game. if you the music in bioshock you'll like this. if 
 your into rpg's then wait no more and get it or if you like first person shooters pick this up 
 you not be disapointed. liam neeson does a great job voice actor as your father, not to mention 
 all the other voice actors are great as well. the atmosphere of the game is brilliant, you have 
 day and night cycles, and world that is blown to **** whats not to like. the enemies vary in all 
 kinds from raiders to bees giant ants, mutants, radioactive cows and list goes on on. i give fallout 
 a perfect score because it is in every way a perfect game. this is my first review so sorry if 
 it wasn't helpful or if it sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beowulf11
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  The very immersive atmosphere, innovative combat system, and characters who are believable and 
 that you grow attached to makes this an game the best I have played in a long time. Fallout 3 combines 
 the story quality of half life 2 with the immersive environment of Bioshock. Combat feels realistic 
 and suspenseful. Weapons and armor degradation adds a new element to the game and makes the repair 
 skill much more useful then it was in previous Fallout games. Just like all the game in the series, 
 this game will make you bust into laughter one moment and stare in disbelief the next. The game 
 challenges your character ethically and mentally. 
  
  The game truly makes you feel like a person growing up in the Vault and coming out to see a destroyed 
 Washington, DC. 
  
  Each decision has benefits and consequences. In the previous fallout games you could go around 
 looting every house and every store with no consequence as long as you never got caught but in 
 fallout 3 your karma is harmed. 
  
  Weapons are diverse and custom and crafted weapons add a very interesting variable to the game. 
 In addition, there are weapons on the battlefield which are made of scraps from the wasteland. 
 Little details like this help build on the atmosphere. Instead being armed like a marine, you have 
 to start off smacking vicious molerats with a baseball bat. The molerats in fallout 3 are much 
 more fun to fight than in 1+2. Molerats are surprisingly fun to fight because they way they leap 
 and run at you seems so life like. 
  
  Without giving too much away, fallout 3 quickly makes you feel like you are as important as Nero 
 out of the matrix. You save entire towns when your character can barley steady a rifle so imagine 
 how powerful your character will become after a few levels. 
  
  At times, the decisions that you make can save the life of a character you have grown to love. 
 Sometimes, the wasteland does not allow you to get to know each character but after your first 
 time meeting the person, you feel like you took a glimpse into the character's soul. Not many games 
 make you care for NPCs, only the great ones. 
  
  Good luck in the wasteland.
  .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterLeahy4209
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  I'm not disappointed at all with this game. As for the people who said it's oblivion with guns, 
 they are sadly mistaken. The Fallout universe has succesfully been captured and played out in extreme 
 beauty and utter deparity. All of your favorite sins from the previous game are available in bethesdas 
 take on the wasteland.
  I am currently only 4 hours into the game, I am doing a "survival mission" i am already starting 
 to see just how large in scope and vision this game is. 
  
  
  The humour, the 50's nostalgia it's a never ending blend of all the best elements of the first 
 two games
  and none of the annoying crap from BOS or that other piece of crap that was made for xbox. Quite 
 frankly, i feel as if this game requires everyone to give it a chance, for there is an unlimited 
 number of ways you can complete almost any task, leaving it completely open ended.
  
  
  This game is not a run and gun SANDBOX like crysis, or far cry there are choices and appropriate 
 consequences, for those actions. 
  
  This is one of those games that will require your utmost attention, in order to be able to truely 
 discover the depth of every single nook and cranny in this beautiful game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
