-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fallouttacticsbos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.1, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,032 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 14 Degrees East
Developer: Micro Forte
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 14, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It'll provide dozens of hours of entertainment to both fans of squad-based combat games and fans 
 of the series and stands a good chance of turning one into the other. 

 It's fitting that the Brotherhood of Steel is the subject of Fallout Tactics, which uses the Fallout 
 role-playing games' excellent combat system as the basis for a tactical combat game. The Brotherhood 
 has always been one of the Fallout series' most intriguing elements. As the most militaristic and 
 technologically advanced faction in the postnuclear wasteland of the United States, the group's 
 appearances in the Fallout role-playing games have always been brief but impressive. The Brotherhood 
 takes center stage in this third Fallout game, which borrows many of the elements that made the 
 first two so enjoyable and in turn manages to be a lot of fun despite a few problems.          
  You can command up to six squad members at a time    

 It isn't much of a surprise that the combat system itself survives the translation well. It's been 
 beefed up in some respects and stripped down in others, but only a few of the changes are questionable. 
 What's surprising is just how much like Fallout this strategy game is. The interfaces, maps, and 
 environments are all similar to those in the role-playing games, and the story even has the same 
 level of intriguing twists and turns. Fallout Tactics is much like Fallout overall -- only with less 
 talking and more fighting.   

  Unlike with its predecessors, it can take awhile to get used to Fallout Tactics. The designers 
 seemed to resist making decisions while designing the game and instead opted to make the rules 
 of the game very open-ended. As a result, the options screen looks like a do-it-yourself design 
 kit, with options for turning formations on or off, difficulty levels that determine both damage 
 and the artificial intelligence of your opponents, and combat modes that include one real-time 
 mode and not one but two turn-based modes. It's great to have options, but Fallout Tactics can 
 seem like several different games with just a few twists of the dials. And you'll find that most 
 of these different games actually aren't very good. You can adjust all these parameters on the 
 fly, and once you do find a combination -- or set of combinations -- that works for your particular 
 style and patience level, Fallout Tactics is great fun.   

  The game plays similarly to Fallout. You move around on a world map, driving vehicles or walking 
 to destinations. There are random encounters -- you'll often be set upon by raiders and creatures 
 in the wasteland. You move around in your home bases just as you do in the missions, buying equipment, 
 hiring members for your squad, and getting information on available missions. The fact that there's 
 not an abstract interface for such standard tasks is a great touch, and it's one that works to 
 make the world seem more alive. There are plenty of nonplayer characters as well, but there are 
 no dialogue trees. The characters say what they want to say, and you move on.   

  The role-playing elements have been stripped away, but the role-playing rules still apply. Characters 
 have statistics like perception, agility, luck, strength, charisma, and endurance. As characters 
 advance in levels, they can improve in various skills and occasionally gain special perks that 
 can dramatically affect their abilities. The designers have done a commendable job of removing 
 the Fallout perks and skills that don't make sense in a combat-oriented game and adding a number 
 of new ones that do. But you'll still find that some skills are much more worthwhile than others. 
 This is even more the case with the character statistics. Perception and agility affect how far 
 your character can shoot and how quickly he or she can react in situations. These statistics are 
 obviously more valuable than charisma or luck, both of which seem to have relatively little impact 
 on the game.           Raiders and other dangerous foes await you in the wasteland    

 The missions themselves are huge. Most of the combat areas are the size of whole cities in Fallout, 
 and they only get bigger as the game goes on. Your missions will usually consist of rescuing some 
 person or some item from hostile territory or simply clearing out an entire area of any hostile 
 presence. And the Brotherhood of Steel faces a great deal of hostility. Supermutants, raiders, 
 and a new group called the Beast Lords are just some of the enemies you'll be up against. Fortunately, 
 you'll have a great arsenal available, and the game features the wide range of real-world and futuristic 
 guns and melee weapons that made the Fallout system so robust. Each mission can take several hours 
 to complete, especially in either of the turn-based modes. Therefore the "tough guy" option, which 
 disables saving in missions, is not recommended unless you have a surplus of both time and fortitude. 
   

  The length of the missions can be problematic at times because you're occasionally given new objectives 
 during a mission. But you may have already done something that makes completing those new objectives 
 impossible, such as letting a seemingly expendable NPC die. It's especially frustrating when you 
 only find out hours later that you needed to keep him or her alive.    

 The difficulty options will also affect how long it takes to play a single mission. In the easiest 
 mode, opponents' weapons do little damage to your own squad members, and your enemies will have 
 a dangerous tendency of just standing there while you fill them with bullets. The normal level 
 is slightly better, but the artificial intelligence is still lacking in some respects. Opponents 
 will often get stuck in a sort of crouching/standing two-step, and more often than not they'll 
 make a beeline for your guys, one at a time, like minions in a Bruce Lee movie. The computer opponents 
 behave more realistically at the two higher difficulty levels, but you'll rarely be surprised by 
 their actions, if only because their behavior is still rather predictable regardless of their numbers 
 or skill.   

  The turn-based modes are the best way to play the game, if only because they're the only modes 
 in which you have much control. Of the two turn-based modes, squad-based is better. In this mode, 
 the game plays much like Jagged Alliance or X-COM: UFO Defense -- each member of your squad takes 
 his or her turn, and then each member of the opposing squad does the same. In individual turn-based 
 mode, characters move in order of their speed, much as in the Fallout role-playing games. This 
 mode is less suited for a strategy game, if only because the lengthier firefights in Fallout Tactics 
 require more team coordination.           The turn-based mode is valuable in difficult combat situations 
    

 For the most part, the real-time mode is the least appealing -- the game calls it the "continuous 
 turn-based" mode, a moniker that's either a bad attempt at humor or just plain wrong. The real-time 
 mode is good in fights where your squad outnumbers the opposition, and it can be very useful when 
 hunting down wounded stragglers. But the problem with the real-time mode is that you have little 
 time to make decisions for your team. Because of this, there are sentry modes that let you adjust 
 your squad members' attitude when facing opposition. They will then react automatically, and by 
 the time you've set all their options, they're self-contained little killing machines. You won't 
 have much to do but move them around. It works, but it isn't very engaging.   

  In turn-based mode, the combat is better, though the system does have some limitations. You can't 
 jump fences or climb walls. You can get to rooftops, but only if there's a ladder provided. As 
 a result of these restrictions, the game can be too linear at times, and the maps will often seem 
 like mazes that you must navigate in a very specific manner. But Fallout Tactics has some great 
 tactical features, like specifically targeted shots and the ability to specialize in various weapons 
 and combat styles, and these options help to balance out some of the shortcomings.   

  Despite the simplified combat and the linear nature of some of the missions, Fallout Tactics has 
 more in common with X-COM than with Commandos, whose missions were often more puzzlelike than tactical. 
 The comparison with X-COM is especially valid, because the story that ties the missions together 
 in Fallout Tactics is intriguing like the story in MicroProse's classic strategy game. With each 
 mission in Fallout Tactics, you'll learn a bit more about a new threat that seems to be aiding 
 the smaller threats. As you begin learning about its technology, you'll be driven to complete missions 
 not only to find out what happens next but to have the more advanced technology at your disposal. 
 Though there's not too much story, it's enough to keep you going from mission to mission.   

  The dialogue of your superiors is well written and often funny. It's also often disturbing, as 
 the Brotherhood treats nonmembers with little regard. Unfortunately, the casual dialogue of nonplayer 
 characters is often embarrassing and downright juvenile by comparison. Many of the characters you'll 
 encounter will say crude and silly things that do little to heighten the mood of the game.   

 
  This is especially frustrating considering how hard all the other elements are pulling together 
 to create a tense atmosphere. The music, though a bit repetitive, is excellent. The voice acting, 
 as with previous Fallout games, is top-notch. The graphics have been improved as well, and though 
 the isometric 2D sprites found throughout the game basically look identical to those found in previous 
 Fallout games, the higher resolution makes everything look better. Fortunately, the designers have 
 added many new tiles and objects to the world, so that it looks familiar but new. Fallout fans 
 might balk at some of the alterations -- the deadly creatures known as death claws now look more 
 like Diablo than like mutated monsters -- but overall the changes are for the better.           The 
 missions are long and interesting    

 If you like the new death claws, you're in luck. Fallout Tactics' multiplayer mode lets you play 
 as nonhuman characters, including dogs, supermutants, and the radiated humans known as ghouls. 
 The multiplayer modes include skirmish, in which you must eliminate opposing squads, and assault, 
 a sort of simplified capture the flag. Turn-based multiplayer games are fun if you have the patience, 
 and real-time games are quick and fun despite suffering from the same lack of control problems 
 found in the single-player missions.   

  Fallout Tactics has a few strikes against it. It has too many options. It includes a disorganized 
 manual that excludes some very important game mechanics and interface features. It's a testament 
 to the strengths of the game that these shortcomings often seem negligible. The game has a good 
 story and great missions, and the combat is fun once you've found the combination of options that 
 suits you. It'll provide dozens of hours of entertainment to both fans of squad-based combat games 
 and fans of the series and stands a good chance of turning one into the other.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: madgamer910
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  its not fallout but dosent try to be it acts like a liner fallout game with some optinal material 
 and is fun yes I said it fun and it shows a uniquie insite into the brotherhood of steel unlike 
 the fallout game that will not be named and the game and gives you a ending that is past just plain 
 black and white so try it at least and if you like great and if you dont well dont listen to me 
 but try it at least also a tip if you do play the game tag outdoresmen not steal becuase you raley 
 get to steal and random ecounters are a pain in the a** also the evil ending is not that evil but 
 the barnakey ending is so if you really want to kill the wastelands find barnkeys leter to his 
 wife in the last level for super mutants and it is on a almost dead super mutant and when he dies 
 take it form his bodey and then on the last level if barnkey is still alive and you didnt shoot 
 the calculater show him the leter from his wife than just sit and watch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the first Fallout, and to a lesser degree Fallout 2 I decided to go out and buy 
 Fallout Tactics before purchasing Fallout 3. Fallout Tactics has, since its release received mixed 
 reactions from the Fallout community, and I can certainly understand why.
  
  While the first two Fallout games were set in post-nuclear California, Fallout Tactics is set in 
 the mid-west around Chicago. You are a new recruit of a splinter faction of the Brotherhood of 
 Steel, and you actually create your character using the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system from the first two 
 games. While this is all well and good, I was disappointed that my character couldn't really interact 
 with anyone like in Fallout and Fallout 2. Your character is essentially mute, and gets involved 
 in one sided conversations with NPCs. The storyline is pretty dull, and uninteresting in general, 
 and focuses on an army of robots rising in the west that are bent on cleansing the Wasteland for 
 a new civilization, yay.
  
  The gameplay is pretty straightforward, you run around with a squad of recruits and perform missions 
 for the Brotherhood. These missions generally involve wanton destruction, but if you're a big fan 
 of the combat in Fallout then I suppose that this could be called fairly good. You can actually 
 switch between real time, and two variants of the traditional Fallout combat system. Being able 
 to switch between three battle systems is a great feature, but I generally stuck with real time 
 since combat is a lot more frequent in Tactics than it was in the first two Fallouts, so turn based 
 combat would become an exercise in tedium.
  
  Graphically the game looks like high resolution Fallout with better coloring. So visually, the 
 game is fairly nice looking, for a 2D Isometric title. Unfortunately the visual design practically 
 does away with the retro-50s look of the first two games, and goes with a more modern and futuristic 
 design. As far as Audio goes, the sound, voice acting, and music is nothing special. I wasn't expecting 
 remarkable audio from a Fallout game, anyway.
  
  I can't think of a good reason to recommend Fallout Tactics. It's not a bad game, but it's not 
 remarkable either. The game could have been a lot better if they used a dialogue tree system like 
 the first two titles, I'm aware that Tactics isn't an RPG like its predecessors... but that doesn't 
 mean they had to make your character a mute meat shield. Tactics is a good buy if you enjoy Fallout's 
 combat, though; personally I thought the combat was one of the least interesting aspects of the 
 series, but at least now I can say that I played and finished Fallout Tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhaed
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  In light of the release of Fallout 3, I felt the urge to revisit the franchise. I chose to play 
 an old game I had stashed away in my closet for years - a game many people probably have never 
 heard of: Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel.
  
  Many people, as stated above, may have never heard of this game, nor seen it on store shelves. 
 It was one of those games that was released amidst a plethora of other highly anticipated games, 
 and it was sadly shrouded and overlooked. It's unfortunate too, because Fallout Tactics is a gem 
 of a game, and there just isn't anything quite like it.
  
  For starters, Tactics is very reminiscent of games like Commandos and Jagged Alliance. It's not 
 quite as complex and involved as games like Baulder's Gate, but looks very similar in terms of 
 interface. It is a squad-based, Fallout-themed, tactical strategy game. If you've ever played Commandos, 
 as I mentioned above, you will have a very good idea of what to expect from Tactics.
  
  Whatever it is, or was, that attracted you to Fallout 1 and 2 all those years ago, I guarantee 
 Tactics has it. It's got the blood, guts, and gore. It's got the horridly offensive language, sex, 
 drugs, and ridiculous over-the-top violence. When you shoot an enemy with a shotgun at point blank, 
 he will literally explode in to a gory satisfying mess of blood and chunks of flesh. The bad guys 
 will repeatedly taunt your characters with nasty language and death threats. Every naughty word 
 you could possibly think of is used frequently in Tactics. Not to mention R. Lee Ermy (the drill 
 sergeant from the movie Full Metal Jacket) is your commanding officer and narrator/quest-giver.
 
  
  I am not ashamed to admit that I enjoy a lot of maturity in my games. I love the gore, the sexual 
 themes, and the naughty language. It is simply my taste. Fallout Tactics delivers, trust me. You 
 will get it all. It has proudly earned its "M" rating, and wears it with pride.
  
  Oh yes, back to the review. I went a tad off track there. For anybody that has played Fallout 1 
 and 2, Tactics will be familiar in content and story, but slightly different in gameplay. All of 
 the weapons, style, flare, items, skills, perks, pip-boy, and atmosphere from previous games are 
 very present in Tactics. The difference is essentially the gameplay.
  
  I can't really put into words how the game plays, but if you've ever played Commandos, Baulder's 
 Gate, Icewind Dale, or Jagged Alliance, you'll have a relatively basic idea of what to expect. 
 Of course I only use Baulder's Gate as an example of interface, and not play. Tactics is in no 
 way an RPG and certainly not as complex and in-depth as Baulder's Gate.
  
  But if you liked Fallout 1 and 2, and are still unsure about Fallout 3, give Tactics a try. It's 
 hard not to like. It may be a step away from the conventional formula, but it's truly a unique 
 and worthy addition to the Fallout universe.
  
  I know for myself, personally, I was extremely skeptical of Fallout 3. It may have received an 
 excellent rating, has pretty graphics, and is wildly innovative and different, but sometimes I 
 just want more of the same. And Fallout 3 just isn't impressing me.
  
  Despite what everyone says, I do firmly believe that Fallout 3 is essentially Oblivion with guns. 
 I will not be convinced otherwise until I have it in my hands. But that day may never come. I did 
 not enjoy Oblivion, its graphics, or it's overly open-endedness. Fallout 3 is just too different 
 for me. I can't see myself ever purchasing it.
  
  But for those of you who enjoy the old-school tried-and-true, Tactics will deliver, I guarantee.
 
  
  Enjoy it. It is a superb game. You'll be hooked for hours and hours... and hours. There are a few 
 MINOR graphical glitches however. From time to time, the blood and guts of the corpses of enemies 
 you've killed will flicker and disappear/reappear. But honestly, who cares? It is such a minor 
 issue, and not worth downgrading the game for.
  
  Conclusively, if you are a classic Fallout fan, Tactics is a great step for the series. It keeps 
 much, much closer to it's roots than Fallout 3. So if you're looking for more Fallout, but are 
 not sure about Fallout 3, give Tactics a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontenten
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  It will never be a game like Fallout tactics is the best game 4 ever , the game play is just amazing 
 !!!
  fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This squad based game is fun and makes very good use of the Fallout universe it's based in but 
 is certainly NOT a sequel and should never be looked at as one. It is fun to work as a Brotherhood 
 of Steel recruit and do the missions given to you but it is a bit to linear to have any real replay 
 value.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  This looks nicer and smother than what its predecessors did. Still in 2D it came out shortly before 
 3D was the norm, but makes beautiful use of the 2D images giving a good 3D "feel" to it.
  
  CONTROLS: 8.5
  There isn't much for what you need to know about how to control the people of 
 your squad, simple keyboard mapping makes it simple but it doesn't flow with the game very well. 
 Since it is in real time (can be turn but not general played in turn based mode) it can be very 
 difficult to have a member of your squad go prone, move, switch weapons, or perform an action once 
 the combat has begun.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8.5
  Simple, striaghtforward, and fun. You get a mission and perform tactical maneuvers to meet your 
 goals. It is very linear because you have very little choice of the order you do the missions in, 
 but you can get different debriefings after each mission depending on how well you completed each 
 task. The Fallout universe is still put together very effectively only instead from a wanderers 
 perspective it is from a BoS initiate.
  
  SOUNDS: 9.5
  Very nice sounds in the game, not much different from its predecessors. You have no talking heads 
 which is disappointing since it is always a very pleasant sight in the first 2 games, but you do 
 have your commander talking to you before and after each mission which is nice but his voice tends 
 to get a bit annoying.
  
  STORY: 7
  Nothing to interesting here. The story it had was mostly about just expanding the reach of the 
 BoS to all across the wastelands and trying to get more recruits. So the story it did have fit 
 into the gameplay but was still nothing to interesting, the core of the game is in the gameplay, 
 not the story.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 4
  If you know somebody and you are wanting to play eachother and have some fun then it is nice, but 
 as for the deathmatch part with someone that you don't know, it is not very fun. 
  
  FINAL: 7.92
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: troglotroll
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will 
 review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review 
 later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will 
 review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review 
 later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. Will review later. 
 Will review later. Will review later Will review later ill review later Will review later Will 
 review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review 
 later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later 
 Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will 
 review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review 
 later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later 
 Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will 
 review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review 
 later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later 
 Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will 
 review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review 
 later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later 
 Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will 
 review later Will review later Will review later Will review later Will review later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  For those Fallout fans, Tactics is more of a combat oriented game than an RPG, though leveling 
 up is still the same intuitive and satisfying procedure from the previous series, with new perks 
 to choose from! The graphics are a little enhanced but retains the isometric look with better animated 
 death sequences, heh! Most of the weapons and equipment are carried over from the previous Fallouts, 
 with even the same attributes, but that can only be a good thing for the fans I think since they 
 need no introduction. The music is still very background-ish, with the usual cyber-apocalyptic 
 undertone, and the sound effects are recycled, but that's ok. It's Fallout man!
  
  Special encounters are still featured here with more comedic references to real-life stuff and 
 more importantly, the Pipboy is in it. Yes, the poster boy! You can even recruit him if you chanced 
 upon him and met some requirements before that, ha! Though I don't have the luck in my own campaign. 
 Also, the other most controversial yet the most interesting feature about Fallout games is the 
 bugs. Exploring and exploiting unintended bugs in the Fallout series have always been giving us 
 the kicks and Fallout Tactics brought this further. It's not a bad thing actually, since the Fallout 
 universe is indeed a world of mystery. You never know what you'll get, and that's what kept us 
 going!
  
  My only little whiny complaint is that it's a pain to move your squad about as navigation is a 
 serious issue with so many obstacles around, especially if you are playing real-time. Oh yes, you 
 can choose between the classic turn-based mode and real-time Diablo style. All in all, Fallout 
 Tactics is gonna be a great tactical shooting experience for fans and new players alike.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Before saying anything i got to say that this game higly dissapoited me why it not even close to 
 fallout i dont like the damn idiotic suad that shoots each outher and the story is no- existed 
 unlike fallout the game it self has no story and no choices or dialogues so the speech and charisma 
 are uselless and the way you encounter enemies in the world map is lame no monsters here not one 
 stop without them here, so i got ot say it that this game is a mix of rpg an tactics BUT rpg elemenmts 
 dont matter much its all about gettting a level after every mission getting sometimes better guns 
 ACTUALLY scavanging from every mission also sometimes you dont find bullets to buy i was 2 misssions 
 without buying bullets and then i moved to the next base and no bullets GOD DAMMIT ! You are not 
 getting paid you just collect what you find and sell them most times there is nothing to buy so 
 it even misses some choices and freedom from no interactive dialogues and no story and facts selection 
 or guilds to join or some karma or attack anyone you want also is tactics but it doesnt stick to 
 it much eg you can freely paly by killing everyone weapon damage is increased and accuracy decreased 
 to look more real OR it simply uses low level characters in any case if you are a fan of the series 
 then DONT try it unless if you really like the setting if you ar a tactical gamer and i mean REALLY 
 a hardcore tactical gamer go paly commandos and not this and if you dont get bored in the first 
 2 hours by doing this get out of base go the word map and find them mission enter the mission map 
 and kill everyone collect everything and get back to base sell them and next mission all over again 
 and again oh wait you can change your upgraded squad mates with other unused!!!!! ZZzzzzzz right 
 and the go to the next base and do the same things, hrrrrrrrZZZZZZ it kinda instupidly easy to 
 create underground bases when we DONT HAVE BULLETS TO RELOAD! and about the sqaud it sucks instead 
 of use the sniper charater which is nothing unlike the outher you can give em a assault rifle it 
 makes ni diffirence and you got a medic so what stop upgrade that skill and upgrade someones else 
 and hes a medic the smae works with every class also the squad is dumb is getting lost and do crap 
 i just thought there be choices so am in a village with an underground base full of rad scorpions 
 and some unactivated turrets on the surface near to the village! at some point i find turrets inside 
 the base so i tiied to use explosives to take them down to shoot them or sneak by NO NO NO NO NO 
 NO NO NO nothing worked you jsut have to gest pass them and switch the outside defenses now i dont 
 undrstand why it got to cycle defensives? what kinda of defense system is this? so i get outside 
 and the outside defensives have killed the villagers and the leader of the village said one simple 
 dialogue did not attack me like it was only one waay to do it NICE FALLOUT- RPG FREEDOM OF CHOICES!!! 
 holy christ game sucks no choices aslo i find no fun to use vehicles by clicking and repair them 
 its better to use my squad and take cover than the vehicle to take damage!
  I dont know what those dudes see to it fallout 2 is far better and if you only know f3 then you 
 got to play 2 and not this also a correction when it says find at least 3 batteries it should say 
 find THE 3 batteries and no sidequests, try fallout tactics IF and only if you like the idea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gold_horde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  When i first played Fallout 1, i must say, IT WAS AWSOME. When i played fallout 2 i was like, THIS 
 IS AWSOME! Then when i played Tactics i was like, THIS MAKES FALLOUT 1&2 Dissapointing. They did 
 a pretty good job on some graphics although i like the mutants on Fallout 1&2 better. (they were 
 more green) They did great job on the vehicles. So when they come out with Fallout 3 it better 
 be better. Spent loads of time playing the campaigns (even the bonus campaign Springfield) . The 
 editor was hard at first but then easy. They could have made it a bit longer i think. Good job 
 on the Campaigns but could have shown better in the encounters along the way. Totally different 
 from 1 & 2 because its supposed to be, so that makes it unique! Great job on the fighting (no more 
 turned based combat) although you can choose it in the options! Great job on the AI and the triggers. 
 I loved the combat and the robots. They were AWSOME! So i give this 9.5 STARS out of 10. - I must 
 say play Fallout 1 & 2 to know whats going on in tactics and the newest one soon to be out Fallout 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game tells us about Brotherhood's history, ideas, targets and ways of dealing with any possible 
 threats. Many people know about brotherhood, many praised them for giving them hopes and homes, 
 but for that they had to learn how to be helpful and fight for their beliefs.
  In BoS not like in Fallout is difficult to survive without knowing different types of skills: we 
 must have not only machinegunners in the party, also a repairman, good doctor, scientist and partisan. 
 It's just like in a small war, with limited ammunition and war machinery.
  As you advance forward you are given more complicated and dangerous missions, you are being sacrificed 
 - yes, but there's no one else to handle such a gruesome situation that's happening in the world.
 
  Tactics will be your best friend for any matter. War machines are also provided for the tougher 
 missions, for storing weapons and for greater defence. But nothing lasts forever unless there's 
 a good repairman with good tools to save the day. And what if all your troops get broken limbs 
 and there's no doctor? - Mission probably failed.
  Graphics are pretty good - highly detailed objects, creatures and environment.
  Many missions 
 to complete with linear style of play, but it doesn't ruin the game.
  Overall is a very good game with low replay value (But i played it 3 times) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krondor13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first found out that this game was going to be released I was excited because I am a huge 
 fan of the fallout series. When I got the game I was slightly disappointed because it lacked the 
 feel that the fallout series brought to the table. After playing it for some time I began to realize 
 that even though the game play was completely different from the typical fallout games it was unique 
 and fun in its own way. The game is not so much based on turn base tactics like fallout although 
 you can set the game up to is played turn based. Fallout tactics is more fun in my opinion to play 
 live action apposed to turn based, while with fallout the turn based game play made it more fun. 
 I have to admit that the single player game can get boring really fast because of the static repetitive 
 missions. The one thing that makes this game great however was the multiple vehicles you can obtain 
 and the ability to control a squad of multiple characters that level up. If this was all the game 
 had to offer I would have rated it a 7, but the game also incorporated a multiplayer mode, which 
 was incredibly unique and fun to customize your characters to incredible lengths to combat other 
 squads online. This was all in addition to a level editor where you can make both single and multiplayer 
 levels. I found a lot of fun in creating my own battlegrounds with nearly unlimited possibilities. 
 In conclusion I think this game should receive a 9 not because of the single player, but of the 
 uniqueness and fun of the multiplayer and level editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I no longer have this game, a friend borrowed it and he doesn't call me or e-mail me back, ignoring 
 me, so its safe to say I've lost that game. No tears, I'd played and beaten it so no big loss.
 
  
  I tried playing the first 2 fallouts, they just didn't work for me. Controlling only one player 
 was not my idea of fun. This game offered me to user tactics with a team to defeat the other side. 
 I greatly enjoyed this game.
  
  Its been awhile since I've played (5 years maybe) but I remember it clearly. It was exciting. I 
 enjoyed swapping items in inventory, the management side of it was cool. Graphics were ok for the 
 time it came out and the story was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Fallout Tactic: Brotherhood of Steel, take a turn to its normal RPG element of game-play to more 
 of a strategic squad base combat genre, but did not over did it for some of the original game play 
 of Fallout series was still applied and can be found in the game- such as stats tweaking the pit 
 boy and traveling with your team in a vast plane of lands
  As for starters you control a squad of the brotherhood AP action points are given for you to move 
 your team about in the battle area use it wisely though it will an important part to win a game. 
 Later in the game you can choose who to bring with you in a mission all can be pre- selected before 
 going on the trip, your given an option to chose from a roster and upgrading their stats to make 
 them more effective in battle.
  The world of Fallout still looks the same as previous games  those rundown pubs to toxic spills 
 still brings out the effect of the pass nuclear holocaust Fans of the Fallout series will never 
 be disappointed by this addition to the series, and for those who love turn base strategy game 
 this is what I say is a Great and a must have for you to enjoy great game-play just awesome fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gaguinho_
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel is a game that focus mainly on tactical combat, the game 
 has few dialogues unlike it's ancestors and most of the dialogues are simply trivial things like 
 buy and sell equipment, receive new missions from your superiors and when you encounter some characters 
 in your missions. In the combat side the game won't let you down, you have the option to choose 
 between turn-based combat and the continuous combat, you can use the environment to take cover 
 and stealth approach, squad members can use three positions: stand, kneel and prone, in kneel and 
 prone positions you can aim better but your melee skill will suffer. The game is worth your playing, 
 just don't expect a masterpiece RPG and you have a good tactical combat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep78
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why some don't like this game due to it not being Fall Out 3 ? This is simply 
 a different game all together and yet is STILL VERY FUN. You start off pretty simple as a tribal 
 warrior that gets recruited and then gets the opportunity to lead a squad on missions for the Brother 
 Hood of Steel. The Blood and Gore is still VERY MUCH there and the special encounters in my own 
 opinion far out do fallout 1 and 2.
  
  There is NO role playing here... there is a little, but dont think this is like fallout 1 and 2 
 ; I think many folks did; and were disappointed when this game showed the shoot m' up factor.
 
  
  This GAME is still VERY FUN and I enjoyed and am enjoying it now as we speak. I reloaded my old 
 4 year old copy hit up the patch and have been playing this old classic for the past 2 weeks. VERY 
 FUN, one of my favorite games by far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  This game well all the fallout games are just remarkable but this one just made it better. The 
 fighting system all the same graphics are tweaked up and theres a new cover system you can lay 
 on the floor crouch and hide behind wall but everything is still here the do whatever the hell 
 you want system the chance the storyline and the go around town kill everyone and make it deserted. 
 The weapons are still like the old one use the minigun to turn your enemy into tiny pieces, stomp 
 a guy on the floor, and etc. but the storyline for this one is different this your already one 
 of the brother hood of steel member. this game is great like the others ive talked about if you 
 see this its a MUST-BUY!! Unlike the old ones this one probably is still on shelves somewhere this 
 game is awesome but this is all just my opinon BUT REMEMBER FALLOUT SERIES IS A MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  this game was what it says. tactical. it is fun and entertaining but not something you play for 
 storyline or plot. I really didnt care about what the mutants and robots were up too, i just wanted 
 to know the target, devise a plan and execute it. unfortuantly it went on about two missoins too 
 long. it is just more fun taking on mutants or people. robots are good in the first mission against 
 them as it is a change in how to deal with them but by then i just kind of wanted to finish as 
 once again the enemy made the characters look like they were level one and hadnt actually achieved 
 anything. then again that is the game it is and you just have to change the squad to suit, small 
 weapons, not against robots.
  
  The turn based combat was great and being able to go prone and set people up to shot when a % was 
 hit was something that i really wished was in the other fallouts. Would have been great to be able 
 to port fallout one and two too the tactics game engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Fallout tactics tends to develop the story of BOS (brotherhood of steel) but not the one in the 
 previous games but a faction of it that has crossed the mouintains to the west side of USA. The 
 player takes control a squad and has to do all sorts of missions and fight mutanst and robots to 
 free the wasteland.
  The skills and character developement are identical the the ones in Fallout 2. This goes for map 
 navigation, game play and game dinamivs. Some improvements are made to graphoical engine but it 
 is still a game made in 2001. The missions are complex an various. Afcourse there are also hidden 
 items or zones or secopndary quests to be done in each visited zone. Random encounters are still 
 very fun. New items, guns, armours, ammo and of coure the vehicules (3 that you can take with you 
 and another one in one mission) . The gameplay is great , because you can have six memebers in a 
 squad and they can have different skill you can make this game very tactic (the tutorial only shows 
 a glimps of what you can really do) . There are multiple endigs to follow the Fallout tradition. 
 Sound and speach could do better (than again it was made in 2001 - sry 4 repeating but it is an 
 old game) . I also want to point that i have heard of no other game to resemple Fallout Tactics. 
 Because of various skill, secondary missions and tactics posibility thje game can be replayed something 
 you don't get at this new games anymore and it also takes more that n 10 hours to finish (again 
 something you rarely get this days) .
  A great game, revolutionary at it's time. It also influenced some of the games that came after and 
 still does. Hope to see more of them these days . (i finished it 3 times :) ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominus_tecum
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I remember many Fallout fanboys accusing the devs of a great conspiracy by labeling this 'Tactics'. 
 There were long debates and articles about the very definition of an RPG, and how Tactics was actually 
 an RPG. How this figures into the conspiracy is anyone's guess. It is less RPG than Fallout 1 and 
 2, but more RPG than X-Com. Everybody expected that so there is no deception here. I think in the 
 final analysis people were bitter that they were not getting Fallout 3 and dismissed this entry 
 prejudicially. Let's talk about the Fallout humor and how it is supposedly superior in the earlier 
 offerrings than Tactics. a.) In Fallout 2 the humor basically consisted of mildly amusing movie 
 parodies and the fact that so much of the game was broken means they should have spent more time 
 completing the game and less time clowning around. b.) Having frequented forums dedicated to the 
 Fallout series, I notice that much of the humor that people complain is missing from this title 
 is of the pornographic,  variety. c.) The Brotherhood 
 of Steel was consistantly the grim and serious organization throughout the series, so it is hardly 
 surprising that it was kept for a game centered around them. Frankly, I think R. Lee Ermey's presence 
 in Tactics is quite humorous. The fact is the Fallout ambiance is fully present here, and Tactics 
 stands on its own and compares favourably to its predecessors. Fortunately this has been released 
 as part of a Fallout bundle, so one will not have to pay through the nose on ebay. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Hey it's fallout but multiplayer and with a realtime combat element, Cool... and yet it's not. 
 Fallout Tactics takes everything that made fallout great and says: Phooey, I don't need you Yes 
 Tactics is set in the same post-apocalyptic wasteland, yes the combat is still there (though better 
 or worse depends on the type of player you are) , yes the graphics are appropriate, however, all 
 the humor, plot, and mood that made fallout great are missing. If it hadn't been set in the fallout 
 universe I would never have bought the game. As it is i'm extremely dissapointed with the game. 
 I mean a good deal of the perks don't even apply to you characters anymore due to the lack of interactivity 
 between npc's and pc's. What good is being more attractive to the opposite sex when there is no 
 interactivity between characters? And you're certainly not going to be able to talk your way through 
 any encounter wtih the Psychotic robots that are the game's main bad guy.
  
  Basically this game is like all the other tactic's games: a game that is simplistic and quickly 
 becomes dull which has a decent game's name tacked on to the front. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenbastard
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best game of the Fallout franchise. Great gameplay, great graphics, great artwork, 
 great story, great action, the whole damn thing is just, well, great!
  
  The combat engine and squad play is fun, yet challenging, exciting, and downright scary and overwhelming 
 at times, giving more of a realistic feel to a fantasy storyline.
  
  It is great being able to choose your squad members, based on their skills, and have them work 
 to your instructions. You can form a formidable crew to take on the baddies who can be very powerful. 
 So the stronger your team the better.
  
  God, I wish we could get a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skitchrick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying I've bought this game a couple times and when I wear out my disk again, I'll 
 probably buy it again. This is one of my favorite games of all time. Graphics -- not bad for 5 years 
 ago. You shouldn't have any problem setting the resolution to the highest setting. Unless you're 
 a nerd who has to brag on his rig , it looks just fine.
  
  Sound -- I love that sound of an AK-47 in the morning. It sounds like.... victory.
  
  Story -- 
 if you aren't familiar with the Fallout universe, it's set in post-apocalyptic America. There are 
 mutants, raiders, hungry civilians, opportunistic politians, giant scorpians, and of course; The 
 Brotherhood of Steel. They are what's left of the former military and you are a new recruit working 
 your way up the ranks. R. Lee Ermy (Full Metal Jacket) does voiceover for your commander- he's 
 great!
  
  Genre -- This game is a turn-based, squad stategy, rpg, etc. It's very hard to classify since it 
 is all of those and not any one in particular.... but for whoever compared it to Starcraft and 
 Command &amp; Conquer has obviously never played the game.... No big surprise from the Similar 
 Games department.
  
  Gameplay -- This where the game shines. it's isometric (top down) like Diablo and you can move your 
 squad around like in real time until an enemy is sighted (you can change reaction and sensitivity 
 in options) You have a certain number of action points (AP) during combat. Everything costs APs. 
 Changing weapons, reloading, healing, moving; all cost points, so you really have to think before 
 you act. You can take cover behind rocks and pop out to shoot, kneeling and prone postions improve 
 accuracy, etc. They really put a lot of thought into the gameplay. It gets kinda hairy when you 
 don't have enough action points and have to decide between healing or reloading... save often... 
 lol
  
  The RPG elements are just like Fallout 1 and 2- don't let the fanboys tell you any different. In 
 fact, I think the perks and skills you earn at level-up matter MORE in this game.... AND you can 
 customize your NPC's. Bottomline: SUPERB gameplay and replayability (I just reloaded it the other 
 day and it's STILL fun!) make this one the best games EVER.... ya hear me? EVER!!!
  
  And it's cheap- Fallout x3 (FO1, FO2, FOT) can be bought online for $20 at overstock.... I think 
 there's a DVD version too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  This game is not the same as fallout 1 and 2, so to review it fair it has to be judged on its own 
 merits. The graphics are now dated but still look enough to enjoy. The game is squad based and 
 you do get attached to them and hate to lose any. Movement is controlled by action points and it 
 can take a while to get used to this style of combat, better than dungeon siege where you sit back 
 and just watch the action and control nothing. These older games remind me of old films, they have 
 story, fun and quality and not rely on graphics and sex or effects to numb the brain. If you want 
 to be entertained then try this game, if you only want eye candy then dont bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I never played a single Fallout title before getting this game or to the time of this review. I 
 do feel like a missed out on an RPG classic as most every where I turn I see Fallout listed as 
 the definitive non-fantasy RPG to play. But with that being said I did enjoy playing tactics.
 
  
  Starting out as a lowly grunt trying to work your way up the brotherhood ladder is simple enough 
 in the single player aspect. I enjoyed choosing my weapons, armor and other support items that 
 I used to complete my missions. The tactical part was a lot of fun in most places and hilarious 
 in others too. There were a few spoofs on things like the Matrix and other items from the time 
 it came out. I enjoyed the crotchity old hooker that you run into towards the end, even though 
 talking to her was just voice bubbles and no actual interaction. A lot of Tactics appeal to me 
 was its simple design and advancing difficulty level. Unfortunately towards the end it got pretty 
 one sided once you obtain all the best equipment for everyone in your party. It also paid to keep 
 all of them alive so that they could advance in rank and you could help guide them.
  
  The online play was fun at times but the map editor was a nightmare for anyone (myself) that had 
 no clue how to create maps.
  
  I also would have liked to have chosen a different character type other than human since that was 
 all you were allowed to do at the beginning. Maybe after beating the game they could have offered 
 that as an option. Oh well.
  
  The multiple ending was rather interesting to see but I would have preferred to see a more drawn 
 out story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoochild85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  i ll never get bored of this game, and i can't believe they haven't come up with a decent sequel 
 yet, other than that crappy ps2 stuff, i cant even remember what it was called, whatever, PLLLLLLLLEAAAAASE 
 make me happy by finishinf fallout tactics 2
  ok apparently i have to have a hundred words for this review so remember, buy this game please 
 and maybe the people at 14 degrees east will decide to hurry up the new one cos im getting kinda 
 stressed here
  also, try to get a decent gaming chair cos your bootie is gonna hurt after a few days of FOT, and 
 last thing, check the internet for mods and cheats, character upgrades etc... the game gets a whole 
 lot more fun
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_judge
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 23, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  A formula of this game: 
  RPG+Tactical+Real-time action = Fallout tactics: B. O. S.
  Setting in the world of Fallout, not just a tribal or a Vault Dweller, you started with a guy who 
 has joined the Brotherhood Of Steel, the strongest army. 
  I was shocked by many thing that Micro Forte has done with Fallout world, like the improvement 
 of the graphic, the smoother motion of the charater, the real tiem action (not just only turn base) 
 But Micro Forte keeps the good thing that makes Fallout's fan loves, like the PIPboy drawing, the 
 S. P. E. C. I. A. L. point, and vary of Perk and Skill point.... Also, in this game, you are just not 
 control your main character, you can also control your team and raise their level, adding perks, 
 skill points as your main character, the thing that u can't do in Fallout 2. 
  Micro Forte has known how to make an good tactical Fallout game, and they have made another part 
 of the Fallout series, another side of Fallout world for gamers to travel around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 20, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Fallout Tactics is great for a few different reasons... It's set in the fallout universe, so its 
 already got that going for it, but it also allows you to choose between a real time system (which 
 i generally play in but gets confusing when commanding your entire squad) or a turn based system 
 nearly identical to that of Fallout 1 and 2. It basically is another Fallout game except that the 
 openendedness is gone... You follow the missions all, more or less, to a T, and with the exceptions 
 of maybe getting yelled at for **** a minor objective up, or getting praised for doing something 
 really well, you pretty much see no difference in outcome of any mission. There's no prostitutes 
 and slave trading to be had in this game... But its not all bad.. The graphics in tactics are still 
 not outdated in my opinon. The game looks great and runs smooth on almost anything, plus its just 
 a lot of fun to develop your characters. As the game progresses you can recruit and develop Ghouls, 
 Deathclaws, Mutants, and Robots. As they level, you level them. You choose their tag points and 
 their various bonuses. But let's review this for a second... This game is essentially a half-strategy, 
 half-RPG game set in the Fallout Universe. How does it do its job? Extremely well. It takes a while 
 to get used to not sending your melee fighter right in the middle of your own gunfire, but with 
 that aside, the game is well made, and one of my personal favorites for the PC. Give it a try, 
 its a lot of fun online as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Most of the series of Fallout have been good that combine RPG and Adventure of Diablo. Some are 
 good but this game is different than this brothers series.
  
  In Fallout Tactics, you play the leader of a squad that is loyal to the New Brotherhood of Steel. 
 Your Mission is to kill enemies, rescue some towns and meet new friends. This game look similar 
 to Mad Max which is good that you see that most of the town are destory or re-built by the surviors 
 of the Post Nuclears Wars. When I say is close to Diablo 2 because is a RPG. Here you can incrase 
 your leader and your squads members abilities and status to be a bad mother killer. Also the mission 
 give you the free will to do the tactics that you want do to. 
  
  The graphics are a bit old but who cares as long the game is good. They have cool arsenal of weapons 
 some are good, bad and monsters like the Galting Laser and the Minigun. 
  
  Long Story, Short Version: The game rocks like hell!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paerole
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that everyone should try if they get a chance. It is based in the future in 
 a post-apocalyptic setting. You are in a faction called the "Brotherhood of Steel".
  
  Even if you aren't an RTS player this is a good game, not to mention that if
  you don't like 
 real time play, you can just turn on the turn based mode. People that were fans of the last fallout 
 games, will love this game. The one thing that is disappointing about it is that it is not so much 
 a story based game like the first two. This is just mission after mission, but if you don't mind 
 that, This is the perfect game for you.
  
  The combat system is very well designed and is easy to get the hang of, and once you have, there 
 is so much potential within the system. 
  
  The skill system in Fallout tactics is by far better than it has ever been before. They really 
 make a difference in the long run, well.. most. They are not complicated at all and are easy to 
 understand. The effects and benefits of skills are also very easily understandable, though The 
 stat contribution is a little bit questionable at times...
  
  Perks are an awesome thing, and have always been a great thing since the start of fallout. The 
 amount of perks in this one though are phenomenal and each on really makes a big difference.
  
  I do not like rolling characters in the start of the game because I dont find there are enough 
 stat points to add, and the skill tags are not very conventional. I'd rather be given an alloted 
 percent to assign to a variety of stats instead of having to tag three.
  
  Another thing that this game provides is the ability to play your own custom
  music by placing 
 Mp3 files in the music folder. This is a very nice thing, and it runs fairly well, except for the 
 fact that you aren't able to have any other
  media extension or they don't get played. The music will automatically mute when in conversation 
 with an NPC or getting briefed on the mission to come.
  
  Fallout tactics is a very addictive game, and is quite time consuming, so you might want to start 
 when you have enough time to spend on each mission. Average mission length is 1-3hr+. But if you 
 have the time, it is very much worth it.
  
  There is a large variety of enemies which makes the game more interesting, some games when the 
 enemies are repetitive it gets boring, but in this its new enemies on almost every level.
  
  One thing that I don't like about it is the way the AP (action point) system works. You have 
 roughly 8-10 AP and with them you make your movements shots and actions. I don't feel that this 
 is enough AP, because sometimes in battle you run out of AP and are put into danger, but then again 
 if you like being put on the edge like that, this would be a good system. Though if you have never 
 dealt with AP before it may be a little hard to get used to for a first time game using AP making 
 your learning curve a little longer.
  
  The graphics are good for its style and type of game. But based on today's standards, its not really 
 all that great in that department. Still it is an awesome game, and the graphics aren't so bad 
 that they hinder your enjoyment.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to anyone at all who likes RTS games or really wants to 
 get into them, though this is a moderately hard RTS for a first timer. And if you are someone who 
 depends on story lines for enjoyment, this is not the game for you. For anyone else, if you have 
 the time, play this game. You will not regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reject476
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  What can be said about Fallout Tactics. Its amazing, astonishing, articulate, humorous... bottom 
 line is it doesn't get much better than the Fallout series of games. Whether you are playing tactics 
 or the original they maintain the same level of side-splitting, dark, dry humor that everyone has 
 come to love mixed with the ultra violent tendency that we need.
  
  There is not much else to say about this game other than Bethesda better make a new one pretty 
 F***in' quick and it better be good...
  
  I am fairly sure the Fallout community is strong enough to boycot a game manufacturer in to bancruptcy.... 
 :)
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametrader
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  I'm not lying. In last seven years or so I have played Fallout 2 for about 300 hours. Fallout 2 
 is just the best game on pc. Fallout Tactics, on the other hand, lacks everything that made Fallout 
 2 great. First of all, the graphics, especially the death animations have become very boring to 
 watch. The sounds and music that rocked in Fallout 2 have became bad, if not very bad.
  The biggest letdown is the gameplay, which sucks at best. You get only, like, 10 experience points 
 for killing an enemy, which makes leveling up slow, boring and frustrating. The whole concept is 
 also very, very clumsy and unplayable. I really hate the real-time combat, but on the other hand, 
 the turn-based combat is really abysmal in this game. I still haven't figured out how to rest in 
 the world map. It's just stupid that I have to use a first aid kit to be able to use first aid 
 skill. I have nothing good to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Fallout Tactics is the third installment in the Fallout series. Tactics combines a transition between 
 Fallout and Fallout II. The character attributes that did not matter as much in Fallout or Fallout 
 II have a huge impact in Tatics. For example, Charisma weighs heavily on bartering prices, promotion 
 within the brotherhood and persuasion. This may not seem like a huge impact, but the difficulty 
 escalates as the story progresses and equipment availability is directly related toyou rank in 
 the brotherhood. 
  You begin your journey as a new recruit who must battle against raiders, swell your ranks by aiding 
 the local tribes, battle radiated insects, beastlords, super mutants, deathclaws, ghouls, reavers, 
 and others. You must lead your squad against these hordes and come out victorious. Some of the 
 hardest missions in the game are those where you have to defend an area, survive the massive wave 
 attackers, then launch a counter-offensive (all with six men/women) . Those levels are a beast, 
 but fun nonetheless. 
  Tatics involves Fallout game play and strategy with a more indepth squad based system in which 
 you have full control over six characters instead of your usual one. It is possible to go throughout 
 the whole game and not lose a squad member, but that is really hard to do on the hardest setting 
 coupled with the tough man (under this setting you have the highest difficulty and you are only 
 able to save your game in the brotherhood bunkers) . This truly is a challenging game and if you 
 are a fan of fallout or strategy games this game is a game you would grow to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyttsten
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  But still, it is a Fallout game, and a Fallout game is the world I like. It could be better. There 
 is to much "high-tech". I like the old game where you had a pistol ore a rock. 
  We also have the graphic problem. When entering a house you don't se the room, just the roof. Hard 
 to guess where door's, crates and other stuff are.
  
  I like the ide of playing with others. I would like to se Fallout has a MMPOG. That would be the 
 **** Building your own little town, exploring the world after the big bang. You get it, right? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choppy15
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is easy to immerse yourself in right from the start. The controls are easy to learn 
 and there is plenty to explore in the post nuclear wasteland that is fallout. There are plenty 
 of missions and action for RPG action junkies out there but it also carries a story from the past 
 fallout series with new races and characters such as reavers and robots that are present and overwhelming 
 in this new installment. The brotherhood of steel definitely addsa touch of class to the baron 
 wastelands of the new world and gives you a chance to come into technology and weapons staright 
 away. I myself enjoy the idea of being the savior of the wastes and strolling around in a shiny 
 metal suit but there are those that will want to castrate you for doing so, my advice is watch 
 yuor back there could be anything right behind you. All i need now is for black isle studios to 
 make fallout 3 and ill be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synaesthetic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Set in the dystopian universe as Fallout, you'll find a turn based squad tactics game that hasn't 
 been done as well since X-Com: UFO Defense. And unfortunately, like X-Com, this outstanding franchise 
 is pushing up daisies until someone with a vision comes along and resurrects it. 
  
  Unlike the previous Fallout games, Tactics separates itself by being more open ended. You decide 
 how to approach any given situation and while some are more effective than others such as dropping 
 land mines while "retreating" only to have bogies run full tilt into them, to lobbing a few well 
 placed grenades into a tent or have your well armored "tank" player go nilly willy into a room, 
 guns blazing. The latter method generally results in your character exploding like a squib, so 
 you'll always find yourself being rewarded for using your brain over sheer brawn. 
  
  And on that point is why i enjoy this game so much- it's a thinking persons game. It's also funnier 
 than giving rubber crutches away for free at an Old Folks Home. From the illustrations to the over 
 the top way in which bodies go "BOOM", you'll find yourself laughing, unless it's one of your own 
 in which you'll most likely reload from a saved game and try, try again. Fortunately you are able 
 to turn off the extreme gore if it's not to your liking.
  
  And on a similar note, this game allows you to toggle whether you want to use real time, turn based 
 or split time. The first two are relatively self explanitory and if you're just itching to see 
 your pees go "BOOM", i do recommend the Real Time mode. Otherwise, the best approach is to use 
 the Split time which basically allows you to stay in Real Time until you've been spotted (or until 
 you've spotted a bogie) , at which point it goes into turn based mode. 
  
  Voice talents include R. Lee Ermey (Full Metal Jacket) , Dwight Schultz (A- Team, ST: tNG) and one 
 of my favorite actors of all time, Kurtwood Smith who's better known these days as Red from That 
 70's Show. And that's not a cast thrown together without thought. Indeed if you like turn baesd 
 games, and you have a sense of humor, go find yourself a copy of this baby and love it like no 
 other. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 23, 2004 4:42 am PT
Review:  The turn-based combat system is OK, not great, but very OK. The small variety of character types 
 you can have on your team is a nice, like zombies. But everything else is really a major dissappointment.
 
  
  The levels are disappointingly boring and generic. The combat AI almost brain-dead. There are 2 
 missions that are interesting where you have to defend rather than take the offensive. But the 
 rest of the missions lack any point at all.
  
  Another 6 months of development and it could have been a good game. As it is, avoid it and play 
 Jagged Alliance 2 instead.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: askme1now
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2004 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Fallout fans don't like it because it's not Fallout; turn-based tactical strategy fans don't like 
 it because it's not Jagged Alliance. I loved it. Edgy atmosphere, interesting (and huge) maps, 
 even without true 3D graphics, steady progression of difficulty, and elements you won't see in 
 any other same-genre game (e. g., mutant prostitutes...?) .
  
  Character development is less-slick than Jagged Alliance's invisible "use/grow" system: you get 
 points at the end of each mission and spend them how you choose. As with most TBTS games, most 
 skills and abilities are useless; just pick the few that work and move on.
  
  Gameplay trends toward mindless -- think "tank warfare" by the end of the game, rather than commando 
 ops, due to the amount of armor and firepower you and your opponents have -- but it's easily one 
 of the most replayable old games in my library, more so even than Silent Storm and other recent 
 TBTS roll-outs.
  
  If only I could put Silent Storm's graphics and Jagged Alliances' gameplay into Fallout Tactics' 
 environments... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubycon
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 23, 2003 11:32 pm PT
Review:  One word: Disappointing. Plays like a cheap rip-off Jagged Alliance 2. There is little to praise 
 about this game. The controls are awful, and battles seem to just become chaotic and frustrating. 
 The computer AI is abysmal. There is no strategy - just run at the opponents and whoever has the 
 biggest gun (and doesnt run out of ammo) wins. The rest of the game is filler, and things like 
 buying your ammo from the quartermaster is just silly. Your cost is ten times or more, what he'll 
 give you when you sell stuff. Oh well. Can't recommend this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
