-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fallout
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/fallout/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 9.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 3,543 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Black Isle Studios
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fallout is one of the best role-playing games to be released in several years. 

 The past several years haven't exactly been kind to role-playing game fans. Very few role-playing 
 games have been released since 1993, and those that have made it to retail shelves have largely 
 been unsuccessful at combining playability and originality with the complexity that role-playing 
 game fans love. The release of Blizzard Entertainment's action/role-playing game hybrid Diablo 
 in early 1997 only increased role-playing gamers' anticipation for an equally playable game in 
 a more elaborate, detailed world. After a four-year drought, the wait is over. Fallout is one of 
 the best role-playing games to be released in several years and it succeeds in entertaining gamers 
 by providing a fresh and compelling storyline, good graphics and sound, and attention to those 
 little details that can transform a good game into a great one.  

 Fallout is an unofficial sequel to 1987's Wasteland, one of the most popular role-playing games 
 of all time. While the overwhelming majority of computer role-playing games are set in some pseudo-medieval, 
 Tolkien/AD&amp; D-inspired world of orcs and battleaxes, Fallout is set in the future, several years 
 after an exchange of nuclear weapons has devastated most of the world. Inhabitants who survived 
 did so largely by sheltering themselves in giant underground vaults. Your character's life has 
 been spent entirely within one such vault. A broken chip for your vault's water recycler forces 
 your character to leave the relative safety of the vault to search for a replacement chip aboveground 
 in the wasteland, where you'll encounter struggling communities of survivors, Road Warrior-esque 
 gangs, human mutants, and even stranger creatures. Hardly a typical setting for a role-playing 
 game, but the originality of the setting is one of the strengths of Fallout. In Fallout, rather 
 than trudging through yet another dreary dungeon, in search of ye olde magic artifact to expel 
 demon horde #782, your character will explore the haunting remnants of our own civilization and 
 attempt to unravel the mysterious forces at work in postapocalyptic Southern California. The old 
 90210 neighborhood has changed, gang violence is rampant, two-headed cows roam Rodeo, and the new 
 fashion accessory is a rocket launcher. And if the guns of the locals don't get you, the radiation 
 might. Brandon, Kelly, why are you glowing like that?  

 Fallout oozes style. Not content with extrapolating a plausible but unexciting hi-tech view of the 
 future, Fallout's design team instead crafted a vision of the future that combines 1950s cold war 
 American culture and early, primitive computer technology (complete with ugly green monochrome 
 screens and an abundance of vacuum tubes) , with advanced energy weapons and chemical compounds. 
 Nuka-cola anyone? Special mention should be made of Fallout's classy introduction, which unfolds 
 like a 1950s Public Service announcement but depicts a future that is disturbingly bleak and hostile. 
 Little tributes to classic science fiction films and TV shows such as Dr. Who, Road Warrior and 
 Blade Runner pop up all over the place. Fans of Charlton Heston's cheesy science fiction filmmaking 
 days will enjoy the opportunity to yell out Charlie's best lines from Soylent Green.   

 Negotiations to allow Fallout to utilize Steve Jackson Games' popular GURPS character system fell 
 apart, but Interplay's replacement character creation system is detailed and thorough. Almost every 
 time a computer game is released that purports to be a role-playing game, a seemingly inevitable 
 onslaught of debate ensues over whether or not that game is, in fact, a role-playing game (as opposed 
 to a member of some presumably inferior wanna-be genre) . Fallout will likely avoid being the subject 
 of such "meaningful" arguments, as the variety of characters that can be created and the truly 
 different experiences that each type of character can have should satisfy even hard-core RPG players 
 (and also make Fallout a very replayable game, which is fortunate since the main storyline can 
 be completed relatively quickly) .   

 Fallout uses a hybrid system of character development, which is both level-based (your character 
 gains character levels by accumulating experience points) and skill-based (your character has 10 
 primary skill types that can be improved throughout the course of the game) . You can also give 
 your character up to two optional traits (such as the ability to see and function better at night) , 
 each having both a positive and negative effect on your character. Gore-mongers will want to pick 
 the "bloody mess" trait, which causes your victims to die in the most graphically violent way possible. 
 Finally, every time your character gains three character levels you can add a helpful "perk" ability 
 to further distinguish your character. Do you want to be a good-natured doctor with a knack for 
 big guns, a nimble gymnast with an addiction, a ruthless assassin, or a lucky thief? The choices 
 you make will affect your character's encounters and, in particular, how the nonplayer characters 
 in the game respond to your character.  

 Interaction with nonplayer characters (NPCs) is a bit disappointing. Most of the nonplayer characters 
 in Fallout aren't big on conversation and run around blithely and inconsequentially. Shades of 
 the early Ultima games from Richard Garriott and Origin Systems, Stationary NPCs are generally 
 important and will engage in menu-driven conversations. Mobile NPCs, on the other hand, will bark 
 a short message at your character, which will be randomly chosen from three or so available options 
 for that location. Occasionally, you will run into a more outgoing NPC with a larger vocabulary 
 who will be presented as an animated puppet head, and these exchanges will usually give you a chance 
 to decide whether you want your character to act as a hero or a villain. As always being evil can 
 be fun (er, at least in computer games) , but it will also lower your character's karma, or reputation, 
 which will affect the way NPCs treat you.   

 Although you only control one character in Fallout, you can convince certain NPCs to join you in 
 your quests, but you'll never be able to directly control their actions. Unfortunately, these NPC 
 companions tend to take particular delight in blocking doorways or shooting you (and each other) 
 in the back with semiautomatic weapons. You also won't be able to directly access your companions' 
 inventory or otherwise instruct them to give you items or to equip better armor. Give an NPC a 
 key item and you'll have to barter or steal from the NPC in order to get it back. Ingrates.   

 
 The gaming world is presented from an isometric perspective and the graphics are detailed and extremely 
 similar in style and quality to Origin's Crusader games. A sighting bubble, which surrounds your 
 character, ensures that you'll never lose track of objects that would otherwise be obscured as 
 a result of the game's isometric perspective. The settings are suitably apocalyptic and ironic 
 (junked cars are everywhere, but the prevalent mode of transportation is a two-headed cow caravan) . 
 Music is also well done throughout the game, with each setting having its own distinct and often 
 haunting melody. Sound effects are less memorable, but adequate. The game's interface works well 
 once you get over the initial learning curve and master using the various cursor modes. The inventory 
 screen, however, is somewhat awkward, as it requires you to page down a relatively narrow display 
 in order to view everything you're carrying.   

 The world moves along in real time until combat is initiated. There is a large variety of weapons 
 to choose from, including pistols, rifles, machine guns, rocket launchers, flamethrowers, and plasma 
 guns, and each is capable of killing your enemies in a suitably distinct graphical manner. Combat 
 is strictly turn-based and becomes quite tactical, complete with character initiative, action points, 
 and varying attack modes. It's very satisfying to halt an advancing enemy by targeting the enemy's 
 legs with your sniper rifle. Targeting works even on nonhumanoid enemy types, so if you've ever 
 dreamt of kicking a giant rat in the groin, here's your chance...  

 Although Interplay has recently released a bug-stomping patch, there are still a couple of annoying 
 bugs in Fallout that may force you to backtrack and try certain tasks again. As the excellent and 
 conveniently spiral-bound manual (the Vault Dweller's Survival Guide) suggests, save often. Gameplay 
 is generally delightfully nonlinear, but occasionally the game's chronology gets garbled and quests 
 are presented in an illogical sequence that can result in some inappropriate NPC conversations. 
 While none of the remaining bugs will prevent you from finishing the game, they can make it impossible 
 to successfully complete certain quests.   

 Even though these minor flaws bring Fallout's overall rating down a notch or two, Fallout is not 
 only a worthy successor to Wasteland, it's also a role-playing game that is destined to become 
 a classic in its own right. Fallout's detailed graphics, compelling plot, and intuitive gameplay 
 should deservedly broaden its appeal beyond the hard-core role-playing game audience. Put simply, 
 Fallout may be the best role-playing game to be released in years.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Archpimp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:17 am PT
Review:  Wow! This is a fantastic game that will keep you on the edge of your keyboard from the moment you 
 step into the vault until your face to face with the Master. The great thing about this game is 
 if you begin to wander to much you can get in over your head. This usually ended up in your untimely 
 demise and of course no water chip for your vault. The other fantastic thing about wandering is 
 who you bump in to on your travels. It could be a group of radscorpions, raiders, or Bob the crazy 
 used car salesman. Fallout has great main characters each with their own agenda that usually pits 
 you against another faction for good or ill. The added reaction to the talking heads as they respond 
 to your inquiries was pretty impressive for game from the mid-90's
  The whole atmosphere of fallout was well put together since you have to go into the unknown to 
 find out what is out in this wasted land. This is set directly from the beginning as you step out 
 of the vault and head towards, unknowingly, Shady Sands for your first encounter with people outside. 
 The guns, armor, and general shape of the towns with their retro appeal really sells the me as 
 a gamer since it takes from a time when everyone had a great feeling and turns that upside down.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone. Even with the outdated graphics this game will still keep 
 you involved with it's fantastic story. I hope other games manufacturers will take note that it's 
 not just great graphics but how you weave those into the gameplay and keep the gamer involved. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag_04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:46 am PT
Review:  And yeah, I'm one of those that downloaded this game and played it for first time the last summer. 
 I am sad that I didn't buy this game nor play it back when it was released... really sad.
  
  Well I guess I can't add anything new that has been said already about the fallout series. Fallout 
 1 and 2 have exactly the same gameplay. 2nd part is slightly better due to some improvements.
 
  
  It is said that the story of this game is amazing. Well, it is not exactly amazing. However, because 
 of the game's design, as you travel through the world (as the man/woman who will save your vault) 
 you start knowing what is currently happening. Yeah, we could say that the action takes place in 
 California. However, you feel like you are exploring a different planet. 
  
  About the development system of your character, the "S. P. E. C. I. A. L." and the abilities you learn, 
 is what gives this game its personal taste. Because the way you put points in your atributes/abilities 
 changes completely your gameplay. It is so damn fun that you will want to play the game again.
 
  
  The battles, while being turn-based, aren't boring, cause they are tactic and also it is fun when 
 you crit as you watch fatalities and some hilarious messages appear with things like "You critically 
 hit the guard in his eyes. The guard is blind". The funny thing is that there is no magic, no swords, 
 no shields... BUT... there are guns, shotguns, laser guns, rifles, gatling guns, flamethrowers, grenades.... lovely 
 isn't it? ;P
  
  So overall, this game is UNIQUE. No matter what kind of rpg gamer you are, you will love this game, 
 unless you really hate sci-fi or old-school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbasreza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  Usually, I positively HATE!! any turn based game, no matter how good the reviews are. After playing 
 fallout 3, i found it hard to believe that the original games could be better, especially if they 
 were turn-based. But I still wanted both of the original games to understand the story of the game 
 more.
  
  At this point I'l admit that i downloaded the games, i had no other option, my parents don't allow 
 me to buy anything online, i didn't know i could download the games from interplay. com, and i didn't 
 see it at any shop at all. I envy the people who have the original cds. 
  
  As soon as I sat down to actually play the game, I was amazed that the graphics, though not perfect, 
 were still amazing considering that it was published in 1997. As for the game itself, though it 
 was turn based, it was still very amazing, it almost gave me the feeling i was playing dungeons 
 and dragons with guns -- interactively. 
  
  I haven't finished the game yet, however from what i have played so far, I can confirm that any 
 person who enjoys turn based RPGs or a a good action game will definately enjoy this Fallout 1. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  
  
  This is one of the most addictive games I've played. It came out in 1997 and was a breath of fresh 
 air for RPGs, set in a post nuclear war period.
  
  You can create or select a character (you select their gender and age) and customize their starting 
 stats and can choose the stats to boost later in the game when you level up.
  
  The story begins in 2161, for generations people have lived in a vault called 'Vault 13', where they 
 recycled water and stocked up on food and sealed themselves from the dangers and radiation on the 
 surface. Eventually the water recycling chip breaks, and your character leaves the safety of the 
 vault and goes to the surface to search for a chip to repair the water recycling machine.
  
  The surface of the world is plagued by violence, mutant people and animals and people live in 
 little Shanty towns with their own set of, or lack of laws and ways they enforce them.
  
  To make things feel more realistic, there is a limited amount of days that can go past before the 
 people in your vault run out of water. You use up days as you travel across the land, but not when 
 you're doing quests.
  
  Just like in real life, there is no black and white difference between good and evil, for example, you 
 can steal a water recycling chip from another town and let their inhabitants die, or you can choose 
 a much harder, but more heroic option of finding parts to repair a water system for the town, as 
 well as fighting off many mutants in the process to convince them to let you take their water chip.
 
  
  As for the gameplay, it plays similiar to Diablo and many other PC RPGs. You can trick enemies into 
 letting you into their base instead of having to fight past them, you can pick door locks to find 
 quicker, safer routes or for extra bonuses, you can even sneak past enemies. The combat uses a dice 
 role and action point system. There is an element of luck but it makes combat more unpredictable. How 
 you allign points for melee weapon power, shooting accuracy, evasiveness when you level up effects 
 your combat performance, but it all evens out, it's just that way so you can choose how you want 
 to fight your enemies, and whether you want a character who specializes in combat or in stealth.
 
  
  The way you talk to NPCs in general is important, if you insult people they'll want to kill you, if 
 you're polite they might try to help you or at least leave you alone. You can kill some NPCs just 
 for the fun of it.
  
  The game is very non-linear, you can travel from town to town as you wish and you can interact with 
 characters in a variety of different ways. Sure there isn't much variety in the things you can say 
 to them but some of the insults and rudeness is quite humorous.
  
  The story becomes much deeper than just finding a water chip, but I'll leave that for you to find 
 out.
  
  The environments have a very wasteland feel. The towns look like shanty towns and leftovers of past 
 civilizations, there's lots of desert wasteland. For realism there is random battles but it only 
 occurs when you travel across the landscape from town to town, not when you're in the towns.
  
  As you travel across the desert wastelands you'll encounter giant, radioactive scorpions, and 
 gangs of thugs and other weird creatures.
  
  The game is super addictive and a great change from all the medieval and sci fi RPGs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpops
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  RPGs tend to be stuck in the same medieval time periods, but Fallout offers a fresh, original storyline 
 set in a distant retro future. The game's renown is surely due to its interesting plot line, humorous 
 and believable dialog, and exciting characters. From the moment the game starts, you're placed 
 in the role of an inhabitant of Vault 13, where you were born and have lived your entire life thanks 
 to an apocalyptic nuclear war that's all but wiped out humanity. The water chip which recycles 
 the vault's water has broken, and without it, your fellow Vault members will surely die -- and 
 so you are chosen to venture outside the vault to obtain a new chip, and save your kind...
  
  Upon exiting the vault you will be forced to learn how to engage in combat. Fallout features 
 a turn-based system which affords you action points (AP) to spend. Moves, actions, and other special 
 abilities all deplete your AP for a particular turn, forcing you to strategically plan your engagements 
 well. Even with the turn based system, combat is far from dull. Distance and line of sight play 
 an important role, and you can use this to your advantage when selecting the next enemy to take 
 down. Hostiles may accidentally shoot their comrades, and likewise your friends may sometimes cause 
 your downfall. A wide range of weapons are available, from unarmed and melee combat to heavy and 
 energy weapons, the latter of which may cause injuries and deaths so gory that they have become 
 a trademark of the franchise.
  
  Combat, mission completion, and successful actions will all grant experience points toward your 
 character's level. There are many RPG traditions here, such as adding bonus attributes to your 
 characters different abilities. But another aspect of character design, called 'Perks,' presents 
 some wholly original ideas to the mix. One perk will grant you more experience per level, another 
 will assure more critical hits, while another promises that a mysterious wanderer will sometimes 
 appear to help you in sticky situations. These perks, combined with several character abilities 
 chosen at the beginning of the game (might I suggest 'Bloody Mess'?) will ensure that your character 
 is not only unique, but that the entire game might be a new experience on a second play through.
 
  
  But of course the game is not all about combat and character design. The story of Fallout is the 
 game's best feature, and the soundtrack and written dialog go far to enhance the setting. NPCs 
 sometimes have plenty to say, but never so much as to bog the player down in text. Certain NPCs 
 throughout the game feature spoken dialog, which not only comes a surprise at times, but is extremely 
 well-executed; the voice acting is top notch. The fact that only some characters have this feature 
 makes you appreciate it all the more when it's there, and it does so much to draw you into this 
 world. Sound effects aren't quite on par with the soundtrack and dialog, but it does it's job. 
 Some combat sounds will, however, begin to grate on one's nerves after hours of play, but it is 
 a small quirk that is easily looked over.
  
  The one aspect of the game that cannot be so easily dismissed, however, is the party system. As 
 you progress, you will eventually find other NPCs to join you in your ultimate quest. These characters 
 are at first welcome, but end up getting in the way of the game. You can not control these members 
 directly, with the maximum amount of interaction boiling down to dialog and bartering. You may 
 give them better weapons, but don't always expect them to use them -- or at least use them well. 
 You can offer them the best armor in the game, which they'll gladly except, but they'll simply 
 carry it around with them until they're dying breath rather than try it on. And to make matters 
 worse, you'll have to steal the armor (or anything else you might give them) to get it back lest 
 you offer up money.
  
  Your party NPCs can also get in your way -- quite literally. Walk to a corner, and three may surround 
 you so as to block your path. You are forced to sit, stuck, here until one of them randomly walks 
 away. I had more than a few moments during my game where I was forced to wait for 20 seconds or 
 more due to their incompetence. And in battle, they will rather stand their ground, firing shots 
 into the backs of their comrades (including you!) than move one step to the side to shoot around. 
 This might all be somewhat worth it if these characters had serious impact on the story, but alas 
 they do not. They were perhaps the most one dimensional characters in the game, and (at least on 
 MY play through) , did not contribute at all to the story. This party system is the only reason 
 this game does not reason 5/5 stars, but it truly is a nearly broken system, that I hear is at 
 least much improved in Fallout 2.
  
  Do not let this one shortcoming decide your purchase. The other aspects of Fallout -- combat, storyline, 
 and overall atmosphere -- make it a truly exceptional game. If you are in the slightest bit into 
 RPGs, post apocalyptic worlds, or retro futures, you owe to yourself to give fallout a try. It 
 is easy to get sucked into the world that it offers, and leaves me truly excited to begin Fallout 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is an old game and it shows graphic wise. Like all great games though graphics don't really 
 mean a lot! Fallout is for sure a classic and it is also still a wonderful game. RPG's age much better 
 than most games but still yet some to me just are not fun anymore. Take Final Fantasy 9, I used 
 to love it but I just recently played it and just could not stand it, but I played through part 
 7 and 4 and had alot of fun doing it. Where am I going with this? My point is in my opinion fallout 
 is up there with those timeless rpg's. It packs so much cool customization and depth for a game 
 this old it will blow your mind.
  
  First of all though unlike the FF's or some other rpg's out there fallout has a tough learning 
 curve. The first time I played through it I could not shake the feeling that I was just doing a 
 lot of things wrong. Once you catch on too it though it gets really fun. First there is your character 
 and you can make this guy anyway you see fit. With some really cool options that will make you say 
 man why don't other rpg's try some of this stuff. You set your main stats, then pick your 3 favorite 
 skills, and you pick two traits. Stats govern your skills and things you can do. Skills make you more 
 efficient at lock picking, first aid, weapons and so on. Traits are very cool, you pick two and they 
 all have a pro and a con so choose with caution. Then after every so many levels you get perks which 
 can help modify skills or give you a cool ability. Stack all this with meaningful dialog in which 
 you pick what you want to say and then that goes toward how others look at you, and you have a very 
 good stew going on how to make a super cool RPG. Then there are the quests which are fun, although 
 I did not like the timer on the water chip quest. Hmmm needs a little more zest........ Got it how 
 about a really cool tactical battle system. You go turn based and can even right click on your weapon 
 then bring up a tactical view of the enemy and pick it apart by say shooting out a leg so it has 
 problems moving then just putting it out of its suffering with ease.
  
  Not all is great though I have all the patches and it still runs kinda buggy. The combat can become 
 overwhelming resulting in a cheap death, but nothings worse than making a mistake and whatching 
 7 or 8 guys kick your guts out untill you die so you can load it and try again. The thing that sucks 
 about it is you know your dead but due to the turnbased battles you have to wait till its your 
 turn or die to load and it can get ugly. Also like I said up there this game has a really steep 
 learning curve or at least it did too me but once your past all that this game is just fun.
  
  Fallout was a game that was ahead of its time and helped to create the rpg's we know today. Whats 
 more than that is other than the graphics this game is still loads of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontenten
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  ahh.. i got to say only one thing 
  fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeGotGun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game is an Amazing piece of work. The graphics don't feel so bad once you get used to the 
 old school interactivity. The ONLY thing I didn't enjoy about this game is that you have to click 
 the little red buttons on the menus, making it quite hard to get into it fast, I've been playing 
 this for 2 days, because I Pre-Ordered Fallout 3 and never got round to playing through much of 
 these games, but I knew for sure I loved them. My first encounter with the Fallout series was through 
 the game "Fallout: Tactics" which I really enjoyed. This is just the same game, but you spend most 
 of your time on your own. This is very Immersive and it is hard to stop playing once you start. 
 I recommend this game to anyone, anyone at all, It is just so good.
  
  I Have found it can be quite hard at times, it has a bit of a puzzle feel to some of it and for 
 the time it was made, It is the best game out. In Fact, forget that, it IS the best game out, Period. 
 I'm still stuck on the first time though to be honest, because I like to explore a lot, and what 
 what I've found so far isn't disappointing at all, there are a lot of places to go to, one of my 
 favorite is the Cathedral, on the South-Western side of the map, I like to get some good weapons, 
 kill everyone outside the Cathedral, then storm the rest. For first time players who are trying 
 this game straight from the FPS genre, you should have a low strength, low luck, and high perception 
 and agility character, then find some books, increase his First-Aid skill and shooting, get a good 
 Bartering level, and your all set with your newly found Hunting Rifle, head shots of course :)
 
  
  
  Now I leave you all with this,
  I would have made this game a 9.8, not a 10, because thats reserved for my Fallout 3 :) But a 9.8, 
 and I want to say how good this game is, and how much better this is than the second one, which 
 I don't like nearly as much.
  I have to go now, and finish finding this wretched Water Chip......
  
  ..... Where could you 
 be.........
  
  29/10/08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  What does it mean? I am discussing, of course, the final note a piece of media leaves you with, 
 and the nagging questions it left behind. What did that all mean? Where did it come from? How did 
 it affect me, and how did I affect it? These questions are part of the process in looking back 
 at anything, be it game, music or movie, and it largely stems from the fact that any perspective 
 you have of something reflects you upon itself. You are your opinion. You are your own experience.
 
  
  This is what Fallout makes me feel, no matter how ironic or confusing that may sound. When playing 
 this game, I was free to play it in any manner that I wished, and I made my own game from that. 
 When games these days are so entrenched in giving the player "that much more freedom!" when most 
 of the time it really just stems from choosing the red or blue text icon, it really becomes that 
 much more vivid when a game  from 1997, no less  comes along and shows you a world that you are 
 free to do whatever you wish with, as long as you have the creativity and the means to do it.
 
  
  Not that I'm saying that Fallout is anywhere near the concept and breadth of, say, Spore. It's 
 an old game to be sure; if the same game were to be made today, it would be able to incorporate 
 a lot more of what made the original that much more compelling. The technology limits it, of course, 
 but in the same breath I can say that Fallout still transcends the very technology that makes it, 
 creating a strategic role playing game that really is in a class of its own. It certainly isn't 
 the easiest game to understand, but after knowing its purpose and reasoning, it becomes a brilliant 
 work of an age that left us a long, long time ago.
  
  I will admit; my first feelings toward Fallout were, at best, muted. The game is slow, plodding, 
 and wordy, filled with customizations that felt mostly without use or interest. Battles are thorough, 
 and each turn takes a level of strategy and cleverness that a modern game wouldn't dare ask of 
 the average gamer today. Every step has a consequence, an extra option to press through, it seemed, 
 and it felt like a chore to play for too long for me to keep it installed on my computer.
  
  And yet, the charm of a post-apocalyptic RPG was too great for me to turn it down for long; 
 Ron Perlman's voice coming through my speakers talking about the nuclear war was simply too cool 
 for me to ignore. Eventually, there was enlightenment, a day where the angels came down to my ear, 
 and whispered softly into my brain, "This is what Fallout means," and I understood. It's not a 
 game that can be played at surface value. The aesthetics are ugly, the interface is boring and 
 the sound is muffled and dull. And yet, it takes time and patience to understand the true nuances 
 of what makes this game bring back fans, year after year.
  
  Fallout is a combination of many things, it seems. It isn't just the manufactured RPG's that erupt 
 from Japanese development houses; it is a true, Dungeons and Dragons role playing game. It is a 
 world where you create your own identity; whether it's your own or an identity that you created, 
 it's about fitting into that and seeing what happens. It's less about killing the demon on level 
 five and more about the way you phrase your words so that the shopkeeper knows exactly who you 
 are. And, hey, if you need to blow off some steam, just kill the whole town.
  
  But beyond the meta-game of creating your own persona, it's also about strategic combat. Fallout's 
 battle system is comparable less to Diablo and more to a HeroClix miniatures battle or a Fire Emblem 
 campaign. The main difference between Fallout and Fire Emblem is that the latter gives you many 
 units that do very little, while Fallout gives you one guy whom you have extreme and total power 
 over for the entire game. Hit the enemy on the shoulder with a knife, then hit the rat behind him 
 with a rifle. Boom, pow, reload. Next turn. Plan it out, figure out what the enemy will do. React, 
 adjust. There's more thought required here in five minutes than there is in an entire Final Fantasy 
 game.
  
  It's also an adventure. In no way does it rival newer games like Grand Theft Auto in sheer detail, 
 but every step you take feels like a legitimate cause to play more and explore more. While the 
 game may be made up of very similar textures and tiles, none of it feels similar. The game gives 
 you a task, and you can fulfill it if you want to, but if your character doesn't care about the 
 main story, then so be it. Ignore the cutscenes and time limit, though there is a reaction to any 
 decision you make.
  
  This is why Fallout is not for everyone. It takes a mindset to play successfully; this game is 
 not looking for the mass market audience. It was always designed for the hardcore PC gamer, and 
 it's still meant for the hardcore PC gamer. For the new users, play the demo; know what you're 
 in for. If you like what you hear above, by all means, play Fallout. Love it, cherish it. There's 
 nothing else like it, and there never will be.
  
  But if you go into it asking for something that it's not, you will be disappointed. Its brute force 
 approach to giving the gamers what they want is a little strong for a lot of people, and there 
 are many who have not been enlightened to what Fallout really is. It's not just an RPG. It's a 
 combination of many things, an it's a mindset. It's a conversation. It asks the player, "What would 
 you like to do with me today?" and the player must offer an answer. Without one, the vault will 
 remain forever closed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  I remember when i first got my hands on this game the day it was released. I wasnt really sure 
 what to expect, but boy was i blown away!
  
  The atmosphere was amazing, the game world within the game was fantastic and the story was great.
 
  I was amazed at how you had so much freedom to do as you please when ever you want. There are 
 tons of interesting characters in this game that you can either kill, leave along or sometimes work 
 with.
  
  The combat was also sooo fun back in the day! Once you started to fight it was like a turn based 
 shooter, with alot of strategy in it. Where do you want to shoot the guy? Face? Legs? The choice 
 is yours!
  
  ANother positive from Fallout is that its fun factor was just SOOOO high for me. I couldnt stop 
 playing it! Weither it was doing the missions or stealing stuff from all the characters i would 
 meet up with.
  
  There really wasnt anything i didnt enjoy in this game and i still have memories of playing this 
 game until the early hours of the morning, and realizing i just staryed up ALL NIGHT playing this 
 game hehe.
  
  If you havnt played Fallout or Fallout2 yet, please please get your hands on a copy and give this 
 classic a go! Its a must play for any RPG fan and any gamer in general!
  
  If you excited for the new Fallout, just give these old classics a go first ok?
  
  This is 
 as near to a perfect game as your going to get imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is an interesting game. It is very old game that has some real dated graphics of course, 
 but the core gameplay is fun and addicting if you know what your doing.
  Note: (I didnt actually finish the game, because i dont want to burn myself out of fallout because 
 i want to play fallout 3.)
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is pretty simple. you move around looking for stuff, killing monsters, and talking 
 to people. The only thing is that there is a turn-based combat system which can make for some really 
 intense firefights. The con of this is that the game goes very slow at times and i felt bored a 
 little
  
  Graphics
  As i said, the graphics are very dated and dont look good, but capture the atmosphere somewhat. 
 there are no graphical tweaks except to change the brightness, so dont go in expecting much.
  
  Story
  Well, the story is very simple. WWIII breaks out, people have nukes, people go in 
 shelters, nukes get launched, world goes to **** starts all over again, with two headed buffalos!!!
 
  
  Overall i liked fallout, but the fact that the third one is coming out and the fact that i just 
 dont want to burn myself out the series is the reason why i didnt play it all the way through, 
 and the fact that it is kinda slow paced doesnt do it for me, but i am looking greatly forward 
 to Fallout 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  So having found a free version of this game that I could run on XP at long last I thought it was 
 high time that I fullfilled an old promise to a friend some years ago.
  
  That was to play Fallout.
  
  He told me that he had so many golden gaming moments while playing 
 and replaying this that the fact I had never played it was completly crazy. I Had tried to play 
 Fallout some years before but was distracted by other faster paced games at the time. So like all 
 great works, I did not rush into anything and instead let the game come to me.
  
  I am glad it did. Forcing yourself to play a game is like... game rape?
  
  Fallout's story is 
 pretty basic, there is no "oh and we also need.." moments. You are sent out to get a water chip 
 then asked to perform 1 more task. That is all you need to do to finish the game. You can leave 
 the starting area and happily kill yourway through the entire game and not have anything backfire 
 on you only to complete it as a evil crazy fool. Or you can follow the MANY side quests/missions 
 and go through the game diplomaticaly or half and half or ANY WAY YOU CHOOSE. That is one of the 
 best features of this game. It is very open ended.
  
  The graphics while dated, still stand up to todays standards (in my opinion) though the tile based 
 combat can be slightly prolonged (dogmeat I am looking at you) it does give you time to think about 
 all the nasty ways to dispatch your oponent or squeeze that little extra health out of your character (s) 
 so it does have its benefits.
  Turn based combat based on several factors involving how large your agility and percetion are compared 
 to your oponents means you either fire first and have another go relativley quickly OR end up waiting 
 while the enemy gets 2-3 shots in before you. That can be annoying and something you either get 
 away with or gimp your other stats in favour of moving first and faster.
  
  Everybody harps on about how great the dialogue is between you and NPC's. While the voice acting 
 is better than average, it is not so common throughout the areas maybe 1 or 2 NPC characters per 
 area and then it is merely seconds of voice. The rest of the dialogue requires reading (SHOCK HORROR!) 
 the dialogue options and choosing your answer. Only, you can repeat the dialogue as many times 
 as you like quite happily hammering your answers and questions out like an idiot getting no closer 
 to any sort of real answer.
  
  Occasionally you may miss a very obviously blended in item perfectly matching the floor tiles requiring 
 you to repeat sections of dialogue or searching around for hours until an event happens which triggers 
 an NPC response so you may progress with that part of the story. All the hallmarks of an early 
 annoying RPG.
  
  The combat is fun and the variety of weapons and choice of target body parts makes for a really 
 fun game. Different weapons perform different death animations out of the NPCs and depending on 
 where you hit will determine the gore or effect.... head shots and chest shots never looked so awesome. 
 Games these days seem to have forgotten that fallout did this sort of thing FIRST and perfected 
 it, then everything after it looks like crap, why is that? Developers don't actually play games 
 in their spare time?
  
  Taking small fights, lets call them scenes, and turning them into carefully choregraphed set pieces 
 straight from a movie. Turn the Police Station in the Hub into the Police station from the Terminator. 
 Even wear the leather armor for the full effect. Take the assault rifle and the shotgun and just 
 go through it 1 shotting the cops. You can do this sort of thing all the time. I stood in the middle 
 of a road during one story part in the Bone's with a minigun and just fired at anything I could 
 hit regardless of hit percentage, just because I wanted to spend that much ammo shooting up the 
 scenary. Truly great fun.
  
  Ok so I played it Andrew, I went right through it and got all minus 1 of the endings and I had 
 great fun while I did it. I am not so sure it deserves a score of 10 because it did not quite hit 
 the mark for me, but that is my tastes so don't go all fanboi hating on me :) I am looking forward 
 to Fallout 3, with it's faster paced action it looks like my sort of game and with luck... I will 
 understand some in jokes.
  
  Ok so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 10/10
  Reviewer's tilt: 10/10
  
  Every time when I hear the song "Maybe" from Fallout I have this awesome feelings. I just love 
 this rpg. Fallout is an instant classic game and I think most of you guys will agree with me. This 
 game has just an amazing atmosphere. Fallout was released in 1997 but it's still an outstanding 
 game. 
  
  Fallout takes place in a post nuclear world in USA. The whole world has been destroyed because 
 of the World War III. The whole world is now a one big desert with destroyed buildings, radiation 
 and with less water supplies. Before the World War III people built vaults, places where they will 
 be able to hide and live. You are from that kind of vault - vault 13.
  In the beginning of the game you will have to choose the character you wanna play or create your 
 own. But the best option is not to create a character but to choose already created. There is a 
 guy who is big and strong, a women and my favorite character Albert, he's very charismatic. I think 
 that even in fallout 2 someone sad something about Albert, he built the village from where we start 
 in Fallout 2. 
  So the game starts when a commander/chief of the vault gives you a very important mission to complete. 
 The pump which gives water broke out and we have to bring a new one. Like the commander said "No 
 water, no vault" and he's right, so our character will see the outside
  We will visit many destroyed places which are very dangerous now. We will see many people who are 
 sick because of the radiation and finally we will fight with many enemies like zombies/ghouls, 
 mutants, huge scorpions and rats, bandits, deadclaws who are really dangerous, powerful and more.
 
  But relax guys, everything's cool cuz Fallout offers fantastic arsenal of weapons such as pistols, 
 machine guns, laser gun, grenades and many, many more so no one will mess up with us (RULEZ) . There 
 are some NPCs who can go with us and this is Ian, he's great with guns, a women, probably she is 
 really good with uzis but I'm not so sure about it and of course Dog meat  a dog but really good 
 and helpful. 
  All quests, people, cities are really interesting and great that's why I love Fallout. This game 
 has absolutely gorgeous atmosphere that you will never forget about I promise it to you.
  
  What can I say about the graphics? It's not bad for me, maybe it's not as good now as it was when 
 fallout was released but it's not bad, I like Fallout's graphics hehe really.
  
  The music in Fallout is awesome! The soundtracks bring amazing and unforgettable atmosphere to 
 the game, voice over is very good. Yeah, I like it very much.
  
  Overall Fallout is an instant classic and legendary game! If you never play it then do it immediately 
 and if you already beat the game then do it once again and again! It's really worth it! Fallout 
 is an amazing game! I love it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownba3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Hmm, what can I say that hasn't been said. If you are RPGing and aren't killing an evil dwarf with 
 a sword, Fallout is probably the reason your game exists. A dead-pan sense of humor and lots of 
 choices that affect gameplay and your game's ending as well as a hugemongous fan base. As they 
 say with Elvis, 10,000,000 fans can't be wrong. Although the graphics have become somewhat dated, 
 this is a great game with replay value. Unlike many of the linear action rpg's out there, Fallout 
 did a pretty good job of providing one of the first sandlots. I bought it when it came out, and 
 have played it about every year since then.- Got to have my fix. When it came out, I was hoping 
 it was the computer version of Gamma World. I was wrong, but happy in my mistake. Fallout offers 
 innumerous hours of play time and escape. Glad to see that they are offering this on download. 
 Hope that Fallout 3 lives up to half the hype and that Interplay (or Bethesda) are able to reward 
 this fan base with new classics that have the draw and durability of Fallout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: td01992
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Fallout is a retro futuristic rpg with humour and atmosphere in buckets. Its wort a look as I managed 
 to pick up fallout and 1&2 for under a tenner.
  
  Its turn based which at first is a perfect kick in the (insert word here) but it soon grows on 
 you and you'll be enjoying it with its quaint and charm and engrossing story line.
  
  I took my time with the game and tried to do as much as I could and not just do the simple speed 
 run of nine minutes.
  
  The story behind it as you are a man from the infamous vault 13 (referenced at every turn in its 
 sequel fallout 2) and sent out to find the water chip for the water system before all the inhabitants 
 die. The game is timed (another annoyance for anybody trying to the game but its long enough to 
 do most of the missions if you know what you are doing) while you search, loot and pillage south 
 california shooting mutants and murdering people in quite frankly hillarious and ott death animations. 
 The main story can be completed rather quickly as I aforementioned but if you take your time and 
 visit everytown you will find bountifull amounts of side quests to keep you occupied amd gambling 
 which'll give you enough money to buy all the decent weapons.
  
  Overall I enjoyed this and recommend anybody whos feeling nostalgic and likes a decent old rpg.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Introducing Fallout, a RPG set in post-apocalyptic wasteland of the future. Your mission is simple, 
 being a member of Vault 13, the crew needs a replacement water-clip, you have been sent out to 
 find one. Set in Southern Califorina, the player is exposed to an open world, to find a 'water-clip' 
 and has 150 days to do so, as you later process in the game, the vault leader also asks the player 
 to destory a mutant army and bring it to a end.
  
  Before you begin, you can create a character, select stats points, traits and perks, with the intellegent 
 SPECIAL system, the acronym for all your stats in the game, which determines you're characters 
 skills and perks.
  
  Strange as it is it's difficult to to decide stats, skills, traits and perks in the beginning, 
 as you have no experience in the game, however, the more you play and level up, you will be exposed 
 to more options and make wiser choices.
  
  As you start the game, you are open to the world, you can run around, however as soon as the enemy 
 appears and challenges you, you enter combat mode, by default, you can fight bare fists, however 
 as you process thoughout the game, you will find better weapons and tool to defeat you're enemies. 
 Some of the weapons include pistols, SMG's and energy weapons.
  
  The inventory allows the player to interact and to keep items found thoughout the world, these 
 items can be proven useful, items include slimpacks, ammo, keys and maunals which can approve almost 
 every area of your preformance in the game.
  
  Combat to the enemies to where the objectives are difficult and require some leveling, this is 
 where parts of the game come together nicely. You can also target specific part of the enemies, 
 each part has a hit rate measured in percentage, The bigger the percentage, the better the hit 
 of the attack.
  
  The player can roam around the world and interact with other characters in the game, some character 
 can offer you quests, which when completed, earn you experience points, these experience points 
 allow you to level up, allow you to upgrade your skills and stats, allows you to get stronger in 
 the game. 
  
  As you travel across the wasteland, you will explore different areas in the game, each area has 
 a different look and feel to the environment. The graphics to the area is good for a game created 
 in 1997. The graphics also features adult subject matter which makes it an adult oriented game. 
 The player can recurit NPC's in the game.
  
  The best part of the game, as it's an open world environment, allows you to determinate you're 
 stats at the beginning of the game and the free gameplay. The game has multiple of endings depending 
 on how well you play. Also in the game, it will give you a karma rating from good and evil, which 
 is effect the whole world and the ending. This gives the game a huge replay value. 
  The game lasts around 10 to 15 hours first try to complete the game, a lot of quests and combat 
 make most of the gameplay time. In the beginning of the game, the information is a lot to take 
 in, however as I said, the more you play, the quicker you'll get an idea on what is going on in 
 the world of the game, this will make the game more easier and is awarding once you know what to 
 do to advance in the game.
  
  There a lot of action and interacting in this game the RPG, story, gameplay and other elements 
 tie up in this game really well. It a lot of fun, exciting and you'll be missing out if you passed 
 on this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Well it's 11 years old now, but still one of the greatest games/RPGs ever made. 
  
  One of the reasons why it's great is probably because of its setting: Retro futuristic game, the 
 future envisioned in the 50s era.
  
  The story is superb, I won't go into this, don't want to spoil it.
  
  Gameplay is turn based, 
 now I'm not a big fan of TB combat (even though one of my favourite games is Disciples II) , but 
 in FO the TB blends in well.
  
  The characters are 3D, and I don't mean graphically. They've got character, you'll remember them 
 years after you've stopped playing the game.
  
  In short, if you're a *real* CRPG fan, get this game, better yet get this game and its sequel, 
 Fallout 2. Though FO1 is better IMO.
  
  Graphics are a bit out-dated, yes, not that they matter in an RPG, but the following resolution 
 pack will make the game look quite sharp on 1024x768 resolutions plus.
  
  http://www. nma-fallout. com/forum/dload. php? action=file&file_id=1160
  
  Also, don't forget to 
 install this patch: http://www. nma-fallout. com/forum/dload. php? action=file&file_id=1076
  
  Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwrong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to be objective about fallout because it was the first PC Game i ever bought and in 
 my top 5 all time favorite games. I first played this on my crappy old Packard Bell PC with a whopping 
 128 MB of Ram upgraded from 64 MB, and a 325 Mhz cpu, and an 8 gig hard drive. This was and still 
 has the best story of the fallout series and has all the good rpg elements in it. It was so different 
 from the fantasy type rpg games at the time i think many people overlooked it for a long time. 
 The post apocalyptic style and atmosphere of the game blew me away from the moment i first stepped 
 foot out of the vault. It was also a more adult game in many ways as you know if you ever played 
 it. Not many games try something new but this was unique in many ways when it came out. Anyone 
 one who does not try this incredible classic is missing out on a great story and a lot of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I originally bought this game with its sequal for $9 in a bargain bin. I don't know if it was the 
 non-fantasty setting, the different setting (post-acopalyptic California?) , or that I found it 
 in the bargain bin that made me allow dust to gather on this gem.
  
  After seeing the gameplay footage from E3 '08, I decided to fire this up and see what all the fuss 
 was about.
  
  Holy crap.
  
  All-skill (non class) based character creation, new setting (ironically) , intriguing storyline, 
 fantastic voice acting, and just plain fun gameplay... this game is fantastic. It still holds up 
 in '08, and there's no excuse to avoid this, as the vast majority of PCs (and notebooks) should 
 be able to run this game.
  
  My only criticism is that there are few NPCs available to join your party, those that are (except 
 dogmeat) lack in personality, and that they are incredibly weak due to the fact that they can't 
 upgrade their armor.
  By the time I arrived at the Cathedral, I was alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl_of_minerva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Where so many games fail to create a world with depth and character, Fallout is an absolute triumph. 
 Video games tend to be a poor medium for narrative however Fallout thankfully succeeds through 
 an admirable deftness of touch. The beauty of Fallout is that you keep on uncovering small details 
 which serve as exposition and give the player an active role in the construction of the world. 
 In terms of characterisation and dialogue the game is equally brilliant, rewarding you for finding 
 the NPCs who have something other to say than "good day". 
  It's hard to quantify exactly but every nook and cranny of the game seems to be infused with a 
 sense of nostalgia for post-war Americana - whether its comic books, muscle cars, science fiction 
 movies, or 'Nuka-Cola' Fallout lovingly sends up the culture which has inspired it. There's a real 
 sense of melancholy and nostalgia that pervades the game for a lost (cultural) world which is what 
 lends Fallout its peculiar power. The wasteland in the game is as much a graveyard for the past 
 as mediated through cultural products [the rotting buildings, decrepit billboards, and other such 
 examples of cultural detritus] as it is a post-apocalyptic environment in its own right.
  Even though there's no reason to I've played through this game probably more than a dozen times, 
 and I virtually never replay games. The game world is just so peerless in its design.
  That said the gameplay does have a few flaws. The system for moving/interacting with objects is 
 not immediately the most fluid. Eventually I found after a while it became second nature to switch 
 between the modes and use the hotkeys, etc. The interface isn't as bad as the one in Arx Fatalis 
 at least. For some the combat is too slow, rendering it a chore to wait through all the enemies 
 turns. I've had more than a few friends comment about it to me, neglecting the fact that an options 
 setting could've alleviated their problem in a few seconds. Fallout Tactic's transition to real-time 
 was a failure in my opinion and doesn't improve the gameplay in any significant way. 
  For me the only significant flaw with Fallout is that there's simply not enough of it. A few more 
 quests would've been nice, more of a story, a longer game - but on the whole I can't really complain. 
 It's short and cogent, delivering a unique, impressively detailed world. It's about as far as you 
 can get from the Elder Scrolls games which offer massive but fairly uninteresting worlds with no 
 eye for detail whatever. That the Fallout series is now in Bethesda's hands is one of gamings many 
 cruel ironies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joaovpo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Fallout allows you to play your character the way you want. If you want to play a goodie-two-shoes, 
 you can. If you want to play an evil bastard, you can (Yes, you really can hit children in the 
 groin with a sledgehammer) . If you want to play a moron who can hardly talk because of his low 
 intelligence, you can.
  
  The SPECIAL system used for Fallout 2 character design is so flexible that a complete run-down 
 on possible types isn't feasible nor desirable.
  Strenght
  Perception
  Endurance
  Charisma
  Intelligence
  Agility
  Luck
  
  With this system, you can create hundreds of 
 types of characters and can finish the game different a lot of time, you can finish being a Melee 
 character, a character that can talk his way out of trouble, a dude that just go shooting,
  and all that combinations above with being a good person or a evil person.
  Just this makes the 
 game with alot of replay value, and better yet, there are MANY endings combinations, since there 
 are some endings for each city, so there is alot of combinations too.
  The combat is turn-based, using "Action Points", so in your turn you can do things using your action 
 points, you can also tell your character to aim for the head, the eyes, the groin, the legs, the 
 torso and the arms, all which can be crippled, so you cripple someone's legs, he will have to move 
 slowly or will fall down, the eyes, he will miss alot, and so going, so the combat is good and 
 funny.
  Fallout is a great game you definetely should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Before Oblivion, before Neverwinter Nights and even before Baldur's Gate revitalised the computer 
 role-playing genre, there was Fallout. A sequel in all but name to the cult post-apocalyptic RPG 
 Wasteland, Fallout was developed by a division of Interplay that would soon become Black Isle  
 a company responsible for many other RPG favourites including Icewind Dale and Planescape: Torment 
 before their untimely demise.
  
  Fallout's tag-line, "A post apocalyptic role-playing game" describes the basis of the game well. 
 It does exactly what it says on the tin, but with a style and panache that has yet to be matched 
 by any game in an admittedly small genre. Rather than sticking to the generic fantasy settings 
 of most computer RPGs, the developers of Fallout strode a braver path, not only by placing the 
 game in a science fiction setting but by placing it in a science fiction setting that looks like 
 something out of a 1950s pulp. Fallout is retro-chic, ten years before Bioshock made it cool. One 
 part dark post-apocalyptic nightmare, two parts wickedly bleak sense of humour: playing on a 1950s 
 vision of a future that must have once seemed all too possible, a vision of America after The Bomb. 
 Cold War-influenced public service announcements, 1952 Fords and vacuum-tube computers fight for 
 space with barren wastelands, almost-deserted cities and radioactive mutant ghouls. It's like Radioactive 
 Dreams without all the singing.
  
  Part of Fallout's lasting appeal amongst many gamers is due not only to its setting, style and 
 gameplay, but its theme. Sex, drugs and cold-blooded murder all play their part in how your character 
 progresses through the game, violence abounds (check out the infamous Bloody Mess character perk) 
 and there are more than passing references to undesirable subjects such as child prostitution. 
 Make no mistake; Fallout is a real game for adults, a refreshingly mature experience in an age 
 where Adults Only means little more than redecorating with claret in as realistic a fashion as 
 possible.
  
  Now, how does all this meticulous setting of the scene compare with the game itself? The premise 
 of Fallout is simple. No need for excessive exposition in a world as well-realised as this. The 
 story takes place 80 years or so after a total nuclear war. The protagonist is an inhabitant of 
 Vault 13, one of a number of Vaults that acted as fallout shelters and provided homes for survivors 
 of the war. Your character, after living all their life in the safety of a Vault, is suddenly sent 
 out into the broken world to find a replacement water purification chip to ensure the Vault inhabitants' 
 continued survival. During your quest, your character must travel in real time to a number of locations: 
 desert villages, abandoned Vaults and the rough remains of once-great cities including the remains 
 of L. A., a town created entirely of junk and a town populated solely by friendly ghouls. If that 
 doesn't strike your fancy, you can wander around the wastes of California to your heart's content. 
 Be warned, however, there is a strict time-limit on this first quest  if you don't want your friends 
 to perish of thirst you'd better hop to it. Don't worry, the quest for the water chip is only your 
 first step into this world and you have plenty of time to explore every nook and cranny whilst 
 carrying out more world-changing quests. Thirteen years in real time, to be exact.
  
  Aside from the main storyline quests  which to be frank won't take an experienced gamer longer 
 than 15 hours or so to complete  you have the opportunity to take on any number of extra assignments 
 in whatever way you see fit. Fallout can be played in a number of ways. Wipe out a vicious gang 
 or join them in their mayhem. Maybe some sort of double-cross is more up your alley. The only way 
 to find everything in this world is to explore, explore, explore. Talk to everybody you can. Your 
 actions have consequences, so be careful and think before you act. Once somebody is dead in this 
 world, they are dead for good. No magical potions, no scrolls of resurrection, no handy priests 
 to pull you from the abyss. Just try keeping your faithful canine companion Dogmeat alive and you'll 
 see how final and gut-wrenching death really is.
  
  Obviously, during your travels you will come across those who would seek to impede your progress. 
 Negotiating is one option, negotiating at the end of a gun barrel is another. Combat is dealt with 
 in pure turn-based fashion, with a set number of action points each turn to carry out actions such 
 as attacking, moving, throwing grenades, healing, opening your inventory and so on. Such a system 
 requires a certain amount of tactical thinking, so it is wise to stop and think before rushing 
 in, all guns blazing. The weapons available to you are a fantastic mash-up of early 20th century 
 favourites, current models and futuristic armaments: from shotguns and SMGs to plasma rifles and 
 ray guns, there is something for everyone. Some weapons require more action points than others 
 to use, so make your choice carefully. The only real issue I have with the combat system is that 
 due to the turn-based nature it can move quite slowly. Sometimes it feels like an age before your 
 turn comes around, especially during large group battles where much of the action may be occurring 
 off-screen. Most of the time, however, encounters are limited to a handful of combatants and things 
 progress at a steady pace.
  
  How good you are in combat, as well as other skills such as repair, speechcraft and lockpicking, 
 depend on how you choose to design your character. Based on the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. stat system, and 
 involving a broad set of skills, traits and extra perks to choose from, the character design system 
 in Fallout is still one of the best and most customisable around. So you want to make a meat-headed 
 bruiser, skilled in all weapons with no time for small talk? Done! You want a sly, sneaky thief 
 with a knack for gambling or a diplomat who could talk himself out of a medieval witch-hunt? Done 
 and done! Experiment: you'll find your perfect character in no time.
  
  As unique and special as it may be, Fallout is not without some problems. Most of these revolve 
 around the interface and mechanics of the game engine. It is immediately apparent upon starting 
 up a new game that Fallout is very old-fashioned in its approach. The game world is seen from a 
 low-resolution isometric perspective and is based on a hex-grid, which is a necessary by-product 
 of the turn-based combat system. Unfortunately it lends a rather static feel to the game, an ugliness 
 which cannot be avoided and causes most characters to walk around in a type of jerky chicken walk 
 (something which is lovingly poked fun at in the game manual  a dazzling work of sly humour which 
 deserves a review all to itself) . Cosmetic issues aside, most of the time the hex-based system 
 functions perfectly well but it does create some occasional issues with path-finding both in and 
 out of combat mode. A few times I've been stuck between NPCs who stubbornly refuse to move, stuck 
 in doorways or simply stuck in the closest piece of scenery. It seems a little restrictive when 
 compared to the more free design of contemporary isometric RPGs such as Baldur's Gate.
  
  The interface itself is also quite unintuitive; there's no tooltips, the layout is rather hit and 
 miss and it often seems like the player needs to do much more work than they should to perform 
 simple tasks. For example: the inventory system consists of a single scrolling row, with only a 
 handful of items visible at once, meaning the player has to constantly click down a dozen or so 
 times to find what they want. Maybe I've just been spoilt by the slickness of more modern game 
 interfaces, but I have to say that even in 1997 ease of use should have been foremost in the interface 
 designer's mind.
  
  Don't panic; there's some goodies left to talk about. As soon as you load up the game, you are 
 greeted with a surprise on the game soundtrack. The dulcet tones of the Ink Spots' "Maybe" contrast 
 sharply with the bleakness of the game world, yet it's not as jarring as you might think. I'm not 
 a fan of the genre by any stretch of the imagination, however sticking a 1940s vocal group on the 
 soundtrack not only fits with the retro stylings of the game, but the tone and even the lyrics 
 add to the sense of melancholy and alone-ness that permeates Fallout. Rumour says it should have 
 been the better-known "I Don't Want to Set the World on Fire" that provided this service, but I 
 prefer this one.
  
  Further aural delights come via the game's voice acting which, although rare, is of consistently 
 high quality. Voices are provided courtesy of a number of well-known names, including David Warner, 
 Tony Shalhoub, Keith David, Brad Garrett and Richard Dean "MacGyver" Anderson. Ron Perlman does 
 the game narration and lends the iconic opening statement, "War. War never changes" a rough gravitas 
 that would be hard to duplicate.
  
  To conclude: although it is far from perfect, Fallout is still one of a kind. Some of the gameplay 
 and general interface issues were expanded upon and improved in Fallout 2, released a year later, 
 and as Fallout 3 approaches with Bethesda at the wheel this gem of yesteryear is likely to garner 
 increased attention and scrutiny. Do yourself a favour. Go back to the beginning and give it a 
 whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HankDeth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, whats needs to be said . A great post apocalyptic tale with a dash of kitsch. Please 
 sir may I have some more ! ! ! I keep playing this one over and over, Wastelands love child. The 
 story is fun and compelling, you really feel for the characters. Bloody mess is terrific bloody 
 fun. Even playing it in the new millennium it still looks great and still captures the filthy gritty 
 charm of the Mad Max post nuclear holocaust films. I love that hopeful Nineteen Fifties kitschy 
 charm of the opening sequence, it's so camp it gave me cavities.
  What is it about this game that has captured my imagination eleven years ago and has not let it 
 go, even the abortive console sequels that followed, have not diminished my passion for this series 
 of games. I can only hope that holder of the current reigns of the franchise will treat it and 
 craft it with as much love as passion as I have played it, I cannot wait until Fallout Three from 
 Bethesda Soft comes out later this year.
  Until that day... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guns_4_tots
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Fallout is a lost gem, not a lot of people have played it which is a shame. for a 11 year-old game 
 it still hasnt lost its touch. the story is that your a member of valut that has survied over a 
 generation past a war, which has destroyed the world. 
  One day the water perifaction chip breaks, which suppiles the valut with frush drinking water, 
 and they send you out to find a new one under a timelimit of 150 days.
  The games art stlyt comes almost deractly form 1960 pulp magizins, with its bleak and hostile intro 
 showing a post-apocilicte world. this game is a must for junkies of this genre. 
  When you start, you're treated with a the option to use premade charaters, or created your own 
 charater using the S. P. E. CI. A. L system. you can add traits, skills, and perks to upgrade and personolize 
 your charater (TIP: the bloodly mess and gifted traits are a must) . 
  Npcs dot the towns of fallout, but most have not that alot to say but thats a minor problem. some 
 can be recrudite to form a party of 3. 
  The camra is a overhead view which works nicel. most towns have a disdink look to them, rangeing 
 form the clen corridors of valut 13 to the dustynes of shady sands.
  Weapons in this game virwhys form pistols, shotguns, rifles and even lasers and FREAKING CHAINGUNS!
 
  In my playthrogh i encountered a bug that caused the screen to black out ( Im playing the gametap 
 version) but a press of p and its gone. this game is a spectaular game that deserves more fame. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  A good RPG for me requires a few basic things. An interesting story, good characters, plenty of 
 customisation and an interesting combat system. Fallout covers these fields for me.
  
  My first pro is its innovative. Its not your usual generic fantasy plot. Its a bit different in 
 that its a post-apocalyptic world. The stat system's good as well. There's your Str Per End Cha 
 Int Agility and Luck, which give way to plenty of different character builds and add to replay 
 value.
  
  Another thing I enjoyed about the game is its plot. It gives intrigue and dillemma, which I find 
 very important in RPG's. Theres plenty of characters to interact with as well, and some pretty 
 good quality voice acting.
  
  I also really liked the travel system. The travel system works by you going on a large map of the 
 desert and selecting where you want to walk to and the days will flip by as you walk. From this 
 screen you'll run into random encounters and the like. This travel system works very well with 
 the game and isn't hindering.
  
  Those being said, however, the game is a little bit short. You'll find yourself through the game 
 in a day or two if you're fairly good at it. 
  
  The other problem is that its got its share of glitches and bugs. At one point I found myself absolutely 
 incapable of continuing the game because I had gotten four thousand worth of radiation, meaning 
 I died instantly from the absolutely unrecoverable sickness with no way out. 
  This ruined the game a little for me as I had to use a character editor in order to recover and 
 continue the game. When a game forces you to use a character editor due to its bugs, it loses alot 
 of points with me. 
  
  Another bug I ran into got me stuck just before the last area in the game in which I had to spend 
 several hours searching forums until I found a bugfix which fixed the problem so I could finish 
 the game. This also made me think a bit less of it. That being said though, I very much liked the 
 ending and was glad I finished it.
  
  Fallout's combat system can take a bit of patience depending on what stat build you are. Its turn-based 
 so you generally are either killed 10 times over by a hoard of enemies or you mash the teeth in 
 of whoever you're fighting. I was an unarmed build so battles normally took me more time than other 
 builds.
  
  The graphics are a bit dated now but the're not so bad that they take away from gameplay. The sound's 
 fine as well. The effects don't get repeatitive and the music consists of nice quiet tunes that 
 hum in the background.
  
  In summary, its a bit buggy at times, but I had a fun time with this game and would recommend it 
 to anyone with a bit of patience and who's looking for a good RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nenn88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Fallout 1
  
  My opinnion of the game is... Its brilliant!
  I was 9 when I played this game for the first time, and I loved it back then!
  Ive played this 
 game through for more than 4 times now. 
  Its simply amazing!
  
  The story of the Fallout 1 is superb! It is intense, and just pure great!
  Specially cause you 
 can do what you want in the game, be mean, be nice. Its all good!
  The graphics on the game is, well ... Good! I liked it!
  The movement is good, I like the clicking!
 
  Now to the voice acting... Voice acting in this game is great. It has the spirit in it, so it 
 doesnt sound like a clip from a bad 70's movie, and dubbed over in english. Like some of the game's 
 ive played has that feeling!
  
  I really dont have anything bad to say about this game. I really really like it, and its sequels!
 
  
  I recomend buying the whole Fallout universe! You wont regret it~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cuchulainn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that over time I have moved away from PC games and starting playing more console 
 games. After getting bored with the "Next Gen" games I booted up my trusty PC and loaded up Fallout 
 for the first time in several years. I was pleasantly surprised at just how much fun this old game 
 still is. I eventually stopped several hours into the game simply because I could no longer forgo 
 things like washroom and food breaks.
  
  Fallout has one of the best RPG character designs that is just SPECIAL. Few rpgs character development 
 systems allow the creation of such unique yet playable character types (although certain builds 
 are definitely easier to play than others) . The game does a great job of creating an environment 
 with a unique feel and style that has a positive effect on the overall rpg experience. There are 
 some bugs but it is still a very playable game (and there are much less bugs then Fallout 2) . 
 
  
  In closing comments my thoughts are that great graphics and sound certainly help a game but they 
 cannot replace ingenious environments and great gameplay. Fallout is just an awesome game and indescribably 
 fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsci_fireball
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Fallout really exceeds the limits. Being dropped in the middle of nowhere with no tutorial or whatever, 
 it's all up to you to find out what your goals are and how you gonna gain them.
  
  Through-out the game, you get more and more experience with how to handle situations (everything 
 has influence on anything) . By gaining your levels you get more and more experience, making some 
 things easier.
  
  Battles in Fallout (even the small ones) are way to fun and with the Gore, it can't get even better. 
 Just to blow someones head of, or splatter his whole body around just makes your day happier.
 
  
  Also, you get so much freedom, it ain't even normal. You got many city's to travel to and a lot 
 of NPC. It has very detailed RPG elements.
  
  Fallout is truly the best developed game ever (although it's sad that the graphics are a little 
 old) but the game-play is really to great.
  
  To bad I can't recommend anyone now to play Fallout, unless you don't mind old-school graphics 
 and still have a wonder-full game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memoryitis
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is a very sweet RPG. I recently played Fallout because I was checking out Fallout 3 and 
 wanted to play the previous ones. My first impressions; well the game is very confusing if you 
 are not used to this kind of RPG. Fallout has very deep character custimization and you need to 
 know what you are doing. 
  
  Fallout is not as straight forward as, par say Oblivion , but more like Morrowind where you can 
 basically do what you want.
  
  The game is turn based (something I didn't expect; but I got used it afterwords)
  
  What I love 
 about this game is the character customization, traits and perks. I literally used up like an hour 
 customizing my char, I screwd up my first one but I went on the net and made a good one afterwards.
 
  
  A con in this game is there is a time limit; it gives you a fair amount of time but I still felt 
 constrained always checking how many days I had left.
  
  Overall this game is pretty sweet, because there are LOTS of ways to finishing quests and it can 
 also affect you outcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lead_healer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  A vast and expansive post-apocalyptic adventure. Customize your character based on how YOU play. 
 Do you like to shoot your way through an RPG? Perhaps you'd rather talk your way through. Maybe 
 you're stealthy and rogue-like and prefer subterfuge. Possibly you're a nerdy science buff. Make 
 your character the way YOU want to. You do not have to be combat proficient to complete this game. 
 Multiple, multiple, multiple endings. Huge dialogs trees with many options. (More or less based 
 based on your skill levels) . The world reacts to you. Your reputation will grow or shrink based 
 on your actions. Actually have meaning full dialogs with NPCs. You determine the fate of the world 
 through your actions. The game world will react to your decisions. This is the best single player 
 RPG series ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a clear leader for all RPGs and is amazingly innovative (especially when you think 
 about when this game came out) . Featuring an gripping storyline and an amazing amount of freedom 
 in the game. When going to play it though just remember that it is a little dated (a decade dated) 
 but very much ahead of its time.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.8
  The 2D graphics look very nice and through fairly clever level designed and models you can easily 
 forget that is it a game made on 2D graphics. The "talking heads" as they have come to be called 
 are welcome to see and are sometimes from unexpected people and is a very nice addition to a 2D 
 game. My only problem is I feel there should have been a few more death animations.
  
  CONTROLS: 9.5
  Very simple point and click controls and not much else is needed. I only wish 
 that your inventory could be organized.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  You will want to replay this game several different times. As a pacifist, warmonger, intellectual, 
 and everything in between. Everything in the game is very straightforward and simple to understand 
 and get used to. Clear quest log and direction from town to town.
  
  SOUND: 9.7
  Eery sounds throughout the game and decent voice acting along with nice sounding weapons makes 
 this game a pleasure to listen to. This game focuses more on the quality of the sounds rather than 
 the quantity.
  
  STORY: 10
  The original and compelling storyline will keep you gripped in from the beginning. After you retrieve 
 the waterchip you then have to go after a mutant army and find out more about the army and then 
 how to stop them. You get even more involved with the story as it keeps expanding up all the way 
 to the climax.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: N/A
  
  FINAL: 9.8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraconigenaDeus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is very different from almost any other RPG you will play. This mainly applies to the setting, 
 which is the world after a nuclear holocaust. These type of settings aren't unusual in gaming, 
 but they are in RPGs. Fallout is also more realistic then other RPGs in every way possible. Most 
 seem to love this, but I wasn't very found of it. The reason is that Fallout sacrifices some important 
 RPG elements (such as music) in favor of creating a more realistic setting. Therefore, Fallout 
 out is very stong certain areas and extremely lacking in others.
  
  ***Extensive Review, skip to the Conclusion for an overview of the game***
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Play 8.3
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Controls (Bad)
  
     This is a roadblock that everyone new to fallout is going to face, even more so if your not 
 use to computer RPGs. Fallouts controls are very hard to figure out and there aren't any instructions 
 or tutorials to help you out (well at least if you bought the White Label Fallout Collection like 
 myself) . So if you want to save yourself some frustration use a guide, the one I used on gamefaqs 
 included instructions on how to play the game and was very useful. However, even after you learn 
 the controls navigating the interface is still a hassle and certain things are hard to do (if you 
 can even do them) . It is not horrible, but there has got to be a better way to do this. 
  
  The biggist issue in the controls is with the NPCs you get to fight along side you. All you can 
 do is tell them how close to you to stand and to equip there best weapon. You can give them guns 
 and stuff by trading with them, but when bartering you can't get your stuff back. Thankfully there 
 is a way past that (you can steal your stuff back from them and they won't care) , but it is another 
 thing that is frustrating to deal with. Thankfully, most of this stuff is fixed in Fallout 2, but 
 that doesn't help this game.
  
  Customization (Excellent)
  
     This is a huge strength in Fallout and a big part of why so many people love it. The first thing 
 you have to do when you start a game is create your character. It is kinda of similar to The Elder 
 Scolls, you have to decide your stats, what skills your good at, along with a couple other talents. 
 You don't get to customize your appearance, but that wouldn't make a difference in this game anyway. 
 Also you get other perks every 3 levels that really help. With this system you can play through 
 the game using several different methods. You can smooth talk everybody, sneak around and pick 
 locks, or just kill everything cowboy style. And if you decide to go with the killing approach 
 (and let's be honest, most of you probably will) there is a plethora of devastating guns including 
 but not limted to rifles, shotguns, miniguns, flamethowers, and rocket launchers. Along with the 
 setting, this is probably the main reason to play this game.
  
  Battle System (Ok)
  
     I didn't think the battle system in Fallout was all that special. It is pretty simple really. 
 You get action points (AP) based on how high your agility is and that determines how much you can 
 do on your turn. Not a bad system, but most battles just come down to you shoot them then they 
 shoot you. There are a couple skills you can use though, and those are aimed shots (for example 
 you can shoot your opponent in the eyes so they can't see) or burst shots (for assault rifles and 
 other guns) . This adds a little variety and it is kinda of cool to cripple your opponent before 
 finishing them. However I still found the combat to be overly simplistic and kinda boring. 
  
  Puzzles & Mini Games (Excellent)
  
     This area of the game deserves a high score due 
 to all the different ways you can get things done in Fallout. You can smooth talk people, steal, 
 pick locks, sneak around, gamble, repair stuff, and so on. This whole game is a puzzle you can 
 accomplish in several different ways and theres lots of extras to do along the way.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics 7.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Background & Environment (Bad)
  
     The graphics in Fallout are similar to Diablo, and though they arn't horrible they are very 
 ugly. I also had a tough time seeing certain items on the ground because they would sort of blend 
 together. I was not a fan of Diablo's graphics and Fallouts are worse. 
  
  Characters (Ok)
  
     The character graphics are just as bad if not worse than the back drops. 
 Thats probably why they don't let you choose your characters appearance because there isn't enough 
 detail to matter. The one redeeming factor is some NPCs (the ones that are voiced) have pretty 
 decent facial graphics on their close ups. Even that is pretty rough though.
  
  Special Effects (Good)
  
     This is what Fallouts graphics are most famous for and the reason 
 is death animations. Sometimes when you kill someone or something they will die in an extremely 
 brutal manner. For example, there head and arms might pop off during an assault rifle burst. This 
 is a pretty good example of how brutal this entire game is.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound 7.3
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Music (Terrible/Non-existant)
  
     This is one of my biggest complaints about this game. I know they were trying to make this game 
 realistic, but come on, no music, that's terrible. Music is essential for defining the moods at 
 certain points in a game whatever that mood may be. I guess it fits in with the extremely open 
 ended gameplay, but I was not a fan. I feel music is a very important component in an RPG. This 
 is probably why I had such trouble forcing myself to play through this game at times.
  
  Sound Effects (Excellent)
  
     Even though Fallout is void of music there is usually lots 
 of other noices going on in the background that are appropriate to your current setting. Another 
 factor adding a sense of post apocalyptic realism. All the guns, attacks, and other noises also 
 sounded very real and satisfying.
  
  Voice Acting (Great)
  
     Some of the main NPCs did have voice acting and it was done pretty well. This is especially 
 impressive considering how old this game is.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story 7.7
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Plot (Ok)
  
     The story in this game is great, until the opening movie ends. The opening movie before the 
 game starts talks about how the world became what it is and is very interesting and very scary 
 since it sounds like a serious possibility. However, once the game starts the plot just consists 
 of some gopher chores and lots of eliminating (killing) things. This might appeal to some people, 
 but for an RPG this is pathetic. Most of the thought went into the setting and history behind this 
 game and not the story of the game itself.
  
  Characters (Bad)
  
     Well, there is you and a couple NPCs you can pick up to fight with you along the way. You don't 
 have very much interaction with those guys though and there's nothing interesting about them. You 
 are pretty much alone on this adventure. You will encounter some interesting characters along the 
 way, but no one is really developed and it is almost always a brief encounter. A strong cast of 
 interesting characters is another element I consider extremely important in an RPG, and Fallout 
 does not have that.
  
  Writing (Excellent)
  
     All the lines in Fallout are very clever and you can tell a lot of effort was put into writing 
 them. Talking to NPCs, gathering information, and hearing there reactions to what you say is probably 
 the highlight of the story in Fallout. That isn't exactly a good thing, but at least it's something.
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value 8.3
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Main Story (Ok)
  
     The main quest in Fallout will probably last you about 10-15 hours. This is really short by 
 RPG standards, but not bad compared to other genres.
  
  Sidequests & Secrets (Great)
  
     Well, this is what most of this game is. You get a couple of main quest objectives throughout 
 the game, but everything else consists of doing a bunch of sidequests in the towns you encounter 
 on the way to your goal. I was not a big fan of this as far as story is concerned, but it is good 
 as far as side quests are concerned.
  
  Replay Value (Great)
  
     There is absolutely no way I could force myself through this game again. However, without my 
 own personal bias there is a lot of replay value in Fallout. Like many other games you can choose 
 to play being good or evil which will give you good or bad karma. And as I have already mentioned 
 a few times you can play through this game and accomplish your goals many different ways adding 
 lots of replay value.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tilt 8.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Cool Factor (Excellent)
  
     I am pretty confident this is the reason Fallout has such a following. The games setting, the 
 weapons, the variety of ways you can do things, and especially the gory death animations are all 
 awesome. And it is very different from what your going to find in any RPG outside of Fallout.
 
  
  Fun Factor (Ok)
  
     Certain parts of this game are fun while others arn't. I found combat to be pretty simplistic 
 and boring and dealing with the contols was always frustrating. But once again, the variety in 
 the gameplay sort of evened this out. Some music would have really livened things up, but whatever.
 
  
  Tediousness (Average)
  
     For the most part, Fallout isn't very tedious. If you know what your doing it isn't tedious 
 at all. That is the catch though because it can be very annoying figuring out what to do and knowing 
 what NPC to talk to and where. There is also a time limit, which is probably suppose to help keep 
 you moving, but only succeeds in becoming annoying.
  
  !! Tip!!- Before you start this game consult a guide. This will help you figure out the controls 
 and how to build your character. Unlike some games, In Fallout there are better and worse ways 
 to build your character. You are not going to have much fun if you build a worthless character.
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Conclusion
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Pros
  
  -The games setting, guns, and death animations are awesome
  -Excellent customization allows you to complete the game in a variety of ways
  -Detailed sound 
 effects help create a sense of realism
  -All the dialogue is very well written and some NPCs are voice acted
  
  Cons
  
  -Clunky 
 controls w/ out instructions or tutorials
  -Little to no music
  -Poor character cast and plot
  -Ugly Graphics
  
  Gameplay (20%)  8.3
  Graphics (15%)  
 7.0
  Sound (15%)  7.3
  Story (20%) - 7.7
  Value (10%) - 8.3
  Tilt (20%)  8.0
  
  Final Score  7.8 (rounded up)
  
     I can't deny Fallout's strengths, but it is lacking in 
 some areas I hold in very high regard. It is wonderful to be able to play how you want through 
 a post apocalyptic world and pretty fun tearing people to pieces with a mini gun. But I had difficulty 
 forcing myself though this game without any inspiring music, a good character cast, or an interesting 
 plot (aside from the opening cutscene) . It was also a constant struggle fighting with the games 
 interface and figuring out how to play the game. Due to Fallouts very distinguished strengths and 
 weaknesses it is not for everybody. Fans of story driven fantasy RPGs, like myself, should probably 
 avoid this game. However, if you are a fan of more realistic open ended games then you should consider 
 playing Fallout. It is definitely worth the price tag since this game is dirt cheap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Play this if you really like an original post-apocalyptic science fiction story in a game, with 
 unique characters, factions, and fantastically written dialogs.
  
  Many of the quests can be accomplished in more than 2 ways, so there's lots of re-playability. 
 Also, the diverse character customization possibilities, adds a few replays using different roleplaying 
 styles. You can win the game as a complete pacifist if you want!
  
  Combat is all turn-based, which I prefer, so I loved it. It allows you play tactically. Control 
 of character movement during battles is key to winning the hard ones. You can hide behind obstacles 
 after shooting, and manipulate enemies to shoot one another when they try to shoot you. This all 
 adds good stuff to the game play...
  
  I didn't like the awkward inventory management functions. To move items between companions, you 
 had to use the barter or steal interface through the main character. And it takes forever to click 
 through large non-player character inventories.
  
  Also the ending was rather sad, eve if you win. But perhaps there's alternatives that aren't as 
 bad as the one I got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Of course not playing Fallout for an RPG fan would be a sin. I would not even suggest people that 
 adore up-to-date graphics would even think so deep as to understand all the values this masterpiece 
 delivers.
  Even insane person understands, that in year 97 Fallout graphics were pretty amazing: nicely detailed 
 objects, creatures, indoors/outdoors, cut-scenes, animated NPC's, combat moves, etc.
  To create a game like that, only creativity is not enough, it requires so many calculations and 
 involves tiniest of details as skills, traits, stats (that GREATLY change situations in the game) , 
 perks and much much more! Not to mention all the text that was put into it, probably 200-300MB 
 of dialogues, messages, info and description for every object. Plus we have a lot of voiced characters 
 and cut-scenes that didn't have compression as powerful we have now - everything takes it's coin. 
 Manufacturers produced us an outstanding game provided only on a single cd, that included so many 
 variations of playing. And for all that we only pay for one cd, isn't that's a way to create games? 
 Maximum pleasure for minimum resources? I personally think they were the best programmers at the 
 time! No one could challenge them.
  This kind of graphics gives the game unforgettable atmosphere, kind of special spice for the big 
 cake.
  Music? They could sell Fallout soundtracks on the market in my opinion (well, maybe not the encounter 
 and cavern ones) , because they're just not ordinary and very remarkable.
  I finished this game about ten times, and each one of them gave me different experience and i always 
 found something new.
  Black Isle, you can't even imagine how i want you back on the track! : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogdabog
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Fallout. The mere mention of it's name will send most RPG fans into a slobbering orgasm. After 
 years of hearing how good Fallout was from the Internet community, I finally picked up the White 
 Label Collection from Amazon. After playing it, my level of letdown was equal only to the absurd 
 level of hype the game has picked up over the years. Graphics:
  Grainy pre-rendered 3D backgrounds and sprites make up Fallout's drab, post World War III world 
 and are all quite boring to look at. To be blunt, the game is just plain ugly.
  
  Game play:
  Fallout is open ended... Really, REALLY open ended. This proves to be Fallout's greatest 
 strength, but in the end it's ultimate flaw. Don't get me wrong, I love big, open ended games, 
 but Fallout has some rather glaring flaws that just ruin the whole open aspect. First of all it 
 has a time limit. Yes, a time limit. You have 90 game days to find a replacement water chip for 
 your Vault's broken water purifying plant. Now to be fair 90 game days is more then enough time 
 to find the chip if you know where to look. However if it is your first time playing, running around 
 like a chicken with your head cut off looking for the damnable chip before time runs out is not 
 my idea of fun. And your incredibly vague quest log does little to help. Even after you find the 
 accursed chip for your Vault and finally think your done with the damned time limit, you are slapped 
 with yet ANOTHER time limit! Although one of the later patches upped the limit to a few game years, 
 you're still left with the overwhelming fact the game is going to come to a screeching halt if 
 you like it or not.
  
  In fact one of the only redeemable sections of Fallout is the great character customization. You 
 can pick from a wide selection of stats, skills, feats and perks that will let you play anything 
 from a walking tank to a sniper or a sneaky lock-picking ninja. Fallout's combat is a simple and 
 solid turn-based
  system which is helped along with a nice selection of high and low tech ranged and close quarter 
 weapons with some things-that-go-boom thrown in for all you pyromaniacs out there.
  
  Sound:
  Nothing to jump and down about here. guns go boom, people grunt in pain when hit. The 
 sound gets the point across. Move On. In closing, Fallout comes out as a game that just does not 
 live up to all the hype. However if you get past the flaws, Fallout proves to be a decent RPG, 
 just not a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oils06mustang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I perfer realtime action over turn base action. However, with Fallout I found that it does have 
 it's advantages.
  
  I played this game when it first came out and had a blast with it. Just recently I pulled it out 
 of the box of dusty games and played it again. What a blast.
  
  New games should take notice of this game and others that have grabbed the players. There are so 
 many flash in the pan games that appear to be great from the marketing and hype. But, when you 
 play them, you wonder why you spent the money.
  
  Fallout is one, in my opinion, of those games that will be remembered and played.
  
  Fallout 
 2 is the same, just a larger longer version.
  
  I hoper Fallout 3 will stand up to these two and keep the series going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_lost_wanderer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  You're in the wastelands. You're looking for water. You are a vault dweller. You're surrounded 
 by bad graphics that hurt the eyes at first (after all those wonderfully rendered games you're 
 used to now) , but then, you realize with satisfaction that the game, for once, runs really smoothly 
 and that it leaves complete freedom to your imagination, as if reading a book. The immersive music 
 helps you getting in the mood and soon enough, you start feeling the thirst, the dust, the hot 
 and burning air... Yes, Fallout is an immersive game. Despite its not so evident gameplay, sometimes 
 blocks (had to use walkthroughs a couple of times to get clues of what to do next) , bugs, it surprises 
 you and gets you involved.
  
  Also, your vault dweller won't ever be black or white and often will have to make decisions that 
 won't please everybody. No good solution ever!
  
  As for the voice acting, it's... unforgettable! Killian holds a special place in my heart. Also, 
 you ought to read the manual. It got interesting recipes and info on nuclear blasts.
  
  Oh, finally, the game is just a perfect mix of cynism, tragedy and violence. You've got to love 
 the gore there... and heavy weapons are really fun to use. You'll also chuckle and smile a couple 
 of times. And you'll feel that little something in really tense moments once in a while. Noooooo, 
 whyyyyyyyyy!!! . Feels a little short once you've done it, but I suppose there is always the replay 
 value. I heard you can beat the game without killing any character. So, yes, this is a game definitely 
 to try. If hard to find, it's relatively cheap. Bad graphics, bad controls, but wonderful story 
 and music! Be ready... and watch out for the radiation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanGoomba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is one of the classics, an RPG that has influenced so many after it, everyone talks about 
 it in such glowing terms. So I thought Id give it a try. I love the setting of this game. Fantasy-themed 
 games dominate the RPG genre to an insane level, so the idea of an RPG set in a nuclear wasteland 
 is very unique. So you start out in a cave killing rats and you go from there out into the wasteland. 
 Being an open-ended game, you can go wherever you want. And this is what everyone loves so much 
 about the game, that you can go anywhere, do anything, youre free. Well, I found that to be somewhat 
 overstated. Sure, you can go attack the end boss as a level 1, but youll get your butt handed 
 to you. And the places are clearly leveled so that youre meant to go from town A to town B, not 
 town C or D (they have more interesting names of course, just using an example) . Sure, you CAN, 
 but youre generally be pushed along the path of least resistance. Another common statement is 
 that there are so many moral choices in the game. But those arent very interesting ones. Its 
 basically kill the bad guys or kill the good guys, or just kill everyone and steal their stuff. 
 Theres not much moral ambiguity to it. And I found the story to be surprisingly generic, an army 
 of mutants ready to kill everything? Yawn. Seen it before. Talks with other characters tend to 
 end in repetitive loops, and only those with talking heads (maybe 10 or 12) seem to have any real 
 personality. Ok, Ive complained enough. Overall, these complaints are pretty minor. The gameplay 
 is the heart of the game and thats where it shines. The turn-based system is very well implemented. 
 Every battle is a tense affair where you that depends on a mix of strategy and chance. One of the 
 things I like about the system is that even the toughest character, or your character when faced 
 by lesser foes, can be brought down by one lucky shot. Penalizing you for opening your inventory 
 in battle is brilliant, it never did make sense to me how in most games you could politely ask 
 everyone to stop fighting while you rummaged through your bag. The graphics are quite good for 
 1997. Caves look appropriately dark and wet, structures dingy and blasted. Character models are 
 generic, but thats more than made up for by the effects weapons have on your foes. Bullets tear 
 gaping holes or blow off arms, SMG bursts brutally tear people into pieces, rockets turn them into 
 bloody chunks, and plasma weapons blast them into a heap on bones. The sound is generic but perfectly 
 adequate. Over-rated and short thought this game may be, I still recommend it highly. Its one 
 of those rare games where I could lose three or four hours without even noticing. And it runs great 
 on XP, an unexpected bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyestorage
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my all-time favorite games. It is a very unique game with a story similar only to 
 the game Wasteland .
  
  At first I was a little skeptical on how this game would be, the graphics (nowadays) aren't really 
 tip-top shape; but for when this came out (1997 I believe) ... these graphics were about the best 
 for this genre. Also, the turned-based system kinda' seemed weird to me. After playing it for a 
 while though, I actually really liked the turned-based style... very surprised.
  
  This game really shines in two areas: Character creation is very flexible in characteristics. Most 
 RPG's limit your character to the main stats of strength, endurance, agility, and magic (magic 
 is not in this game) . This game, however, has strength, perception, endurance, agility, luck, intelligence, 
 charisma... and if I left one out... sorry :p
  
  It doesn' t stop there, your character starts off with two perks that you can choose (from around 
 10 or so) and you get to tag three special skills from a skill tree. The skill tree has TONS of 
 different trades that WILL effect your games interaction, some drastic... some not so drastic, but 
 still will effect it. Some tags include: Small guns, thief, melee, doctor, speech, barter, outdoorsmanship, 
 sneak, repair, science, and quite a few more.
  
  Every so many levels you will get an additional perk added on to the two you started with. These 
 level earned perks are NOT the same as the ones you get to choose from when you start your character. 
 There is no way I could EVER possibly list these perks by memory. Some perks lead to others to 
 make your character a super machine such as a slayer or sniper. Great choices!!
  
  The storyline is great... takes place after a nuclear war has occurred and there is just scraps 
 of civilization left. Some are good... some just looters and murderers. Your group of people have 
 taken shelter in a vault (Vault 13) that was hidden in the mountains to survive the nuclear war. 
 A water chip that produces/cleans water has broken and your community can not survive without it. 
 Your job is to venture out into the Wasteland and retrieve a replacement for this water chip.
 
  
  The second great thing about this game is the weapons... oh-gosh, the weapons!! There are soo freakin' 
 many different items in this game that range from melee, to hand-to-hand, small guns, big guns, 
 bombs, traps, armor, and a ton of different drugs... it's crazy. Different types of bullets for 
 your gun Hollow-Points to Armor Piercing... just tons. Some guns make a mess out of your opponents... and 
 I do mean a mess!! The mini-gun is one of my favs! I couldn't list all the crap in this game. Brass 
 knuckles, cattle prods (that's right, CATTLE PRODS) , tons of different knives, spears, .22 rifles, 
 sniper rifles, .44 mags, .357's, smg's, rocket launchers, grenades, emp's, molotov cocktails, mines, 
 plastic explosives, dynamite, laser rifles, mini-guns, you name it... sorry got carried away : ) 
 You have to see it to believe it... keep in mind, this is from a 1997 view. There are still tons 
 of weapons compared to todays games, but Fallout 2 actually added more weapons and Fallout Tactics 
 a different variety (not as good in my opinion) .
  
  There is one thing I DO NOT like about this game: It does have a time limit!! You only have **** 
 days to find the water chip before you game is over. I can't stress enough how much I HATE games 
 with time limits, especially this one. Why soo much this one you ask? Because there is a whole 
 freakin' map to explore that's why!! There are hidden places throughout the map and Easter Eggs 
 to be found galore.
  
  Try this game, it is awesome... I LOVED the ending (there are a couple of endings, depending on 
 how you make it out to be... you'll know how to change it) . I do think Fallout 2 is better... mainly 
 because there is no time limit, but this is the start of it all... buy the freakin' game already 
 :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME just gave me a different look at rpgs this game is one of the greatest and still is one 
 of the greatest rpgs ever im still playing it cause this game is so awesome this game made me not 
 get off my pc for a while haha but this is just an awsome game i cant wait tell fallout 3 and ive 
 never beaten this game yet haha ive been playing the side quest and stuff so ive never had a chance 
 to go through the main game but its still awesome this one is good and black isles is a great game 
 company but they got shut down i dont like that part but still this game is still the best anyone 
 that can find this game should buy it on the spot dont even think about it just buy it if you dont 
 like it idk whats wrong with you but all this is just my opinon BUT BUY IT ON THE SPOT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  One of the most innovational and original RPG's of all time, this game should be handed out at 
 birth along with it's succeeder, Fallout 2. Playing games like these makes us wish Interplay was 
 still around producing innovational, top quality adventure/RPG games for the gaming market. Will 
 Fallout 3 top the originals? Only time will tell.
  
  Everything about this game will leave you rolling for more. The most free , do what you want RPG 
 you will likely ever play. There is no order to beat the game, and there is no exact way to complete 
 a mission. Think how much fun you could possibly have?
  
  Best part about it, this game can be purchased for $10, along with it's sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Very impressive!! Very big world! You will spend a lot of time playing. the story will really pull 
 you in and you really feel for your character. Combat takes a while to develop due to weak skills 
 but towards the end of the game you be come sort of too tough for the NPCs to kill. Sounds get 
 sorta of repetitive after a few hours. And sadly the graphics haven't stood the test of time they 
 are very un-detailed and kind be hard to tell objects apart. Very fun to play really worth buying 
 this and fallout 2 in a DVD package for 16 USD on amazon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krondor13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out and no other rpg compares even till today. The sound 
 , graphics, gameplay for its time was flawless and the story and characters were great . I just 
 hope that fallout 3 will come close to the quality of this game. I think if you love rpgs and have 
 never played this one its about time to play it . This game has very gory deaths that make this 
 game extra fun with nasty explosions , guns , and women what more could a guy ask for in a game 
 or in real life .Glory to the brother hood of steel fallout forever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Finally gave Fallout a real shot this weekend. Figured out the wonky interface and read up on character 
 building dos-and-donts. Had a total blast.
  
  I was actually surprised by a few things, considering how much Ive heard about this game over 
 the years. First, the combat is really, really fun despite the games age. Burst shorts at close 
 range, sniping peoples eyes apart, watching bodies sever apart, using chainsaws or flamethrowers 
 or shotguns, miniguns ... I had a lot of giggles with the plentiful and splendorific death animations.
 
  
  Now I knew the story would be good. But I didnt realize it would be as good as it actually was. 
 I was expecting good for video game standards, not honest-to-goodness good. Conversation trees 
 have a natural flow to them. Dialogue is exceptionally well-written and voice-acted, plus lots 
 of variety -- very few stock lines or responses, so theres lots of replay value simply right there. 
 I can very easily see the uproar from Fallout fans over Bethesdas ability to create meaningful 
 conversation and overall story in Fallout 3 after seeing the very high bar set with Fallout. Theres 
 definitely a bit of originality magic in this games storyline and setting, which makes me leary 
 lightning can strike twice in Fallout 2 and Fallout 3 (haven't played either yet -- well not 3 
 obviously) .
  
  Overall, I really havent had this much fun with a game since my first few months with World of 
 Warcraft. I finished the game with a jack-of-all-trades character (very short game by Infinity 
 Engine Era standards -- maybe 10-12 hours?) , and Im looking forward to maybe one or two more playthroughs 
 with some specific characters (diplomatic sniper and idiotic melee thug) .
  
  Really the only bad thing I can say about the game is how clunky the interface and combat initially 
 is, but 30 minutes with a FAQ and playing around with it is all you really need to get it down. 
 Then it becomes quite fun and second nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I played Fallout 2 first, so I can't give a fair judgment on this original one, but one thing that 
 bothers me is the deadline countdown for the main quest. The countdown timer starts once you leave 
 the vault and goes on throughout the game until you managed to solve the first part of the quest 
 or it reaches zero and it's game over.
  
  Well, if you have ever tried disabling a bomb while the timer is ticking, playing Fallout feels 
 like that. For me, it makes playing the game uneasy and caused me to miss a lot of chances to explore 
 the maps fully due to pressure at first. So, this aspect sucks, but in terms of the unique RPG 
 experience, wasteland settings, perks/skills and combat system, Fallout is still a masterpiece 
 on its own. It inspired me to play Fallout 2 again.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcrimsonenity
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  What fallout does is not only break the boundaries of what is the American RPG, yet takes a gaming 
 concept so filled with swords, dragons, and magic; and change it into a morbid Post-Nuclear world, 
 in which none of the above exist. It gives the player an amazing world to explore where you can 
 go anywhere you please, kill anything you wish ( While at the other flip of the coin save anything 
 you wish ) , and create any character you want in terms of personality, ability, and even intelligence. 
 Every stat you change in the create a character screen will affect the way the world works around 
 you as well as the way people react to you, giving it almost infinite replay-value.
  
  Though I wont stop there, because fallout promises to give one of the most unique, odd, In-depth 
 battle engines in any game to this date, making it a jewel for anyone who is a fan of turn-based 
 battle in general.
  
  Over all, Fallout is an amazing title that should be missed by no Role-player (Even Text-based) , 
 for Fallout is one of those legendary titles that makes Role-playing such a wonderful hobby.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  1997 was in a drought for good RPGs. There was one good RPG released. its name was Diablo, but 
 it wasn't enough. Then the Fallout demo came, people were interested, wanted to see where Interplay 
 was going with this. Then.... Fallout came out. It cured the angry people of their thirst for a 
 RPG. The game changed my vision of how RPGs are supposed to be, for the better. In Fallout you 
 are the Vault Dweller, you have to find a water chip for your vault before the water runs out. 
 When you do you find out that there is a mutant problem and you have to end it for good. The gameplay 
 is amazing, you can either blast your whole way through or convince everyone that violence is the 
 wrong answer. You can also steal, lockpick, play doctor on yourself, kill everyone in every town 
 and more. Speaking of towns, Fallout has alot of them, not just towns but areas. This makes you 
 have a whole world to explore at your fingertips. Unfournatly the areas start to have the same 
 terran and the same feel and you start to feel a little bit of deja vu. The sound fits in with 
 the game like a glove as it adds that extra touch to the game itself. The graphics are OK, it is 
 an ok game to look at but the graphics isn't its strong point. Overall it is a must have, look 
 for it in your bargin bin and get it. It is better then most of the $50 games you will find now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is an excellent RPG, and its unique atmosphere, interesting combat, and overall style make 
 it even better. Much better. Simply put, this is one of the best games ever created in any genre.
 
  
  Fallout is an isometric RPG, in which you play in a post-apocalyptic world after a nuclear war. 
 You and the rest of your community have lived in a huge underground shelter for years to shield 
 yourself from the radiation. But recently, the water chip broke and the water in the vault (the 
 shelter) is running out. And guess what? You were chosen to go up to the surface, and find a water 
 chip before time runs out.
  
  Before starting the game, you get to create your character  choose his stats (strength, intelligence) , 
 his skills (small guns, lockpick) and traits, which are special abilities that boost one ability 
 but hurt something else. All the stats and skills are illustrated by small caricatures, which comically 
 describe the relevant ability. Those caricatures are very well done and add a lot of style to the 
 character creation process. You will find yourself browsing through all of the abilities just too 
 see all of the drawings.
  
  You start the game in a cave, trying to fight off mutated rats. The combat in Fallout has a unique 
 feeling (just like the rest of the game) : You have a certain amount of action points (AP) , based 
 on your stats. Every step takes 1 AP, and every gun shot, knife thrust, med-kit use takes a certain 
 amount AP. After you spend all of your AP on shooting, taking cover, healing or just running, your 
 turn ends and enemy turn begins. Many weapons have different firing modes such as single bullet, 
 burst, or aimed shot with which you can choose what part of the body you want to hit. You want 
 to shoot the enemy in the leg to drop him on the ground? In the head for maximum damage? In the 
 groin cause you just hate someone? You got it. All this, and the fact that fallout has dozens 
 of cool weapons ranging from assault rifles to laser miniguns make the combat very satisfying, 
 although a bit slow when you fight many adversaries at once.
  
  After defeating the rats you emerge into the world. The world in Fallout is big and includes several 
 towns, the locations of which are not known to you. Moreover, the radiation wasnt kind to those 
 who didnt take shelter: Mutants, both human and animal, are lurking around, poverty, lack of food, 
 illness and other misfortunes have stricken all the living creatures. In every town you enter, 
 you will see people trying to survive in the harsh world, with which you can talk, get quests or 
 ask for information about the water chip. The dialogue trees are deep, and most choices affect 
 gameplay - in the end of the game you will see a movie which will show how your actions affected 
 every town you visited. Most of the conflicts can be solved both in a violent and diplomatical 
 methods, and overall, Fallout provides very engaging role playing experience.
  
  Graphically the game is very good for its time. The towns really look like after a war: destroyed 
 houses, filthy streets, and other minor graphical details help to portray the post-apocalyptic 
 feeling. Some important NPCs have their face drawn and their dialogue voice-acted  both very well 
 done. The only downside in the graphics department is that there is only a very limited amount 
 of human models, and it looks like everyone has 20 twins. The sound consists of good, though eventually 
 repetitive soundtrack, and as already stated, good voice acting for the important NPCs.
  
  Bottomline: Fallout offers outstanding role playing experience, excellent post-apocalyptic atmosphere, 
 and a unique style  which make Fallout a masterpiece. Very recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolhot28
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that is not excellent is the graphic. This is ok because graphic cards in the past 
 weren't so good anyway that probably why Fallout's graphic is like that as Interplay had lesser 
 graphic option. The story is a bit short. This is compensated with multiple-lateral quests which 
 are not linear even if there was one main mission to replace the broken Vault's water-chip with 
 a new one. The missions are linear except the other quests. It is just right the combat difficulty 
 and it can be adjust too hard if you want to. The number of sound and music is few. The quality 
 of sound is sufficient. There is no glitch and crash when playing it so the game doesnt require 
 a patch to fix it. It is a must to own game because the story, lateral quests, gameplay and missions 
 are very good. Doing the lateral quests would help the characters survival on dealing enemies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simazza
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  I first played fallout about 7 years ago when I was 10 years old. And I have been hooked ever since.
 
  
  Fallout is based in a post-Nuclear earth, where humanity has almost been wiped out by the war. 
 During the war, some people were lucky and took shelter in underground vaults, where they have 
 remained eversince. You, the player are part of one of these vaults. Vault 13. The game begins 
 when the water chip for your vault breaks, and your vault is slowly running out of water. You are 
 sent out to find a new one.
  
  The character creation system is stunning. You can easily create any kind of character you want. 
 When you start your character, you can choose 3 skills and 2 perks to start off with. The perks 
 last the entire game and they don't really change. The 3 skills you choose you get a bonus. So 
 if you chose small guns as one of your skills for example, your small guns skill will go from about 
 25% to about 35%. So choosing 3 usefull skills at the start of the game will help you alot in the 
 begining.
  
  There are about a dozen different perks if I remember correctly. Some can really help you out in 
 combat situations and some just make the game more fun/interesting/violent.
  
  Here are some of the Perks that I can remember:
  
  Bloody Mess - For some strange reason, everybody 
 around you die the most violent way possible
  Finese - You cause more damage during combat, but you do less critical hits
  Skilled - Puts all 
 of your skills up a little
  Gifted - Puts all of your attributes up by 1 point, but puts all of your skills down slightly
 
  
  They are just some examples of a few. You only get to choose 2 of these so choose wisely.
  
 
  There are many things you can do once your out of the vault. You can go do all kinds of work for 
 all different types of people in different towns. Or you can help out a poor village. Go on a killing 
 spree. Or if you want, you can go straight away to find the water chip.
  
  You get a small time limit before the vault runs out of water, so don't run around too much.
 
  
  If your thinking about buying fallout, it is pretty hard to get a copy, especially if you don't 
 want to buy off ebay. But it's well worth it. The story is great and keeps you hooked from begining 
 to end. If your one of those gamers that only care about graphics, then this is not the game for 
 you, since it was made in 97 - 98. But if your a true or hardcore gamer, this game is definately 
 for you. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Major_Gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  there are loads of things Still to do in this game I Still play it every so often Great fun a crap 
 load of guns not as much in fallout 2 and Fallout tactics but Still a load of Big guns Lot's of 
 Stuff to blow up things everywhere to kill it's better then it's 8.7 it got it Should be higher 
 then that but a good game all around it was a vary good game you get to go out find a water chip 
 for a lot of a**holes who kicked you out of the place because you are so good that you killed everything 
 that got in your way witch is cool and you some awesome Stuff in this game you can use Skills more 
 then in any other game you can play use big a** guns and blow hole's in your foe to drive a car 
 though and wear big armor now who don't want to do that and a good Story line to the game witch 
 makes it all the more better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerrock
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be amongst one of the best games I have ever played, Nay... It is the best game 
 I have ever played (except maybe for Fallout two which was equally good) , anyways, this game was 
 made how any gamer would want a game to be. It is completely stable (almost no bugs) hundreds of 
 quests, and perfect choice for graffics with the faded and pixilized look which makes it look like 
 a run-down , destroyed, and broken world, which is what it is. Many people mistake the graphics 
 for low quality slapstick junk. But if they looked at it and played for a while they would understand. 
 But the graphics aren't everything, in fact it is a small reason why this game is the best. I have 
 been playing this game for 5 years now and still haven't found every little quest or random encounter 
 that is possible to find. The plot is the best in the world without any loop holes, it is very 
 solid and not complicated by any means. Also there is a large choice of weapons and allies and 
 special stuff. This game is full of suprises which I am still looking for... If you don't think 
 this game is good than you must be insane. That is all. Oh and by the way, I realize that I make 
 allot of spelling errors, so just get off my back about that. This game rocks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix_Maxwell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Hands down Fallout 1 is still one of my personal favorite games. Even almost ten years after it 
 was first let lose and I heard those four words that defined the series, Pearlman's famous line 
 War, war never changes, I played it and played it until my save file was corrupted. Now looking 
 back on it and playing it once more I can't help but love the unlimited amount of open ended options 
 you have at your finger tips.
  Over all while Fallout 1 does have it's high points it does have a few lows; it doesn't run all 
 to well in XP, the NPCs are about as likely to kill you as any of the Master's super mutants (you 
 know who I'm directing this one at, last time I ever give him a SMG) , as well as the almost unknown 
 time limit to destroy the army base and cathedral (though this was fixed in the final patch) .
 
  Aside from those very few flaws it is a game that still can stand up to the likes of F. E. A. R. 
 or Oblivion in game play value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atillite
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Fallout, Fallout , Fallout. What prasies are you not qualified for? Granted it is a game only for 
 true RPG players, I still have not found a person who dispises the game. Some great things about 
 Fallout are:
  story line
  character variablity
  story line variablity
  weapon choice
  large enviroments
  the game will be different every time you replay it ( replay value)
  
 
  fallout has won my heart over so many times... the best part is that you can buy it for $7-20 
 on most any online store. PICK IT UP SOME TIME!
  
  any quesions or comments fell free to send me an email, its in my pro, CHECK IT OUT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4PH0M37
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Game Play, Storyline, Attitude, Setting, Gore, Humor, and Style
  
  This Game makes up for years of torture from past games
  
  I was 11 years old when i first 
 played Fallout, Such a brutal and exciting game i have never touched before. Nothing was missing 
 from this great title, and I'm surprised this game wasn't given the ultimate of hype from the media.
 
  
  This game takes you about a hundred years or so from the present, and puts you in an underground 
 vault with an impressive storyline and a character with a book full of witty and hilarious answers!
 
  
  I suggest this game for anyone who likes sci-fi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acralvarez
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  It is really impressive. I consider it still the best. I couldn't stop playing this game. It is 
 very creative and has a lot of funny. An elegant story flavored with a wit sense of humor.
  
  I bumped this game just for chance. It worth every minute I spent playing it.
  
  The graphics 
 are old, of course, but the core is so original. Everybody that I know and had played it loved. 
 I played Fallout and Fallout 2 and Im waiting anxiously for Fallout 3.
  
  Who knows when Bethesda is going to deliver the next game. Why is it taking so long time to be 
 published? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Granted I'm writing this review nine years too late but since I just started playing it again i 
 think it's fitting. I've recently upgraded my computer to state of the art status and the first 
 thing i wanted to do after all these years of pen and paper D&amp; D, NWN and WoW is play Fallout 
 again.
  This is a solid game through and through. Character creation is deep and intuitive as well as filled 
 with both dramatic depth and mirth. You can chose a pre-generated character or make your own, giving 
 them your own personal style or concept. Though there isn't much in terms of your character's appearance 
 that little matters in a world so full of detail and intrigue.
  The story starts off slow at first, sending you off on what seems like a deceptively simple task 
 but you soon find that it is about to become a journey of you lifetime across a post apocalyptic 
 wasteland full of fun, adventure, depth, tragedy and horror.
  I don't really have any complaints about the game play itself but i will say a few words about 
 the features.
  a. combat is turn-based and movement is based on a hexagonal map. accuracy with weapons decreases 
 farther away you are from your target, you also have the option of taking an aimed shot at a particular 
 body part. some of the movement might seem weird as you do not always move in a straight line, 
 often zig-zagging your way through the grid. you can take on a follower who will fight alongside 
 you but take care, in combat they are often suicidally aggressive.
  b. there's gambling and prostitution. there's sex and violence. there's body parts flying after 
 a critical hit. this ain't a game for the kiddies.
  c. you loot what you kill. what you see is what you get plus some, if you kill a guy in combat 
 armor you get to take his combat armor and wear it as well as use his gun plus any bottle caps (that's 
 money) he may be carrying. you can pickpocket anyone in the game. you can kill anyone and anything 
 living in the game. you can loot any bookshelf not nailed down. eventually you can exterminate 
 an entire city if you so chose.... sky is the limit here folks. careful you don't kill the story 
 specific NPCs.
  d. although the story is basically the same every time you can try going through it with different 
 characters. you can blast your way through it, you can talk and charm your way through it, sneak 
 your way through it.. take the style that best suits your play.
  
  tons of replay value and a classic story you can replay time and time again like a good book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiPbOY0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is my favorite rpg to date. Why? I played this and its sequel many a time and can tell 
 you this. If you love rpgs, buy this now and the sequel. The premise borrows from movies such as 
 Mad Max and various sci-fi stories. Basically a massive nuclear war erupted in the near future 
 over resources. Bombs fall, people die, and people that don't die take shelter. Years after the 
 bombs, your shelter (vault as it's called) has a problem. Its water chip died. So you must go out 
 into the bombed out world to find one of those.
  And you have 130 days to do it.
  The gameplay is turn based combat, based on a system of action points. These points depend on your 
 agility (more on that later) . So you and the enemy take turns shooting/meleeing each other until 
 death. The combat can be sastifying when you see the words on the satus bar: Raider was hit for 
 159 damage to the groin and was killed. He won't be procreating anytime soon (It was something like 
 that, havent played in awhile.) Combat aside, your character is customized by selecting stats (which 
 affect everything in the game) , traits (you get two and they are double edged swords depending on 
 which character you want to make) , skills (which determine what weapons you use and how well you 
 use them, as well as some bartering and dialouge skills) , perks (special little things that net 
 better stats, abilities etc. you gain these every couple levels) and the usual sex and body stuff. 
 Or you can pick the game's various premade characters, based on different styles of play. The fighter, 
 the talker, and the ninja/stealth are all here. The good news is you can make a combo of these 
 as you go up in level.
  
  The combat has a unique targeting system and is alot of fun. The graphics are good for its time. 
 The sound does effectively capture the wasteland feel.
  
  The running around and actual role-playing is great. Talking to NPCs is a dialog box with choices 
 to say (often humours as that is one of the strong points of this game) . More important characters 
 have voices represented by talking heads. You have to watch your words, as they may cause combat. 
 Speaking of that, this isnt a game for childern. Even though I first played it at 7 (yea im 13 and 
 didnt understand and beat this game till I was 10 lol) , it has some vulgar language and sexual 
 content. Plus some violent combat. This game has a time limit, even though I found a way around 
 it ( perhaps a glitch) . It will probably take you 15-20 hours to finish. It is still alot of fun 
 and I totally recommend it to any rpg player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Ask any PC gamer what they think the greatest RPG of all time is, and theyll probably tell you 
 Fallout. Fallout was first released in 1997, and immediately became a major hit. It won many Game 
 of the Year awards, spawned a sequel, and several spin-offs.
  
  Its been over 9 years since I first played Fallout, and I recently had a chance to play it all 
 over again. Many of todays big RPGs, both on the PC and console, still pale in comparison to this 
 legend.
  
  Fallout takes place in southern California 80 years after a nuclear holocaust. Your characters 
 ancestors were lucky enough to make it to a large underground fallout shelter known as a Vault 
 13. These Vaults were designed to house their occupants for 200 years so they could repopulate 
 the Earth. Now the Vaults water chip has broken, and a new one is needed to supply the Vault 
 with fresh water. The Vaults leader has given you the task of finding a replacement water chip. 
 To do this, you will need to leave the Vault that you were born in, and venture into an unknown 
 nuclear wasteland.
  
  GAME PLAY
  Fallout is an isometric turn based RPG. As soon as you leave the Vault, the world is wide open 
 for you to explore. The only restriction you have is that you need to find a replacement water 
 chip within 150 days, or the Vaults water supply will run out.
  
  Along the way youll find peaceful settlements, ruined cities, trade hubs, and other Vaults. Youll 
 battle raiders, mutants, radioactive animals, and many other types of enemies. There are many types 
 of weapons to find, and character skills to use.
  
  Fallout doesnt restrict character development to classes. Instead its based on skills. You can 
 create a melee brawler, a sharpshooter, a negotiator, or a blend of them all. In fact, one of the 
 better skills in the game is the speech skill. At high levels this will allow you to open new dialog 
 options, and even convince NPCs that your view is right.
  
  The only downside to this skill-based system is that some skills are more useful than others. For 
 example, the small guns skill (pistols, SMGs, rifles) is better than big guns (rocket launcher, 
 chain-gun, flame-thrower) because small guns are readily available at the start of the game. By 
 the time you get a chain gun, your skill in small guns makes you much more deadly with them.
  
  The same applies for non-combat skills. There isnt much point to first aid since it only heals 
 a few points at a time. Youre much better off with using stim-packs to heal. But these are minor 
 flaws in the grand scope of how open-ended character development is.
  
  Youll also find many NPCs to join your party, but you cant control any of them in battle. As 
 a result, they tend to get killed a lot. Therefore youll usually find its easier to go it alone. 
 No raise the dead in Fallout. Take too many hits, and your life ends in the wasteland.
  
  Combat flows well, and allows for a great deal of strategy. The only downside is that you sometimes 
 will enter combat unexpectedly as you cant see enemies inside buildings until you have entered 
 them. This allows hostile enemies to almost always get the first hit in when you enter rooms.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  Fallouts graphics have become dated over time. Since theyre sprite based, they tend to look pixilated 
 at higher resolutions. However, what Fallout lacks in graphics, it makes up for with style. Style 
 thats lacking in a lot of modern RPGs. Fallouts art is based on the 1950s style world of tomorrow 
 media. Its a perfect contrast to the post-nuclear wasteland that the game takes place in.
  
  Everything from ruined cars, buildings, and even Pipboy all echo this fantastic art style. 
 Youre constantly reminded of this ruined civilization, and how bleak the world is. This helps 
 pull you into the game, and further enhances the experience.
  
  SOUND
  The sounds in Fallout have actually held up pretty well over the years. The music is fantastic, 
 and helps set the mood for this post-nuclear world. The sound effects are a little bland, especially 
 when it comes to combat sounds. But theyre not bad by any stretch of the imagination, and even 
 help add a little light-heartedness to the game. The voice-overs are also very well done, even 
 by todays standards.
  
  VALUE
  Like most RPGs, this is Fallouts strong point. Theres a ton of things to see and do, and situations 
 can turn out differently based on what skills are used. In nearly every situation there are at 
 least two or three solutions. The ability to go anywhere in the world right from the start allows 
 for a great deal of character freedom.
  
  You only have a couple main goals in the game, and they can be accomplished (or failed) in several 
 different ways. Several different endings also encourage you to play through the game more than 
 once.
  
  Fallout is one of the best games ever made. If youre an RPG fan, and have never played Fallout, 
 you owe it to yourself to try it. In many ways, it is still light-years beyond anything being released 
 on consoles or the PC today. The fact that its held up so well overtime, and that Fallout 3 is 
 one of the most anticipated sequels of all-time, is proof enough that Fallout has its place among 
 the greatest games in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwlanning
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Fallout is one of those games that captures your attention so completely that you'll look up at 
 the clock and suddenly and shockingly realize you've been playing it for 9 straight hours and it 
 is now 6:00am and time to get ready for work. Fallout captivates you with its plot so completely 
 and is so non-linear and open that you just simply never run out of things to do and therefore 
 never want to stop playing.
  
  Fallout's tough, gritty, and almost brutal atmosphere matches the plotline perfectly. It's a world 
 where mankind has been screwed over, and is now trying to pick itself up out of the ashes of nuclear 
 war. You simply step out of your Vault with nothing but a knife and a flare, and everything after 
 that is up to you - literally. You can go anywhere, kill anybody, whatever you choose and as long 
 as you are willing to accept the consequences of your actions.
  
  Every part of Fallout is sheer brilliance. The character creation enables you to tailor-make a 
 character to a unique playstyle, although certain playstyles will do better in the game than others. 
 While there is one setup agreed upon by the community to be most advantageous to beating the game 
 (finishing the plotline) , changing character attributes and settings will have a dramatic impact 
 on how your character makes his way through the world - a character with high intelligence will 
 be able to smooth-talk most NPCs, whereas if you put the intelligence too low he/she will only 
 be able to say things like Me no like you . The skill system is also a critical factor of success 
 for your chosen playtstyle.
  
  The game starts with your first objective - if you don't find the water chip soon, your Vault will 
 die. Once you've gotten a water chip for your Vault, however, you are pushed back out into the 
 wasteland and from then on, the game imposes nothing on you. You don't have to go anywhere specific 
 or do anything specific, you're completely free to do whatever the heck you want. It's up to you 
 to advance the plotline, either for good or for evil, and that is what true non-linearity really 
 is. Another brilliant aspect of Fallout is your karma - which is localized to the various settlements 
 around the world. You might be idolized in one town for your heroic acts, or demonized in another 
 for assassinating the mayor or something like that. So your activities in the game are meaningful, 
 which you also discover once you've beaten the game. The economy in Fallout isn't as advanced as 
 some games, but you should never be at a loss for money or equipment, assuming you can fight well. 
 One thing I really like about Fallout is that if you kill an enemy that's carrying a Combat Shotgun, 
 you can loot a Combat Shotgun and some ammo off his dead body (sometimes armor too) . This kind 
 of realism just makes sense to me, as opposed to other games where you might kill somebody with 
 some amazing weapon and get nothing but a some cash. The upshot is that if you're good at fighting, 
 making money is as simple as killing some raiders or something, looting all their gear, then selling 
 it off or using it to barter for something you want. There are many other ways of making money, 
 including gambling and stealing. You always have options in the world of Fallout.
  
  The ability to take on various NPCs into your entourage is also a great feature of the game - using 
 Ian as a packmule comes in handy very often (just remember never to let your partners use burst 
 weaponry, they will kill you and each other very quickly) . While the graphics are shoddy and models 
 of players, NPCs and weaponry are all generously recycled, that just doesn't seem to matter during 
 the game. Fallout is all about the freedom and the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smallone85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Everyone remembers their first game in their favorite genre, the one that made you run home from 
 school everyday just to see what kind of destruction you could create. Fallout is that game for 
 anyone who is a fan of RPGs. A good mix of story, game play and humor. It is sad to know that new 
 gamers will never really get a chance to experience what ground breaking really feels like. To 
 often now games are cranked out of studios full of bugs and week attempts at humor. The game also 
 has something that current era games lack, a mascot; PipBoy. The only reason the game doesn't get 
 the full 10 is because of it's length a good gamer can breeze through this in a few days if not 
 a few hours. To enjoy the fun more get both Fallout and Fallout 2 and play them back to back, this 
 is honestly how the game should be played. If you played Warcraft 2, Command and Conquer, Half-Life, 
 Quake, Wing Commander 3, Jedi Knight and want to call yourself a classic gamer this has to be one 
 of the games that is in your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  While Fallout was enjoyable at the time it was released, it seemed rather juvenile as well, and 
 outside the graphics it was the sort of game that a smart high school freshman could put together 
 in a few semesters (and maybe over the summer) as a presentation piece for their Sophomore year 
 girlfriend.
  
  The best way to judge a computer roleplaying game is to consider what the gameplay was like without 
 random encounters and any battle that seemed to just fill up time without being very interesting. 
 As such, Fallout has really good moments. However, it also has really bad moments too. If you are 
 patient, you might enjoy portions of this game, or you might enjoy it on its own merits as a traditional 
 "kill the enemy and grab the loot" game that has a fairly wide story. (Almost as if the designers 
 were cribbing from quite a few existent and little known science fiction stories, movie shorts, 
 and non-computerised roleplaying games.)
  
  Fallout was packed with random encounters and needless battles, but was fun enough to buy, especially 
 to buy at a discount in a bargain bin. A tthe very least, you could pick apart the graphics and 
 put together your own computer game... or somehow locate the adventure construction set that was 
 used to create this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Fallout was one of those great games that was ahead of its time. An alternate future of fear of 
 the unknown. You play as a 'Vault Citizen' who is recruited to save your fellow vault dwellers. 
 All vaults are located within mountain ranges, under ground, that keep anything harmful from reaching 
 the people inside. After a major catastrophe, many fled to these vaults in the hopes that they 
 would be spared death from nuclear fallout. When you start the game, your mission is to find a 
 water chip that will keep the water in your vault clean for its occupants. Your only given the 
 location of another vault and the clothes on your back. As you progress you will find out what 
 happened to people outside of the vaults and even to people from other vaults. There are a wide 
 variety of game play types, including stealth roles, combat roles, witty roles, or a hybrid of 
 these skills. The game gives way to any particular play style, but near the end of the game combat 
 will come into play more often then not. There where many bugs when this title was released. but 
 many headaches have been remedied by numerous patches and updates. The controls and game play mechanics 
 are all top notch, and it is very easy to navigate menus. Everything is in a top down 2D grid like 
 structure, but never really feels restrictive or limited. The sounds are great and the music and 
 voice overs fit the mood well. There are several endings depending on how you play the game. There 
 is a bit of a learning curve to this title but once you get the hang of things, save often, and 
 pick your battles wisely, you can achieve a rewarding ending. Fallout is just another example of 
 how to do an RPG great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  'When you see the flash, take cover under your desk.' Remember those fifties and sixties government 
 advisory flicks about the impending third world war? Happy cartoon characters and actors showed 
 us that, taking the correct precautions, it would be a survivable event. Hide away in your cellar 
 for a while and surface to a fresh new world.
  
  In Fallout, this nuclear war has become reality. Only, the world isn't that fresh after the nuclear 
 war. As the intro already explains: 'War. War never changes.' It shows eery pictures of a world 
 in cinders, explaining what happened and why.
  
  This game releases your character into this post-nuclear war world, to look for a piece of technology 
 that is needed to keep 'Vault 13', a massive underground nuclear shelter, your home, running.
 
  
  Creating a character is already big fun. All the traits and perks you can choose for character 
 are illustrated in this fifties cartoon style that is evident all through the game. A cute little 
 feller that smilingly blasts bullets through opponents. Nowhere have I ever seen the gruesome reality 
 of the governments attempts to act lightheartedly about a possible nuclear war depicted better. 
 (Mind you, that's my feeling about these cartoons. The game does clearly not intend to bring any 
 political message across.)
  
  The 'quest' your character has to fulfill is thoroughly thought through and I have up to today 
 never encountered a more subtle or more non-linear story-line in any game. The number of 'side-quests' 
 that you can engage in is huge. Having finished this game four times now, I can safely say that 
 I still missed out on a lot of them.
  
  Interacting with the non player characters depends strongly on the traits of your own character. 
 Some people are simply smoother talking than others. If you play a strong but dumb person, the 
 conversation with others is quite different from playing with a highly intelligent, witty character. 
 Furthermore, the way you act, reflects strongly on the 
  contacts with others. No one will have anything to do with a child murderer, but will gladly talk 
 to a person that rids the world of the strange creatures that evolve in a strongly radiated environment.
 
  
  I was always disappointed in the combat system a lot of Role Playing Games suffer from. Most of 
 the time those games turn into 'who clicks on the sword icon fast and often enough, wins'. Not 
 so in Fallout. The game is completely real-time, until combat starts. Combat is turn-based, which 
 leaves the player room to manoevre and think about his moves. During combat, all non player characters 
 utter taunts and moans, that appear as text near where they are. Although somewhat repetitive, 
 they are very funny, lightening the atmosphere of this game. That's just as well.
  
  The player needs some cheering up, every once in a while, because the cruel reality of nuclear 
 destruction lies all over the story. Atmosphere wise, this game is absolutely unbeaten. The black 
 rain in Blade Runner, the sun-kissed meadows in Wheel of Time, none of them, however technically 
 more advanced, capture the player more than the skeletons of houses and rusting remains of vehicles 
 in Fallout.
  
  The end of the game, which for me comes far too soon, even though it'll take even players who take 
 the shortest route towards the end many hours, is different every time, depending on what the player's 
 character has said and done. Entire communities will survive or be wiped out, all because of what 
 you achieve.
  
  One thing remains the same, however. Your character wanders into the dusty, radiating desert, accompanied 
 only by the sad, yet hopeful tones of the Legendary Ink Spots' 'Maybe'. To me it feels like saying 
 goodbye to a friend, every time. Good thing that there is Fallout 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burbanski03
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one ofthe best games I have ever played. The depth is amazing and the storyline is spectacular. 
 This is the game that got me playing RPGs, and I still don't play all that many. This game is just 
 so amazing. It starts off pretty slow with the killing of rats but it does help build some easy 
 experience points, but after that the open endedness and the discoveries or the other characters 
 in the game. And dogmeat, out favorite four legged pal. Every year or two I have to pull this game 
 out and go through it again. You can find this for bargain prices and it is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Gritty.
  Violent.
  Addictive.
  Masterpiece.
  
  All these words can sum up the joy that is Fallout, it's mature content, the almost endless replay 
 value, the late night gaming sessions, and the fact that it just gets everything right.
  
  Man couldn't ask for a better game, Interplay created the best RPG in the existence of gaming with 
 Fallout, and even today, there is nothing that compares to the majesty of Fallout.
  So your underground Vault has lost its only method of acquiring water, you have to fix it, so you 
 go out into the post-apocalyptic nuclear wasteland with only a pistol and a stimpack, and you gotta 
 save all these lazy bastards by yourself.
  You gotta do this before around one hundred days pass.
  
  What's a man to do?
  Have as much 
 fun as you could possibly have.
  
  Fallout is ingenious. The combat system is incredibly easy to use, and features some of the most 
 well designed battles and tactical decision making one could find in any game. Turn based is the 
 name of the game, and action points rule this game.
  So what are action points? Well, they're points that dictate exactly that, actions. Each time you 
 execute an action, you use action points. Say you open up your inventory in battle, you use four 
 action points out of eleven, and then you decide to shoot a round off at the nearest baddy, you 
 use five action points, you use to remaining two to find some cover. 
  
  Simple right?
  Well yeah, but it can get incredibly complex. Should you flank your enemy? Can you bounce that 
 grenade off a wall and clear the blast before it kills you too? Will that rocket's splash damage 
 kill those mutants before they can reach you? If they reach you, will you have enough action points 
 to blast em down with a shotgun? All this tactical diversity drives Fallout to its full potential 
 of just being a great game.
  
  So that's how combat goes, but what about the world? I mean, you wanna go out there, explore, kill 
 some huge mutant rats, maybe save a village from some oversized radscorpions and immoral raiders. 
 All travel in Fallout is handled through a big old world map. You decide where you want to go, 
 want to go all the way to the other side of California? Go ahead, just make sure you don't run 
 into any irradiated monsters.
  As you travel on the world map, you can run into random creatures. But thanks to a bevy of skills 
 that you can upgrade on wim as you level, you can pump up that wilderness skill and avoid random 
 encounters, and gain experience that you might have lost from not fighting those creatures!
  
  See, that's just another part of Fallout that makes it great, almost nothing goes without affecting 
 something else, succesfully sneaked past a guard? Good job! Here's some experience points!
  Those experience points add up to make your character unique. So when you made that character, 
 you decided that it would be a twenty four year old man named Jerry. You two "traits" from a large 
 variety that makes your guy even more unique. Then you decided on your stats, he's strong, fast, 
 and agile, but kinda dumd, and people don't really like him. 
  
  But life ain't bad! He's a warrior, you saw all those skills that you could put points into before 
 you even began the game. Ignoring the speech, bartering, wilderness, and several other skills, 
 you decided to upgrade your melee, pistol, and heavy weapon skills. It's killing time!
  But now you're busy playing, you've reached level three, you've put points into skills, but what's 
 this new window?
  
  Perks.
  You can make Jerry even more unique! So what will you choose? Here and Now will make you level 
 up instantly. But Presence will make people like you! There are so many choices! And they're all 
 affected by your stats and skills. How could this game give you so many options? You just love 
 it, don't yah?
  Fallout throws so many good things at you, it's amazing, you can visit any town you want in any 
 order you want, you can chat with ghouls mutants, and etc.
  
  There's a massive variety of guns, armor, and items to look for, you can join gangs, the Brotherhood 
 of Steel, or even those pesky Raiders, you evil bastard.
  Speaking of evil, be whoever you want! Kill all the children in a town! Murder that poor man's 
 wife! Steal from all the people see! Or how about destroying a man's business? So many ways to 
 be good and bad, it's just feels great.
  
  But every game has something bad about it right? Well, Fallout's graphics are kinda, not great 
 I suppose. And let's see, what else... mmm, can't think of anything.
  
  This Fallout must be perfect!
  
  So what more persuasion do you need? Go play it! Find it on 
 E-Bay. Play it now, if you have no experienced the incredible joy that is Fallout, you owe yourself 
 to joy that is this game, don't dissapoint your craving for ultimate great RPG-ness.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OleYeller2113
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Fallout really is the game that sold me on the RPG genre. Prior to Fallout, I tended to shy away 
 from RPGs because the fast majority of the RPGs on the market seemed to be based on Mideval times 
 with many fantasy elements, monsters, etc. This game definately shooked that stereotype I held 
 of the genre.
  
  Nowadays, the graphics aren't state of the art, but for a game of that year they were pretty good, 
 along with the sound. If you're sick like me, you can appriciate how much effort was put into making 
 the death of each enemy, or friendly, soldier in the game look somewhere between realistic and 
 grotesque (dending on if the person in question was shot, stabbed, blown-up, burned, shocked or 
 otherwise fatally maimed) .
  
  Part of what made Fallout so great is that I believed the game. The whole concept of war never 
 ending, never changing and humanity thrusting itself to the brink of extinction all over scarce 
 resources seeemed absolutely believable. I mean, it is entirely feasible that at some point nations 
 will fight one another for control of resources such as oil (and depending on who you talk to, 
 we've already done it) .
  
  But enough of that... back to the game! Gameplay is pretty easy, if you've played RPGs in the past, 
 but the overall difficulty of what it takes to actually finish the game is a different story. There's 
 a lot of challenges, overwhealming odds, blood and puzzles you have to get through to finish the 
 game. The ending I definately enjoyed though, as the narrator took you from place to place and 
 explained how your actions impacted the people in a certain town or area, it sort of gave the game 
 a nice conclusion by satisfying the voice in the gamer's head that sits and wonders "what ever 
 happend to...."
  
  If you're like me and the stereotypical RPGs aren't to your liking, this is definately a game that 
 will make you appriciate the RPG genre. Action, adventure, drama and suspense all frameworked by 
 a pretty darn good plot makes Fallout a wonderful game that is still a heck of a lot of fun to 
 play today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  War, war never ends-These are the first words of the best RPG in the world. It has passed more 
 than 100years after the first nukes fell on earth and created nuclear fallout. You start out in 
 a vault your main objective is to go look at the world after the nuclear fallout and save the vault 
 from dieing because of the broken water chip. But when youll start playing many things will change. 
 Soon youll find out that there is many mutants after the fallout so later youll get the objective 
 to kill the mutants and destroy their master. In this game you actually get to decide most of what 
 is going to happen. For example you do not have to take side quests but (Highly recommend to take 
 side Quests) you wont get special guns and experience. But still in the game you have to follow 
 you main quest in order to beat the game. There are many ways to pass the main quest and beat the 
 game. I think you will enjoy the game a lot! The end of the game made me almost cry!
  
  Gameplay 10 Why a 10 youll ask? Because this game is so revolutionary and addictive that it will 
 be hard to get away from your computer even for some time! The storyline is cool too and freedom 
 you get in the game is just great.
  Graphics 10- The graphics are not the best in the game but remember this game was made in 1997thats 
 9years ago for that time the graphics were super.
  Sound 10- The sound is good especially when you kill somebody and the scream AAAAA!!! Or when you 
 talk to people like the master of mutants and many other characters the voice acting is very good.
 
  Value 10- This is aboplutley a gold game!
  Reviewers tilt 10- Its very nice to right a review for a great game like this.
  
  I recommend 
 this game to everyone who likes freedom in the game and likes RPGs. When youll start playing 
 it youll end up living it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Fallout was one of (if not the first) really, really big PC RPG. It was also one of the first games 
 to come out of Black Isle studios. If your not aware of who/what Black Isle was then you should 
 know that Black Isle were the developers of the much loved Baldurs Gate games as well as Planescape 
 Torment, the Icewind Dale games and so on. Black Isle broke up a while back but their staff have 
 since gone on to work for Bioware and other companies and have been the driving force behind Neverwinter 
 Nights and Star Wars: KOTOR. So basically if you are a fan of PC DND based RPGs then you are likely 
 a fan of Black Isle games. The Fallout games in particular seems to be held in high regard by the 
 older pc gamers, and after playing Fallout for a while one begins to understand why.
  Fallout takes place in the a future time where the world has been devastated by a global nuclear 
 war during which most of the planet was reduced to ash. Those that were fortunate (and likely rich) 
 enough were able to escape the bombs in large underground vaults where they would go on to live 
 in for generations. You play as one such vault dweller, raised underground, forced to leave on 
 an important mission. You will be the first from your vault to see the surface, something you have 
 only heard tales about. Its a compelling story, set in a well thought out and presented world. 
 Fallout oozes style and atmosphere from every detail.
  If youve ever played Baldurs Gate then you have a rough idea of what you can expect of the visuals 
 in Fallouts. It uses something that is quite similar to the old infinity engine that Black Isle 
 would use for most of their games. Basically that means that everything in done in a gritty kind 
 of 2D animation. For those of you that are more accustomed to bump mapping, particle effects, and 
 HD lighting fallout will likely be an immense shock to the eyes. But once you get into it you realize 
 that Fallouts visuals have actually stood the test of time better then a lot of 3D games. There 
 is an amazing amount of detail put into the various areas, all of which serve to give the game 
 its uniform feel that is loved by so many. The game really does a good job of putting you in the 
 wasteland all one needs is a bit of imagination.
  The sound plays out much the same. There is a minimal amount of voice over, just the major conversations 
 and characters. All of which is done surprisingly well and serves the game well. The soundtrack 
 is minimalist in nature, made to add to the barren lifeless feel found throughout most of the game.
 
  The gameplay in Fallout is both great and yet it is the games only real fault at the same time. 
 Combat, conversations, using any skill all seem to rely more on luck then anything else. A shotgun 
 blast to the head might be critical and kill with 70+ damage one go but if you load up the same 
 data and do it again you might only do 6 damage and get destroyed soon after. Same with conversations, 
 unless your speech skill isnt insanely high youll end up reloading your game over and over until 
 you get the reaction you need to open up more of a various characters dialogue trees. This randomness 
 (especially in combat) is the games biggest falling point and serves to bring you out of the game 
 over and over. However the gameplay also has its highpoints, as there are 50+ side quests along 
 with the core ones, all of which can be solved in a number of ways. Whichever way you choose is 
 based on the character you create at the start of the game. You can talk yourself out of (or through) 
 most situations, or you can just blast everything. So when your not reloading your game Fallout 
 is engaging and immensely fun. You can choose to side with the underworld or you can play the nice 
 boy and join the law to accomplish your goals, its up to you. A staple of any good RPG.
  With all of this openness the game does an extremely lousy job of letting you know what you need 
 or even can do in a given area. If you choose to use that repair skill on the shield generator 
 for the door you might deactivate it for a second with some luck. However that shield generator 
 doesnt exactly jump out at you. Then again its 2D so nothing really jumps out at you. Its things 
 like this that make Fallout play its best the second or third time through as you finally know 
 what you should be doing, how the game mechanics work, and how/where to use the skills your character 
 has learned. The first time through however is as frustrating an experience as it is enjoyable. 
 And most gamers will find themselves looking up a walkthrough which will end up spoiling a degree 
 of the fun. Strangely enough Fallout is quite replayable despite its frustrating parts. Which 
 is good considering youll likely enjoy the game the most the third time through.
  Combat in Fallout is (minus the randomness) one of its fun parts as well as one of the most annoying 
 parts of the game. Battles are completely turn based which makes them highly tactical. Each weapon 
 can be targeted to a specific body part which adds even more depth. Head shots can knock out a 
 target or even kill it outright if your lucky enough, while groin shots on male characters can 
 serve to put them out of the action quickly if need be. After a few battles youll likely notice 
 that Fallout actually gets fairly violent in graphic ways during combat. Shotguns in particular 
 are capable of some pretty graphic death animations where you blow good chunks of the enemies torso 
 off.
  During your travels across the land youll pick up some companions but they only serve as backup 
 since they dont seem to play any part in the rest of the game. The AI for these partners is (like 
 the rest of the game) random making their behaviour sometimes as much as a hindrance as it can 
 be helpful. You have no control over them at all and they have a tendency to walk between you and 
 the big guy with the chain gun, and get killed in the process. Which brings you to a fit of anger 
 followed by another reload. Its not all bad though, like everything else in Fallout once you know 
 what you can do or how to go about a particular battle you find yourself reloading less.
  The game does a fairly poor job of protecting key quest items and persons. You can sell anything, 
 and quest characters die like anyone else. Depending on how a given conversation goes you may miss 
 out on several side quests. This adds to Fallouts replay value as every new game youll discover 
 new things and stumble across alternative solutions to quests.
  I realize that Ive spent much of this review covering the bad points of Fallout but I must stress 
 that in the end the game is an enjoyable experience and makes up for most its shortcomings with 
 an abundance of style and atmosphere. If you are a fan of other DND based RPGs then you are likely 
 used to the frustrations associated with their gameplay. As such if you have not played Fallout 
 you should give it a try. However if you are new to pc RPGs or are looking for a straight forward 
 go here, do this kind of RPG then I would steer you in a different direction as you will likely 
 be driven to the point of madness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is one of the 4 RPG game that I actually finished. It's very frustrating for a RPG gamer 
 to find games that takes about 100 hours to complete when you only have 4 to 5 hours a week to 
 put to it. Put Fallout was one of those game that you cannot let aside. You have to complete it 
 to save your community. 
  
  The combat system in itself was never copied but it should be. It's a very strategic combat system 
 that put RTS games at shame. 
  
  The story is very well done and the different NPC are great. You get a sense of desolation and 
 distress. 
  
  But the big + of that game is the presentation. That 50' look to the manual, the opening sequence 
 and the interface is very clever. 
  
  Fallout is very fun and all thing consider, not that long compare to today's RPG 
  v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  The vaults were created so if a nuclear winter occured the human race would be able to survive. 
 Each vault was equipped with resources: families, water chip, Garden of Eden Creation Kit, food, 
 weapons, ect. Unfortunately for Vault 13, their water chip broke and they have to send out a dweller 
 to find a new one. You are that dweller. Can you save your vault as you brave the wasteland? You 
 leave your vault and for the first time in your life, you see sunlight. 
  Your journey begins with you searching for the water chip. You technically can beat the game at 
 level four, but its not really fun if you do just the bare minimum. If you truly explore the game 
 and use the free roaming available to you the game can take you anywhere from 2 to 40+ hours of 
 game play, but thats assuming you truly want to explore and do everything. Otherwise you can expect 
 probably about 10 to 20 hours of gameplay. 
  Fallout will leave you with a sense of awe, wonder and amazement. You will start asking yourself 
 questions such as what secrets does the Glow hold? What happens if I do this differently, and of 
 course, why don't I just kill everything? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I can remember this being the first RPG that I ever played that wasn't like the Final Fantasy types. 
 It had a tattered look and feel to it, like it had already been through an apocalypse. The interface 
 made it feel as if it was the only thing left from a brighter game and you really got into the 
 post-nuclear war mentality.
  If you are looking for a flashy RPG that will dazzle the senses, look elsewhere. Fallout is more 
 like a good playable book than a graphics dependent variation of the same old RPG storyline. It's 
 simple, but that's what makes it fit as a post-apocalyptic classic.
  The game is easy to learn and will get you into your character from the creation page. Making a 
 new character is one of the best features in my opinion. Most of us choose combat skills to start 
 with I'm sure, but the options are many. Some of the party characters that you pick up along the 
 way are lacking in intelligence and will shoot you just as easy as the enemy, so make sure you 
 have enough to go around. Honestly that is the only real flaw with the game structure. The party 
 characters are dumb as rocks and they never really feel like they are in it with you 100%.
  Overall, this game is an acquired taste and is best left for the fans of the genre. In that regard, 
 it is a must see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowercaseF
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This unlike most of the games out there is a TRULY a superb game. This might be old but it is great 
 this is one of the most best game you will ever buy though that souly depends on what you like. 
 This game is great for all you role-players out there unlike most games today you don't have to 
 follow a story line you can do whatever you want whether it is to kill a town or to make a party 
 and live your life till you die. This is an amazing game that even through its age is better then 
 most games today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Rules
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game has gameplay fit for a king, with a near perfect turn based system, amazing 
 selection of guns and armor, perfect story, nice secrets, great character development (skills and 
 story) , and it's so immersive you'll never want to stop. the story starts you off you just outside 
 of a bomb shelter sent on a quest to get a water chip to save your "family" inside the shelter. 
 The game starts you off fighting rats, and near the end you'll be fighting nasty demon like things 
 called deathclaw and mutants. The world is huge you can explore almost anywhere, and find almost 
 anything. the fallout world is huge, with lots of places to go, and find. The guns are dividing 
 into categories of which you can spend skill points to upgrade. The story is better then anything 
 else that I have played. So be prepared for twists, creepy bosses, and almost anything else you 
 can think of. You don't really learn too much about your characters past, but as you play the game 
 you explore the character you are playing as completely.
  
  Graphics: Were good back in the old days, and I don't mind them now. Everything is gritty, and 
 is in place. But the graphics are never really a strong points of black isle development, they 
 focus on the story. Which is good, but it leaves room for little errors or certain unmapped places.
 
  
  Sound: There are plenty of sound effects, and really good voice acting, and great music that helps 
 the game work well. I have no complaints, great work.
  
  Value: This game has a wicked story that your going to want play at least twice, if not more. This 
 game is worth every penny.
  
  Tilt: Fallout is a great game that everyone should at least play once, and any true RPG fan should 
 own. So enjoy this game, and hopefully you'll like it as much as I did.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Przem0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  In the 21st century resources were running low, which brought superpowers to take violent actions. 
 China invaded Alaska, United States annexed Canada and Europe splitted into many states fighting 
 over control of the remaining resources. It was cold war all over again, but this time it became 
 hot. In 2077 just in few hours whole planet turned into giant sandbox. The intro makes remarkable 
 impression. It builds up climax like rarely few games do. The Ink Spot's Maybe song is just perfect. 
 Starting now you begin to live the Fallout life.
  You may have heard that only the roaches (and maybe Cher and Chuck Norris) will survive the nuclear 
 (or as some call it nucular ) war. Well people, scorpions, rats, cows, dogs and some other creatures 
 also made it, but only people and dogs are still being seen in mint not mutated condition. Roaches 
 haven't been seen though (weird) .
  All over the world there were vaults built to help survive some amount of people and repopulate 
 world once again. Well, you are one of those lucky survivors of the great war. It's 2161 and water-chip 
 broke down. The overseer of your Vault sends you on a mission of finding new one or else the Vault 
 will die. This is where all the fun begins. From now on you will be traveling through wastelands 
 trying to find and bring back new water-chip.
  
  At the beginning you can choose one of the three pre-made characters, modify them or create a new 
 one. This is really important part, not like in other games, it's really crucial what choices you 
 will make and they will influence the whole game. You can create a diplomat skilled in speech, 
 steal and lockpicks or gamble with high intelligence, charisma and luck and still finish the game 
 avoiding killing anyone yourself. If you decide to build a brute skilled in an unarmed and melee 
 combat and teach everyone a lesson the hard way, then be my guest. Whether evil, good ,strong, 
 weak, man or woman, the game is going to end different for you each time. The game is filled with 
 many quests and there is usually more then one way of finishing each one. There is one major quest 
 line, that is needed to finish the game and a lot of side quests, that give this game real flavor. 
 Behind each place there is interesting story. When you wander around you get to collect pieces 
 of information written on holodiscs or talking to people that give you very in-depth information 
 about the great war and life of people on the wastelands afterwards. When you encounter people 
 for the second time with different hero, more intelligent with high speech, you notice the different 
 how people react, their dialogs change, some dialog options and missions become active depending 
 on initial choices during character's creation and game's choices you made until now.
  
  Graphics is impressive. Although game is mostly sand from the visual point of view, we get to talk 
 with animated heads and visit some nice places. For instance fancy Cathedral or the hole in the 
 ground called The Glow. We visit many places, mostly settlements, towns and other vaults. We get 
 whole variety of guns, weapons, armors, drinks, drugs, food, ammunition and stuff (did I forget 
 something?) to play with during the game and make evil doers die in very impressive ways. Hmm, 
 we get knives, pistols, rifles (one you can upgrade) , granades, armors (also upgradeable) , fruits, 
 meat, alcohol, drugs that make you smart, strong, almost invincible (yes! psycho!) or just high. 
 All looks really great and you can get addicted too. The in-game view is isometric and somehow 
 you feel it should always have been like this. We get to fight in turn based combat, frankly it's 
 even more satisfying than in UFO.
  
  The sound is also on a high level. I mentioned the intro theme, which keeps me wake at night. The 
 ingame sounds are so natural, that makes them pleasantly unnoticeable. You can hear the wind gently 
 teasing the sand and spreading radiation. The sound of gun shots and explosions is fantastic. When 
 you shoot the Desert Eagle you feel as if you had one in your hands and blowing mutant's head of! 
 We get also to hear speech of some of the more important NPC's of the game. Voices are convincing 
 and well chosen.
  
  Great story, many options, fine graphics, good sound and non-linear fun is not everything this 
 game has to offer. The small things. You can finish game not even noticing them (but that makes 
 you a bad person) and still enjoy game. The thing is that it takes some effort to realize the genius 
 of the creators. You get to find many similarities to many films. Some stories like one behind 
 dogmeat refer to Mad Max for example, not mentioning some special encounters. In conclusion game 
 is really well made and worth your time. It made me love rpg games, so in the worst case you should 
 at least find this game interesting, and if you find solving quests entertaining and good story 
 matters for you the most, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pister
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin? I heard of this game and was immediately interested in the premise. At first 
 glance this looks like a MadMax RPG, and to a degree it is. The game is set in a post-apocalyptic 
 United States. The difference is that instead of the bombs dropping in the 1990s or later, the 
 bombs dropped in the 1950s. In preparation for the impending doom, the government constructed a 
 series of underground bunkers or "vaults" where they put the countries best and brightest to sit 
 out the bombs. The idea was to survive and thrive in the vaults until the time came to emerge and 
 rebuild society. The hero of the game is one such Vault Dweller. You have grown up in the comfort 
 and safety of a protected environment with advanced medicine, good food, and refrigeration. That 
 all changes the day the water purification system fails. Your vault now faces a crisis. You are 
 chosen to venture forth from the vault and search the world for another vault and hit them up for 
 a spare water chip which will restore your vault to working order.
  
  You begin your quest with nothing more than a Vault 13 jump suit and canteen. But, you soon find 
 out the world is a very harsh place. You are little more than a potential grease stain to some, 
 target practice for others, and food to a variety of critters and other nasties.
  
  The character creation and advancement system is very unique. It is completely open ended. You 
 do not pick a class or a role. Instead, you are presented with every possible skill in the game 
 right from the start. It is up to you whether you want to create a stealthy melee fighter, a thieving 
 sniper, a heavy gunner, a scientist, a medic, or a combination of ANY of those. Each level, you 
 gain a certain number of skill points to spend depending on your characters stats. You can also 
 choose three "tag" skills that are twice as easy to advance as anything else. As you raise your 
 skill in a particular area, you are able to do things with greater and greater chances of success. 
 For example, the higher your small guns skill, the more likely you are to hit when shooting. As 
 your skill gets higher, it gets easier to make that shot hit even at great distances or in unfavorable 
 conditions such as darkness. You can also take aim and it vital spots with greater ease. Also, 
 a higher skill in first aid for example both increases the likelihood to heal wounds and the amount 
 of damage you heal. At character creation you can also choose up to physical traits. These traits 
 tend to help you specialize in certain and can give you advantages in specific situations. For 
 example, you can pick a trait that favors one-handed guns making you hit more with them, but making 
 it harder to hit with big, two-handed guns.
  
  As you level you gain access to perks based on the skills you have chosen and your level. For example, 
 if you have begun increasing your lockpicking skill, you can pick a perk that gives you a bonus 
 to that skill. You can get all kinds of perks mostly from leveling up, but also some from quests 
 or encounters with NPCs.
  
  As you explore the world you will encounter a wide variety of characters. Some of the more notables 
 characters will have a special dialog screen that shows the face of the character as they speak. 
 These characters have excellent voice acting to give them more life and personality. Some people 
 you meet will join your party and help you fight. And trust me, you'll need the help. On your quest 
 to find a new water chip for your vault you will encounter all sorts of things looking to loot 
 and/or eat your dead body. Raiders, giant scorpions, muted humans, giant rats and more want nothing 
 more than to see you bleed. Fortunately you quickly adapt to your environment and pick up the ability 
 to fight.
  
  The combat system in Fallout is great. It is turn-based (as all RPGs should be...) and is based 
 on a action point system. That is, you have a certain number of points, up to ten, that you can 
 use each turn. Shooting a gun may cost you four points, taking an aimed shot may take you five. 
 Punching usually takes three while a round house takes four. Getting into you backpack costs two 
 points, equipping a new weapon takes two points and so forth. The number of action points you have 
 is based on your Agility. There are a wide variety of weapons you can acquire from a simple spear 
 or rocks all the way to a plasma rifle or Laser Gatlin gun. And come on, who doesn't want to fire 
 a LASER GATLIN GUN!!! As you level up, you can specialize in any weapon set you choose. Samll guns 
 include rifles, shotguns, and pistols. Large guns include rocket launchers, flame throwers and 
 portable gatlin guns. Energy weapons include plasma pistols, plasma rifles, laser gatlin guns, 
 and more. There are also a large variety of grenades including frag and EMP pulse grenades for 
 those marauding robots. 
  
  You have indirect control of your party members in that you can ask them to stay put, fire only 
 if they have a good shot, use burst fire or single shots, when to use healing and more. You can 
 give them weapons and ask them to equip them, but that's about it.
  
  Aside from all the game mechanics, the story and setting is really what make this game just incredible. 
 There are multiple story arcs happening all around you. Through your actions, you can change their 
 course for good or bad or not ever encounter some of the stories. At the end of the game you get 
 a summary of all your deeds and how they affected your world. ow cool is that. Additionally, as 
 you travel the world you can have a HUGE variety of random encounters. I'm not talking about running 
 into a fight, but instead you may run across a crash landed alien space ship or a pit fight ring 
 where you can fight for cash or other things. These encounters are random though some do occur 
 in about the same place in the game world. Many of these encounters are direct references to pop-culture. 
 They are so fun!! For example, one encounter has you meeting up with an Away Team from a certain 
 Federation Starship!! In addition to being fun, these encounters can also grant you access to some 
 very powerful weapons and armor.
  
  The bottom line is that this game rocks. The story is amazing, the game mechanics are extremely 
 fun, the character development is open-ended and exciting, and the quests are very fun. In fact 
 in writing this review, I'm gonna break out the game and play through again.
  
  If you haven't played this game, please go out and experience one of the brightest moments in PC 
 gaming.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThnkU4thePoison
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  Fallout is one the first of its kind. Although I would have liked to see how the turn out would 
 have been if they had officailly made it into a "pen-and-paper" role playing game like the ever 
 so, oober-nerd popular game of D&D. 
  
  You start off as a tribesman out to search for a computer-chip for your water recycler you have 
 to leave your nestled underground home of Vault 13. You come out of your little mole hole to find 
 a wasteland hell. You encounter gangs, neo-drug addicts, mutants, people that seem like they have 
 necrosis, and whores. You mariott your way through a vast world that should soon have you addicted 
 to the game in no time.
  
  The only flaws I can think of is sometimes the way the battle system is setup, it takes a long 
 time, to me at least. I personally am like, always in a rush so sometimes the battles can be a 
 little slow for me. 
  
  A very unique part of this game to me is the perks, traits, and abilities setup of the game. You 
 can become all sorts of things under the sun with this system. I also like the stealing. Wow that 
 sounds so bad, but its really awesome. Think about it, your walking around the desert wasteland 
 and find a guy with the armor/weapon/medical supplies/drug that you need and bam, there it is. 
 So plain and simple. But there's a catch. A-ha! And it's a big catch too. You can get caught and 
 if you get caught. Sometimes... in fact most of the time if it is for a big weapon... your screwed. 
 Then you have to load the game and start all over again. There are also a gagillion different ways 
 to beat the game so I know you'll be playing it over, and over, and over, and... wait... oh yes... over 
 agiain. 
  
  So if you want a RPG with alot of replay value, and ya got a lot of time on your hands. Try and 
 find thi9s game it truly needs to be in your collection if you are a true RPG fan. Im serious! 
 Go out and buy it like, right now! Go on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  The now defunct Black Isle studios left a legacy behind with a few of the industry's best RPGs. 
 Among these RPGs is Fallout; a non linear game with a somewhat loose story and turn based combat, 
 but a great atmosphere and choices that effect everyone around you.
  
  Fallout is set in post apocolyptic California. You play as someone who's ancestors entered Vault 
 13 long ago. A Vault is basically a bunker that protects its inhabitants from nuclear devestation. 
 Now you must leave the safety of the Vault under orders by the Overseer to obtain a Waterchip to 
 replace the broken one in your vault. The story doesn't stop there however; that's just the beginning.
 
  
  The gameplay in Fallout is a mixed bag in my opinion. The fact that your choices affect those around 
 you either now or in the future is great and makes the world feel more alive, but I'm not a fan 
 of turn based combat. The combat in Fallout works like this: you and your enemies have 'action 
 points' and every action (even accessing your inventory) costs a certain ammount of action points. 
 How many action points you have can often determine whether you live or die in battle.
  
  The graphics in Fallout are decent; for they're time they were solid but now they're rather dated. 
 The terrain isn't very detailed and nor are the character sprites but everything that is there 
 works and works well.
  
  The audio in Fallout is good; the music is nothing special (it's barely there) but the sound effects 
 and voice acting are superb. The voice acting is clearly professional quality because no one sounds 
 like they were just dragged off of the streets to get paid for saying a ew lines into a microphone.
 
  
  Fallout is a great game; the turn based combat may not appeal to some, but the game features an 
 involving atmosphere and story. Also despite the turn based combat; the combat is indeed solid 
 and anyone who enjoys role playing games owes it to themselves to at least try Fallout: it's one 
 outstanding classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  This is THE game to add to any collection! Fallout is an RPG based in a world where the 50's dream 
 of the future came true... untill it was all nuked back to the stone age! 
  
  The game puts you in the shoes of a Vault dweller, a person who has been locked in with many others 
 in fallout shelters called Vaults. Your quest to save your Vault from destruction takes you through 
 a vast desert that was once California and exposes you to the mutants, people, and horrors of this 
 new place. The game is pretty much your standard turn-based game, almost a replica of the gameplay 
 you'd expect from D&D (except no dice) . The story is extremely immersive and involving and the 
 environments, though without depth, are perfect mood setters! Another unique feature is an epilogue. 
 Throughout the game, the quests you complete and the people you help/kill will effect the epilogue 
 at the end... have fun screwin with that!
  
  The graphics are standard 640x480 graphics, nothin fancy... well, once again, it was great for its 
 time! The characters are well drawn and the environments are made perfectly for the story line. 
 That, and I love the 50's style cars that are strewn about the wreckage of cities!
  
  The sound is very well done! The voice acting for the important characters is flawless (especially 
 Harold! Hehe, you'll see him!) and the music is eerie in all the right places. 
  
  Needless to say, this game is worth far more than the bargain bin prices you're going to find it 
 for! So, do yourself a favor and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulishdoll
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  Wah i really do not have anything to say about this game. The storyline and uniqueness of this 
 game really makes ones mind blow up into pieces. They should actually make a movie out of this 
 i would definately watch it when it hits the screen. Okay to cut the crap i love this game and 
 it definately is a great buy. So what who cares if its ancient and old, it still has what most 
 game dosent. Very beautiful gameplay and the ability to do anything in this screwed up post apocolyptic 
 world, filled with freaks and everyone lives in a piece of crap home with holes everywhere. I mean 
 we cant tell u gamers how good it is, u have to move ure asses out there into a computer game shop 
 and get a CD. In fact i lost my CD and im really dieing to play this game, even though i have completed 
 it once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The best way to sum up the great success that was Fallout, would be to say it is a Sci-fi Elder 
 Scrolls game. For those of you who have played games from the elder scrolls series, mainly daggerfall, 
 morrowind or the new oblivion that is about to come out, you will know by that I mean it is an 
 RPG where you build your character and it is NOT a linear game. Yes, there is a storyline you can 
 follow, but the great thing about games like this is you'll find yoruself NOT following it! There 
 is so much to do, so much freedom, you can build your character, his reputation and affect the 
 rest of the world whatever way you want. This is a 2d top-down game but it didn't make the story 
 any less effective, the graphics were perfectly acceptable for the time, and very well done artistically. 
 It takes place in a gritty, post-apocalyptic setting and that is obvious as soon as you step foot 
 into the game without them having to tell you. You can see it, you can feel it and in fallout you 
 get to spend 100's of hours living it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  This is the game i played where i stayed up the whole evening and not realising that it was already 
 morning so my mom layeth some smackdown on me. But it was all worth it, the game rocks and till 
 now it does. The realism and the freedom to kill anyone who will stand in your way providing you 
 have everything at your arsenal. Well this is a Hall of Fame game that really is very fun and exciting 
 to play. I really recommend this game to everyone that applies to the ESRB rating ok. I really 
 am a lover of non-linear RPG's. Right now im finding other games that is similar to this genre. 
 Peace im out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is one of the greatest PC games of all time.
  
  OK here is the good:
  
  Fallout has one of the most indepth non-linier gameplay around. Forget KOTOR or Fable. This game 
 has it where it counts. The game is SO open that if your character was able to survrive the trip 
 (and not get killed by wondering insects) he or she would be able to just travel right to the end 
 of the game with only a few stops. This opens up a huge set of posibalites. If I said "I don't 
 feel like going to that town." I never have to. I can just avoid it. If someone good and evil offers 
 me a job, I can choose to take either one. Or i could just kill them both and loot their bodies. 
 Or if i am in some sort of bloodthirstey rage i could kill everyone i see. Everywhere! The graphics 
 are not 3-D but they are detailed.
  
  And here is the bad:
  
  The gameplay is slower then most people would want. It takes time to kill the simplest of enemies. 
 The AI is bad with a capital B. This isn't something ou will notice with your enemeis, however 
 with your allies they often charge head on into a pack of bad (or good) guys with no weapon just 
 to punch them. Then he will stand in your way while you try to shoot, or shoot you while you are 
 standing in the way. Then there is the graphics. They are not bad, their just not 3-D. Even with 
 the detail in the enviorment you are still limited to 800 by 600 pixels. It would have been nice 
 to at least see 1024 by 768 or more. 
  
  Overall this game is insanely good and addictave. Buy it now! I said now!
  
  Edit: I changed 
 my mind I want this game to have perfect 10. It should have more then that but it just isn't possible 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion_flux
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPGs ever made, and one that every true PC RPG fan should play. It has 
 so many good features and the combined product is a perfect example of the sum being greater than 
 its individual parts. This was the first game that was collectively produced by the people who 
 later founded Troika Games (Tim Cain, Leonard Boyarsky, and Jason Anderson) , and it showcases the 
 things that made their games great. Troika is sadly gone now, and while some of their games were 
 controversial, all of their games had one thing that featured prominently. 
  
  Atmosphere. 
  
  Fallout has great atmosphere. It really did a fantastic job of making you feel 
 like you were a survivor of a nuclear cataclysm. The characters in the game were sometimes wonderful 
 and really made you care about them (Dogmeat, I love you! sniff...) . For a 2D game with an isometric 
 perspective, this is a significant achievement. The turn-based combat was very well suited to the 
 game, and allowed tactical, twitch-free control of life-and-death situations that were challenging 
 and fun. This being said, Fallout was not a perfect game. Giving automatic weapons to your companions 
 is suicidal, since they have a nasty tendency to ignore your presence in their line of fire. Despite 
 its minor flaws, the great story, character-development system, tactical combat, immersive gameworld, 
 and wonderful flexibility in gameplay make this a game that true aficionados will play for years 
 to come. It still stands as an example of what a good role-playing game should be. For those of 
 us who played and enjoyed Wasteland, Fallout was everything that a spiritual successor should be, 
 and more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymous21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  Fallout is a different kind of video game. Fallout is not amazing because of the technology used, 
 nor is it because of the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. combat system- Fallout is amazing because it gives you 
 the opportunity to think things out for yourself. If something makes sense, you can do it. You 
 can solve every problem via a great variety of methods.
  
  This game should appeal to anyone, because it shows you what you are looking for, no matter what 
 that happens to be. Just want some good combat? You've come to the right place- you can blow through 
 everybody that crosses your path. You don't really need anybody's help- just kill everything that 
 moves and you'll probably finish the game. Want to admire the game's great dialogue? You don't 
 need to kill a single thing in this entire game. Every problem can be solved peacefully if you 
 are a skilled enough speaker.
  
  Above all else, Fallout makes you think. If someone were to ask me to give them an example of gaming 
 as an art form, I would show them Fallout. Not only will you think about solutions to problems, 
 but also about the interesting cast of characters that you meet. Among these is the Master, one 
 of the most complicated and fascinating end bosses of all time. After this game is over for weeks, 
 you may still be thinking about the chilling social commentary it represents. Fallout is amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Eskimo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  Well. We all remember (Ok... many of us) the time when the cool view of a game were from top-down. 
 (zelda, etc) And just in time, before that style got killed by half life, this game hit the selfs! 
 A rolepleying game that didn't take itself so seriious. A game that you could do almost anything 
 in. A game were freedom was important and so were style and looks.
  
  Many can complain today that this game don't got the best of graphics and sound, but it really 
 does fit to the style of the game. Everything is run down and broken, since the nuclear bombs and 
 all, and it really does fit with as run down graphics.
  
  The game features a great amount of ways to kill your enemies. Kill them with the normal Ak47, 
 handguns, swords, etc. Or you could try out broken bottles, bazookas, spiked bats, plasmarifles 
 and molotow coctails. The enemies ain't your kinda typical enemies either. You'll meet zombie like 
 "ghouls" that was born out of all the nuclear waste, and other scary or sick creatures. 
  
  The game is turned based, so you could use some time on the fights, but that really is just part 
 of the game. You can also team up with people, animals, ghouls, and do on, so it should be no problem 
 to get enough guns. 
  
  Your first assignemnt is to get the water-chip for your vault. The waterchip is a computerchip 
 that creates water, and the vault is the place were you and your "tribe" has been hiding after 
 the nuclear world war.
  
  So. The world is broken. And you, chosen by your tribe, sets out to find a new waterchip, and save 
 their life. 
  
  The story is really strong and well written, and the sounds really help up on the atmosphere. So 
 if you could forgive the olding graphics, and the fact that the game really is too old for anybody 
 "hip" to play. You just have to go get it. It's really something of the best RPG gaming you will 
 ever experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2004 8:03 am PT
Review:  Fallout is a great game. It is a fabulous RPG. The game has a good pace that is not too fast, but 
 does not leave you bored. It was also nice to see a game that did not shy away from things like 
 cold blooded murder or sex with a prostitute. 
  
  The leveling up system is easy to learn and with so many skills and specialties, the game has so 
 much replay value. I played it three or four times with a different type character each time. 
 
  
  I also loved that at the end of the game, you got a recap of what happened to all the people you 
 met in the game. The situations would change based on your interactions with the groups.
  
  This is not a game that new PC game players are going to be able to play within an hour. It does 
 have a steep learning curve, but once learned, you will have hours of entertainment at your fingertips. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrackZero3369
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2004 7:31 am PT
Review:  I'm not even certain how to begin this review. Fallout is easily one of the best games I've ever 
 played in my lifetime. It's not just a game but an entire world that you can become completely 
 absorbed into.
  
  I'll skip describing the games story (as it's been done before by people better at it then myself) . 
 Suffice to say that the storytelling is rock solid and the setting is completely original (no goblins 
 and dragons here) .
  
  Fallout is really a precursor to today's "choice" style of RPG, where you determine how you want 
 to confront different situations, and the outcomes usually change depending on your actions. Good/evil, 
 violence/peaceful, etc. In fact, the various wrap-up sequences at the end of the game are totally 
 dependant upon what you did.
  
  Gameplay is excellent, originally planned to use the GURPS system for it's rule base, that fell 
 through and they created their SPECIAL system instead (which personally I find even better) . You 
 have a Diablo-style viewpoint. You run around the game world and interact with everything in real-time, 
 except in battle where everything becomes turn-based and you have to decide how to use your AP 
 (action points) to move/fight/manipulate items. Many of the major characters in the game are voiced 
 by hollywood actors as well, such as Richard Dean Anderson, Ron Perlman, and Phil LaMarr to name 
 a few.
  
  What makes the combat especially fun is in the details. Defeating your foe isn't simply as boring 
 as the usual "do X damage and the enemy dies" (though that is underlying) , instead you are offered 
 a variety of weapons which have their own strengths and weaknesses. This may just be a male thing, 
 but I find it especially fun when I can take a laser rifle and specifically target someone's leg, 
 or simply burst them with a sub-machine gun, or toss a grenade at their feet, or beat them down 
 with a mega-fist. Combat throughout the game seems to constantly change, as random variables play 
 a large part in the fights, changing the tactics used and how the enemies react to you.
  
  i. e. Firing a rocket launcher at a gangs leader can cause some of them to freak out and try to 
 run, while performing the same action may also lead you to miss you shot and hit a friendly target 
 instead, killing a teammate and turning the battle against you.
  
  Also to be noted, much of the combat can be avoided by simply making your character more charming 
 and intelligent instead (and can often reap much higher experience points for doing so) . It all 
 depends on your playstyle.
  
  What really makes Fallout though, is the art style and the music. I'd like to give out props to 
 Leonard Boyarsky who was the one who really pushed the "future of the fifties" concept, without 
 him I don't believe this game ever would have reached it's current popularity. Take the clean forward-looking 
 fifities America, blow up a few nukes in an alternate future and there you have it, one of the 
 best game settings of all time. The music is completely atmospheric and combined with the stellar 
 artwork is just perfect.
  
  The long of short of it is that Fallout is a perfect blend of style and substance, was/is genre-bending 
 and is a game that anyone should give a try. No other RPG has ever come as close to perfection 
 as Fallout has. Grab this one and give it a try, my current copy of the game was a double-pack 
 (Fallout and Fallout 2) for only $10 Canadian, so keep your eyes peeled for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 19, 2004 1:08 am PT
Review:  War. 
  War Never Changes.
  
  With this sweeping comment on the history of human conflicts Fallout hopes to exact the same kind 
 of experience consistent with the theme prevalent in all of the humanity's darkest times. Perhaps 
 I am looking too much into what this game has meant for me, but this is only but a small testament 
 to how it has affected gamers' perception of what PC RPG as a genre can potentially be, and ever 
 since has been the benchmark against which every RPG that purports to offer non-linear gameplay 
 with solid character creation system is measured (including Fallout 2) .
  
  The passage of time has not been very kind to the game's graphics over the years, but the post-apocalyptic 
 atmosphere with undeniably appealing aesthetics that authenticate every grimy, delapidated building 
 to the stylish interfaces (Pip Boy) and to the unsurpassed talking heads. One needs little encouragement 
 to be taken in by the game's visuals, and immersed by them. However, the animation in general is 
 rather stilted, and remains my biggest gripe, more so than the limited body sizes (no children 
 and no mutant female to speak of) , and general lack of detail coherent with character equipment 
 and inventory (does not distinguish between weapons of the same class as far as its graphic on 
 the player character) .
  
  Sound production could be largely divided into two in my impression: ambient sound, and the voice 
 work. The game does not feature a sountrack to speak of (aside from Ink Spot's 'Maybe') , and most 
 of the game takes place accompanied by little to no ambient sound, much less any dynamic musical 
 sample (ones that kick in based on different situations) that would have added some flair of excitement 
 to combat. The voice work is very good. The cast of characters that lend their talents to flesh 
 out many of the diverse NPCs in the game do a really admirable job. Weapons sound rather timid, 
 but they serve the purpose of translating the force of whipping up a minigun and making swiss cheese 
 out of enemy with hundreds of rounds. 
  
  Fallout's character creation system is very intuitive, and one of the most well organized and balanced 
 ever seen in any PC RPG since. It uses a GURPS system (adopted from a board game) , in which a character 
 base stats are organized into Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, Agility 
 and Luck (SPECIAL) . Each of the stats have some bearing on the range of PC's interactions with 
 the environment. The possible builds are innumerable, but more impressive is that the game can 
 accommodate almost all of diverse playing styles adopted by the builds. 
  
  Be as diplomatic as you would want, or just opt for brute force with impunity, or any weird combination 
 in between, the game adapts to provide multiple solutions appropriate for almost any kind of PC. 
 Adding further to the depth of gameplay beyond the initial base stats are perks, which are sort 
 of innate ability emphasizing some sort of compromise (agility vs. strength, etc.) that stays constant 
 through the course of the game, and a set of skills that can be improved upon. What does this all 
 mean? Different gameplay experience every time with different builds of PC, discovering what new 
 experiences the game has to offer.
  
  The overall plot of the game, which is very important, is not significant compared to the sidequests 
 that make the world of Fallout come alive. They are varied enough to allow one to take advantage 
 of the PC's skills. And a unique twist to the plot is that the central quest is limited by a time 
 counter, building up tension and necessitating a need to become proficient with game's basic mechanics. 
 The plot makes few references to pop culture and renders the world of what would have been the 
 post-apocalyptic culture of possible 50's paranoid nuclear era with both dark brand of humour and 
 insightful and thought provoking themes.
  
  Combat is turn-based, based on the allotted action points, each action such as shooting and moving 
 costing certain amount of points in the PC's turn. The NPCs are controlled by computer and barring 
 some weird situations where they become immovable obstacles in narrow corridors and the like, are 
 rather useful. Not betraying its board game roots (?) , the game takes place on octagonal grid, and 
 the pace is controlled and strategizing is often rewarded, although some limited aspects of the 
 combat can be exploited. 
  
  Fallout is not perfect by any means, the interactions between NPCs leave a lot to be desired, as 
 are their intelligence and their pathological tendency to lending a new dimension to the term 'Friendy 
 Fire'. Some of the locales that PC visits during the game seem rather stereotypical, like a microcosm 
 of only one aspect of the diverse culture that would have teemed in the 50's rich American landscape. 
 Even after the limitations of graphics that lead to a bevy of one floor buildings, and some stability 
 issues, Fallout is one unique game that really took the PC RPG genre to a new level. Its setting 
 was refreshing, its gameplay elements well polished and balanced, and there is no doubt the 'fallout' 
 from the game has contributed greatly to the advancement of the genre overall.
  
  Unfortunately while Black Isle is not with us, here's hoping Bethesda will inherit the good qualities 
 of the game and make a similar type of leap in the genre with Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind_374
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I know that by todays standards people would rather be playing Neverwinter Nights or some "newer" 
 RPG game but Fallout does everything perfectly. The game is limitless trust me on that I've been 
 playing since release and I still havent found evey little dialogue/party member/quest. Sure the 
 graphics arent the greatest but if graphics are everything to you then you don't deserve to play 
 games. The real question is "What makes Fallout a great game?" Well probally it's replay value, 
 you can play the game for months, years and still not beat it because there is just too much to 
 do, hell you don't even have to do the main quest if you don't want to (well maybe you do have 
 to do the main quest due to the fact that if you don't it's game over but they give you forever 
 to do it anyway) . Other people will probally give up because the games too confusing at the beginning 
 it would probally take the average player about an hour or a half hour but it didnt take me long 
 to get used to. If you play Fallout for long enogh you will see what makes it one of the best RPGs 
 ever made. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
