-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fallout 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/fallout2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 5,142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Black Isle Studios
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The core elements of 1997's best role-playing game are intact and, in several ways, have been improved. 
 

 The original Fallout provided gamers with the opportunity to truly "role-play" a variety of highly 
 personalized characters in a stylish, postapocalyptic setting. Since Fallout was almost universally 
 heralded as 1997's best role-playing game, it's not surprising that developer Interplay Productions 
 decided to quickly follow up on the success of the original game with a sequel using a substantially 
 similar game engine. Fallout 2 improves the already impressive tactical-combat and character-development 
 systems of Fallout, allows gamers to explore a more expansive gaming world without imposed time 
 constraints, and accordingly, is in many ways an even better game than its predecessor. However, 
 the initial release of Fallout 2 is also afflicted by a number of bugs and other gameplay quirks, 
 which suggests that the game was released before it was thoroughly play-tested and debugged. But 
 even though Fallout 2 was released prematurely, it still delivers an outstanding role-playing experience. 

 Fallout 2, like the original game, combines real-time movement with tactical, turn-based combat. 
 The isometric perspective graphics engine is now capable of a couple of new tricks, such as depicting 
 "glowing" torches and similar items, but is otherwise almost identical to the one used by its predecessor. 
 While there are a couple of new tunes, the haunting and apt music is largely recycled from the 
 original game. Fallout 2 is essentially a "more of the same" sequel that adopts many aspects of 
 the original game with only minor tweaking, but the development team did make a number of notable 
 improvements to certain elements of the game's design. Many gamers thought that Fallout's gaming 
 world was too small, which allowed players to speed to the game's conclusion relatively quickly, 
 at least in role-playing game terms. In fact, you were somewhat forced to zip through Fallout's 
 world because the game's main objective had to be completed within a relatively restrictive time 
 period. Fallout 2 more than adequately addresses such concerns, as it features a significantly 
 larger gaming world that you are free to explore at your leisure, no longer encumbered by the requirement 
 to complete the game within a specified amount of playing time.   

 In Fallout 2 you assume the role of the Chosen One, a tribal ancestor of Fallout's vault dweller, 
 80 years after the events that transpired in the original game. Your character's people have carved 
 out a modest settlement in an isolated corner of the futuristic Californian wasteland, but they 
 realize that their attempts to eke out a meager existence are doomed to failure unless they find 
 a "Garden of Eden Creation Kit" to revitalize their village. While your character's main quest 
 is to retrieve a GECK, in the course of your search you'll encounter assorted communities of misfits 
 and monsters, ranging from opportunistic gangsters and elitists willing to exploit the less fortunate, 
 to radiated, war-time survivors, supermutants, and evolved critters. You're given plenty of opportunities 
 to interact with those communities in a variety of ways, and helping out one community or faction 
 may ultimately bring misfortune to others. Somewhat ironically for a sequel, Fallout 2 features 
 one of the most refreshingly original worlds seen in a role-playing game, and you can explore it 
 in an almost completely nonlinear fashion.   

 Perhaps even more so than its predecessor, Fallout 2 contains dozens of subtle and more often not-so-subtle 
 references to cult movies, television icons, and other aspects of popular culture. You'll likely 
 recognize characters and elements from varied sources such as professional boxing, Monty Python, 
 Martin Scorsese films, and Scientology, all incorporated into the sometimes strangely familiar 
 world of Fallout 2. With a brothel in nearly every town, a variety of sexual character traits and 
 perks, foul-mouthed companions, and the Dirty Harry-esque ability to graphically blow your enemies' 
 heads clean off, sex and violence clearly play prominent roles in Fallout 2's world. While inclusion 
 of the "adult-themed" content helps to give the game a gritty, modern feel that gamers can perhaps 
 relate to more than bashing a clan of goblins or orcs with a magic halberd (I think it's also safe 
 to say that Fallout 2's gaming world features more toilets than any computer game to date) , it 
 also occasionally presents a distinctly adolescent male perspective, which may offend or alienate 
 some gamers.   

 The character creation and development systems are almost identical to those in Fallout. Your character 
 has ten primary skills, up to two optional traits, which both benefit and penalize, and a large 
 variety of enhancing "perks" (several of which are new) that become available as your character 
 completes quests and gains experience levels. The skills are all straight from the original game, 
 but some of the more exotic skills such as "science" and "repair" are considerably more useful 
 than they were in Fallout. The Fallout games both allow you to create truly individualized characters, 
 which you can then role-play essentially as you see fit. In the Fallout games you can choose to 
 play a righteous avenger, a nonviolent scientist, a self-motivated bigot, an evil sociopath, a 
 jinxed moron, or some personalized variation of these character types, and you'll experience the 
 game quite differently depending upon your character's attributes and actions. While other role-playing 
 games boast of "dozens" of available player-character types, your experience with any of those 
 characters will often be almost identical to all of the others except you'll use different weapons 
 in combat. No game does a better job than Fallout 2 at actually giving you opportunities to act 
 in a distinctive manner representative of the role you choose to play with your character. A smooth-talking, 
 highly intelligent character may be able to persuade other characters to reveal their secrets, 
 while a dim-witted thug character may be unable to express anything other than basic intentions 
 and risks being manipulated and sold into slavery. Fallout 2 is the real deal when it comes to 
 role-playing, and its open-ended nature makes it far more replayable than the average game of the 
 genre.  

 The core of Fallout's acclaimed tactical combat system was migrated to the sequel with only a few, 
 notable changes. There are a number of new modern and futuristic weapons available, and budding 
 Jackie Chans will be pleased to learn that there is also a variety of new unarmed combat options. 
 In Fallout, you could ignore most of the weapons in the game by advancing almost immediately from 
 using rudimentary knives and spears to rocket launchers and turbo laser guns. Fallout 2, however, 
 requires you to rely upon weaker or moderately powered weapons during the early stages of the game 
 and appropriately limits access to the otherwise unbalancing BFGs and incinerators until later 
 in the game. Combat can be challenging at times, as even an experienced, well-equipped character 
 can be brought down by a single critical hit from a powerful weapon. It's quite humbling to have 
 your carefully crafted character's head explode as a result of a lucky Gauss rifle shot after you 
 underestimated an apparently not-so-helpless stormtrooper.  

 Like the original game, in Fallout 2 your character can be accompanied by a number of computer-controlled 
 nonplayer characters. Unlike in Fallout, nonplayer characters can now wear armor and gain proficiency 
 in skills as your character does, making them more consistently useful during the course of the 
 game. While in Fallout you were forced to use the "steal" command to trade items with your companions, 
 you can now trade with your party members using a new - you guessed it - "trade" interface option. 
 You can also get nonplayer characters to move out of your way, if need be, which was a somewhat 
 glaring omission from the original game. In combat, nonplayer characters are a little more cautious 
 with their gunplay to avoid splattering your character with automatic weapons fire, but they don't 
 seem to exhibit their newfound cautious nature when it comes to dealing with your other party members. 
 Dealing with a little "friendly fire" wouldn't be too bad, and perhaps could be expected given 
 the nature of some of the weaponry, if it weren't for the fact that your companions will quickly 
 turn on you, or each other, at the slightest provocation. You'd think that traveling for months 
 of gaming time together, sharing mountains of booty and incinerating dozens of enemies, would inspire 
 some loyalty in your companions, but accidentally slapping your power armor-wearing companion with 
 a misplaced left jab will inevitably result in the companion trying to get medieval on your butt. 
 Ingrates.  

 Also new is an interface to allow you to customize your companions' actions in combat. While the 
 available options will vary depending upon each companion's inherent personality, the interface 
 is intended to permit you to influence the way a companion reacts in certain situations. Unfortunately, 
 at least in the initial release of the game, the companions don't seem to always react in a manner 
 consistent with their settings and tend to occasionally run away in terror when commanded to fight 
 until they drop. The path-finding abilities of nonplayer characters could also use some work, as 
 they have a tendency to gleefully parade through visible mine fields or other hazardous areas. 
 A patch, currently in beta form, intends to address, among other things, the bizarre reactions 
 of nonplayer characters in certain circumstances. Unfortunately the patch is required for a variety 
 of other purposes as well. Like the original game, Fallout 2 features a number of scripting errors 
 and other quirks that can prevent your character from completing, or getting credit for completing, 
 certain quests. There are bugs that result in the game taking minutes instead of seconds to load 
 or save; a bug that limits the availability of your character's spiffy new car (which is almost 
 a necessity, given the greater traveling distances in this game compared with its predecessor) ; 
 a bug that causes the game to fail to recognize a "very enhanced" electronic lock-pick as an "enhanced" 
 electronic lock-pick; and bugs that freeze up the game when your character takes otherwise intuitive 
 actions, like asking a quest giver to further describe the nature of the quest. In other words, 
 there are big bugs, small bugs, mildly hair-pulling ones, and game-stopping disruptive ones. Plenty 
 for everybody.  

 Black Isle has already issued a couple of versions of a beta patch that purports to fix most of 
 these problems, but the patch invalidates previously saved games. Fortunately, most of the game's 
 bugs are minor, and even in its originally released state, the game can be played to completion. 
 Still, it's disappointing that the game wasn't thoroughly debugged prior to release, and gamers 
 not content to overlook the game's bugs and quirks may find the game an occasionally frustrating 
 experience. But even in its current state, there are numerous little design details that collectively 
 raise Fallout 2 above its competitors, such as the detailed conversations nonplayer characters 
 occasionally have between themselves, the "special" encounters, the comic-relief ghouls who appear 
 in a variety of situations, and some absolutely inspired quest objectives and solutions. It's pretty 
 hard not to have fondness for a game that gives you experience points for activities as diverse 
 as playing chess against a mutated scorpion, suffocating a mob boss, fixing a two-headed cow's 
 leg, and slicing a Tom Cruise doppelganger in half with your trusty laser rifle. The core elements 
 of 1997's best role-playing game are intact and, in several ways, have been improved. Highly recommended. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (109 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BiH_Gangster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The game is so big that I don`t know where to start.... Black Isle really made a game for the history. 
 On the beginning I suggest that you install the newest patches and the "high resolution patch (Google) ", 
 which is really helpful, because the game resolution is (orginally) 640x480, the charatcers are 
 low-poly, and they are blured....
  The story is perfect, the gameplay also (somebody will think that is boring to play turn based 
 gamplay, but its even better than the orginaly games, hint: Kotor) , the sound, the atmosphere, 
 almost everything is perfect....
  So lets start, the storyline is happening after a nuclear war, and the main character (the guy 
 that are we leading, called Chosen One) is chosed to save his village and the rest of the planet... 
 He need to find an special artefact which will bring the water into the dry lands. 
  So, we are from beginning playing as a hero... The gameplay is isometric and turn-based, but its 
 addictive too...
  The sound is very good, and the atmosphere too...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag_04
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  Whether you preffer or not the story of first part, this second part has many improvements that 
 make it a perfect game. 
  
  As many reviews says, Fallout 2 is Fallout 1 with improvements. Well, not exactly. The gameplay 
 is exactly the same, abilities and other stuff, but there are more feats. 
  
  The story is different, you are a descendent of the hero who saved the Vault 13 (and other towns) 
 from the "Master" in Fallout 1. As usual you begin with the task of being chosen for retrieving 
 the "G. E. C. K." to your village to save it. You start travelling all over California (or whatever 
 it is) and discover new towns / locations, do side-quests, help people (for good or for bad) , or 
 just kill everything you see (not a wise choice but you can do it) . The moment you retrieve the 
 G. E. C. K., the plot twists, as usual, and you get to investigate a secret organization called "the 
 Enclave".
  
  So... ok..? Why did you just give a "10" score to this 2D isometric game?
  
  Reasons:
  1-Great sequel of Fallout. A great game and this keeps the gameplay intact.
  
 2-"Do whatever you want". In Fallout 2 you can do whatever you want. You may kill quest givers 
 if you want. There are several ways of completing quests. You can allign with different factions 
 who will give you different missions (I remember the city of the "drugs") . It is important to give 
 your character a high intelligence and charisma as it will let you complete most quests in the 
 game.
  3-Atmosphere: Post-nuclear, sordid, dark. Lovely!
  4-Improvements from Fallout 1: Many many locations with lots of characters and factions to interact 
 (the game does feel a little more lively than Fallout 1) . This has more weapons, more feats and 
 more types of ammo. You can have more companions depending on your Charisma (10 charisma lets you 
 have up to 5 companions) . The IA of your companions is higher and you can manage their equipment, 
 the only problem is that they have a limit of capacity (in Fallout 1 you give all your trash to 
 Ian) . Each companion has a unique ability (medic, scientist, etc.) and will help you if your level 
 of that ability is not enough to success the roll. They have different personalities and some are 
 hilarious to hear.
  
  After you finish Fallout 2 you will want to play again to create a different character and complete 
 quests in other manner or allign with the factions you exterminated or neglected in your first 
 playthrough.
  
  You will often wander why RPGs nowadays are not like Fallout / Fallout 2. The magic of any RPG 
 is that you have freedom to make your own choices. Nowadays you have barely choices. It is obvious 
 that in Fallout there are "better" choices and "bad" choices, but you have them and make you doubt 
 in what to do. Very little things on Fallout are mandatory.
  
  Enough. For any RPG fan just play this game for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontenten
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  the begin of the best game ever :) Fallout 4 ever , it will never be a game like fallout again 
 : ( fallout is the legend of PC :) i don't know what to say more about the BEST GAME EVER :) i can't 
 wait fallout 4 :D fallout 4 ever 
  fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever v fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
 fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 
 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever fallout 4 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  ok... so we got this game in preparation for fallout 3. wanted some kind of frame of reference 
 going into its sequel. 
  
  we've heard about this game for a long long long while. noticed it browsing from time to time, 
 but we've always sort of wrote it off as an old game. come on, how were we suppose to know? especially 
 with newer games coming out all the time, it was difficult to justify spending time on an antique.
 
  
  didn't have very high expectations, figured after a solid decade after fallout 2 the radoactive 
 dust had probably settled and had its half life already expire... not ashamed to say it, we were 
 wrong. within the first hour we were hooked, instant fan.
  
  this game has held up well. graphics are a little on the dated side, but it hardly matters. after 
 a few hours entrenched in the wasteland one grows very easily accustomed to it. music is alright... 
 there isn't much of it. it's mostly text based, there's a bit of voice acting here and there, it 
 was better than we expected. michael dorn even, not too shabby.
  
  hard to describe this game. it's turn based combat, never really our favorite, but this game provokes 
 us to change our mind. all top down like diablo. free roaming like an elder scrolls. it's a quaint 
 little post-apocalyptic oregon trail that's more violent and immersive.
  
  yeah... glad we found this game before fallout 3's launch. now we can pretend we're old school 
 with this little classic fresh in our mind. can't imagine having to wait ten years for a sequel, 
 but it's a no brainer why one would feel it'd be worth the wait. looking forward to see what the 
 future holds for the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  A good sequel with some nice upgrades (but not many) . Most people I notice prefer this Fallout 
 over the first one but I disagree, even though this is still a remarkable game with a bit more 
 content I believe that the story of the first one was better and the towns more genuine.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.8
  Unchanged from the first one which is just fine with me since they are remarkable 
 for the time. They make very good use of the 2D graphics and the talking heads are very nice looking. 
 But again, I wish there were a few more death animations.
  
  CONTROLS: 9.5
  Also unchanged (at least not in a very noticable way) from the first one. But it didn't really 
 need a change either. A good improvement is the faster transfer of money but it is still annoying 
 since you cannot simply type in how much you want to trade.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.5
  Very fun with a lot of great side quests and even more to explore and again you will want to play 
 over and over again. But I dislike aliens, and feel that some of the towns were not as original 
 or realistic as they were in the first one.
  
  SOUNDS: 9.7
  Just as nice to listen to the second time around and the sounds never seem to get to old or annoying. 
 All of the sounds in the game go together very nicely and compliment each other.
  
  STORY: 8.5 ***spoiler warning***
  This I feel is the only real downfall of the game compared 
 to the second one. Although still interesting and decent you don't get the same sense of urgency 
 to retrieve the GECK for your village as you did looking for the waterchip. And finding out how 
 to get the ship going to go to the Enclave main base tends to be a bit more annoying then I like.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: N/A
  
  FINAL: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: - *
  Sounds: 5
  Gampeplay: 10
  Multiplayer: -
  Storyline: 10
  Impression: 10
  
  Score: 8.5 (8.7 real) 
  *The graphical score wasn't included because the 
 game is very old (10 years) and would get a 1 score. You can't compare a game 10 years old with 
 a game (s) from these days. But if it was based on the 90's it would get a 9.
  
  Negative views of our future are prevalent in movies and games. From Blade Runner to Syndicate, 
 large mega corporations are viewed as being the world leaders and people become less human in the 
 process, with both androids and cyborgs running freely. Interplay's Fallout games differ slightly, 
 and as the title suggests, are modeled after a post-apocalyptic future: an end of the world of 
 sorts following World War 3.
  
  Several 'vaults' had been set up in anticipation of nuclear fallout and a number of the population 
 took refuge in these underground bunkers during the war, and emerged unscathed. Of course, the 
 world they returned to was filled with radioactive waste, mutants, aliens, and other hostiles. 
 Governments have essentially been wiped away and the last so-called vestiges of humanity have turned 
 into groups of desperate raiders with nothing but self-preservation on the mind.
  
  Fallout 2 lets you assume the role of the child of The Vault Dweller (the hero from the first game) 
 in a quest that begins with your recovery of the Garden of Eden Creation Kit (G. E. C. K.) for the 
 tribe you grew up with. This quickly turns into a deadlier prospect than originally thought and 
 the game's story veers off sharply upon obtaining the device.
  
  An older-style RPG to the core, Fallout 2 (like its predecessor) combines a great deal of freedom 
 with enough focus so you aren't wandering the wasteland without a purpose. Character classes are 
 nonexistent, and you instead pick from a list of traits, perks, and skills to fashion your character 
 into the killing machine or sweet-talking person that you want them to be. The game dubs it the 
 SPECIAL system, an acronym formed by the main character traits - strength, perception, endurance, 
 charisma, intelligence, agility, and luck. Skills range from bartering and speech to small guns 
 and hand-to-hand combat, and you get additional points to distribute to these skills each level. 
 Every third level, however, you are awarded 'perks,' which are permanent enhancements to some part 
 of your character and they're available depending on your base stats. Some let you keep an extra 
 party member while others are more subtle, offering better critical hits or giving you an extra 
 action point to use in battle.
  
  Combat is entirely turn-based and is handled by assigning you a number of action points (AP) for 
 each round. Movement is handled on a hexagonal grid and your accuracy decreases with distance or 
 low light, so while you may be able to rip the ribcage out of a squatter (or his eyes, using the 
 game's optional targeting system) from two screens away at noon, the same shot at night will have 
 a much lower success rate. You can have party members, but cannot control them directly - as a 
 way to enhance the RPG feel, you can give suggestions and equip your party as you see fit, but 
 as soon as the guns come out they'll attack of their own accord. At times that isn't a good thing, 
 especially if they're using a weapon capable of burst fire and you or another party member happens 
 to be standing between them and their targeted enemy.
  
  The game's graphics are 2D and viewed from a standard 3/4 perspective. They're clean and have held 
 up reasonably well over the years, especially the various death animations which are - to say the 
 least - a bit graphic. Voice acting is equally solid, offering a number of actors that later voiced 
 characters in Eternal Darkness and Metal Gear Solid 2. But music is likely the game's greatest 
 fault: it is quite sparse, unfortunately, and is limited to a low wind noise plus the occasional 
 tribal drums beating. But despite that one aspect, the presentation and feel of the game is excellent.
 
  
  You'd also have a hard time finding a game that combines the same level of humour with more serious 
 topics - Fallout 2 plays through like the blackest of Monty Python sketches, with the classic Cartoon 
 Fallout Guy illustrating each perk and skill in the game and hilarious (not to mention occasionally 
 obscene) combat taunts that the various characters utter. Fallout 2 unashamedly kicks over the 
 barrier when it comes to violence, language, drugs, and sex in games, but not because it's trying 
 to offend people; the subject matter genuinely fits with the world. As you pass through the Cat's 
 Paw brothel or pump some Jet-addicts (Jet is the inhaled drug of choice in the Fallout universe) 
 full of bullets and watch them collapse in a heap, you probably won't even give it a second thought.
 
  
  With a unique world, a great deal of freedom, and one of the most satisfying character creation 
 and battle systems available, you'd be hard pressed to find a better RPG than Fallout 2. The fact 
 that it can be found for around $3-5 paired with the original and will run on every computer younger 
 than seven years makes it one of those must-buy games that no one's library should be without.
 
  
  The Good:
  -one of the best RPG games I've seen in the history of gaming
  -freedom
  -almost everything a RPG has to have
  
  The Bad:
  -the sounds
  -the combat is turn-based
 
  -no multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwrong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is the Improved sequel to one of the best games of the 90s. It is also one of my favorite 
 games of the last 10 years and adds more improvements from the original fallout. You can take many 
 paths in the game with different outcomes so every game is unique which makes the replay value 
 very good. There are tons of weapons, armor and assorted stuff you can find throughout the game 
 also. The npc interaction is also unique with many directions so you can be good or bad or a mix. 
 It also has some of the best music of any games i have played in the past 10 years. Any RPG fan 
 is missing out if they do not at least try it. I still install it every time i get a new PC. It 
 may not have the graphics of the games we play now but it's still a classic. Not many games get 
 everything right but in it's time fallout 2 came as close as you can get to a perfect RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottiescott238
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I have spent a long time trying to figure out how the layout of this review should go, but i cant 
 decide so i'l keep it simple
  
  The good
  
  Great customisation - Loads of differant armour and weapons to choose from.
  
  Great character 
 building- The perk system is really good, you build you character in the way that you would like 
 him to be.
  
  The combat system is brilliant- turned based and tactical, one of the best in an rpg i have seen.
 
  
  
  Loads to do- a whole load of side quests and secrets to find.
  
  Take the game at your own pace- if you are skilled (or lucky) enough you can take the game at your 
 own pace.
  
  The bad
  
  The story is a bit week- you get sent off to get The garden of eden creation kit to save your village. 
 apart from that there is no real story.
  
  Some random encounters are extremely unbalanced- running in to the enclave early in the game always 
 results in death
  
  Closing comments
  
  You can pick this game up on the Sold out range for 4.99 which is great value for money.
  
 
  This game offers great freedom like no other game,
  Lets just hope fallout 3 will be half as good as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69WoG_BoY69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  to start off fallout 2 is a lot like its predescesor "fallout" with some minor tweaks and a newer 
 bigger area to explore
  
  when a game says it has freedom to do whatever you want it usually means you can run around where 
 you want but your always going towards one objective F2 on the other hand is the definition of 
 freedom you dont have to go here and do that so you can go there you can go there if you know where 
 it is and just play the game. you dont have to find the G. E. C. K you can let your tribe die and just 
 go and fight the enclave you can go strait to the mutant hideout and attack and the game is over. you 
 get where im coming from
  
  first time around charachter creation seems stupid, you dont have enough skills from the start but 
 after you play a bit and you try the game again coz you walked in on the wrong guy adn he shot 
 you, you realise that it will take a while to mold the perfect charachter depending on your play 
 style. you can have a sneaky thief who can go through the whole game without firing a bullet eg. 
 you can sneak around enemies and put live grenades or explosives in there pockets and rip off merchants 
 by stealing theyre money and buying stuff off them then repeating the process. you can play a charismatic 
 lady killer with the "sex appeal"and "kama-sutra" trait and you can talk your way out of almost 
 all situations. what im trying to say is that you can be whoever the heck you want to be
  
  combat is turn based and may seem as a simple advance wars style of real time strategy but when 
 you get into the nitty-gritty of things every action point counts and making that right move to 
 get thtat right shot in may not seem like much at the start of the game but later on it is a crucial 
 thing to have that little extra AP
  
  your "karma" is your basic allignment type thing but its not as if you do one bad thing on one 
 side of the world and the other side knows and they hate you too. "karma" is based on groups or 
 town you can be hated in one town adn loved in the next so if you like this town you can be good 
 there but you think this town disgusts you, you can just go kill some dogs and children and people 
 will hate your guts
  
  all in all fallout 2 is a great game and i reccomend it to anyone looking for an enjoyable RPG 
 that they can play over and over again
  
  Gameplay:9/10 solid gameplay and conversation choices really suck you into the game
  
  Graphics:8/10 
 not the best graphics for 1998 but you try having fully 3d in a game this big
  
  Lifespan:10/10 you will keep coming back for more and wont stop untill you find everything in the 
 game
  
  Peace Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_Milamber
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  It's been ten long years since the release of Fallout 2, and yet my most recent play through was 
 less than six months ago, having acquired the game not long after it's initial release. Anyone 
 unfamiliar with the series might think I was crazy - but a surprising amount of people would tell 
 a similar story. So what is it about this game that gives it a replay value through the roof?
 
  
  To start with, Fallout is unique. Not necessarily in the setting itself, that's been done before, 
 but the amount of sheer freedom the game allows you. Want to blow away every idiot who crosses 
 your path with a Plasma Rifle? Go ahead. Prefer the path of a diplomat, who has others to fight 
 their battles? Feel free. Want to smash that annoying kid in the balls with a sledgehammer for 
 stealing your stimpacks for the tenth time? Yep, you can do that too.
  
  Unlike pretty much every single modern RPG, Fallout allows you to go anywhere and do ANYTHING. 
 Remember those annoying people in Oblivion who were immortal? None of that crap in Fallout. If 
 the Arroyo Elder pisses you off too much, kill her! Of course, that means your quest is doomed 
 to failure, as the village is pretty much screwed... but you can do it.
  
  There's also no real "Good" and "Evil" paths to take - at least, not that's as clear cut as most 
 games. Depending on the actions you perform, and in what location you're in, you'll get either 
 positive or negative karma, and if you're in a town, your town reputation might go up or down. 
 Thing is, each town has it's own ideas about you, so you might be idolised in one town, and vilified 
 in the next. Besides which, some of the best ways to get good karma and a good reputation involve 
 shady acts like assassinations - try killing the heads of the four crime families in New Reno and 
 see what happens to your karma and town rep.
  
  And then there's the sheer choice of weapons and armour. Small Guns includes everything from your 
 trusty 12-gauge shotgun, right up to the  M72 Gauss Rifle. Big 
 Guns includes everything from your standard M60, to rocket launchers, flame throwers, chain guns, 
 and my personal favourite, the Bozar (critical hit for 22,367 damage... ahh, good times) . Then you 
 have Energy Weapons - the Plasma Rifle, which turns enemies into a small puddle of goo, laser rifles, 
 and the ever popular Pulse Rifle. But you're hardly limited to guns - melee weapons include everything 
 from spears and sledgehammers to the Super Sledge and chain-knives. Then you have grenades, throwing 
 knives, knuckle dusters, Power Fists, the list goes on. No matter your playing style, there's going 
 to be something in the mix that will suit.
  
  The story in Fallout 2 is incredible. There's simply no other word for it. What starts out as a 
 simple quest to save your village turns into something so much more. The level of detail that Black 
 Isle managed to cram into this game is quite simply astonishing, with a single play through completely 
 impossible to get the whole story. Side quests included, 60 hours plus would not be an unreasonable 
 expectation for a first play through, and I doubt you'll do much more than scratch the surface 
 of the true potential of this title. Plus, many quests are different depending on gender - none 
 of that boring equality stuff here. If you want to sleep with Bishop's daughter to get access to 
 his private rooms, you've got to be male. Bishop's wife seems a little less picky, however...
 
  
  And, of course, there's the unique encounters - The Cafe of Broken Dreams, the Bridge of Death, 
 Mad Brahmin, Guardian of Forever... you'll find references to Star Trek, Monty Python, Hitchhiker's 
 Guide to the Galaxy, and if you happen to find the Guardian of Forever... well, that would be telling, 
 wouldn't it?
  
  In summary, Fallout 2 is the RPG of choice for players who really do want absolute freedom about 
 how they play their games (I wasn't kidding about the sledgehammer, either...) . It's a must play 
 for gamers of any calibre, especially fans of RPG's.
  
  War. War never changes.
  
  - JM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joaovpo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was released back in 1997, but it is still a great game.
  This game is a truly RPG, you can do whatever you want, yes you can smash a child in the groin 
 with a sledge hammer.
  
  You start off creating your character, every thing you change, will have effects, for instance, 
 you put 4 or less intelligence points (Max is 10) your character will be dumb and won't be able 
 to talk.
  You put 1 point in luck, you will have more critical misses and go on.
  
  The story of the game is that a third world war happened, and the govern made hidden underground 
 vaults throught the world, where they hide people in there, then a nuclear bomb exploded and the 
 world gone into ruin, in Fallout 1 you start in a vault, whereas in Fallout 2, in a tribe.
  This game is very nice since for each quests there are multiple ways of completing it, for instance, 
 if you don't have the intelligence for hacking a computer you could solve it in other way by talking 
 to people.
  This a nice dark game, where there is alot of violence, sex, bad words, drugs, corruption, and 
 it's your job to save the world - whether making alot of sex and gambling, or being a goody goody 
 person. The game is very immersive, you can complete the main game very quickly, but if you explore, 
 and do all quests the game is very great.
  You should definetly try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chakawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Growing up I really did not get into computers. Hell I didn't know what one was till I was around 
 11. But anyways I didn't get into any PC games until my buddies kept talking about this game called 
 "Diablo" and "Starcraft". So that is when I started to get into the world of PC video games. Now 
 it was not like I didn't know what a video game was because my first gift I opened on Christmas 
 was a NES and not getting to play it till 3 would have kinda got to me now if i picked up a system 
 and couldn't play it until 2 years. But anyways enough about that. After I took those 2 games an 
 wore them out I switched to Diablo 2 and then quit the PC video gaming world due to high end graphics 
 and I wasn't really into doing upgrades to my moms computer for gaming. But at this years E3 seeing 
 Fallout 3 footage it made me wanna check the games out. Anyways not able to find Fallout , I was 
 lucky to come across a Fallout 2. So I installed and started to play. And to be honest I cannot 
 stop. Even though this is 2008 and graphics are come to amaze many Fallout 2 to me is just as good 
 as sitting down with a kick butt video game for the PS3 or 360. For the Time of Fallout 2 the graphics 
 are amazing. Story line is so in depth sometimes you believe you are in the world of Fallout while 
 playing , until your called for supper. Although I wished the game was about 10 hours longer ( 
 or so ) this game is on my "Games To Cherish" List! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_311
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 provides almost everything I want in an RPG. First and foremost, it has many different 
 skills to master, and allows for well-rounded characters as well as narrow focused characters. 
 There is also a lot of quests to do in this game, which makes Fallout 2 last forever. On top of 
 all the quests to do, you can occupy your time simply by exploring and killing things. In addition 
 to the length of the game, it has excellent replay value, meaning this game can be played almost 
 indefinitely. The turn based style combat system is very well made. It is just simple enough for 
 a first time player to understand, but complex enough for an experienced player to come up with 
 intricate complex strategies. The setting of the entire Fallout series (which S. T. A. L. K. E. R. kinda 
 stole!) is very creative, engaging, and unique. Fallout 2 provides an unique gaming experience that 
 is hard to find anywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12345yon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  We all know Fallout, that classic game that make us have one of the most original stories that 
 a game could have, now it has it sequel. I can start saying that this game takes 80 years after 
 the 1st Fallout, you are the "chosen one", the one who needs to find the G. E. C. K. "garden of eden 
 creation kit" to save your village of its doom.
  
  
  
  
 Basically, it has the same mechanics as the 1st one, i can say its the same, but with a little 
 improvements on it, it seems that they just "copy paste" this, im not saying its bad, instead, 
 im saying it was one of the best things, because changing all this would have made a fan yell "WTF?!!?!!?"
 
  
  
  The 
 graphics, we are talking about a game that was made in 1998, so the graphics are not surprising, 
 dont expect to find a "Crysis" here, instead, you will find a game that has nice, but not the best, 
 graphics, and gore, a lot of gore.
  
  
  
 
  it doesnt have sound, no, just FX...... dont expect masterpieces here
  
  
  
  
  As 
 i say before, it isnt as challenging as the original, you dont have a timer limit here, you can 
 get the power armor at the begginning of the game, with a laser, and a combat shotgun..... this 
 will ruin the complete gae, making it easy (i did that.... got bored, everything was easy)
  
  
  
  One 
 of the best game, im not a RPG lover, i hate them, just level up, spend skills, repeat this until 
 level 100...., but this game dont have that formula, this game has crude humor, a lot of gore, 
 and what a RPG fan wants, a good game.
  
  -12345yon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazeDonut
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is a fun RPG set in a post apocalyptic world were the world blown to ashes as the world 
 had become far too populated causing a resource/nuclear war to happen. You play as the Choosne 
 One a descendant of the original Fallout hero who was only known as the vault dweller. However 
 I have'nt had the pleasure of playing the first Fallout.... but hey at least Fallout 3 is coming 
 out.
  
  Gameplay: Well your gonna start the game of by creating your character with several attributes 
 as well as picking your speciallty in several skills as well as some pick traits such as my personal 
 favorite Bloody Mess where everyone dies in the goriest way possible. From there your gonna have 
 a sort of slow start but once you play for an hour and give the game a chance your gonna have some 
 fun with the game. The combat system is a big selling point of this game as you'll have a certain 
 number of AP (Action Points to position yourself and select certain body parts to attack on an 
 enemy... and it really affects how the enemy fights, shoot them in the eyes and they grow blind 
 and less accurate, shoot an robots mounted guns and it may not attack as frequently. The combat 
 system causes for some strategic thinking and planning also some of the deaths are very cool and 
 satisfying to watch (but slightly disturbing) and very between different weapons. Such as if you 
 have a pulse rifle and kill an enemy they will turn into a skeleton and then too ashes. However 
 this is an RPG so the story is what really matters as I explained on my summary you are The Choosen 
 sent by your villiage to find an artifact known as the G. E. C. K. sounds simple uhhh unfortunatley 
 after a turn of events you are forced to save your villiage, and the world from utter destruction 
 form the corrupted remnants of the U. S. goverment. Also if you pay close attentiton to detail the 
 ending will shock you. Lastly I wanna talk about the conversation and interaction system which 
 is a simple text conversation with a few voice acting segments every now and then but it is surpisingly 
 engaging and your interactions with the NPC's is very engaging as you could be a total **** and 
 force them into giving you information or maybe sleep with a mobster's wife and daughter to get 
 informtaion about the him and an oppurtunity to assasinate him. Or you could do a couple of assasination 
 jobs for somebody then tell the police about them while leaving yourself out of the picture. Fallout's 
 gameplay does not let down unless you don't slight slow paced games.
  
  Graphics: Well there isn't much to say on graphics except that the death animations are extremely 
 entertaining and well this game looks like Diablo graphics wise.
  
  Sound: While more voice acting would have been nice the sounds of the guns are pretty good.
  
 
  In a Nutshell: this is an awesome RPG that will be remebered for a long time.... I can't wait for 
 Fallout 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukeRider
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Although it's just a game, I'd recommend this one be strictly for mature audiences. That doesn't 
 mean you have to be an old man to play it, just be advised violence, drug use and slavery play 
 a major role in the plot, not to mention sex and gambling. That said, this game is really quite 
 entertaining. Unlike some games relying on massive amounts of action, this game relies on and builds 
 other gaming skills. Skills like saving, planning, tactics and making the right choices. I would 
 laugh in the face of anyone telling me they played a perfect game of Fallout 2 their first time 
 through. It's a game that's gonna take some effort. Otherwise, the story moves along at a good 
 pace and is quite immersive. The only thing from keeping the game moving along too fast are the 
 combats, which I prefer to limit to around six per sitting. If you like cheesy 60/70's sci fi, 
 horror and post apocalyptic themes like Mad Max, this is definitely the game for you. When the 
 chips are down what will you do to survive? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucianu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  the first time i played fallout2, i did play befoure Diablo2, so i didnt play good solid rpg's.... until 
 then. wen i first played fallout2, i saw a very very detailed post nuclear world, whit decent graphics (ofc 
 baldur's gate 2 looks way beter :P)
  good controls, and an incredible gameplay, god... i think i played this game about 7 or 8 times, 
 its my number 1 rpg, and my number 2 is baldur's gate2, anyway the graphics r not very good but 
 that does not matter at all, the sound is perfect, the turn based gameplay is perfect in every 
 way, even if sometimes it does get a litle slow, its ok ;) , and the NPC's in the game r actualy 
 alive, they do a LOT of stuff in the game, and the dialogue options whit them is amaizing, and 
 the things u can do in this game..... woow! actualy a lot more then u can do in BG2... fallout2 
 is not a liniar game, u can do anything u want, if u want to finish the misions or if u want to 
 go exploring... there's nothing that u cannot do! great game! if u like rpg's, then this game is 
 for u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraeg
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the greatest games ever. It's a claim which is made often, thus one 
 that needs justification. 
  
  Firstly, Fallout 2 in relation to it's predecessor. Fallout was undeniably an amazing game, but 
 I always felt it lacked something that Fallout 2 has. I think that , while Fallout has a more mature 
 sense of humour, it lacks the details; the tiny things that set it apart and make it unique. The 
 enormous array of tiny, seemingly inconsequential events - and my having control over every detail 
 - made the character feel not only human, but like a reflection of myself, whereas the character 
 in Fallout seemed like more of a puppet.
  
  Fallout 2 is a huge game, one which, having played on and off for 4 years I felt that I knew perfectly, 
 yet recently I found an area in 
  
  There are two major criticisms of the game. The first is superficial, the graphics are bad. At 
 the time its graphics were out-of-date, now they sem positively archaic. However, the visuals have 
 become charming with age and show how simplicity can work to a games benefit. The second is the 
 style of the games humour. It has a fairly childish comedy at times and the occasional change from 
 adult jokes and social commentary to toilet humour can be jarring.
  
  Everything else in the game is just about perfect. It offers enough depth for at least 20 hours 
 play but 40 is not out of the question, the speech is believable and the sound effects are sufficient 
 enough to be engaging. To add to this, if you can find it it's dirt cheap. It is an essential buy 
 for anyone who loves (or even vaguely likes) RPGs. My only fret is that I am preaching to the converted, 
 as anyone who would want to buy almost certainly already has it by now, 10 years after it's release 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nenn88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Fallout 2 has to be my alltime favourite game's ever made.
  
  Fallout 2 is unique, in its own way. The story of the game is great as was the prequel's. 
  You 
 need to get the "holy" geck to your tribe or you'r tribe will die.
  Just like on Fallout 1 , you have an massive freedom in this game, You can be nice, or mean. You 
 can help people, or you can just waste them!
  You can... well be an gigolo, or an porn star, if thats what you choose!
  Or an boxer, Part of 
 an mafia family, or citizen of an strick vault city!
  
  The voice acting in this game is brilliant, and the graphics are good. I liked em.
  This game 
 is just the best game out there, for now!
  
  I really recomend getting this game. You wont regret it!
  
  All though, im not quite sure if 
 "advertizing" is allowed here, but I recomend getting the "fallout 2 restoration project 1.1" . 
 Its a "expansion pack" for the fallout, and it adds alot of stuff for the game. It also repairs 
 the game, since it tends to crash in some places.
  
  All in all, get the game already! You will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NameIsMilo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  To those new to the series, this game can be a bit confusing, but take the chance to sit down and 
 it will be worth your while. Fallout 2 features more laughs than the first with more Easter Eggs 
 and lots of Fallout 1 references. 
  Plenty of weapons and weapon types to please those of any interest, and some of the criticals (sledge 
 hammers especially) will make you laugh as well. While the story doesn't aim too serious at you 
 as the first game, it's still a story that adds a bit of urgency to the player.
  Replay value is incredible as after you beat the game, you can continue on and find those random 
 encounters that you may have missed.
  Mob families, drugs, alcohol, bad words, and thieving children are only the small parts to be noted. 
 To really feel the feelings most fans have had, you need only to try it for yourself. I still find 
 myself coming back to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Like RPGS but hate the Middle Earth settings and inspirations? Give this game a quick try and you'll 
 convert to this series. Fallou 2 is an RPG. An isomtric oe, much like Diablo. But unlike Diablo, 
 this game doesn't take itself too seriously. The post apocolyptic world setting could't be more 
 perfect. The atmosphere is great and it's just a pleasure to behold. The story roughly follows 
 on 80 years after the events that transpired from the first title. You're a decendant from the 
 Vault Dweller, now named the Chosen One. Your task is to find the GECK (Garden Eden Cration Kit) 
 which can stop the famine of your village. It's not so much a good guy takes on the bad guy to 
 save the entire world, merely your own village. And I like that premise. It makes it far more involving 
 and much more believable. The 50s art style clash works wonders here and gives the game its subtle 
 sense of humor. I have to point out that the graphics and animation look dated. But to me it just 
 adds to the charm of the game. The FMVs of main NPCs are eeriely creepy and memorable thanks to 
 the choppy and intimidating animation. The music, voice acting and sound effects have not aged 
 at all because of the high quality. The game is accessible and those who aren't even used to playing 
 PC RPGs (such as myself) and get the control down after 15 minutes of play. The game is fantastically 
 huge, much like all Western RPGs and you'll be playing this game for a while. I seriously recommend 
 it to anyone even remotely interested in PC RPGs or the new Fallout 3 game coming soon. You can 
 see what the fuss is all about before the Fallout name became lost in the midst of RTS and bizarre 
 genre swaps. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sketchman1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Its atmosphere is just INCOMPREHENSIBLE, UNFORGETTABLE, INIMITABLE, UNBEATABLE, UNSURPASSED and 
 UN.. i ran out of clever words. Something i cant explain, it has some magnetism or what but i cant 
 live my life without replaying it at least 3 times a year. And i am very sad about this situation 
 that Bethesda is doing the 3rd part, of course they have skills, big budget etc. but it is IMPOSSIBLE 
 for them to repeat the atmosphere of this GREATEST GAME EVER. There are some small mistakes, but 
 the are nothing comparing to how Interplay managed to make such an awesome style: the music, the 
 graphics, the story, they just perfectly match and make this unexplainable feeling of participation 
 in this INDISPENSABLE CLASSIC! If you havent tried it yet, you must do it, just to remember those 
 times when games were made with spirit, and the destiny was not about budget, but about a place 
 in your head (or heart) where they can stay forever. Remember... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lead_healer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  A vast and expansive post-apocalyptic adventure. Customize your character based on how YOU play. 
 Do you like to shoot your way through an RPG? Perhaps you'd rather talk your way through. Maybe 
 you're stealthy and rogue-like and prefer subterfuge. Possibly you're a nerdy science buff. Make 
 your character the way YOU want to. You do not have to be combat proficient to complete this game. 
 Multiple, multiple, multiple endings. Huge dialogs trees with many options. (More or less based 
 based on your skill levels) . The world reacts to you. Your reputation will grow or shrink based 
 on your actions. Actually have meaning full dialogs with NPCs. This is the best single player RPG 
 series ever made. 
  
  Fallout 2 improves upon what made Fallout 1 great. More perks, continued storyline, improved combat, 
 upgradeable weaponry, more easily manageable teammates, and a vehicle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Basicly i like both Fallout and the Fallout Tactics :D
  But the Fallout 2 was the best, 
  cause it had more choices to do and 
  ofc it fix some wrongs that the first game had ... 
  
 
  It let you to change the equip of your allies :D
  much usefull believe me cause in the first your allies
  were stupid and easy to die especially 
 from mutants haha :D
  
  The game from my opinion is one of the best 
  Post Apocalyptic games i ever play, and a true 
  Hardcore RPG :D
  
  When i hear about that 
 Fallout 3 dont come out 
  i got shocked :S 
  But that shock pass, cause i learn that finally will come 
  out AGAIN yes !! and a renown actor 
 will do the voice of 
  your father ... yeah :D
  
  We will wait like maniacs for it :D
  
  Joker out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  The Fallout series made the Cold War look like it worked a lot more peaceful than it could... Nuclear 
 wars, a constant fear for humanity that Fallout used as base to make its holocaust scenario more 
 dramatic. And then again players faced a quest similar to an odyssey to save their people, a tribe 
 suffering from radiation effects, hunger and diseases. The nicest of all Fallout 2 is that when 
 the game is supposedly finished, you begin to really enjoying it all, because the game's ending 
 is where the post-game's start, and you can do the rest of the side-quests or simply destroy all 
 else...
  
  We who like Fallout series hope for the brief coming of a sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matias1_G
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow, how does one even begin to review the absolute vastness of the Fallout universe. Starting 
 with the basics seems like the only reasonable approach. First I must note that the game is turn-based, 
 yes, but please don't let this discourage you from playing it, no matter how boring it may (or 
 hopefully not) sound the action is still very much there.
  
  This is one of the few games that aknoweledges the maturity of gamers and doesn't dance around 
 the line, unless you tone down the profanity and violence from the game options (please don't, 
 it just isn't Fallout without the crude humor and unrestrained violence) . Finally, a game that 
 made me feel like I wasn't still playing childish games (not that they aren't fun) , this game redefined 
 what it meant to play a mature game. There are drugs, gangs, slavers, casinos, prostitutes, and 
 tons of ways to die.
  
  The graphics outdated, but it is almost like the Fallout universe is supposed to be this way, in 
 it's retro-future style. Although the characters and items are 2d they are presented in the classic 
 isometric view which looks just incredible. You can choose to move the overhead camera with either 
 the mouse or with the keyboard for added comfort. The text is extremely legible, despite its size 
 at times.
  
  The story, well, post-apocalypse isn't exactly a new idea, but the creativity and style that went 
 into the characters and enviornments just brought the idea to life. The richly populated world 
 seems almost limitless in its pursuit of capturing the human factor. Everyone you meet has their 
 own personality and some may have relationships and bonds that bind them. In talking to people 
 and choosing your dialogue the story is revealed and new friendships, or foes, are forged.
  
  The stat system is something to be awed with. The various choices you make when creating and 
 leveling your character can severely alter how you interact with the outside world. You can make 
 your character a super-genius or a dim-witted but powerful fighter. You can become addicted to 
 drugs or alcohol, a dedicated trader with powerful charisma, an evil destroyer of towns, or even 
 a theif. Don't think those are all, you can literaly play the game differently at least forty times.
 
  
  It doesn't stop when you beat the game either, the game allows you to save the game and continue 
 playing! So if you missed some quests that you wanted to do or would like to see what the characters 
 have to say now that you've saved the world you are free to do so. The NPCs you gather to aid you 
 are varied and some are hard to come by, so once you beat the game see if you can find any friends 
 you didn't get the first time around.
  
  Random encounters add a flair of fun, anytime you travel on the world map you have the chance to 
 encounter enemies, traders, monsters, easter eggs, or even some very useful special random encounters. 
 Though sometimes it may seem a bit excessive or tiring when you continue to get encounter after 
 encounter whilst walking around, you can acquire a vehicle to move around faster, and even upgrade 
 it to go faster yet.
  
  I will stop there for now, just because if I keep going this will become an essay and not a review. 
 If you've never played this game, please, for your own benefit, go rent it, borrow it, or buy it 
 and just play it until you cry out of sheer joy. This game is defenitely worth the money and can 
 keep you entertained for a long time to come, and if you are ever asked if you've played Fallout 
 2, you can proudly say, Yes, why the %$#&amp;@ would you ask such a stupid question? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AveryMarx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  The first time i ever saw Fallout 2 was when my brother bought it and brought it home . I thought 
 nothing of it because i was younger than him and i thought it was probably going be a hard game 
 play or one i wouldnt even understand . I was wrong , Fallout 2 has a pretty short learning curve 
 and once you start playing its a little hard to come stop . Its in Northern California after a 
 nuclear apocalypse that you and your now newly emerged tribe settle down and rebuild a community 
 after living in a Vault . Little is known of anyone else who may of survived the war however there 
 is some knowledge of other communities such as The Den and New Reno the vice capital . You are 
 chosen as The Chosen One to go and find the G. E. C. K ( Garden Of Eden Creation Kit ) in hope of 
 creating a paradise and rebuilding your village Arroyo . Thus your journey begins . I would have 
 to say the freedom in Fallout 2 is what makes it so special . Along with choosing your own destiny 
 and how you shape your character and their personality . The perks in the game really give it a 
 humorous edge ( such as Blood Mess , with which everyone around you seems to die in the most bloody 
 , horrible way possible , definitely makes for some laughs if your that kind of individual ) and 
 a twisted dark humour that you will become very acquainted with as you play through the game . 
 For instance you can make your character really big , strong and muscular , yet this has draw backs, 
 you do not have as much action points ( AP ) . Or you can go the other way and be slim and agile 
 thus giving you alot of AP , after my experience of playing i found that its always good to go 
 for alot of action points when creating a character because you get alot more choice of what to 
 do in combat ( of which is turn based ) . Different moves use up action points , a punch for example 
 costs 3 action points and a kick 4 . Your character's charisma can be altered changing how people 
 talk to you and how popular you can become with others . You can also chose how intelligent your 
 character is , so you can experiment with this as speech options and items among other things in 
 the game can be altered depending on your characters intelligence . At the beginning of the game 
 combat is very melee based and as you proceed you get guns etc. which use AP in the same way melee 
 moves do . After playing Baldur's Gate for the pc Fallout 2's turn based combat deffinatly won 
 me over because it isnt furious clicking and panicking as to what you do next , with turn based 
 combat you can really plan out your attacks and take your time . The dark humour in the game has 
 made it an instant classic as some of the things characters come out with is great , there are 
 also references to pop culture in game that you discover through random encounters ( these play 
 a pretty major part in the game ) . It is really entirely down to you as to how you play the game 
 , you can be evil ( and gain perks like Child Killer ) or you can be good and help others in need 
 and generally be a Samaritan . This game is so huge it would be very hard to go over everything 
 . The best thing to do if your interested is to buy it and play it , it would be pretty cheap however 
 finding it could prove to be a problem , online would be your best bet if your planning on hunting 
 this great game down. With the sequel Fallout 3 coming out fans of the two older games may be disappointed 
 as there are going to be some changes that fans of these classics may not like . But who knows 
 , only time will tell if Fallout 3 can possibly match this great , instant classic RPG . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  The game continues years after the events in Fallout 1, but in Fallout 2 you play as the role of 
 the Chosen One, an ancestor of Fallout vault dweller. your main mission will be to obtain the Garden 
 of Eden Creation Kit (GECK) to renew your village.
  You will be traveling from town to town meeting different types of humans from gangsters, mutants, 
 farmers, robots, and tribal people, you will be able to interact with most of them, taking simple 
 quest to buff up your stats, you can even get some specifics ones to join your team, The customization 
 is deep from fighting skills to picking locks does have its pros and cons in the game play
  As for the graphics I say that its great such tremendous large activities going on the screen, 
 the environment are well done that makes you feel that there has just really been a nuclear break 
 out, from mutated cows and toxic green spills that you see throughout the ground
  Clicking around and using just several keys to get the game moving its pretty easy and well done 
 did not had a hard time figuring out what to do in any area of the world
  This game is the very first RPG genre that I lay my hands on and Im not regretting any bit from 
 it. Due to its awesome game play and hilarious moments this game is one of my top favorites of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AWESOME I CANT LET IT DOWN. Its one of those games that will make you no wanna put 
 it down i cant wait for fallout 3 and after playing this game and playing Elder scrolls i know 
 Bethesta will make it great they left all the elements in it so it will be a great game. Like i 
 said about the first one BUY IT ON THE SPOT and im still playing this game ive beaten it like 5 
 times already and still doesnt get bored of it fallout 1 was good, fallout 2 better, fallout tactics 
 awesome and i hope and wish fallout 3 will make the series THE BEST SERIES EVER and no one should 
 say the fallout series sucks if they do they dont know great game there probably the ones buying 
 some of the crappy games like moblie suit gundam or Transformers that means they dont know games 
 they dont know crap. But its just my opinon dont have to take this seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murphigans
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are great the game play is great the gore is AWESOME! I love this game and if you 
 haven't played it you do not know what you are missing this is the greatest game ever made and 
 i am seriously looking forward to Fallout 3 but I'm a little disappointed that it is not being 
 made by black isle. Fallout IS THE GREATEST GAME IN THE HISTORY OF GAMES!!!
  
  Okay, so the basic story line is very similar to the first. You are an outsider wandering from 
 town to town trying to find an old piece of post-war equipment. In each town there's usually a 
 whole bunch of wrongs that need righting (or wrongs that need doing, depending on how you want 
 to play the game) and you earn experience and knowledge that brings you closer to your goal by 
 jumping in with both feet. What is different here is the number and depth of the quests and sub-quests. 
 There's so many different things that you can be doing at any given time that it's almost guaranteed 
 that every player (who's not following a cheat guide or their friend's advice) will find a much 
 different way of finishing the game. The writers have done a fantastic job with extending and realistically 
 aging the world created by the Fallout team in a way that will really please fans of the old title. 
 Specifically, you'll get to see towns that have grown up quite a bit since the last time you saw 
 them (Shady Sands is a lot different these days) hear what happened to characters you came across 
 in the original, and basically see the way that society has formed itself around the events that 
 unfolded in the first game.
  So, what's the final verdict? A lot of people have complained that since the storyline, the graphics 
 and the gameplay haven't changed much, that the game itself is no good. I just didn't find this 
 to be the case. While there's no doubt that this title is extremely derivative of Fallout, I tend 
 to want to thank the programmers for not fixing something that wasn't broken. With its great storyline, 
 huge game world and well written scripts, Fallout 2 gave me many, many hours of totally absorbing 
 gameplay. That's all I'm really looking for. If you're an RPG fan, I highly recommend this game 
 to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang_rider
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this game may be very old but i still playing it because like i always said good games never die 
 ( unless u forgot them haha )
  
  i like this game because of his history and to be able to do what you want in the game like to 
 become an assasin ,to be a hero, a thief and many things there and also what i like of fallout 
 are the dialog (Speach Dialog) .
  
  the only thing that lacks of this game is a precense of a multiplayer mode all the rest is just 
 fine for me.
  
  and for now i still waiting fallout 3 for over 5 years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MutilatedBunny
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is a fairly fun game. The only problem is the combat and navigation. Its turned-based, 
 which I am not a fan of, especially when its almost constant even to navigate. The story line is 
 great, and you can really get hooked onto the game, but actually getting to parts of the story 
 is a pain. The game pace is fairly slow itself, even with the turn based turned all the way up. 
 By now its fairly old, and outdated, but if you enjoy slow, turn based, RPG's, then this game will 
 probably suite your needs until you beat it, then its just a waste of space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep78
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  My Favorite game of all time. Cant wait for part 3! You start as a nobody ( of course ) and go 
 through the post radiated land of America. Everything has changed, some cities have embraced technology 
 while others are still trying to get teh water pump fixed. QUESTS up the wazoo and everytime you 
 go through the game you get a new adventure. I think I have played through this game at least 5 
 times if not more. The graphics for it's day were mind blowing and the fun factor... well lets 
 just say that this game will keep playing on even after you go to sleep. .. Cause you just cant 
 quit thinking about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elektroboy127
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I think my father bought a gold edition (for lack of better wording) pack that was basically the 
 Fallout/Fallout 2 bundle back in 2000 and honestly, I was not really into the whole post-apocolyptic 
 type of game. However, before the days of World of Warcraft, my father spent many an hour after 
 work playing this so-called game in his office when he SHOULD be taking care of taxes and other 
 credentials like he told Mom he'd do. That really did not last long though considering my parents 
 separated a year and a half after we claimed our copy, so I noticed the jewelbox of Fallout 2 gleeming 
 in a cardboard box that my father left as we moved all our stuff around (we just had moved into 
 a new house.. and then Mother moves out.. but enough of that) .
  
  Being a little bit older and more adventerous, I loaded it up and I was almost hooked immediately. 
 Granted, the temple of trials in the beginning bored me, but I never realized how customizable 
 this game is for its age. I mean, to date there are some RPGs that claim that you can do whatever 
 you want to do yet there are restrictions due to physics, ESRB, et cetera that prohibit you from 
 doing so. But Fallout 2... ho ho.. if you want to enslave the nomadic tribes, almost betraying 
 your ancestry, go right ahead. If you want to rob graves, no one is stopping you (I did it a few 
 times.. there is some nifty stuff those people bury along with their relatives..) . Heck, I did 
 not even get to the end because of all the plots that I could choose from and that's a problem 
 when you're indecisive, but still fun nonetheless.
  
  Other than sometimes monogonous cutscenes (like the unfortunate people being torn to shreds by 
 chain guns when you wander in the wasteland) and an interesting bartering system that can sometimes 
 be a hassle your first few times around, Fallout 2, despite its dated graphics, is one of the most 
 revolutionary games I have ever played. Now being pretty cheap, this is most definately a game 
 I would suggest for those who are willing to spend like.. 10 bucks if you look in the right places. 
 But man.. I cannot tell you anymore unless you experience what I am talking about first-hand.. 
 so go get the game, get your shotgun, and head out in the desert. In this game of the pre-character 
 customization era (i. e. Diablo II's classes were the player models of the same class are only different 
 due to weaponry or armor.. otherwise they are clones) , this proves that there are exceptions to 
 every rule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_tha_don
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  A brilliant masterpiece from Black Isle studios striked for the second time. First Fallout was 
 great and rare rpg presenting post nuclear world. At that moment there were not many games like 
 that (maybe Wasteland but its really oldschool) . It was a big success. As for the Fallout 2 the 
 easiest way to describe it is to say its bigger better version of original one with more of everything 
 and no limits (like the one with 150 days) . This time our character is descendant of original hero, 
 living in small village with mission to find GECK and old vault artifact that creates environment 
 making life easier on the desert. But later story gets more and more complicated with many options. 
 And they are the trademark of this series we can be not only good or bad but also decide on different 
 things like sexuality (marriage is possible) or finishing quests in many ways. What is important 
 is the feeling when you play the game Its like there is real world inside real west coast after 
 atomic tragedy. Ruined citys caravans villages and vaults mostly abandoned or with not many people 
 but they are somehow like real, junkies drug dealers ranger or slavers they all are there. It makes 
 you sometimes only part of history not the main hero and thats good because its different from 
 other games ( here you can be one of many people doing raid on others or protecting caravan not 
 the one and only super warrior) .
  Also the S. p. e. c. i. a. l. and perk +traits system from previous instalment is still present with 
 more options allowing you create different characters that provide different game experience. From 
 intelligent skilled in first aid speech man to big brutal powerfull but dumb warrior. You have 
 to play the game to understand all the options and almost unlimited possibilities from beating 
 the game solo to forming a team including deathclaw or super mutant, it still will be fun.
  As for the graphicit looks almost the same as in the first one but it still suits the turn based 
 system and you will get used to it and maybe with time love it (Most die hard fans want that the 
 fallout 3 look the same as previous but only should be just bigger and more) . Sounds in the games 
 are nice even though there are not so many but whats most important they dont interrupt while you 
 are playing.
  
  Only thing I can say to sum up is the thing about one game I would take to deserted island. You 
 should know what post-nuclear role playing game it would be. Also im sure it will jump up high 
 on your favorite games list after playing because this is the definition of perfect game (check 
 in the dictionary) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcrimsonenity
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Everything that was amazing about fallout continues in this epic sequel to the Post-Nuclear masterpiece, 
 giving the fans everything they want from the ability to upgrade there NPC's, to the fact that 
 there is now a car that can be be used for speedy travel across the barren wasteland. Fallout 2 
 also gives players a much larger world to explore which is quite possibly twice the size, not to 
 mention a whole new arsenal of weapons to turn your foes into red piles of jelly, and if that isn't 
 enough for you the game no longer has a set time to complete it, which means more freedom than 
 you could ever imagine...
  
  Fallout 2 takes everything that was amazing in the first title and doubles it, enough said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  I rarely find a game that atracts me into the universe it describes.... but this game actually 
 consumed one mounth of my life. Although it sound rough, it is not that bad. I have never played 
 a game so well done so complex and wih such freedom as Fallout 2. Although now many games have 
 the poast -apocaliptyc theme, when this game was out it was not only new but original and very 
 well implemented. The universe of the game looks like it is alive, it evlos with you and modifies 
 as you play. ( a first you only meet dogs and carnivourus plants , after you go up 20 level you 
 meet bandits and mutans ) . The fact that you can take companions or that yopu can have a car is 
 awesome. It does not put the presure of team management on you but lets you dictate how a party 
 member should react in a fight. The story is great and well keep in this huge universe (you will 
 always find a npc to tell you something about you quest) . The secondary quests (which are a lot 
 - i finidshed more than 70 ) are original and complex ,may take most of the tame but help create 
 the image of the universe you play in.
  Character managemet is great (many games have taken after it ) and original (like most elements 
 in tha game) and the perks make it all even batter and more fun. Last time i played this game was 
 6 years ago but i still remember it with joy :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomic127
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Although this game has some problems the plot, content, and dialog is among the best I've seen. 
 It has a non-linear plot line, meaning you can choose your own path. Although there are some bugs 
 in it the amount of dialog is amazing. It also has some interesting content that relates to pre-apocalyptic 
 civilization. It makes a lot of reference to popular culture and in all the setting ties in well 
 with game play. One of the coolest features of this game is the character design and customization, 
 your dialog and actions are directly affected by this. Overall the best part of this game is the 
 choice it gives you, instead of a door just requiring a key for example you could shoot it, or 
 blow it up, or lock pick it or get someone else to open it. This allows a great deal of freedom, 
 and allows you to use your own problem solving. Unfortunately the graphic are outdated and the 
 sound isn't the best, but i would rate this as my favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NubleX
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 15, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  well what more can i add to already written reviews? by far my favorite game, even after a decade, 
 it still is one of the best games of all time. after playing it several times there are still things 
 to discover. unlike fallout 1, the game in fallout 2 does not end with the completion of final 
 quest, which gives a chance to finish some unfinished business and discover the uncharted places, 
 characters etc...
  
  lots of guns, perks to choose from, ways to complete the game, skills and places. options are just 
 overwhelming
  
  great humor, gameplay, gore and NPCs all lead to the best rpg of all times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  this was the first game i ever bought. before that i just had pirated games. i wanted to support 
 good game making. sure i was broke and living on 2 minute noddles but that would be luxury compared 
 to the poor people of the wastes and they needed me to save them from the every day going ons that 
 is a world destroyed by evil empires. hmmm
  
  love the fact that if you get tough you are tough and that rats are rats. the rats dont become 
 super strong with 100 hit points and if you go to an area that is designed for say a level 10 character 
 and you are level 2 you get killed by everything.
  
  Just say no to global scaling of all creatures. let rats stay rats and super mutants be a target 
 to get to and pass not to scale with. if you can target a punch on a super mutants groin and get 
 a critical that makes him explode then i think the player deserves there toughness and the mutant 
 deserves a quick albeit humiliating death.
  
  Turn based makes for good tactical options in combat and also you can savour there deaths before 
 moving on. maybe if they had a replay option of the last attack from different angles, that would 
 be cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terry_Foxman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  If you ever want to know what a true RPG is this is the game for you. This is the traditional turn 
 based D&amp; D inspired game that really made RPG what it is today. This as close to the pen and 
 paper version of RPG as you'll get. Despite the fact that the game is dated and cannot graphically 
 compare to new games like Oblivion this games is still very enticing and playable. The story is 
 enticing of the old school allowing you to develop the story at your own pace, and the best part 
 is freedom to do whatever you want in the game. Their is a linear story line, of sorts, but you 
 can go off and do whatever you wish, now remember this was released before GTA and any other free 
 from RPG this is truly the game that was revolutionary (unfortunately it did not receive AS much 
 acclaim as the others) .
  
  If you ever want an old school D&amp; D experience that will still be on par with anything available 
 today (and really better if your playing for story) than look no farther. This game is so open 
 and so immense that you can spend more than 100 hours easily trying to beat this game. This game 
 is gaming excellence and should be renowned as one of the best games ever made.
  
  The nitty gritty:
  The graphics, although dated, do not detract from the games excellence and 
 still allow it to be played easily without averting your eyes. So in that regard it is still a 
 great game to start playing if you've never touched it
  
  The Game play is the best you could ever hope for in any lifetime, games just aren't made like 
 this anymore.
  
  The sound, although musicless, is still enticing and exciting only adding to the game that will 
 suck you in and keep you enthralled.
  
  Overall i say this game can be played over and over and over and over and over and... well you 
 get the picture so if your ever hungry for the perfection in gaming that doesnt cause you to go 
 bankrupt paying for a dirct X 10 graphics card, new CPU and just a new rig in general and doest 
 cost to much itself this game is for you hands down end of story BEST EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isaac1st
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this was the best Science Fiction RPG I've ever played besides Neverwinter Nights 
 in my opinion. This takes place 80 years later after the Vault Dweller retrieved the water chip 
 and was casted out. So in the beginning of the game after the trials, you wear the Vault 13 suit 
 that the Vault Dweller weared years ago. And you play the game and find out more cool stuff to 
 the game and story. There is a huge selection of weapons and I mean a HUGE selection of weapons, 
 knifes thorugh powerful rifles. You can also choose what you can be through out the game and choose 
 if you rather be evil or good. The story was really good too, graphics was alright unless you like 
 to play old games. This game would be recommended highly to RPG players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  One of the best RPG games in the gaming history. Period. No other game at that time has achieved 
 its sophistication in story plot, character development and even its uncanny humour. A very satisfying 
 retro post-apocalyptic script coupled with an innovatively challenging turn-based combat system 
 and character leveling options. This is one of the most successful RPG systems that puts you in 
 total control of the development of your main character and that every decision you make affects 
 obvious performance change of your character in the game.
  
  Also, this is a game you can have sick fun watching your enemies die. The enemies have quite a 
 number of death animations according to the weaponry you master, resulting in a queer sense of 
 realism from the graphically simple pixel art form. One other major plus side of this game is the 
 strange encounters you get to chance upon when travelling in the world map. Sometimes they are 
 parodies of fantasy films or just really weird yet interesting events. It is so out of the box 
 (like a 4th wall thing) which makes me really impressed with the idea and makes me an instant fan 
 of this game even till today. No other game still comes close. For all fantasy/sci-fi RPG fans 
 out there, you have to try this classic.
  
  (Though it has a few notorious bugs, the winXP version will have it patched already, if not, it's 
 easily downloaded in this website.)
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colderon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I was never really much for describing this stuff, so I will keep it short. Fallout 2 is a totally 
 awesome game with features that no other RPG I have ever played contains, such as addiction to 
 drugs and the unique turn-based action sequencing. You also have complete control over the character, 
 making the decisions of where to go, what to do, what to wear, what to wield, what to be proficient 
 in, whether you want to be sarcastic or not, heck, you can even choose to be a prostitute if you 
 want. The game has millions of options of who to be. It also lets the player think and decide where 
 to go next through exploration and investigation, along with the many quests you will have to do 
 along the way. The game starts out with a seemingly simple quest, but then gets more and more complicated 
 as you go along, until the main quest gets totally shifted and all your goals are changed. The 
 game has a brilliant original plot, one that keeps you playing and wondering what will happen next. 
 The only bad thing is the occassional bug and the times when you might lose track of where you 
 are or what you are doing. Other than that, it is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyercho
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  When confess that I played Fallout 2 first after that Fallout 1 ... and I cannot describe you the 
 satisfaction I felt of the game the first, the second, the third and the one hundred and third 
 time I played it! The post nuclear atmosphere is just awesome and makes you feel you are really 
 in the game. The depth of the graphics and the indescribable sense of humor even when expecting 
 a pile of junk on the floor is insanely great! I was thinking to write good review but every time 
 i start talking or writing about Fallout i forget my words and remind myself about the nights I 
 was in the consumable world of Fallout. MUST HAVE ON THE SHELF! Nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WyckinaZ
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  This is the perfect game of RPG... The graphics for those days are remarkable... Gameplay and value 
 100% ... I just loved this game and finished it several times now in different endings :) Fallout 
 2 should be in the museum of best games!!! Where also Diablo and others games would be :) From 
 the beginning of the game you get chained to it ... From the beginning you start to save your village... 
 or become a slave hunter... This game has soo many features, that none of the games these days 
 can cope with... even after almost 10 years later, there haven't been created a better game than 
 fallout !!! So enjoy it !! ! bet you will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  though it is already dated, and might not look that brilliant graphically for the modern gamers 
 who are spoiled too much with eye candy nowadays ( i love eye candy :) ) , fallout 2 and its predecessor 
 are simply excellent.
  
  The game offers a large real open ended world, fully explorable, with dozens of different styles 
 of approach possible to play it, sandbox principals before there was even mention of sandbox game 
 play. The dialogs are very good, and beat any A. B. C. style of conversation choices that later RPG 
 games offer in my opinion. the game has lots of cool weapons and equipment and a challenging, yet 
 fun combat system. Skills are not simply statistics to dress up your character sheet, but really 
 are useful enough to help you through the situations you face. Instead of using typical template 
 type of characters (which the game still has) Fallout offers a way to create a character up to 
 your style of play, from Tank, assassin, warrior, engineer, diplomat, thief or whatever you desire.
 
  The character generation and sheet are simple to use, yet very expanded.
  
  Up to this day Fallout still comes the closest to what a PC role playing game should be, and it 
 is often very funny and awesome when interacting with the world.
  
  Really, check it out, and you'll be anxious to see Fallout 3 come to the RPG fans in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wovan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The Best Game i'v ever plaid.  
 
  &Egrave;&atilde;&eth;&agrave; - &yacute;&ograve;&icirc;  
  
  
  &Ntilde;&oacute;&ograve;&uuml;   
 &acirc;   
 &Ograve;&icirc; &aring;&ntilde;&ograve;&uuml;,  
  &iacute;&agrave;  
 &agrave;  &auml;&agrave;&aelig;&aring;  
    
  
 &ecirc;  &egrave;&atilde;&eth;&ucirc;.  
  &acirc; &ograve;&icirc;&igrave;  
 &aring;&ntilde;&euml;&egrave;  
   
   
 &ograve;&icirc; &acirc;&ucirc;   
   
 &acirc;  
 
  
   &iuml;&icirc;  
  &Acirc;&ntilde;&aring;  
 &icirc;&ograve;   
  &Egrave;  
 &iacute;&agrave;&ntilde;   
 &Aring;&ntilde;&euml;&egrave; &igrave;&ucirc;  
   
 &ograve;&icirc;   
   
 &atilde;&auml;&aring; &aring;&atilde;&icirc;  
   &Aring;&ntilde;&euml;&egrave; 
 &igrave;&ucirc;   
  &ograve;&icirc; &icirc;&iacute; 
   
    
 &aring;&atilde;&icirc;  &iuml;&icirc;  
  
  
    &Iacute;&aring; 
  &iacute;&agrave;  
 &iacute;&agrave;   
 &acirc;&ntilde;&aring;, &divide;&ograve;&icirc;  
  &iuml;&icirc; &iuml;&yuml;&ograve;&uuml; &eth;&agrave;&ccedil;. 
 &Iacute;&aring;  
 
  
   &iuml;&icirc;  
  &ntilde;  
 -  &aring;&atilde;&icirc;  
   
   
 &ntilde;&aring;&aacute;&yuml; &iacute;&agrave; &aring;&atilde;&icirc;  
   
  &iacute;&agrave; &aring;&atilde;&icirc; 
 &ograve;&aring;&euml;&aring; &egrave;   
  &euml;&egrave;  
 &acirc;  .   
 &divide;&ograve;&icirc; &oacute; &acirc;&agrave;&ntilde; &aring;&ntilde;&ograve;&uuml; -  
    
   
 &egrave;  &divide;&ograve;&icirc; Fallout 
 - &yacute;&ograve;&icirc; &icirc;&auml;&iacute;&agrave;  
 
  I'm waiting fo Fallout3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audunnsigurdson
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Even if fallout is a really old game its still one of the best role playing games, the game starts 
 with you having to go through the temple of trials after that you can go do what ever you want, 
 explore, quest, or go on a killing spree in one of the many towns. There's a huge selection of guns, close 
 combat weapons and armor, tons of quests and a great character creation system, there's always a 
 different way to solve a quest and you can even be known for being either good or evil so you can 
 play the game again and again, it also has great humor. if you haven't played this game you should 
 go and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikoda
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, real simple, this is a VERY old game. I've been rolling on Fallout 2 since i was a preteen 
 nerd kid (im only 19 now but more into real life than games) and i still had that shotty pentium 
 negative 2 back then, and could barely play this game without my comp freezing.... well, i still 
 play fallout 2 on my more upgraded new computer... and i seem to even put down the Gamecube and 
 PS3 cotrollers... just to play fallout... its a sad sad story... but this game is still one of the 
 most perfectly ever done strategy games ever. dont get me wrong i spend alot of my off time from 
 work playing world of warcraft and other games, but, well, fallout is still one of my all time 
 favorites. If you never played this game, then shame on you, if you remember playing it, then play 
 some more. i feel that this game should get a very fair retro rating by me, and ill bump it just 
 so it is still recognized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Even tho the graphics of Fallout 2 are already past dated , it still manages to hook the player 
 with it's magnificent character creation system, immersive gameworld and tactical combat.
  
  I would say that Fallout 2 has THE BEST character creation system to date, there are no classes, 
 you pick tag skills, traits, statistics (strenght ect.) and perks to create your own highly customized 
 character. All of them affect the gameplay very strongly, high intelligence alone doesn't make 
 you a smooth speaker, but extremely low intelligence cuts down your dialogue options to mere urghs 
 . There are plenty of varying perks and skills to be gained, from perks that give you more action 
 points or make you see in the dark, to perks that help you satisfy the ladies (Kama Sutra Master 
 perk) .
  
  The turn-based combat is very addicting as well, each character has action points that they can 
 use to shoot, reload, move ect. A good sniper character can make deadly critical shots to enemies 
 eyes or any other body parts, this of course takes one action point more (6) than a normal shot. 
 Or a well developed character with a pistol can shoot 5 times during one turn, whereas the sniper 
 can only make one or two attacks, but those 5 shots just cannot be aimed at separate body parts 
 thus causing less critical hits. The combat has plenty of tactical elements in it, you have wide 
 choise of weaponry, and you even have armor piercing or normal bullets for many weapons, APs do 
 more damage to heavily armored opponents, but less damage to non-armored ect.
  
  The post-apocalyptic world in Fallout 2 is just amazing, there are many large cities to be explored 
 freely. Fallout 2 also gives you the option to do things most games won't, you can take a wife 
 and sell her as a slave, you can visit brothels, become a porn-star or just kill everyone in the 
 whole city. Helping one group of people will often hurt some other group, and things aren't always 
 completely black and white in Fallout 2. Your actions also have consequences, some times they affect 
 your game directly, other times they are just funny. For e. g. loosing in arm wrestling to a big 
 mutant and ending up as his biatch for the night is something you rarely see in most games, and 
 afterwards people will make some more or less witty comments about your experience.
  
  Add to this a solid story and some excellent dialogue with freedom of choise and you've got no 
 excuses for not playing this game.
  
  It's very difficult to come up with anything bad to say about Fallout 2, I guess the occasionally 
 stupid NPC companions can get annoying, they often shoot each others, or stay too much behind to 
 help you in a fight. You should also pay attention when developing your character, for e. g. the 
 Jinxed trait that causes bad luck to both your enemies and you, might sound funny, but it's not 
 that funny when your high-tech gun that cost a fortune explodes in your hands. Also completely 
 overlooking some skills like for e. g. lockpicking, might cause problems at some point of the game, 
 even tho usually there are more than one way to comlete the objectives. If you're a RPG fan, and 
 can look past the dated graphics, then you should most definately play this game because it just 
 doesn't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Basically you're playing the same game you did when you played Fallout I. The graphics are the 
 same, the game-play is the same and the story is just as rich and robust.
  If you haven't played the original don't worry you don't have it. In fact, it's fun to play them 
 out of order... makes going back alot of fun if you follow the story line to see it all come to 
 pass, or go back and play the original first and watch in the sequel as all those things you did 
 are intertwined within the story.
  Enjoy the rich feel of the game even with what would be considered today as sub par graphics... this 
 is a classic along with its predisesor that needs to be experianced 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evl_iori
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  I cannot remember being as addicted to a single-player RPG series as much as I have been with Fallout/Fallout 
 2. My most recent replay was early this year, a moment of nostalgia if you will. Dated as the graphics 
 and interface were by recent standards, I still found the free-style gameplay and robust character 
 creation unmatched by any other recent role-playing title. Its chilly, post-apocalyptic feel was 
 still second-to-none, its unique brand of satirical black humour still made me chuckle.
  
  While I do appreciate linear dungeon crawls such as Icewind Dale or Neverwinter Nights and no doubt 
 the D&amp; D ruleset is a time-tested institution, there is something else to be said about Fallout's 
 open-ended, free-roaming mode of play. It is one RPG where you truly feel like your actions and 
 decisions are your own, and not some scripted plot you hack and slash your way through in the order 
 that the developers intended. You might play through the game five times and get five different 
 combinations of endings depending on your actions in the various towns.
  
  The SPECIAL character creation system is also revolutionary in its own right, allowing a good degree 
 of customization in making a variety of characters. There are no character classes per se, the 
 scope of character creation limited only by your choices in picking traits, perks and abilities. 
 Sharp-shooting doctor? Check. Diplomatic brawler? Why not.
  
  If you've played Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion recently and liked it (the ability to freely wander 
 across the world map, not its graphics or combat system) , chances are Fallout's brand of gameplay 
 might interest you too. Also check out Arcanum, another excellent open-ended RPG that has sadly 
 fallen as flat as its fellow title as a franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mussumbranco
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Its all about the story. The story and clean graphics. Tri dimensional graphics are only starting 
 to get neat nowadays with the next gen consoles, so for the last 8 years developers have been struggling 
 to put out great game using a cracked 3d atmosphere (isometric graphics keep the focus on the story, 
 the beautiful artwork is just a side kick) and focusing on the construction of a great graphic 
 engine forgetting what really matters: the story and the game play. Fallout 2 excels in both. This 
 game is necessary for any player who wants to see what games are made of. The stuff that dreams 
 are made of (Fallout 2 still populates my dreams and memory) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greghedrick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  one of the best games i have ever played. I got hooked on it for years but sadly i lost the disc 
 so i have to find another to buy. I like how you can keep playing even after you beat the game. 
 You can make almost any build of character with all the perks attributes skills ect. Definitley 
 worth buying if you like playing rpgs. The only downfalls are the sometimes gliches when you try 
 to save a game and it doesnt save... or getting stuck in combat mode when you just wanna walk around 
 a town. of course this game is very bloody and is hilarious at times with what the people say to 
 you in combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjajuggalo810
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is one of the greats and luckily for anyone that doesnt have you can now purchase this 
 and the origanl for around $10 the grahpics really cant get a good score for they werent the greatest 
 at the time of release due to using an older engine the game starts with a village of tribals telling 
 you that you are the chosen to save the city and most go complete a trial my first suggestion is 
 not to let this part of the game stop you from playing this is really the slowest part of the game 
 once you leave the first town (1 to 2 hours first time) the game gets great the second town you 
 can do tons of stuff including rescue a hunter free a slave or kill a giant rat and each town gets 
 better and better such has becoming a deputy and solve crimes or get involved in a gang war the 
 great thing is you dont have to do anything (but maybe three things) the rest is optoinal and some 
 stuff pretty well hidden and some things you do block other things and the game is so open its 
 prededccor was the first to allow you to go into a city and either help everyone or kill everyone (litterally 
 kill men wemen and children leaving the town deserted ) which i dont really recomend since it realaeses 
 bounty hunters at a certain point lvls are done extremely well instead of gaing int or strength 
 you decide your stats in the begining and those stats determine how your lvls turn out and when 
 you lvl you can add too skills and gain life after so many lvls your get to pick from a list of 
 perks which entitle you to things like being able to carry more weight or see better in the dark
 
  
  battles are turn based where you either move or attack or use items you can preform as many task 
 your character can so meaning you have a certain amount of action points moving costs 1 point where 
 attacking costs anywhere betwwen 2 and 7 or 8 and using items can costs anywhere from 1 to 4 so 
 you still get an amount of strategy needed you can also gain the ability to have actoins costs 
 less points or gain more points through perks
  
  bottom line if you dont use a walkthrough you can beat this game 10 times and still find new things 
 to do and the untraditional gameplay and story humor will leave very satisfied with your purchase 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revan_comando
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Great game. I already knew this was a good game, but only a few weeks ago I found it in a store 
 and bought so I could play a bit.
  
  I never thought I would get so dragged to it.
  
  The gameplay rocks. The char creation menu is superb, really complete, I just love to see all the 
 images from every thing description (lol) , the skills and stats are really well made, except some 
 skills that should have more use. The combat I am not much fun, but it works well. The rest, npc 
 interaction and other things that I dont want to do "spoiler" are really great too. 
  
  The graphics and sound, well, the game its from 1998, which in that year, 10 in graphics and 8 
 in sound. Now I give 8 for both.
  
  In the end I think its a great game. One of the elite games ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Well fallout 2 was (and still is) my favourite game, why you might ask?
  Well fallout 2 has incredible gameplay a cool story and just a feel to the game that makes it my 
 fav one. Now what are all these, sorry but i don't have the time to explain it ALL but i might 
 explain some parts. The story is about a person thats the chosen one and he must past the tests 
 in the temple of trials to go on. When you finish you must save the village by finding the G. E. A. K 
 or something like that. Then later on you find out you gotta save the world. I like the turnbased 
 battles and for me the graphics are good cause i'm used to them playing titles like diablo diablo 
 2 age of empires and more. Now even though i never got the first one i can still say that fallout 
 2 rocks (and if u want it i have no idea where to get it XD)
  It should be time to begin ratings buuuuut i'm not gonna do them just yet. This will have spoilers 
 so if u want to read on its your fault. Theres a way to get to vault 13. Just go to vault 15 and 
 leave all your friends outside ok?
  Then talk to the person and say something, she might say ok go ahead.
  After go to upstairs and 
 don't talk to anybody anymore, now go to the computer and ask for vault 13 and it will give u the 
 location. So go outside valut 15 and near it will be vault 13, get the geak in there and the a 
 bone guy from your village will tell u that they were captured, Go back into Arryo and talk to 
 him. The men he speaks of is frank hoagin and the enclave. Thats the spoiler part so ok! Now begins 
 our ratings
  
  Gameplay-10
  Awesome gameplay for me
  
  Sound-9
  Gets a little boring sometimes but its still good
  
  Story-10
  Amazing storyline
  
  Graphics-7
 
  Now here is where things take a dive, It ain't your best graphics but it fits the game so whatever 
 man
  
  Overall-9.2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_loy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game I've had it since about the time it came out. This game has great gameplay, 
 great story, great theme, just plane great game. If you love free roam open ended gameplay this 
 game is for you. 
  
  Feel like being nice and living peacefully, go right ahead, feel like being an ass and killing 
 everyone in every town go ahead. You can just about do anything you want in this game. 
  
  And if you get tired of the way your playing make a new character there are so many ways to play. 
 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who wants to lose alot of there life to gameplay, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baelrrogg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to state that by the time I played Fallout 2 it had been patched and 
 so bugs that were in the game at realease will not affect this review. 
  
  The premise to Fallout 2 is an interesting one. The game takes place in a world where a nuclear 
 apocalypse happened sometime in the 1950s. Some people were lucky (as lucky as you can get during 
 the apocalypse) to escape to underground bunkers refered to as Vaults. In the original Fallout, 
 the protagonist had to leave the vault some 50 years after the cataclysm to recover a waterchip 
 (used to make water in the vault) . Upon his return, his peers decided that the outside world had 
 changed him to much to allow him back inside the vault and he was cast out. After this he founded 
 a small tribal village called Arroyo. This is where Fallout 2 begins. Numerous years later, the 
 village of Arroyo is in peril due to dying cattle, sick children and generally bad things plaguing 
 the town. The town elder decides to put you to the test and upon completion (and rewarding you 
 with the original "vault dweller" 's vault 13 jumpsuit) sends you out to find the G. E. C. K (or Garden 
 of Eden Creation Kit) to restore the town back to peace and glory. You then set out in the wilderness 
 equipped with nothing more than a spear, your fists and maybe a crude knife (if you're lucky) . 
 From this point on the game is almost totally open-ended, letting you do what you wish. 
  
  On your journey you will encounter all sorts of memorable characters such as Harold, a zombie with 
 a tree growing out his head and many more. Weapons range from simple melee weapons like spears, 
 hammers, knives to guns like a handgun, rifles, shotguns, automatic weapons to truly destructive 
 guns like lasers and rocket launchers (and let's not forget everyone's favourite, the flame thrower) . 
 You will eventually even find an old car to travel with. The sheer amount of things to collect 
 and do in this game is just astounding (there is literally hundreds of mini quests) . 
  
  Another strong point of this game is it's unique character development system. You start out by 
 assigning points to your primary stats such as strength, endurance and perception as in many other 
 RPGs. Then you need to pick three proficiencies. These are the skills that your character will 
 have a natural affinity with. These range fom melee combat, hand to hand combat, small guns, big 
 guns, pickpocket, locksmith or even outdoorsman. The skills picked as your proficiencies will cost 
 less points to raise when reaching a new level. After this you can pick 2 perks. These perks are 
 a nice and refreshing addition to the RPG formula and really help make your character feel unique. 
 These perks are basically background traits you can pick for your character. Some perks include: 
 heavy handed which makes your character deal more hand-to-hand damage at the cost of accuracy, 
 pyromaniac which makes your character deal more damage with fire-based weapons or even kama-sutra 
 master which makes you an expert in pleasing the fairer sex (yes thats right there are sexual themes 
 in this game but nothing graphic) .
  
  Now that the character has been created we can head on to combat. combat is turn-based and only 
 allows you to control your main character (your allies are controlled by the computer but can be 
 configured to have different behaviors in combat such as fire at will or fire only when it is safe 
 (if you are in the line of fire you allies can and often will hit you accidentally) .
  Your are given a number of action points or AP based on your dexterity and these are used when 
 performing any action during battle. Moving will cost AP and so will shooting or attacking. All 
 weapons have more than one attack. For example a gun will allow you to do a quick shot or an aimed 
 shot. The aimed shot will take more AP but will let you pick which part of your opponent's body 
 to attack (and these all have different effects if a critical hit is landed. For example, a critical 
 to the eyes will blind your foe while a critical hit to the arm might disarm your opponent.) Using 
 stim packs or other items uses up AP as well. Combat can be very difficult since no matter which 
 level you are you can be crippled with a lucky critical stike to the head by the enemy (with more 
 oftent than not, spectacular effects such as your character being decaptitated by gunfire or literally 
 cut in half) . As mentioned Fallout is not a game for the faint-hearted. Given, the gore is displayed 
 with sprites but this doesn't prevent it from having very gory death animations (and some crude 
 language...) but this is refreshing for an RPG. 
  
  As for the graphics, there is nothing there to get excited about. The sprites are sharp and well 
 animated (as mentioned before, great death animations) but don't expect any particle effects or 
 shaders or anything that fancy. This is a purely 2D, sprite-based game. 
  
  Sounds on the other hand are great. Voice work is the same level as the original and never really 
 feels overacted (kinda of hard to do with this particular cast of characters) . Music is somewhat 
 lacking as most of the soundtrack is ambient noises. 
  
  With it's great replay value (playing with different types of characters offer a completely different 
 game experience) , flamboyant style and great dialogue and voice work, Fallout 2 is a game that 
 all PC RPG fans should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer-fx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is what i compare every game i play to, theres a good reason for it to. Its setting just 
 defines cool, a post nuclear war zone, mad bandits, crazy zealots, mutants and prostitutes. Can 
 it get any better?
  
  --Gameplay --
  Just like Fallout, we have an in depth stat/trait system that just works to perfection. You can 
 specialise in knives, guns, bigger guns or good old Kung-fu!!. Gain new skills every few levels 
 or even through certain actions.
  And now the battle system, just like Fallout, Fallout 2 uses the turn based click to hit the other 
 guy style of play that is just pure magic to use. All this is toped of with the way you play, well 
 its up to you... go and save your village if you want or you could rob some passers by? Your pick
 
  
  --Gameplay -- 10 --
  
  --Graphics --
  Those 2D sprites never get old, they may look alike, they may all look like Mel Gibson in his Mad 
 Max get up but they simply fits the game well, very well, can't stop looking at it.
  
  --Graphics -- 10 --
  
  --Value --
  Well apart form 100+ hours interacting with the tons of NPCs 
 that populate the Fallout 2 world you can make your own adventure by doing what you want the way 
 you want it!... or something. You want to kill your new best friend... go ahead! he won't mind, or 
 hey why not sell him to slaver, why not become one!!! enslaving Tribes is fun right?. But really, 
 the game is endless.
  
  --Value -- 10 --
  
  Fallout 2 in my opinion is the best game ever made, if you want a fine experience that never ever 
 seems to end go out right now and buy it!.
  Fantastic game!
  
  --Overall -- 10 --
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burbanski03
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Once again throw into the fallout universe in another great game. You are a descendant of the main 
 character in the first game and go on another great quest. This time you make new friends and get 
 new characters in your party. Just arriving in New Reno makes you feel dirty. This game takes all 
 the core elements of the first and delivers again. The storyline is amazing and you just get sucked 
 into the game. This was the last great game of the series so if you are deciding, pick up this 
 and the original and leave the brotherhood of steel games for later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 had a lot to live up to when it carried forth the banner of the original Fallout, which 
 set forth a wonderfully original product and almost singlehandedly returned the classic computer 
 RPG - with stats and armor classes and everything else - to prominence. It had an interesting storyline, 
 a good game system, and decent graphics. Mind you, it was as buggy as all hell.
  
  Fallout 2 expands on the first game by leaps and bounds in every single one of the above respects 
 except the graphics (which, while still decent, are hardly noteworthy) . That's both good and bad.
 
  
  The storyline of Fallout 2 - set eighty years after the original, with the longer-lived members 
 of the original cast making cameos - is simple: you are the Chosen One, who must find the GECK 
 (Garden of Eden Creation Kit) to save his starving tribe. Of course, this being a Black Isle roleplaying 
 game, the plot gets much more complex than that very quickly. Like the first game, you have a deadline 
 to achieve your mission, but this time around it's more extended, giving you more time to explore.
 
  
  IMPORTANT: this is not a kid's game, even with the swearing and violence removed. This game is 
 very harsh and dark, and the kiddie lock won't get rid of the drug dealers, porn merchants, or 
 bigotry. It will get rid of a female character's ability to sell her body for cash, though. (Or 
 of the male character's ability to pay for sex.) And nothing will get rid of the ability - inherent 
 to the game - of your character to become a "bad guy" rather than a champion of justice.
  
  The game system is the same as it was in Fallout, with RPG-ish stats and weapons classes and skills 
 - it's easy to learn and flexible. Weapons are sharply variable and usually quite interesting in 
 variety. One quibble of mine is that bottle caps - the money of the previous game - have been replaced 
 by actual printed money of the new governments. Firstly, the money is accepted at face value everywhere, 
 which is rather unrealistic (I know that complaining about unrealism in a game with giant mutant 
 beings may be somewhat odd, but it is unrealistic) and also ruins the interesting monetary dynamic 
 of the first game, where your money actually weighed you down and thus forced you to adapt to the 
 barter economy of the game - here, because of the money, that economy is slightly diminished.
 
  
  The real improvement of the sequel over the original is easily the option of controlling your party 
 members. You can now select their armor, combat stance and fighting style, weaponry - the whole 
 nine yards. There's a limit to the number of characters in your party (determined by your charisma 
 stat) - you can even get married, although the only husband or wife I've yet found was a useless 
 character. There's a far greater variety of characters available as well - everyone from a sentient 
 Deathclaw monster to a giant mutant to a healer ghoul to a crusty old mercenary and beyond. The 
 voice acting of the game is likewise superb when you talk to voiced characters - they sound like 
 real people, something a lot of games never manage. (They also make you wish you could play your 
 main character as a super mutant or ghoul or suchlike. Perhaps the next installment will allow 
 it - along with the full party-design of Baldur's Gate.)
  
  Still, the game itself is fun enough, and if you patch right at the beginning (the game won't autopatch 
 by itself) it's addictive and playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is just well awesome I can not believe that something with such a simple obvious mad 
 max premise was so so so so so so oso so os os os oso so soooooooooooooooooooooo amazingly amazing.
 
  
  The Gameplay it sooooooo addictive and fun, the graphics are done well but wat is really good about 
 the graphics is the atmosphere its just soooo bleak I LOVE it also the death animations are HILARIOUS 
 like you shoot burst fire out of mini gun [ chain gun] their hole upper bdy gets ripped of and only 
 their legs are left. Also the music fits the bleak atmosphere perfectly. 
  
  The plot and the atmosphere are the best thing about this but evertying else rocks this game KICKS 
 ROYAL ***!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan117chief
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I love it! Everything about this game makes you feel for it. The freedom and control given to you 
 in the game is great. Kill or simply let live, kill the merchant and score sweet loot; or barter 
 with him and possibly aquire better things later on that he might have. From the begining until 
 the end -- you feel like you are your character surviving the American wasteland. I was even a pornstar 
 in a little familiar city in the desert, and even a boxer in the same city. I didn't have to do 
 any jobs, but the addiction to live the life of that future held to me! I wish Fallout 3 was going 
 to be possible, although it may not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  You know why this game is too short for me? Because i can't get enough of it everytime i beat it 
 :) I've beaten this game more than 50 times &amp; every time i played i could find that i've been 
 experiencing different storylines and outcomes of the game! The world of fallout sucks you in with 
 incredible power, it's like the time has come to yourself to save the world in any way you see 
 fit - the decision is up to you, don't forget what are you playing with! The game has it's own 
 tricks if you notice them, like putting all of your skill points on gambling (say even 150-170% 
 is enough to ensure your victory in casino) you can become so rich soon that you could buy yourself 
 best armor and weapons and make your way a lot easier. Now it's up to you to find all the tricks 
 in game so you could see how wide-ranged this game is. For me it's even more, than reading a book 
 + psychedelic style of music in deserts and caverns turns my brain upside down! If by any chance 
 you haven't played the game: you've lost it all! It's a must to have it by your side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogyo666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a piece of art as much as a painting but even more its philosophy, music, visual art this 
 is never been achieved before. Some people don't realise that computer games create such an atmosphere 
 (which is of course the hidden secret behind the mirror like in all forms of art) that isn't been 
 here yet.
  I hope more and more pieces of art will emerge from time to time not decade after decade. The intro 
 is amazing in fallout and fallout 2 the deep ironic harshness of reality applied to todays world 
 and I think marketing people should burn in hell because they are the ones who are promoting worthless 
 games to the young to fill up their heads stupidity and lies, this game is a real eye or mind opener. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feartrain999
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  If only more RPGS were like this. A post-apocolytic setting, with guns, a non-linear pace, customizable 
 skill system that effect the course of anything that happens ingame, all weaved with well-written 
 dialogue and dark humor. While the graphics may seem mediocre at best (especially today) , the presentation 
 and overall addictivness will definitly make you forget about it... and your job, and maybe your 
 kids.
  
  The GOOD: 
  -Replay Value, with more than one solution to any quest/mission. 
  -Non-linear, simply put... you can do whatever, this is a 'real' Role-Playing.
  -Original atmosphere, 
 no dragons, no swords, no cliche of a game. 
  -Witty and dark dialogue. Very deep and intresting skill system, that will control the overall 
 fate of your character.
  -Memorable characters, situations, quotes, etc. 
  
  The BAD:
  -Maybe not for everyone... but what game really is!
  
  The VERDICT:
  This is the ideal RPG 
 people. It's strays from the same-ol-cliche and happens to be a well-put together masterpiece. 
 I just only wished more RPG's would leave the usual boundaries of it's kind, like this classic.
 
  
  YOU NEED THIS GAME. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_judge
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Fallout 2, what can I say, it's an RPG's masterpiece, "an legendary game" people have ever tasted.
 
  Fallout 1 was born in the time the RPG game was very few, and people started to bored with the 
 Final Fantasy's RPG style. Fallout 1 brought another kind of RPG game, which player gets more freedom 
 in game.
  And, after the successful of Fallout 1, Fallout 2 was created, continued the story about the post-nuclear 
 war. The game sets in the future, which most of the America is destroyed by war and nuclear bomb. 
 What is left just the America wasted-land, the radiated human, the mutant, the ghoul, some monster, 
 and the Vault-dweller. And, as children of the hero character of Fallout 1, you will begin your 
 ultimate quest, to against the bad guys Enclave, against the mob (or join them) ... The best of 
 the game is the freedom style. Each quest (I have to say, there are very many many quest) you can 
 choose how to do it, like do it as a good people, or like a bad guy (which affect your karma, and 
 affect the rest of the story) . And, the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system, the various skill list make your 
 character is different from each time you replay the game.
  The graphic wasn't good, but it some how draw an deadly American waste land in the future. The 
 sound was very good, or, excellent.
  The quote "War, War never changes" will be hard to forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  In Fallout 2, we find ourselves back in the Fallout universe... A post-apocalyptic America that 
 was based on applying nuclear winter to the "World of Tomorrow" as envisioned in the 1950's by 
 popular culture then. In this game there are tons of things to do, and dozens of ways to deviate 
 from the story. The story is this: you're the choses one of a group of tribals in the wasteland, 
 and you are given a holy quest to go find the GECK (Garden of Eden Creation Kit) and replenish 
 the land your tribe lives on so that they can survive. However, I've played through this game about 
 9 times but only once finished it. It's just so much fun to customize your character... The Character 
 Development system is peerless, second to none... The perks and Karma systems are great, as are 
 the tags. Wanna be an unarmed combat specialist? Big guns? Sneak around and steal from people? 
 Pick locks and disarm traps? Be medically trained, or able to repair complicated machinery? All 
 these things are just some of the skills you can choose from. I won't even get into the perks. 
 It'll just blow your mind right out the back of your skull. But among the things you can do (or 
 not do) are become a slave trader, drug dealer/addict, get various friends in your party, save 
 towns from droughts, reconcile farmers with underground dwellers, get married, become a porn star, 
 become a boxer, become a kung fu legend, become citizen of Vault City, etc. It's amazing everything 
 you can do in this game. Give it a try, you'll like it if you like RPG's. I can pretty much guarantee 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timdadog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Ok let me start by saying, I loved this game! . It was released in the late 90's and I don't think 
 it got the recognition it deserved. From the intro music (Louis Armstrong's A kiss to build a dream 
 on) you already get that errie feeling that there's something different about this game. It's set 
 out in the Mad Max style with tribes and foul mouthed characters. The graphics are obviously dated 
 in today's standards (and that's why I think, they should re-release the title) but the gameplay 
 is addictive and fun. The first one was just as good, but 2 went on another level for RPG games. 
 A pure classic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Fallout 2 for awhile, but it sits there on my shelf waiting for my next bit of 
 down time to load 'er up and send the Chosen One out into the radioactive wastelands once again. 
 The bug issues mentioned in the GS review have been worked out to the best of my knowledge, but 
 you will need to patch this puppy to get the most out of your game experience. As the game is going 
 on 8 years old, it is sometimes hard to find the patches, but they are out there (I hope) .
  
  Anyway, if you spot this one on e-bay or see it in a discount sales bin (doubtful) then it'll 
 be worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthurdeac
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Mad Max, Terminator 2, and RPG games, you HAVE to play this game. There are 
 so many memorable characters and events in this game. Even with its dated graphics, you get sucked 
 into the world. Don't let the old school 2D graphics fool you. The game's solid game play will 
 make up for it. You don't need crazy graphics for a good story. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  War, war never ends-These are the first words of the best RPG in the world. It has passed more 
 than 200 years after the first nukes fell on earth and created nuclear fallout. You start out in 
 a small village as the chosen one you are the one who is going to find G. E. K. K. and save the 
 whole village. But when youll start playing many things will change. In this game you actually 
 get to decide most of what is going to happen. For example you do not have to take side quests 
 but (Highly recommend to take side Quests) you wont get special guns and experience. But still 
 in the game you have to fallow you main quest in order to beat the game. There are many ways to 
 pass the main quest and beat the game. I think you will enjoy the game a lot!
  
  Gameplay 10 Why a 10 youll ask? Because this game is so revolutionary and addictive that it will 
 be hard to get away from your computer even for some time! The storyline is cool too and freedom 
 you get in the game is just great.
  Graphics 10- The graphics are not the best in the game but remember this game was made in 1998 
 thats 8 years ago for that time the graphics were super.
  Sound 10- The sound is good especially when you kill somebody and the scream AAAAA!!! Or when you 
 talk to people like Marcus and others the voice acting is very good.
  Value 10- This is aboplutley a gold game!
  Reviewers tilt 10- Its very nice to right a review 
 for a great game like this.
  
  I recommend this game to everyone who likes freedom in the game and likes RPGs. When youll start 
 playing it youll end up living it !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Fallout II picks up where Fallout left off. The Vault Dweller was banished from Vault 13 after 
 securing the water chip and destroying the mutant threat. After killing the Overseer before the 
 ending began (personal choice) , the Vault Dweller left the Overseer's rotting corpse and headed 
 north. There he found a city which grew and prospoured. He died of old age. You are his only decendent. 
 You are sent on a quest to find a Garden of Eden Creation Kit (G. E. C. K.) to save your city from 
 its drought. You meet up with many adventurers such as Sulik, Vic, Tycho, Lenny and some others.
 
  You and your band of adventurers must find the 'holy' geck and save your tribe from extincsion. 
 The brotherhood is also in the game as it was in fallout, unfortunately the brotherhood is a mere 
 shell of its former glory. Once you find the geck and return to your city, you find your tribe 
 captured. The city lies in ruins, th Enclave has caputured your tribe and it is up to you to rescue 
 them. That is your main mission. The game itself has a ton of freedom and sidemissions. Fallout 
 II like its predicessor gives you unlimited control over your actions. Save the Wasteland or Conquer 
 it. The Choice is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 1 was a ground breaker and surprised me with it's simple yet addictive design. Fallout 
 2 increases the fun with a better story and better character development. Some of the only problems 
 with the original have been solved with Fallout 2's party characters that actually have depth. 
 And sometimes even a brain. There is more of a connection between your band of misfit heroes and 
 you actually care... even sad if they die. 
  As far as the gameplay goes, it's the same. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. 
  There are some 
 additions to the player creation page, which was always my favorite part anyway. More skills and 
 traits to add to a personality that can make or break your survival.
  Truly excellent game. We can all hope that Fallout 3 will finally be produced by someone.... anyone. 
 Cheers Black Isle... this one's for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  The Fallout Series is what the Shadowrun games should have ended up being if sequels were made. 
 They are very similar in so many ways that I cant wait for the new Shadowrun game to come out, 
 but I digress. 
  
  What Fallout 2 does different is that this world is much more grittier and surreal. The atmosphere 
 is pretty much just a wasteland where ever you go. Even when it looks like a town is doing well, 
 I still couldnt help but feel like its just temporary and that the death that just emanates from 
 the wastes would quickly swallow it up. The graphics reflect these junk ridden places. This Isnt 
 a game where you can find something of beauty. The graphics are done in a gritty 2-D fashion and 
 really show their age, however most items can be made out easily. One complaint is that some items 
 are just difficult to see. There are numerous items in the game, from a large arsenal of weapons 
 and armor to about a dozen or so drugs of both the legal and illegal types. 
  
  Other complaints are that this game does suffer from a few bugs. Theres some faults in the AI 
 that causes team NPCs to do absolutely nothing during a battle while other times they will just 
 be directed to a foe that is off the screen. Another thing is the limits of the 2-D environment. 
 The characters sometimes get clogged in small passageways and its hard to clear them out. Theres 
 also this strange thing that happened in combat where it would cycle through my teams turns while 
 injuring the enemy at a pretty fast pace. This glitch caused the enemies to die but they looked 
 just frozen in the regular standing position. 
  
  The story was pretty good but its the characters that really make this game shine. From tribal 
 elders, to disgusting ghouls, this game pretty much has every time of dirt bag profession and it 
 has it in spades. The game is also full of pop culture references and little jokes. The Fallout 
 series is known for its humor and almost every city has a dozen or so jokes in it. The only thing 
 found in more abundance than the humor is the secrets. Between random special encounters and a 
 few ways to beat every quest, its easy to see how this game will take a few walkthroughs just 
 to see the majority of it. 
  
  The sound is still good and the voice acting is all done well when theres voice acting. Only the 
 most important characters are vocal and thats not such a bad thing. It seems they knew to give 
 some people dialog, some people just floating lines and no interaction while others got the full 
 blown treatment. 
  
  Overall it was a great game that felt very familiar from the outset. With a Shadowrun game in the 
 works and hopefully some news on a Fallout 3, People will be able to get their futuristic RPG hopefully 
 twice this year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelhorse76
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I BOUGHT THE FALLOUT 1 & 2 COMBO PACK A FEW FEARS AGO FOR $9.00 AND I THOUGHT WHAT THE HELL IT'S 
 9 BUCKS. SINCE THEN I CAN'T FIND IT ANY MORE BUT THAT GAME LEFT A HOLE IN ME THAT NO GAME COULD 
 REPLACE. YEA IT'S LOW TECH AND THE GRAPHICS DON'T BRING SMOKE TO TODAYS GRAPHICS PROCESSORS. BUT 
 IT IS THE FEEL OF A WELL WRITTEN IDEA OF FREEDOM OF PLAY AND DIRECT FEEDBACK FOR YOUR GOOD OR BAD 
 DEEDS. I ALSO LOVE THE UNDERLYING TONES OF GRAPHIC SEX AND VIOLENCE. ALL WE NEED IS SOMEONE TO 
 PICK UP THETORCH AND DIRECT THIS GAME INTO A PG.... DISNEY APPROVED STORY. LET'S FACE IT IF THIS 
 STORY WOULD REALLY HAPPEN DO YOU THINK THOSE CENSORSHIP GUYS WILL BE AROUND ANYMORE. NO! HEHE JUST 
 ALL OF US THAT STILL MAINTAINS OUR RANK ON THE FOOD CHAIN. I FEEL LIKE THIS GAME IS LIKE TRAINER 
 FOR A SURVIVAL SITUATION LETS KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK. AND I HAVE AN IDEA FOR ALL OF US FANS THAT 
 WANT FALLOUT 3 TO CONTINUE INTO PRODUCTION INSTEAD OF PULLING THE PLUG: HAVE THE FANS MAKE A TRIBUTE 
 SIGHT WITH A DONATION BOX ON IT SO THE FANS CAN BUY THAT SUCKER AND DIRECT IT THE WAY WE LIKE IT 
 AND LETS GET IT ON THE SHELVES.... THANKS "THE BROTHER" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is one of the most interesting approaches to the postapocalyptic RPG Games:
  
  Unlike many other RPGs you've got futuristic weapons, a huge amount of perks (feats) and skills 
 to pick from.. and an atmospheric, compelling non-linear gameplot. And it has certainly improved 
 since the Original Fallout.
  
  Although the game is really hard, it is certainly worth a try. Even if it is only for one single 
 and very rare, uber-violent Critical-Hit Gore-Death Scene. ;D
  
  You will find yourself in a turn-based tactical combatsystem which is neatly weaved into this RPG.
 
  
  The story is great and you can do about everything you ever wanted. And with everything i mean 
 everything. Specially if you are thinking about rated content.. Wanna be a Pimp? Be it! Wondering 
 about the consequences when you hit innocent children with a Sledgehammer? Try it if you are coldblooded.. 
 Dig graves for some loot? Or be an "actor" in Ero-Movies?
  
  Its really up to you. Feel free to play the class you like, and do the things you want. In a widespread 
 variety. 
  
  Instant Classic, Nr. 2
  
  I can only recommend this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksimbol
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  
  In this game you can do all ... 
  The history it perfect and the game of now are following a line , you must do this and this, it 
 is hard, it is not a replic of other game and fallout tactics its not like 2 but have better graphics. 
 
  I hate the people who dont play this game or try to compare with MU or Diablo
  For last I play this game about 5 times and i discover other things .
  
  Pd : Try to understand 
 what I say and a recommendation if you like anime NARUTO
  
  Goodbye 
  And 
  Luck
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haasman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Perfection, no discussion possible. and because these text reviews need to be at least 100 words 
 long: hail Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, 
 hail Fallout, hail Fallout Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout 
 Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, 
 hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, 
 hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, 
 Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, 
 hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail 
 Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, 
 hail Fallout, hail Fallout, Fallout, hail Fallout, hail Fallout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeNotYou3020
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is an excellent game. The game has so many possibilities, and in my opinion it was quite 
 groundbreaking. There are so many options to chose from and so many different paths to walk in 
 this game. The game is very entertaining, each character you can interact with has their own distinct 
 personality. And leveling your skills is so worthwhile. The amount of things you can do in this 
 game makes it definitely worth playing. Getting items, joining gangs, recruiting characters, getting 
 your ride, and interacting with the characters in all of the different post-apocalyptic towns opens 
 up different puzzles and challenges that affect your storyline as you go on. The post apocalyptic 
 view in this world shows you how every town grows and governs themselves after 'the big one' hits, 
 and displays some very distinct viewpoints which oftentimes will make you think. Also as the game 
 goes on you start to realize how much your own personal values and beliefs will play into the choices 
 you make throughout the game. All of these different aspects rolled together make this game amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarotbound
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is a great game, and worthy of the series, made by the now out-of -business Black Isle 
 Studios (Interplay division) it continues the storyline of the orginal quite well, and should be 
 in every gamers collection.
  
  The reason why i gave it a "Mixed Reaction" is that for some reason, certain quests were omitted 
 from the game, while the "starter items" ect. were still in place, this can be a bit frustrating 
 running around trying to find a person, or item that dosen't exist in-game, this dosen't affect 
 the game as a whole exactly, but it would have been nice to be able to "Find Sulik's Sister" and 
 so on.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aoleon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I know I'm late writing this review but in this case it't never late! :) I want to make anyone 
 who haven't play this game to certainly try it. I don't wanna write review of the game, cause I 
 think it'll ruin the fun of "first time playing Fallout". Fallout 2, even the original Fallout 
 are best games in RPG genre!
  From start when you have to choose player attributes, skills and perks ( something like special 
 abilities) till the end when you are killing machine, game is interesting and enjoyable. It's fun 
 to start all over you just distribute point to your abilities and skills... and you have totally 
 different game. For example having Luck 8 or 4 will bring entirely different happening throughout 
 the game... I really don't want to say anything anymore... JUST TRY IT FOR YOURSELF!! Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Fallout2 is one of those RPGs that take a very experienced player to play. Someone that has been 
 around Diablo, been around Baulder's Gate, been around D&D, and pretty much mastered them. Unless 
 you are just naturaly awesome at the RPG gameplay. When i played it, it took me awile to catach 
 on but then i got what it was all about. It can get very frustrating and boring because it is a 
 very diffifcult game. I have never really been a fan of the turn based type of gameplay like this 
 but with the difficulty and excitment, you really cant turn this down if you like a good challenge. 
 But I would say rent it first, because the probability is that you won't be able to understnad 
 wth you are doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  I've never played the first Fallout, but back then there weren't that many RPGs to choose from 
 and I knew someone who had the first which prompted me to get this one. Playing the first game 
 would be helpful to understand the plot more, but it isn't necessary. The game's graphics appear 
 grainy, but hardcore fans would argue that since this game takes place after a nuclear fallout, 
 things are meant to look ill. The world is very desolate and not somewhere normal people would 
 want to be, it's like living in Somalia. The soundtrack can get annoying, so play your own music 
 while playing this. There are numerous bugs in the game. When I played it I lived through it, but 
 if you haven't played it yet, there should be patches online to fix some of the problems, such 
 as the car disappearing from the map, forcing you to reload (if you're lucky, otherwise this can 
 make you start the game over) . There are items that you have to find on the ground, but often the 
 graphics are so bad you can't even see the tiny thing. You have to go over the entire area with 
 your mouse to see where it is, very frustrating. This is a game that's so long and ridden with 
 bugs that you'll probably not want to play it twice, also the combat is really slow. It's turn 
 based. The good things are that there are good weapons, you can do various things with NPCs (ability 
 to change some small aspects should you play it again) . The story is original and you can do many 
 interesting things, such as being a boxer and getting money to buy things with. You can keep playing 
 the game after it's over, so unlike most RPGs which restricts you to enemies that correspond to 
 your skill level, you can go back with your uber skills and take out the punks that were giving 
 you such a hard time at the earlier levels of the game. It's a good game that could've been better, 
 if it weren't for all the bugs that came with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is probably one of my favourite games I have ever played in my lifetime.
  
  The whole post-apocalyptic setting and landscape, reminiscent of the Mad Max films with biker punks, 
 mutants and other incarnations of the wasteland make this game an intense, funny, political and 
 cerebral experience.
  
  Fallout 2's simplicity in how its interface and character control works is so amazing when you 
 begin to realize that your given the bear minimum to survive and conquer the wasteland ahead of 
 you.
  
  You gain perks and traits which i think is an absolutely amazing system, KIND-OF true to life in 
 a way since your creating a character here who is in the template of how you would survive in the 
 given situation that Fallout 2 places before you.
  
  The political aspect comes into play later in the game however you can kind of pick up on it through 
 stories from the MANY NPCs in the game who give a lovely and not so lovely backdrop to the Fallout 
 Universe, e. g why everything is the way it is etc.
  
  I totally dismiss discussion on the game's graphics since the game kind of focuses more on a simplistic 
 aspect of graphics here. Also because of restraints of game engines back when its made, they couldn't 
 exactly make a full blown "Morrowind" type experience for you here, but still it looks Retro and 
 i think thats pretty cool and suits the game so well.
  
  The music reminds me of the music you hear in "Fist of the North Star" and sometimes in the X-Files. 
 It sets the atmosphere so well, this constant loneliness you feel and that your are alone and have 
 to fend for yourself i think is such an enticing aspect.
  
  Weapon wise the game boasts alot of weapons of which can be customized. The combat system is also 
 effective in the sense of its actually VERY satisfying blowing your enemies apart with a mini-gun 
 or a roundhouse kick in some cases!!!
  
  Combined with an excellent story-line, non-pretentious Adult humours wit, amazing atmospheric music 
 and a feeling you just can not capture in any other video game, Fallout 2 is one of the games that 
 will be in the top 10 of best games ever made of all time.
  
  The fact that me and MANY people still play and buy this game today proves this.
  
  A Masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Spirit
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Fallout is more than a game! It's a vast living universe crafted with love and attention by a devoted 
 gaming company, which is long no more. Fallout universe contains so much meaning, so much detail, 
 so much surprises and twists that ,chances are, you will not discover everything after playing 
 the game even for a dozen times. True, games like WoW have many more fans, but if you're smart 
 and least somewhat educated you would know that the opinion of majority is not necessarily a right 
 one. So stop grinding for zevras hooves/tails/beaks/ears and check out what a real story driven 
 gameplay feels like. 
  
  If you decide to play Fallout 2 don't forget to download the ultimate fan made patch, and after 
 you beat the game a few times, if you have questions (and you will, trust me, and many of that) 
 check out Fallout Bible which contains tons of background information and explains many of the 
 game's mysteries.
  
  P. S. Fallout is a game from the past era of gaming, about 7 years old. So if you don't know what 
 you're talking about, don't spew out your comments on outdated graphics and sound. Fallout is more 
 than what can be expressed through graphics, and what's there does its function pretty well. It's 
 a RETRO classic, and if you don't appreciate/understand/feel its style and art, don't comment.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndersSPOON
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  One of the most en-capturing games I've ever gotten my paws on. A storyline that leaves you both 
 satisfied and begging for more. Game play that, while its graphics don't compare with today's games, 
 still enthralls the player after playing it a hundred times over. The fact that the only game similar 
 to Fallout 2, Fallout Tactics, surprises and dissappoints me. Fallout's creators definately had 
 something and if they had run with it I'm sure Fallout would be a household word today and kids 
 would have PipBoy lunch boxes. A definite must-have. I would sell my soul for Interplay or Black 
 Isle to create another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallesh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:01 am PT
Review:  I see none games that is as fun ,logic and addictive as Fallout 2 ....
  The first game was also Superb but this one offers more freedom more action more tricky moments 
 and more what the heck you want.. :) As it is the best game in its class (Rpg) it has more to offer 
 and probably the best game idea of the era... 
  Create an army with your carisma or be your own king and get over everything in solo... , Be a 
 Hero and savior of everyone ,or be a villain and terrorize the new world... It's up to you select 
 your destiny in this cursed new world ... and be ready for the Surprises ... 
  I'm repeating for imbeciles... It's the Best GAME EVER .. play it or get out.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigaras
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Everybody knows Fallout, a post nuclear role playing game, and most of them would say that it is 
 one of the best ever role playing games and truly the best ever post nuclear RPG. It has the most 
 un-linear storyline I ever player, and the most hardcore I would say: you can be good, can be bad, 
 can be a drug dealer, or a cop, or a slut or whatever you can think of. You can make townsmen like, 
 even love you, or you can just genocide everyone by getting wanted by bounty hunters. And the look 
 of the game, the gameplay - just perfect for XX age: lots of blood (if you want it) , lots of hard 
 language, you can even drive a car or have sex with somebody and even get married! You simply have 
 to play it and beg for 3rd part. Sorry for my big rating, but it is the very best post nuclear 
 role playing game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamkurowski
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is an excellent allround rpg and is still one of my favorites even though its quite old 
 now. The whole story is set after fallout 1. After you complete fallout 1, your character, the 
 vault dweller, becomes an outcast and goes out into the desert to start a village named arroyo. 
 You are one of the generations below the vault dweller many years later. Since arroyo is very low 
 tech and doesnt have very good access to food and water, your people are starting to starve and 
 die. Your job is to go out and find a holy GECK (garden of eden creation kit) which can bring back 
 life to your village. The gameplay is really good, lots of action and gore which can sometimes 
 be funny and enjoyable. Lodes of weapons to choose from, plasma cannons, guass rifles and even 
 some classic guns like desert eagles and magnum revolvers. This is the sequal to fallout 1 which 
 was set after a nuclear war, so theres mostly deserts and whats left of citys and towns to explore 
 and lots of people to meet. Some of the people you meet can be quite weird depending on which part 
 of the map your on. fallout 2 has still kept some of the classic enemies and allies from the first 
 fallout, ie super-mutants, ghouls etc and has added more enemies like aliens and the enclave. The 
 graphics and sound are OK, but expect nothing modern and new as this game did come out a few years 
 ago now. The game can be hard at times depending on the choices you make and doesn't take that 
 long to get the hang of things. Overall good value and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, I bought this the second I heard of it, and wasn't totally amazed. I was happy to see a new 
 game in the series, but it was too much of the old... and not enough of it at the same time. 
  
  Alright, I admit the game totally rocked on the gameplay level. Good dogs shant ever die. The 
 new party member control system was a welcome addition and the car... ok, the car was a GODSEND! 
 Hehe, new weapons and even more Northern California to explore. The only real problem I had with 
 this world was that some of the settlements seemed... too happy. Things are just going too well 
 for a world terrorized by mutated lizards and raiders. But, the storyline was mysterious and immersive. 
 
  
  The graphics were outdated. I know BlackIsle threw in some of their own animations, but at least 
 up the resolution! Well, it was still nice to see ol' leather armored baldy gettin his arm blown 
 off... and good ol Dogmeat!
  
  The sound, once again, nuthin to new. Just many of the old tracks with a couple old ones. I rate 
 em high because of the nostalgic value, the military base was never meant to have any other kinda 
 music. *places hand over heart at the music*
  
  Ok, awesome game anyways, go play it, it fits in better than any of the other sequels. Something 
 secretly tells me this is the last relevant Fallout we may ever see though... go home to your families 
 and grieve together... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Fallout was an undeniably great game and it is of no surprise that Black Isle produced a sequel 
 only a year later. Fallout 2 used the exact same engine as the original game while still managing 
 to pull off being a solid and fresh game in its own right.
  
  Fallout 2 is set long after the original. You play as a member of a tribe founded by the original 
 character from Fallout, and not only that you are also his descendent. At the beginning of the 
 game; after a somewhat pointless trial you learn that your tribe is screwed. Therefore the Elder 
 sends you out into the wastes of California with nothing but your spear and the original Vault 
 Dweller's rags to retrieve a "G. E. C. K." (Garden of Eden Creation Kit) . Not unlike the original 
 fallout; that is only the beginning.
  
  Fallout 2 for the most part plays just like the original. You have a similar form of world map, 
 and the same turn based combat system. If you like turn based combat in RPGs then Fallout 2 will 
 appeal to you, but if you dislike it stay away. Fallout 2 also features the same choice based gameplay 
 as its predecessor. You'll still make dialogue choices (occasionally humorous) that very well might 
 effect the entire game world. Fallout 2 does go a bit overboard with the humor, however; there 
 are occasionally bits like a "Star Trek" reference, a "Monty Python" reference and other parts 
 that seem disjointed from the gameworld and completely unnecessary.
  
  The graphics in Fallout 2 haven't changed from the original at all. There's also barely anything 
 new in the graphics department except for a couple story related characters. You'll find that F2 
 has the same 2D sprites placed upon very familiar looking landscapes.
  
  The audio in Fallout 2 is a mixed bag like its predecessor. The voice acting and sound effects 
 are all well and good, but the music is practically non-existant and what is there is so silent 
 and so forgettable that it won't really matter.
  
  Fallout 2 is a goodfollow up to the original game overall, but is flawed by some unnecessary bits 
 of humor and the "same old, same old" that makes Fallout 2 often feel like a retread of the original. 
 If you're a fan of the first try it; if you haven't played the first yet you're better off playing 
 that one before this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThnkU4thePoison
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  When Interplay budgeted a small company named Black Isle to work on a new line of PC video games 
 (they created, Fallout and were working on Torment, and there was another series they made but 
 im not quite sure what it was) they didnt know that they would be landing a title like Fallout 
 naming it PC RPG of the Year 1997. They also didnt know their second installment into the series 
 was going to be even better. 
  
  Fallout 2 was set into a post-apocalyptic future where you are the one. Sounds like the Matrix. 
 Anyways, the story line is absolutely amazing! You think that at first it is going to be really 
 dumb with going and finding a "Garden of Eden" kit that will re-establish the world as they once 
 knew it as a beautiful place, the story-line begins to broaden itself and expand the character 
 you play as you go along. You decide wether or not he is going to be a good or bad guy as well. 
 Fable didn't do anything revolutionary, Fallout did. In addition you also are to do a boat load 
 of miniature side quests that help the story along into one magnificient game.
  
  Pro's:
  Voice Acting is good (When it is there)
  New kind of game not the old fantasy crud
  You can 
 Steal or Give back
  Different kind of Story-line
  Great Replay
  
  Cons:
  If you dont have the manual, its hard to get used to the controls
  Somewhat Hard Battle System 
 (Like its hard to get used to)
  RARE GAME
  
  _Lucus_
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMC9000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Upon first reading the phrase, "the best game ever made" many will no doubt be skeptical. Which 
 is entirely understandable. Fallout 2 is an old game, is not known to as much people as it should 
 be, and there hasn't been a sequel made since it was released back in 1998. 
  
  That means nothing however, as anyone, ok I'll more accurately state the overwhelming majority 
 of those who have played this game, would proudly proclaim that this game is simply outstanding 
 on every level. 
  
  You do not need to be a fan of role playing games or even have played the first one, to truly get 
 into, become addicted and love this game. The amount of detail, the great sense of humor, and the 
 fun there is to be had playing this game is almost immediately evident the first few minutes into 
 it. Fallout 2 is an improvement on Fallout 1, which is actually a hard thing to do. Fallout 1 when 
 released a year earlier, was named game of the year by many top gaming critics, and introduced 
 many ground breaking ideas and concepts that many games are using today. Fallout 2 improved upon 
 some of the things in the original, and made a good game even better. Now you drive a car through 
 the wasteland, now you can equip your teammates with armor and custom weapons as well as change 
 their settings, you have more control over almost everything and there is far more detail put into 
 this game, not to mention a larger world and a bigger story. It is no lie to say, Fallout 1 was 
 incredible but Fallout 2 is outstanding. The two of these games however, are in my opinion far 
 better, and far more entertaining and fun, then pretty much all of the newer games being released 
 even right now in 2005. 
  
  When I first played Fallout 2 I was instantly lured into the story, and began what would be hours 
 upon hours of devoting my time to this game. The story is appealing to anyone, for it deals with 
 a future that is not too far fetched. As stated earlier, you do not need to have played the original 
 Fallout to truly get into Fallout 2, but knowing the back story of Fallout 1 adds to the overall 
 experience... don't worry though, learning the events of Fallout 1 is something you will gradually 
 come to learn from playing this sequel anyway. Not to mention, Fallout 2 comes with an instruction 
 manual that briefs you on the original game. 
  
  In the first game, we are told how modern civilization collapses in the year 2077A. D with the catastrophic 
 event of the third world war, which results in a global nuclear apocalypse. The earth has been 
 bombarded with nuclear missiles in the ensuing fight, and once great superpowers like America, 
 China, Russia and the European union are no more. Fallout 1 begins 80 years after the bombs fell, 
 the main character of the game, known only as the wanderer leaves his large protective community 
 fallout shelter (known as a Vault, Vault 13 specifically) and goes out in search of a water chip, 
 which the people of his vault so badly need in order to maintain their lifestyle of living protected 
 inside their vault. By this time the radiation in the world has subdued, so the wanderer can leave 
 his vault to venture outside. However the radiation has changed the world, and there are now ghouls, 
 super-mutants, rad-scorpions and all kinds of mutated creatures and people who have been effected 
 by the radiation over the decades. Not to mention the large amount of normal people living on the 
 outside, who can be equally hostile or helpful to the wanderer. To sum up the story of the original 
 game, which is just an outright awesome game, the wanderer finds the water chip, among other amazing 
 feats he has to carry out while on the outside world. He brings back the chip to the overseer of 
 his vault and is exiled to the outside for security reasons. A cruel reward for a noble quest.
 
  
  Now we come to Fallout 2, a game set 80 years after the wanderer of the first game was exiled. 
 In Fallout 2, you are the relative of the original wanderer. And in this game, you will begin a 
 quest of your own, following in the footsteps of your ancestor, and equally as noble. Your quest 
 is to find an item that will help with the survival of your village. Your village was established 
 by your ancestor after he was exiled, it has been maintained throughout the ages but now it is 
 dying. Your village elder tells you of the item which is called the Garden of Eden creation Kit, 
 or G. E. C. K. If you can obtain this item, it has the ability to replenish the village and cause 
 it to thrive in prosperity once again. After proving yourself worthy of going on this quest, you 
 then agree to set out in search of this important item. Your peoples lives are at stake. 
  
  That is the main story behind Fallout 2, which makes for an awesome series of events which 
 follow. In the process of this game you will go from village to village, to the occasional city, 
 in search of what you need. You will explore the post nuclear wasteland, and you will encounter 
 foes of all kind. The wasteland is a dangerous place, and will require whatever skills you have 
 in order for you to survive. Of course in the process of your quest, you are granted complete freedom. 
 You can work for various people, or groups, take on several side quests, gain popularity, gain 
 followers, and/or become a notorious badass wanted across the land.... these things, among other 
 things. The game really has tons of options for you to partake of. 
  
  One of the best things about Fallout is of course its realism. Sure radscorpions, mutated ghouls 
 and supermutants would not be considered real by anymeans, but they become probable given the circumstances 
 of this story. This is a post nuclear world, the radiation has changed people and animals. Not 
 only is fallout 2, like its predecessor, real in this regard, but also the way you interact with 
 people, the way you are judged by your actions, the way you have choices in everything that you 
 do... makes the experience real, and makes it all the more engaging and fun. 
  
  You will encounter all types of people, and just like in real life the way you interact with them 
 will have an effect on you and your environment. There are those who are evil, cruel, and coldhearted, 
 and there are those who are good people and willing to help you out... sometimes for a price. You 
 will be able to choose your alignment on the moral spectrum. Whether you decide to annihilate an 
 entire town, or help out its residents, the choice is up to you. 
  
  When you speak with people, you will almost always be given dialogue options. You can speak to 
 them as you really would, and/or you can decide how to treat people based on how you are feeling. 
 This game puts heavy emphasis on choice, and the realistic responses people will give in regards 
 to your choices. Ontop of this, always present is the cold hard reality that is perfectly simulated 
 in this game. You feel like you are in the real world. Fallout is no fantasy land. Yes the world 
 and environments of people do contain those who would be considered morally good, but many are 
 just like those you would encounter just by leaving your house right now. There is all kinds of 
 scum, and corrupt people in Fallout, which is very realistic. The best part about it? You can choose 
 whether to help, work for, or even become one of them.
  
  Still on the topic of realism, Fallout 2, and the original for that matter, have a very realistic 
 and graphic system of combat. When you encounter the other beings around you in this game, and 
 things get rough, either started by you, or them, you will get into a fight. Fallout 2 contains 
 almost every weapon you can imagine, from your bare fists, to melee weapons, to all types of firearms 
 including military and even futuristic technology. When you engage in combat, those that end up 
 being killed by these weapons will die in a realistic and grisly fashion. A mini gun will realistically 
 and graphically decimate a person, a sledgehammer will break every bone that it hits and topple 
 them over, a shotgun will shoot large holes in people, you will see them react to the weapon like 
 a person would in real life and hear their reactions as well. In all my time playing games, I have 
 never seen a more realistic and appropriate way of people reacting to the weapons used on them. 
 Ontop of this, if you are feeling particularly morbid, you can up the violence meter... making every 
 death as gruesome as possible. This all adds to the effect that you are truly in a cold and realistic 
 world.
  
  Fallout has the feel of the wild west, only set in the future. For the most part, outside of the 
 city and town boundaries, there is no law. Many cities and towns even have no law, and those that 
 do often make it feel like they do. One of the most enjoyable aspects of Fallout is simply feeling 
 like you truly do exist in this cold and hard reality. You feel like you are the character you 
 are playing for. When I played as an evil character, and saw bounty hunters coming to bring me 
 in for things I did earlier while I was traveling through the wasteland, I truly felt like a wanted 
 man. Your actions have consequences and repercussions, just like they do in the real world. You 
 will get a sense as you play, that every decision you make has the potential to effect you in some 
 way. 
  
  The realism factor is definitely my favorite, but it is a combination of things found in this game 
 that truly make it outstanding. The level of detail is amazing. I am still surprised even today, 
 at how much dialogue there is in this game. Nearly every person you encounter has something to 
 say, and you can interact with them. I am amazed at the amount of weapons put into this game, and 
 the descriptions of those weapons that have been provided. I love how any item in the game has 
 its own description. As you point to certain objects, the indicator at the bottom will say what 
 you see in detail. 
  
  As well, there is the added great sense of humor put into this game. You will laugh at how eccentric, 
 and outright hilarious some of the characters you encounter will be. The amount of references to 
 pop culture are almost endless as well. When you play this game you get the feel the people who 
 made it really loved making this game. Something harder to come by, when playing most games of 
 today. 
  
  The graphics are great and perfectly suitable for this game. They give a realistic feel. The sound 
 is also great, and sometimes frightening. Every weapon sounds realistic, and the wailing howls 
 of some environments will give you the creeps. There are many characters that actually talk, you 
 will encounter those who will have what is called "talking heads" they are animated, and use real 
 voice dialogue, often from some notable people in hollywood like Michael Dorn, Peter Jason, and 
 Jeffrey Jones (Fallout 1 had its own memorable star lineup to do the voices) . Ron Perlman is also 
 in the game, and does the narration. He's great in the Reprisal of his role from Fallout 1. "War... war 
 never changes..." I love that line. 
  
  Is this an adult game? For the most part yes. It does deal with a lot of swearing, cruel language, 
 violence, drug use and even sexual themes. You can go down to the whore house and buy sex or even 
 pimp people, you can get addicted to drugs, you can drink booze when you feel like it and you can 
 kill people at will or for some chump change. Its all up to you. So yes it is an adult game. But 
 this game is meant to be a cold and harsh reality, which is in my opinion, realistic. That's what 
 makes it all the more fun. 
  
  I could go on and on about this game. Seriously I love it. If I had to get rid of all my games, 
 and just keep one Fallout 2 is the one, and I have over a hundred of some of the best games available 
 on X-box, Playstation2, and PC.
  
  Fallout 2 is a remarkable achievement, so is fallout 1 for that matter. This series is the best 
 thing to ever hit the gaming market. In a way Im glad they haven't managed to make Fallout 3 yet, 
 I would prefer them not risking tainting this series until everything is perfect. One thing is 
 for sure though, I am majorly looking forward to Fallout 3 when they do make it.
  
  Why is this game and its predecessor not known to as many people as it should? I don't know. Although 
 I don't know anyone who's played this game that has said it sucks either. Fallout 1 and 2 did have 
 some minor bugs when first released, but the patches that are available now have completely fixed 
 those problems. Fallout 1 and 2 with the patches currently available to them, make these games 
 absolutely perfect. These games have a huge fan following for a reason.
  
  Im going to go as far as saying not since Mankind walked on the moon has such a glorious achievement 
 been accomplished. Fallout 1 and 2 are the height of human civilization, if we could demonstrate 
 our greatness as a species to an alien race that asked (because aliens are real you know) I would 
 suggest giving them a copy of Fallout 1 and 2. They will not only respect us, they will worship 
 us. 
  
  To those people who have created Fallout 1 and 2, I salute you. To those who haven't played either 
 of these great games yet, or missed one, go play it/them now! You will not regret it, I guarantee. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazela
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  It has been more than seven years since I first played Fallout 2 and, yet today, it's a game that 
 I keep installing in my PC to play again. Now I'll explain the reasons:
  
  1 - There's no other RPG so huge as this one. Not even Baldur's Gate 2 is so big and open-ended 
 as Fallout 2 is. The fact that it doesn't matter if you're good or bad (or anything between these 
 labels) , if you're a coward or a brave, man or woman, if you steal, gamble, bargain, if you talk 
 your way out of problems or just shoot enemies in the face, if you like to make meelee attacks 
 or use a complete arsenal... That's just perfect! There is no other game I know that you can finish 
 the game with rankings like Sexpert or Gigolo or even Boxing champion. There's no other game you 
 can be a child killer or a grave-digger, or a robot destroyer or robot constructor (!) . There is 
 a certain comment that surrounds Fallout 2 that helps defining it: If it took you less then 150 
 hours to finish the game, you haven't played it right.
  
  2 - This game was my and many other people's Postal. Postal never made any success in the country 
 I live (after all, it's quite a stupid game) . But the blood and violence present in Fallout, since 
 it's first installment, left marks all over the gaming society. Of course, you can turn much of 
 the violence and gore off but, what's the point? You don't expect to se a full and complete body 
 fall to the ground when you shoot it with a super machine gun. That we leave to kids.
  
  3 - Again, you can be bad. Do you understand the meaning of this? You can be the hero or the villain, 
 it's up to you. Fight together or against people of good will. This opportunity is really rare 
 in games. Even in RPG's.
  
  4 - You can look exactly like the others but be completely different from them. You won't become 
 white and with evil eyes if you are bad. That doesn't happen in real life, it doesn't happen in 
 the game. You won't shine and have an eternal smile in your face if you're good. You'll look just 
 like everybody else. That makes you part of the environment and takes you to the game.
  
  5 - There are so many side missions that there won't be a single second that you don't have something 
 to do. That works for both bad and good (and again, the betweens) .
  
  The graphics could be better, the sound could be better, the gameplay is difficult for beginners. 
 But all that doesn't matter at all after playing the game.
  
  And that's what makes it my favourite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshpit2010
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is a game that you can enjoy from the moment you pick up. Not only is its storyline awe-inspiring, 
 but its the sequel to an equally great game, Fallout. From the second you create your own character 
 from thousands of combinations, traits, skill point adjustments, and skills, you'll be thrown into 
 a great storyline of proving your strength and earning your honor - only to realise that none of 
 that means anything in the outside world which you were sent to. The game is truely massive; I 
 have spend well over 50 hours playing it. Though the graphics are dated, they are excellent for 
 its time. I'm going to track down an old copy of this game to play tomorrow, and enjoy every second 
 of reliving the expierence. A game not to be forgotten, and thats why, I give it a 9.9/10. Excellent. 
 Simply put. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:43 am PT
Review:  This is one of the Rare gems in the gaming industry. It is one the first games that i have loved 
 and cherished as a gamer. The minds that created this game are gaming gods themselves to create 
 such a masterpiece. Fallout 3 will be great and the future fallout series that will come out. One 
 suggestion is to make the graphics and the sound much better from the original because hey were 
 in 3D land already ok. All other vault dwellers out there, just send me a message and give me an 
 FYI about Fallout 3 also. Thanks in advance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyoybebop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  if i had it my way, I'd have way more levels to upgrade my guy. this game his the hype to get u 
 addicted to the game. you will never stop playing this game because of all of the weapons and armor. 
 when u run up to a guy and shoot him with ur smg at blast mode, body parts are just everywere. 
 I really hate the mark dude. it took me forever to figure out how to beat him. not just this game 
 out of the series is good. fallout tactics and brotherhood of steel are very cool to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is much the same as it's first. (For a more indepth review check my review for the first 
 Fallout) Chocked full of goodness.
  
  Ok the good: It is the same as the first fallout. Who said the came cant be good? Well it can. 
 The gameplay has a couple of tweeks to it. There are more combat moves. A few more character sprites. 
 And a larger area to play in. Also if you want to be evil this game gives you more of a chance 
 to bring out your inner darkness.
  
  And here is the bad:
  
  The same as the first fallout. Limited to 800 by 600. Bad AI. But a few more problems come along 
 for the ride. This game is BUGGY! A few patches fix a few of the bugs, but many more still exist: 
 quests with no way to complete them, and such. It is a pain in the butt. 
  
  But don't let this stop you from playing it. It needs to be played, then you can pass your judgement 
 on it. But PLAY IT. Go out to the store and buy it. I mean it do it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lysam
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Fallout2 is set in a world devastated by nuclear warfare, a Road Warrior type wasteland where only 
 the strong survive. Fallout2 doesn't have big time visuals but it is very VERY easy to see past 
 that when playing. Frankly this game is amazing, especially for its time. Fallout2 combines an 
 incredibly well written plotline with competitively difficult 3rd person combat and a wealth of 
 histerics. Fallout2 has great voice acting for several *picture* characters and a storyline and 
 gameplay that will not only knock your socks off, but incinerate them as well. The seriousness 
 of the subject matter is relieved with little jokes here and there that give you big laughs. The 
 combat in Fallout2 is different, but addictive and entertaining, making you WANT to match your 
 character against the toughest baddies (or on occasion goodies) you can find. A classic roleplaying 
 game, buy it, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymous21
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that I would not recommend purchasing this game unless you have played its 
 predecessor, Fallout (obviously) . This game has the same great aspects of its father, unfortunately, 
 it seems that somewhere the developers lost sight of what made Fallout great.
  
  Fallout was a game where Interplay held nothing back. They said what they wanted to say, and let 
 whatever mature devices that fit in go into the game. It was rated M, and it was fine. They only 
 put in things that contributed to the environment. Apparently, Interplay received a lot of positive 
 feedback about those kinds of things, as they put in a lot more this time around. Unfortunately, 
 this time, the mature aspects are just distracting as they are constantly prevalent in the game's 
 tone. In Fallout 2, you can become a Porn Star, earn a perk called "Kama Sutra Master" and have 
 sex in seemingly every single town you ever go in. I think that it is just over-the-top ridiculous.
 
  
  However, if that sort of thing doesn't bother you, and you liked Fallout, then buy this game. If 
 you, like me, are a little morally conservative, then you should give this one a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kivzirrum
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  RPG's are the Holy Genre of gaming, and this game is absolutely amazing. I first heard of it about 
 2 years ago from my best friend, and soon after bought both the original and this one, and they 
 are some of the greatest RPG's I have ever had the pleasure of playing. This one is pretty much 
 the same as the first, so I don't consider it to be better or worse, but it does expand greatly 
 on the original, features an amazing story (just like Fallout before it) and I, a turn-based hater, 
 loved the combat. This game is extremely mature, however, with tons of violence, lots of sex (you 
 can become a porn star, there's someone to have sex with in almost every town, etc.) and a healthy 
 dose of strong language of drugs. This is all handled pretty tastefully, however, and makes sense 
 in the context of a world overrun with murderers, evil politicians, and gang wars. Once again, 
 it is EXTREMELY similar to Fallout, but it is significantly longer. This game wasn't the most popular 
 ever made, but most who played it loved it, and it features better replay value than most games 
 out there. I'm pretty much al about high-fantasy, but I really love Fallout/2, which speaks volumes 
 for it. Bloody Mess rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forgetthename
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  The Fallout series is the flagship of the 90's RPG's, which means, it's a very good game.
  You start your adventure in a little tribe in a massive wasteland, the result of a ultimate nuclear 
 war. From here you'll will be sent out to find a G. E. C. K (Garden of eden creation kit) to the tribe. 
 Sounds too simple, but it isn't, and it will uncover so many secrets, that will keep you entertained.
 
  The world is massive, and you will find so many towns and factions, which you can interact with, 
 and interaction plays a great factor. All your actions will have a effect on how the different 
 people will like you, and chance the game in many ways, also how you choose to develop your character, 
 has a huge impact. The amount of work put into this ensures for a lot of replayability.
  The game is very mature with drugs, guns, sex and excessive violence and the style and presentation 
 of this is great. It's a rather dark world, filled with some nasty dark humor.
  
  Gameplay:
  Fallout 2 has a great stat-system. You have various skills for various situations 
 and character types. You get perks which can be a good help. There are so many ways to develop 
 your character, that this part alone takes a great deal of planning.
  You run around the towns and talk to people. When you speak to people, you have different choices 
 of what to say, if you're more intelligent, you have more options.
  You will fight a lot, and your stats and skills has a big impact here. The combat is turn-based, 
 and many things can happen here, critical hits, critical misses, the enemy runs away, and so much 
 more, nothing can be predicted.
  One annoying thing is the trading system, it's very hard to give the right amount of money, since 
 you can't just type in the number. But it certainly doesn't ruin the game.
  
  Graphics:
  The game features isometric graphics seen from above, that works really well. The environtments 
 are highly detailed, and the animation of all the stuff is good. But very much of the graphics 
 is reused a lot, which lowers the presentation a bit. (Today the graphics are not that pretty, 
 but the game is very old, so in that time it was very good.)
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects in the game are plenty and good, everything seem to work well. There's always 
 some ambient sound in the background, not actual music, and it's very fitting to the universe of 
 Fallout, so no worries.
  
  Value:
  Ultimate value! Everything you say and do has a bigger or smaller impact on the game, so you can 
 play the game again and again, and even get surprised. Or you could make another type of character 
 to see the game from a different angle.
  
  Tilt:
  One of the best RPG's I've ever played. I can only recommend this, since it has an interesting 
 story to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind_374
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Fallout 1 & 2 are my favourite games ever made what makes them great is how much there is to do 
 and Fallout 2 makes an already Perfect game even better. Fallout 2 is perfect because it does everything 
 right. Sure theres not a lot of voiced dialogue but this game has too much dialogue to voice. The 
 gameplay is great it works very well with the game the combat AI isn't top notch but it works well 
 for the year it was made. I've been playing Fallout 1 & 2 since they were released and I still 
 haven't discovered all of the quests/party members/dialogues. The game is just perfect in every 
 way that a RPG can be the coolest part is that it doesnt follow the conventonal RPGs it's not set 
 in a D&D themed era it's actually quite gritty set in a Post Neuclear era with prostitues, drug 
 dealers, fallout shelters, and The Brotherhood of Steel (a military group trying to restore the 
 wastelands and bring peace back to the world. Who plays a bigger part in Fallout 1 and Fallout 
 Tactics) Fallout 2 adds a lot to Fallout which makes it another one of the best RPGs ever made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 3:54 am PT
Review:  Negative views of our future are prevalent in movies and games. From Blade Runner to Syndicate, 
 large mega corporations are viewed as being the world leaders and people become less human in the 
 process, with both androids and cyborgs running freely. Interplay's Fallout games differ slightly, 
 and as the title suggests, are modeled after a post-apocalyptic future: an end of the world of 
 sorts following World War 3.
  
  Several 'vaults' had been set up in anticipation of nuclear fallout and a number of the population 
 took refuge in these underground bunkers during the war, and emerged unscathed. Of course, the 
 world they returned to was filled with radioactive waste, mutants, aliens, and other hostiles. 
 Governments have essentially been wiped away and the last so-called vestiges of humanity have turned 
 into groups of desperate raiders with nothing but self-preservation on the mind.
  
  Fallout 2 lets you assume the role of the child of The Vault Dweller (the hero from the first game) 
 in a quest that begins with your recovery of the Garden of Eden Creation Kit (G. E. C. K.) for the 
 tribe you grew up with. This quickly turns into a deadlier prospect than originally thought and 
 the game's story veers off sharply upon obtaining the device.
  
  An older-style RPG to the core, Fallout 2 (like its predecessor) combines a great deal of freedom 
 with enough focus so you aren't wandering the wasteland without a purpose. Character classes are 
 nonexistent, and you instead pick from a list of traits, perks, and skills to fashion your character 
 into the killing machine or sweet-talking person that you want them to be. The game dubs it the 
 SPECIAL system, an acronym formed by the main character traits - strength, perception, endurance, 
 charisma, intelligence, agility, and luck. Skills range from bartering and speech to small guns 
 and hand-to-hand combat, and you get additional points to distribute to these skills each level. 
 Every third level, however, you are awarded 'perks,' which are permanent enhancements to some part 
 of your character and they're available depending on your base stats. Some let you keep an extra 
 party member while others are more subtle, offering better critical hits or giving you an extra 
 action point to use in battle.
  
  Combat is entirely turn-based and is handled by assigning you a number of action points (AP) for 
 each round. Movement is handled on a hexagonal grid and your accuracy decreases with distance or 
 low light, so while you may be able to rip the ribcage out of a squatter (or his eyes, using the 
 game's optional targeting system) from two screens away at noon, the same shot at night will have 
 a much lower success rate. You can have party members, but cannot control them directly - as a 
 way to enhance the RPG feel, you can give suggestions and equip your party as you see fit, but 
 as soon as the guns come out they'll attack of their own accord. At times that isn't a good thing, 
 especially if they're using a weapon capable of burst fire and you or another party member happens 
 to be standing between them and their targeted enemy.
  
  The game's graphics are 2D and viewed from a standard 3/4 perspective. They're clean and have held 
 up reasonably well over the years, especially the various death animations which are - to say the 
 least - a bit graphic. Voice acting is equally solid, offering a number of actors that later voiced 
 characters in Eternal Darkness and Metal Gear Solid 2. But music is likely the game's greatest 
 fault: it is quite sparse, unfortunately, and is limited to a low wind noise plus the occasional 
 tribal drums beating. But despite that one aspect, the presentation and feel of the game is excellent.
 
  
  You'd also have a hard time finding a game that combines the same level of humour with more serious 
 topics - Fallout 2 plays through like the blackest of Monty Python sketches, with the classic Cartoon 
 Fallout Guy illustrating each perk and skill in the game and hilarious (not to mention occasionally 
 obscene) combat taunts that the various characters utter. Fallout 2 unashamedly kicks over the 
 barrier when it comes to violence, language, drugs, and sex in games, but not because it's trying 
 to offend people; the subject matter genuinely fits with the world. As you pass through the Cat's 
 Paw brothel or pump some Jet-addicts (Jet is the inhaled drug of choice in the Fallout universe) 
 full of bullets and watch them collapse in a heap, you probably won't even give it a second thought.
 
  
  With a unique world, a great deal of freedom, and one of the most satisfying character creation 
 and battle systems available, you'd be hard pressed to find a better RPG than Fallout 2. The fact 
 that it can be found for around $10 paired with the original and will run on every computer younger 
 than seven years makes it one of those must-buy games that no one's library should be without. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudieMurphy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2004 11:55 am PT
Review:  Fallout 2 all be it a classic now is one of the greatest role playing games of all time. With its 
 vast twisting plot and diverse characters nonplayer and party alike. The many choices you can make 
 to be good or evil. The skills you want your hero to specialize in. Make the game very repalyable. 
 With the addition of party inventory making it easy to equip your team with the best weapons and 
 armor. A big improvement over the first fallout. To the unrestricted go anywhere anytime flow that 
 lets you do what you please. The 1950's duck and cover feel adds to the over all appeal. Its a 
 must have game and doesnt feel to dated for newer gamers to get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: instig8tor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2004 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 2 is a definite classic in the annals of gaming, just like its predecessor. An editorial 
 by Greg K recently revealed that Fallout is his favorite game of all time, and Fallout 2 was built 
 on the exact same game, universe, and engine.
  
  A few things about Fallout 2 are not as great as 1, such as the fact that there are less ways to 
 complete missions, and a bit less variety in the gameplay - but most of the people reading this 
 will not have even played one, much less find a maachine it will run on.
  
  Fallout 2 is an absolute perfect example of a great Western-style RPG from the 90s. The wit and 
 humor in this game is unparalleled. The atmosphere and environment in the game are nothing we've 
 seen in gaming before or since. The best way I can describe this game is a more intelligent version 
 of Diablo 2 mixed with the movie Mad Max. The game features fun and outrageous turn-based combat, 
 mostly based on guns. The game's perk system for character development is among one of the most 
 unique in a game I've seen.
  
  The music and atmosphere really contribute to the wasteland environment. The soundtrack is somewhere 
 between cool and haunting... kind of like Prodigy mixed with the Diablo soundtrack mixed with ambient 
 noises. The game supports many different ways to complete a solution, and will scale itself around 
 the way you play your character. The game is completely open-ended, and you can go anywhere and 
 do whatever you feel. 
  
  Some of the dialogue in the game is beyond hilarious. For a great laugh, make a character with 
 an intelligence of 3 or lower. The game's first spoken dialogue of "Go to Klamath, reach Vault 
 13 and find the Gek" becomes "Go Klamath, Find shiny Thing", etc. This game's sarcastic humor is 
 everywhere, and unfortunately, we don't see much of this type today. It's really a testament to 
 older games that even though they don't have the graphics or special effects they have today, they 
 are sometimes more captivating because of the ideas and environment behind them. The effort was 
 put on the "mental" end, rather than making pretty waterfalls or big guns.
  
  The graphics aren't bad. Considering the game was made in 1998, the graphics are still cool to 
 this day, and still hold up, even though sometimes they remind me of a Sega or an early Playstation 
 game. 
  
  Wow, this review is very rambling, and didn't really make sense or follow a pattern. I'm tired. 
 Anyways, if you're an RPG fan, and you're lucky enough to find a copy of Fallout 2... buy it and 
 play it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
