-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fantastic 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fantasticfour/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Real actors' voices.
 Upgradable fighting moves.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland graphics.
 Controls feel imprecise.
 Campaign doesn't take long to beat.
 Some sound bugs and clipping.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 6.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 302 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Beenox
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Jun 27, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fantastic 4 suffers from imprecise controls, a lackluster presentation, a few bugs, and other issues 
 that make it difficult to recommend. 

  Fantastic 4 is a beat-'em-up based on a movie of the same name, which is in turn based on a comic 
 book series created by Jack Kirby and Stan Lee. The game takes some cues from X-Men Legends in 
 that you can quickly switch between up to four different heroes and upgrade their abilities as 
 you battle your way through Dr. Doom's legions of robots and other monstrous foes and minibosses. 
 Unfortunately, the game suffers from imprecise controls, a lackluster presentation, a few bugs, 
 and other issues that make it difficult to recommend.  

          You'll control anywhere from one to all four of the titular heroes in each level.     

 
  In the game, you'll control four different heroes (hence the name) , each of whom has unique powers 
 and abilities. Mr. Fantastic is able to stretch and deform himself, which allows him to reach far-away 
 objects and attack enemies from a great distance. The Invisible Woman is a relatively weak hand-to-hand 
 fighter, but she can turn invisible and perform abilities that freeze opponents in place. The Human 
 Torch is extremely fast and can ignite enemies, while the Thing is a large brute who can dish out 
 tons of damage, as well as take it. All four heroes won't be available to you at all times. In 
 most of the levels you'll be limited to only one or two characters, as the game's storyline will 
 often depict the foursome splitting up and taking on tasks in parallel. Switching between heroes 
 can be done quickly by tapping on the D pad in the console versions of the game, while in the PC 
 version, each character is mapped to a key.  

  Each character has three special cosmic powers that can be unleashed with double button presses, 
 as well as combo moves that can be done by pushing the two attack buttons in different orders. 
 Unleashing a cosmic power is quicker and easier than performing a combo, but these cost energy, 
 which recharges slowly or can be replenished from broken items or defeated foes. If you play your 
 cards right, you can recharge as much energy as you use, so in enemy-rich areas, it's possible 
 to unleash one cosmic power after another, making them somewhat imbalanced. There are other interesting 
 aspects to the fighting system, such as the ability to grapple or combo-grapple with your teammates. 

          Sure there are special abilities and combos, but Fantastic 4 still plays like a run-of-the-mill 
 beat-'em-up.     

  However, in a practical sense there really isn't as much variety as you might think in the fighting 
 system. Just about every character has a ranged attack, an area attack, and powerful moves for 
 single foes. In most cases, the game is designed to reward strength over other abilities, so you'll 
 usually use The Thing or Mr. Fantastic when they're available since they're the best melee fighters. 
 It's also worth noting that both the cosmic powers and the combo abilities in Fantastic 4 can be 
 upgraded using points you earn as you fight enemies and make your way through levels. Points are 
 shared across characters.  

  There are also other special abilities that are context-sensitive to the environment. For example, 
 you can use Mr. Fantastic's computer savvy to hack into computer terminals. Leaky pipes can be 
 welded shut by the Human Torch, and piles of rubble can be pushed aside by the Thing's brute strength. 
 Most of these special abilities are controlled via simple minigames, such as rotating the analog 
 stick or pounding on a button quickly. Some areas will require you to use these special abilities 
 in sequence, but it's usually easy to figure out where to go and what to do, because hot spots 
 in the environment will light up as you approach them, signifying that something special can be 
 done.  

  Fantastic 4's biggest failing is that it lacks a lot in the overall feel of the gameplay, which 
 is important for a beat-'em-up. While you can see onscreen that you're picking up barrels and cars 
 and throwing them at legions of foes, the controls don't make you feel all that powerful. What's 
 more, the controls feel imprecise and floaty. The targeting system in the game is clunky, and it's 
 sometimes difficult to lock on to anything, let alone switch between targets. Characters sometimes 
 clip through solid objects, and enemies can get stuck in the air or in corners that they should 
 be able to navigate. Unleashing combos in combat can also feel robotic and formulaic over the course 
 of the brief, eight-hour campaign. Though the levels attempt to show some variety at the end, allowing 
 you to man turrets or remotely control mechs, the gameplay in Fantastic 4 is largely running from 
 one room to the next, smashing everything in sight, and then moving on. To its credit, the game 
 does include a good number of minibosses, and each of these fights requires a slightly different 
 strategy.  

          The game's graphics are far from fantastic.     

  You won't find much salvation in the game's presentation either. The graphics engine allows for 
 some destructibility in the levels, letting you smash furniture and other objects, but the levels 
 look rather bland and are laid out in a boring manner. Things often look so similar that after 
 a long fight in a room you can forget which door you entered from and which one is the "exit." 
 There's no minimap to help you out with that either. The game's sound palette includes voice acting 
 from the stars of the  Fantastic Four  film, but these don't really make up for the lack of impact 
 in the general sound effects, the tepid soundtrack, and a bug that sometimes causes sound to cut 
 out during cutscenes.  

  The game does include a two-player mode that lets you make your way through the game with one friend 
 (but not four) or battle each other in an arena. Playing the game cooperatively is marginally more 
 fun and interesting than single-player, but the arena modes aren't all that compelling.  

  Though Fantastic 4 does offer all the elements of a good beat-'em-up game on paper, the execution 
 of those features leaves something to be desired. The result is instead a short, bland-looking 
 game that doesn't give many compelling reasons for a purchase. If you're really into the movie 
 or the comic and can look past drab environments and controls that aren't as crisp as they should 
 be, then Fantastic 4 might be worth a rent, but not much more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  ok now lets talk about FANTASTIC 4 good and bad.. so first the game is ok.. worth playing some 
 time but its not the best game..
  
  the good: so i played it for like some days and its not bad... good voice acting nice power use 
 you can play 4 people in one computer but thats all, thats all the good things about fantastic 
 4 game...
  
  the bad: ugly graphics.. simply ugle more than that i didnt like the story... theres to many controls 
 for this game and its really hard to play... also its really short and could be really boring sometimes
 
  
  i think that the game is not the best game ever but its ok.. i think you should rent it before 
 buying it.. the second game is better than this...
  
  i love fantastic 4.. love the movies loved the comics but this game is really stink.. and i dont 
 know if its worth playing or not.. i didnt like this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic Four could be a pretty good game with some patches. It has some bugs, and the controls 
 are not very good. I liked it because it was pretty easy to beat, it didnt carry over for a long 
 time, it was fun, I am a big button masher fan, and this game was just like that. I like how they 
 all have different abilities, and are upgradable. Going around with each of the differnt characters 
 is great, beating the crud out of enemies, upgrading battling bosses. It is the usual. But if you 
 like those kind of games, then you would like this one. The voices were also amazing, and Invisible 
 Woman was Jessica Alba, so naturally playing with her is fun, lol. But seriously, it would have 
 been a great game with some patches, some people complain about the graphics, but graphics dont 
 make a game, gameplay does. Good under $20 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Fantastic Four is an action game in which you'll pull off combos, fighting moves, ect., at enemies 
 based on the 2005 movie. First of all, HOW COME GAMES BASED ON GOOD MOVIES NEVER ARE ANY GOOD??? 
 Oh, well, now that I've said that, let's continue.
  
  The level design is OK some levels but the game isn't fun. The game has horrible controls on a 
 PC. The only + to the gameplay is that it can be fun sometimes and the combos are upgradable. That's 
 about it. Boo hoo.
  
  The graphics are OK although the frame rate can get a little pesky sometimes. The sound is OK just 
 like the graphics. Should you buy this game just to play dull gameplay with horrible controls? 
 Not really. What makes it even worse is that I experienced several crashes and had to restart entire 
 levels. What's even worse is that once or twice, I had to restart the entire campaign and replay 
 through not-fun levels! Err! However, the game features training grounds and arenas to play around 
 with that add some more value to your $, but get boring really quickly.
  
  Should you buy it? By now you should know. You tell me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Been there, done that. This game, in terms of gameplay, is basically Lord of the Rings: Return 
 of the King with Gamma Mutants instead of Orlando Bloom. While I must admit that this is by its 
 very nature an improvement, the rest of the game is disappointing.
  For one thing, the story feels somewhat disjointed. For another, there are multiple bugs that can 
 get you very frustrated with certain parts of the game. And, last of all, the animation isn't very 
 good, although I have to say it is fun when you hit a thug and their teeth go flying. This game 
 is also very repetitve. Kill the bad guys, trigger the switch, do it again and again and again 
 and again and again. It showed promise, but games taken off movies are hardly ever any good, with 
 the exception of Battle for Middle Earth. Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Las pel&iacute; culas basadas en licencias de c&oacute; mics se est&aacute; n convirtiendo en un fil&oacute; n 
 para las productoras estadounidenses. Desgraciadamente, esto tambi&eacute; n ocurre en el campo 
 de los videojuegos y provoca que las compa&ntilde;&iacute; as cada vez se esfuercen menos en estos 
 juegos salvo honrosas excepciones. A continuaci&oacute; n analizaremos en &uacute; ltimo fiasco de 
 este g&eacute; nero, Los 4 Fant&aacute; sticos, que desde luego no hace honor a su nombre. Introducci&oacute; n 
 Los 4 Fant&aacute; sticos nacieron en Noviembre de 1961, a manos del formidable d&uacute; o Stan 
 Lee/Jack Kirby, de la editorial Marvel (antes Timely Comics) . Los integrantes del cuarteto son: 
 Reed Richards (alias Mr. Fant&aacute; stico) : El cerebro del grupo, el que tuvo la idea del viaje 
 espacial. La consecuencia de la aventura espacial fue un poder que le permit&iacute; a estirar cualquier 
 parte de su cuerpo, convirti&eacute; ndolo en un hombre de goma. Sue Storm (alias la Chica Invisible) : 
 Enamorada de Reed, aunque este solo estaba inmerso en sus estudios, decidi&oacute; acompa&ntilde; arle 
 en el viaje espacial. Como su nombre indica, tiene el poder de hacerse invisible y crear campos 
 de fuerza. Johnny Storm (alias La Antorcha Humana) : Para &eacute; l el viaje intergal&aacute; ctico 
 fue la mejor cosa que le pod&iacute; a pasar en la vida. Consigui&oacute; fama, dinero y chicas, 
 adem&aacute; s de poder incendiar cualquier parte de su cuerpo a placer. Ben Grima (alias La Cosa) : 
 Desde luego, el que sali&oacute; peor parado del grupo. Su aspecto cambi&oacute; grotescamente, 
 haciendo que casi dejara de parecer una persona. Gracias a esto, consigui&oacute; una fuerza sobrehumana. 
 Estos superh&eacute; roes crearon una revoluci&oacute; n instant&aacute; nea. Por primera vez, los 
 superh&eacute; roes eran mucho m&aacute; s humanos. Por fin ten&iacute; an sus defectos (no hay m&aacute; s 
 que ver a La Cosa) . Fueron los precursores de otros personajes como Spiderman, Daredevil, Hulk 
 o los X-Men. 43 a&ntilde; os m&aacute; s tarde, como no pod&iacute; a ser de otra forma, nos encontramos 
 con la adaptaci&oacute; n cinematogr&aacute; fica del famoso cuarteto. Cosa que conlleva la realizaci&oacute; n 
 de un videojuego que deja mucho que desear. Gr&aacute; ficos Gr&aacute; ficamente el juego no cumple 
 con las expectativas. Los personajes son muy simples, con muy pocos pol&iacute; gonos y tienen unos 
 movimientos muy mec&aacute; nicos, solo cuentan con 3 o 4 diferentes que se repiten en todo el juego. 
 Adem&aacute; s, el parecido de los protagonistas con los actores es m&iacute; nimo. Los enemigos 
 son muy repetitivos, nos encontramos con decenas de los mismos en cada nivel y conseguir&aacute; n 
 aburrirnos hasta l&iacute; mites insospechados. Los videos est&aacute; n hechos por ordenador, y 
 aunque no cuentan con gran calidad, cumplen al representar las escenas clave de la pel&iacute; cula. 
 A&uacute; n as&iacute;, se hace dif&iacute; cil seguir la historia si no has visto la pel&iacute; cula. 
 Las c&aacute; maras se pueden convertir en un enemigo m&aacute; s del juego, marean de una forma 
 impresionante y hacen que te desorientes. Sonido El t&iacute; tulo est&aacute; doblado al castellano, 
 pero cuenta con un doblaje bastante malillo y de lo m&aacute; s corriente, al contrario de la versi&oacute; n 
 inglesa, donde los dobladores son los aut&eacute; nticos autores. La m&uacute; sica cumple con su 
 comedido, es bastante aburrida cuando llevas bastante tiempo de juego, pero es que no se le puede 
 pedir m&aacute; s al juego. Jugabilidad En cuanto a la jugabilidad, lo que m&aacute; s nos choca 
 es que nos podemos pasar el juego jugando casi de la misma forma con cualquiera de los protagonistas. 
 Me explico: da lo mismo controlar a la Chica Invisible o a la Cosa, dando mamporros te cargas a 
 todos los enemigos. Chocante. Tambi&eacute; n nos da la sensaci&oacute; n de haber jugado ya a este 
 t&iacute; tulo, y es que la forma de pasar entre los personajes y la  
 entre ellos est&aacute; sacada del juego X-Men Legends. Desde luego, son ganas de no esforzarse. 
 Si hablamos de esa cooperaci&oacute; n entre los personajes, hay que decir que es m&iacute; nima, 
 estar&iacute; a mucho mejor que se ayudaran entre ellos a la hora de luchar contra los jefes finales 
 y no que cada uno fuera por su cuenta. Conclusi&oacute; n Los 4 Fant&aacute; sticos es un juego que 
 no satisfacer&aacute; a los amantes del c&oacute; mic y mucho menos a los fans de lo buenos juegos 
 de acci&oacute; n. Por mucho que te gusten los c&oacute; mics, no es ni mucho menos necesario que 
 lo pruebes ya que podr&iacute; as llegar a odiar a los creadores del juego. Lo mejor - Poder jugar 
 con los 4 Fant&aacute; sticos
  - Los extras que vienen con el DVD Lo peor - La jugabilidad en general
  - Los personajes que 
 apenas cooperan
  - Gr&aacute; ficos muy simples
  - Sonido muy mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racho
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  I guess I just wasn't attracted to the game. The graphics arent impressive, the controls are confusing, 
 and not alot of things suprise me here in this game. Why do they bother making the controling system 
 so confusing?, you had to actually hold out the manual book and read up which buttons do what and 
 so on. 
  the gameplay was also pretty much repetitive, and after a while i got tired of switchin different 
 characters and beating the same old enemies which dont really put up a challenge. I also started 
 to only stick to one character since i wasn't botherd of changing them.. and the same ones seem 
 pretty much the same to me when in combat. 
  At first i bought it to kill time, but i didn't even want to finish it. it isnt very interesting 
 .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendobucky
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 19, 2005 1:50 am PT
Review:  Worst Game Ever. Most Bugs Ever. Bad Gameplay. Worst Jumping Ever. Bad Control. Repetative Gameplay 
 and Style. Bad Worlds. If You Like Resident Evil You'll Love These Camera Angle. Sound Terrable 
 Some Times Its There Some Times It Ain't. I Wouldn't Give This Game away Even To A Blind Man. It 
 Certainly Is !!! Clobbering Time!!! When I Take The Cd's And Smash Them With A Hammer. And The Painted 
 On Scenery In The Background Is Quite Clearly Not Doom 3 Quality. And While I'm On The Game Topic 
 Its Not Even Worth Shareware Status.
  
  
  Question 2: Why Would Anyone Rate This Game More Than A 1?
  
  Answer 1: No Reason
  
  Answer 
 2: See Answer One
  
  
  
  P. S. Nuff Said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbm5g
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic 4 was a rather low-publicity comic series, until now. The movie is a decent attempt, 
 although lacks in some places. The game could be described similarly. It was a satisfactory attempt, 
 and it lacks in most places.
  
  The gameplay is alright. The characters are unique in their own ways. Its a nice difference to 
 play with each of them. There are a handful of mini-bosses. Yet the baddies are rather similar. 
 There's always a ranged one, a melee one, and a more powerful one of the same type of creature. 
 The plot is similar to the movie although a lot more expanded. A very annoying thing is the inclusion 
 of various invisible walls that do no justice to collision detection, and instead cause serious 
 gameplay issues.
  
  The graphics are meagre at best. The game lacks in various aspects. I was able to run the game 
 at maximum settings. Although some slowdowns were noticed when there were huge explosions, which 
 by the way are very bad to look at. The characters are poorly detailed in the face. The characters' 
 faces are as detailed as the generic characters' faces. There's almost no lip movement. The skeletal 
 structures of the characters are done so bad that they usually go through other body parts and 
 others' parts and usually go through most objects on the floor. I would have liked to see LOTR-like 
 transitions where they use actual footage from the video and then seamlessly transition it to game 
 footage.
  
  The sound is the worst point of the game. The game's readme says it doesn't support SoundMAX integrated 
 audio (which I use) which is a very popular audio system for many motherboards. Maybe you haven't 
 heard of it, but you surely have heard of the Creative Sound Blaster Live! and Audigy cards. None 
 of these Creative sound cards are supported either. And neither are the Philips sound cards. Therefore 
 I, and most other people who played this game, have the pleasure to experience sound cut-offs often, 
 low bitrate dialogue always (even though I set the sound to max quality) , and some audio that is 
 absolutely off que (as in the triggered dialogues happen minutes before or after they should be) . 
 The real voice actors from the movie do give their voices, not that it matters because it sounds 
 very horrible anyway.
  
  Overall the game was a very big disappointment. For the 'Hottest' game this year, it sure sucks. 
 Fantastic 4 fans may like the storyline, but fans of Action games like the LOTR series should look 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandmann58
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 10, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  So it's no GTA it's pretty good and fun to play you can play as any of the 4 heros and that makes 
 for some intresting game play and it's not to hard to play once you learn the keyboard commands 
 it's rather simple actually it's a great game for beginners or so so players hardcore gamers might 
 find it corny but if you look at it from a comic book aspect it's rather good.
  Good graphics and sound smooth gameplay if you liked the spiderman games you probally will like 
 this one too for hardcore gamers it's a nice getaway from some of the more complex games reminds 
 me of some of the older games us gamers started on only beefed up with better sound and graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  I got it last night, and let me tell you, I am really surprised. I thought it was gonna be a piece 
 of --biiip -- but, BOY was I wrong. 
  
  If the movie is anything like the game, its gonna be a hit. 
  
  So let's start with the review.
 
  The graphics are really good, with some amazing advanced FX and super-smooth framerate. The gameplay 
 is amazing, I got it yesterday and Im playing it non-stop. And even more, I dont wanna spoil anything, 
 but the game has some SUPER-GREAT secret bonus videos, and some really cool interviews. It also 
 has an ultimate spider-man trailer (different from the one we all know) .
  
  The game is really replayable and varied too. Remember when countless times we have seen the words 
 "each playable character in the game is like a different game, they play so differently" as a publicity 
 stunt to lure potential buyers? well, they finally got it right this time. This time, playing as 
 the different 4 heroes IS REALLY different and each and everyone are cool in their own way.
  
  Heck, even the bad guys are amazingly varied and cool too, like the Von Doom ninja robot (you 
 will see him leaping between buildings, like a super-atomic ninja, with cyber katana in hand of 
 course) . They really look solid. Also, the colision detection is very well done and you feel like 
 the characters, good and bad, are rock-solid on the screen. Really nice.
  
  The sound department could have been a little better, more crisp sound. But here' s where, once 
 more, variety puts a plus in this department. This game has tons of both fx sounds and movie actors' 
 voice-over. So its great, but some glitches here and there with my nforce sound card, so I say 
 they could have fix that, but they didnt.
  
  MIssion design is another plus for the Fantastic 4. It's been a while since I've seen such great 
 and ingenious missions and stages in an action game. 
  For instance, the actual mission objectives, which are plenty in each mission. Now, I wont spoil 
 anything here, but in this game you actually feel you are protecting the citizens. Even more, the 
 bosses are really great, and not only each can be finished alternatively in a "fatality" kinda 
 way, the method you actually need to apply in order to defeat some of them is really well-thought 
 and will keep you entertained and in awe.
  
  So, ending comments:
  
  Now that I think of it, the game's as cool and as flaming hot as the human torch, as beautiful, 
 powerful and sleek as the invisible woman (grrrr, Jessica Alba...) , as flexible and intelligent 
 as Mr. Fantastic, and as rock-solid as The Thing (with a few technical exceptions here and there, 
 but no biggie, plus, the "glitches" can simply be fixed by a mere "restart mission") .
  I highly recommend this game for anyone that likes stupendous super-hero fights (ala superman vs. 
 doomsday) , and/or wanna have a really fun and solid game filled with great bonuses.
  
  Its clobbering time!!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
