-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fantasy Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fantasywars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tightly designed turn-based strategy.
 Intricate map design with lots of enemies and lots of surprises.
 Retro look and sound perfectly fit the gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely difficult.
 Perhaps a little too old-school for contemporary gamers.
 Only supports direct connections and LAN in multiplayer modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 378 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Ino-Co
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 8, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may be old-school, but Fantasy Wars isn't behind the times when it comes to providing satisfying, 
 albeit spectacularly tough, turn-based strategy gameplay. 

  Surprises are rare in Fantasy Wars, but this wargame with elves and orcs sure delivers when it 
 comes to traditional turn-based strategizing. Developer Ino-Co has created both a paean to the 
 past and a great antidote to overcaffeinated real-time strategy games. Missions here make you think, 
 not just exercise your index finger. Intricately designed maps feature loads of carefully placed 
 opponents, plentiful units boast numerous upgrades that let you build whole custom-crafted armies, 
 and the easy-to-use interface makes it a snap to play in general. The only issue is difficulty 
 that soars past merely challenging and into territory usually reserved for the masochistic.  

 
           As usual, those big bad orcs are prima donnas at heart.      

  Most elements of the game are engaging right from the beginning. Story and setting are derived 
 from the usual Tolkien derring-do filtered through decades of D&amp; D. Three campaigns are told 
 from the points of view of humans, orcs, and an elven alliance (the usual suspects) . There are 
 also a handful of one-off skirmish maps and a couple of multiplayer modes of play available for 
 hotseat matches, as well as over LANs or direct net connections (there is no online matching system, 
 so you're on your own looking for opponents) . Gameplay mechanics follow the turn-based strategy 
 template. You direct typical medieval military units ranging from infantry and bowmen to mages 
 and siege weapons. Everything takes place on a 3D hex map that requires little camera fiddling 
 to keep all units in sight and the interface perfectly spells out need-to-know information. For 
 example, information might include how far units can move during turns and what the results might 
 be in specific battles. Because so much is right at your fingertips and you rarely have to pause 
 to look up stats, the quick-flowing action keeps you immersed in tactical considerations, not interface 
 busywork.  

  As with the story and setting, there isn't anything new here when it comes to units. You've got 
 cavalry, halberdiers, bowmen, warg-riding orcs, magic-using shamans, ballistae, catapults, and 
 so on. Heroes serve as the commanders of each side, as powerful allies, and as your avatars in 
 that the deaths of such leading characters as the human mercenary general Derrick Pfiel or the 
 orc general Ugraum cause you to instantly lose missions. The only change-up thrown into the mix 
 comes from aerial units, such as giant eagles and orc dirigibles (oh, the humanity) , that can bombard 
 ground targets. All units gain experience in battle and level up. This adds a strong role-playing 
 element to Fantasy Wars in that you select from various perks unique to each unit type with each 
 gained level. These perks deal in pretty standard stuff that gives bonuses to attack, defense, 
 morale, and the like, but there is enough variety here that it doesn't feel like you're just going 
 through the motions. Skills have been customized for each unit, so the orc archers get to take 
 poison arrows, human militia can adopt brigandine armor, heroes can become expert jousters or siege 
 masters, and so forth, providing an atmosphere of outfitting a real army instead of picking generic 
 character buffs. Recruiting is also fairly realistic. There is no hokey base building, so you buy 
 mercenaries with coins looted from conquered fortresses and villages.  

  Serious difficulty casts a shadow over everything, though. Each campaign starts off with the cakewalks 
 that you might well expect from the early stages of a strategy game but then skyrockets to absolute 
 craziness by the fourth mission even on the easiest setting. Because the passive artificial intelligence 
 generally hangs back and waits for you to attack (at least most of the time, at any rate, because 
 there are moments when multiple enemies display serious smarts and tag-team your key units) , Fantasy 
 Wars compensates with mobs of enemy troops that wear you down over time through sheer weight of 
 numbers. So it doesn't matter that the computer doesn't always know enough to attack your hero 
 when he's near death. Nor is it all that important that the AI often ignores units causing it heavy 
 damage, such as the spear-throwing siege weapons sitting just outside castle walls. It isn't even 
 a big deal that computer-controlled aerial units typically just fly back and forth instead of attacking. 
 In the end, when you're constantly pulling hordes of cavalry, bowmen, and catapults out of your 
 sleeves, you don't need to be all that smart.  

  As a result, many missions are tough to beat without some serious trial and error. Short mission 
 briefings never let you know what to expect in the mission ahead, and cash is always in such short 
 supply that it's impossible to prepare for any eventuality. Playing jack-of-all-trades and building 
 a mixed force isn't a great idea either because you inevitably wind up with some troops fighting 
 the wrong sort of opposition or taking casualties early on that you can't afford. All you can really 
 do is hold on to as much cash as possible in the beginning and use it as a bank to buy reserves 
 on the fly in case you run into a tough spot later. But this forces you to start with a small army, 
 which can cause a lot of losses in the early stages. If you try to save for the latter stages of 
 a mission, chances are you won't survive long enough to get there.  

  Even if you do survive a mission, there is a real possibility of taking so much damage that you 
 won't stand a chance in hell of beating the next one. Units and cash carry over from one mission 
 to the next in the campaign. This means that you start with your back up against the wall if you 
 barely scraped through a level with a few units and a handful of gold. Losing experienced units 
 with their added combat perks is also a big killer because any fresh recruits are, of course, level-0 
 rookies. Most missions help you out in the early stages with a hero or some troops that can be 
 picked up on the cheap by conquering a tiny village or something, but this assistance usually comes 
 in the form of a low-level unit that just isn't enough if you're starting with, say, a hero and 
 a few archers. So even when you win, you often lose.  

           Even the visual design is a blast from the past, with bright colors and heroic characters 
 that pay homage to the lighter fantasy gaming of years past.      

  It seems like you're simply not meant to wrap up a mission in Fantasy Wars in just one run-through. 
 At the same time, however, it doesn't feel like you're being cheated. If you play smartly, you 
 will often come close to victory or achieve a fair number of pyrrhic victories, which only spurs 
 you to keep playing the game and really think about what tactics are needed to master certain maps. 
 This is one of those rare cases where extreme difficulty makes you appreciate the game all the 
 more. There are even gold, silver, and bronze medals offered for beating missions in set numbers 
 of turns, which is a further incentive for replaying.  

  You'd never know that battles were so murderous here by the look and sound of the battlefields. 
 Visuals are decidedly cartoony, with lots of bright colors and cotton-candy skies more reminiscent 
 of fairy tales than the many grim, goth-inspired contemporary RPGs out there. The same goes for 
 the one-note music and audio effects, which are dominated by a triumphant "A-ha!" every time somebody 
 kills an enemy unit. It's all suitably retro, which works really well given the gameplay... unless 
 you're a stickler for cutting-edge video and audio.  

  Wearing its old-fashioned origins like a badge of honor, Fantasy Wars is aimed at veteran gamers 
 who remember the days before the real-time revolution. But more than just nostalgia buffs will 
 appreciate its intricate mission design, detailed units, and outstanding interface. It sure helps 
 if you're old enough to have played such classics as Fantasy General back in the day, especially 
 because the difficulty is aimed at turn-based vets. Still, you don't need to have any previous 
 experience to get into such timeless game concepts as these.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: colaneri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game is very underrated. Give it a try, if you are a grognard like me you will be pleased... 
 The difficulty is well balanced, the AI good. I'm surprised someone states it's too difficult... 
 At normal level I had 4 gold victories at the first try, then a silver and again all golds. Only 
 the final mission gave me some real problem, but after two defeats I completed the human campaign.
 
  The game presents some interesting innovations and RPG elements, but it's mainly a good, solid 
 wargame. The interface is handy, units are well described and you can master the game without reading 
 a single line of the manual, because missions introduce only some new units at a time, so you aren't 
 overwhelmed by innovations. Music isn't great, you can disable it, but sound effects and voice 
 acting are good.
  The graphic is a little outdated, but it's very functional and clear.
  Very, very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Other than starting off with a relatively high level of difficulty, there's very little to complain 
 about with Fantasy Wars. Some wont like the 3D graphics but they are more than sufficient and sometimes 
 downright artfully created. Personally I turned off the bloom effects since I preferred the graphics 
 without all of the glowiness. Similarly the storylone is fine but also completely forgettable.
 
  
  As a turn-based strategy game however, the game excels in every way. The developers put a lot of 
 effort into game balance, unit design and map design and all of the work and thought shows.
  
  If you like games like Heroes of Might and Magic and you want a similar game this is also a 
 bit more difficult that HOMM, the demo of this game is REALLY worth checking out. 1C has put out 
 some incomplete and under-cooked games lately, but this one is a winner. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Fantasy Wars seems to me a turn-based version of what Warcraft 3 should have been. The premise 
 is simple: take your units out, point and click where you want them to go and where to attack; 
 you choose in what order. It's quite obviously a simple, tried-and-true game play arrangement, 
 but within that rudimentary framework there is much fun to be had. There are wide varieties of 
 units, perks, and upgrades. And there is nothing tactically easy about this game. To win requires 
 careful attack planning, deployment of units, and consideration of terrain. You need to position 
 missile attackers to soften enemy units, but don't want them too exposed to counterattacks from 
 melee troops when your turn ends; and, you often have to hold units in reserve to finish off weakened 
 and retreating enemies before your turn runs out and they get a chance to recover.
  
  I repeat: there is nothing easy about this game. The mission designs are tough and will have you 
 hopping quite a bit. Even on normal difficulty, you will not complete most missions without a little 
 gnashing of teeth, a lot of serious tactical planning, and some trial-and-error. There's a certain 
 mathematical beauty to games like this -- games that put you on the edge of your seat while still 
 allowing some "solution for victory," however difficult it might be for you to hammer out that 
 solution. It's all good.
  
  Units level up (to a point) as they fight more and more battles, and they gain special perks and 
 bonuses when they do. Furthermore, units can be upgraded for a fee (for instance, militia can be 
 upgraded to halberdiers, swordsmen, or spearmen -- your choice) , and when they are upgraded, they 
 carry their level bonuses with them. Therefore, it's a sore blow to lose an experienced unit , 
 and you really want to carry over your veterans from mission to mission in the worst way, because 
 experience cannot be bought. It brought me to mind of how I felt in Myth II when I lost an old 
 tried-and-true group of dwarves that had molotov-cocktailed many an encroaching enemy monstrosity.
 
  
  One thing I have to say is that the attention to detail in Fantasy Wars led to some elements that 
 are really just too cool. The graphics are nice if not groundbreaking, and the textures are OK, 
 but when you zoom in close everything really comes alive. When you get down close, the large chesspiece 
 representation of a unit changes into a more realistic scale model of the unit, with a squad of 
 fighters shown instead of a single one-man marker for, say, a group of archers. And the individual 
 troops in each squad have different shield crests, different weapon styles, different faces, and 
 so forth, to give them individuality, which I find neat. When you observe an attack up close (or 
 when the game switches to "battle camera" at random, if you leave that option enabled) , it's a 
 real hoot to watch the ridiculous clash and clamor of the cartoon knights and pitchfork-carrying 
 peasants and beast-riding orcs and what-not. Cavalry will charge in and run down foot soldiers 
 in most violent manner. (Violent in a Looney Tunes sort of way.) Heroes are slightly larger-than-life, 
 and your lead hero who is on horse will wantonly charge into a crowd of footmen and really lay 
 about him with his brand, his horse rampant, sending bodies flying every which-way.
  
  Zoomed in, the scenery looks nice too. Buildings are well defined, with smoking chimneys and other 
 details; the tall grass sways in the breeze, and the water shimmers realistically. The lighting 
 and the horizon effects are atmospheric in a cartoonish fantasy-world sort of way. The trees are 
 somewhat so-so but nothing worth complaining about. You can spend a little time toying with the 
 camera, zooming in and out around the map and checking things out from different angles.
  
  Sure, the graphics may seem outdated by some standards, but overall they work just fine. This is, 
 after all, turn-based strategy not first-person shooter, and we've come a loooong way since Civ3, 
 that avatar of the genre that looked bad then and looks worse now. Fantasy Wars is not dripping 
 with unique and eye-popping artwork, but what artistic touches there are, are generally very well 
 done, and the best art and graphics are applied where they will be most appreciated by the gamer. 
 Everything looks good, especially when turned up to 1280x1024, and even with all the settings on 
 high it shouldn't tax a fairly decent computer too much.
  
  The interface is very colorful and descriptive, and once you get the hang of it, it allows for 
 relatively easy control. Everything is labeled well, and you can toggle banners that point out 
 health and which units have remaining movement or an unused attack; and there are icons for each 
 unit in the control interface that tell you the same. It's easy to check on a unit's stats and 
 situation with a right click of the mouse, and the fully functional camera control adds to the 
 fun. The shtick where it alternates from gamepiece-style to scale-model RTS-style is very well 
 conceived, and the battle animations are mostly fun to watch. The overall presentation and the 
 level of user control are pretty deluxe.
  
  Fantasy Wars takes a little getting used to at first, but once you learn the interface it provides 
 a turn-based strategy experience that is primarily based on tactics, with a good assortment of 
 different units and some lively, compelling graphical representations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EMahn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  If you don't appreciate turn-based tactical games, then this may not be your cup of tea.
  
  The essence of the game is all about choosing units (there are several units in each of 11 different 
 classes) , each with different strengths and weaknesses and using them in a skilled manner to beat 
 the opponent. To do this effectively, you need to account for:
  
  * Terrain - For example light infantry and skirmish units (scouts) get bonuses for rough terrain, 
 heavy infantry get no bonuses, and cavalry get penalties. Hills improve most units defense skill, 
 but only improve attack skill for light infantry and scouts. Cavalry units take penalties for most 
 terrains and do best on flat land ("plains") . Each map is covered with different terrain types 
 (7 terrain types, plus 3 "urban" types) . 
  
  *Unit vs. Unit interactions. This is the rock/paper/scissors aspect of the game. Archers are great 
 for dealing damage, but will get eaten up by melee if you leave them exposed. Some units have armor, 
 which provides strong defensive value. Some other units ignore armor in their damage equations. 
 Some units have invisibility capabilities but through perks (see later) you can make a unit see 
 through invisibility. Flying units can attack melee with impunity, but they get wasted by archer/range 
 units. 
  
  *Tactical Formation - You move each unit (which is composed of multiple sub-units) around the map. 
 By placing units in proper orientation, you can greatly improve the effectiveness of the group. 
 Generally, this means putting your melee troops in front. and your archers/range behind. Whenever 
 an adjacent melee is attacked, the archers next door will help defend that melee unit. This is 
 a very powerful technique, but can also be foiled by scout units that have the capability to freely 
 move past the front line.
  
  *Perks - Every time a unit levels up (max level 5 for non-hero units) , you get to choose from three 
 available perks. Some are simple, like +1 melee or +1 defense. Some give you bigger bonuses but 
 also give you penalties (+3 melee, -2defense) . Many are related to terrain. You can make you archers 
 get extra range on hills, or your scouts get extra defense in forests. There are a lot of perks 
 and it really gets you invested in keeping each of your higher level units alive since the perks 
 add up to significant bonuses. This effectively makes many more unit classes as you customize each 
 unit to work for your style of play.
  
  The game imposes a turn-limit in each scenario of the campaign. At first, I thought I would hate 
 this. One reason that I like turn-based games is that I like to be methodical and I don't like 
 to be rushed. A turn-limit does force you to be precise and aggressive in your play, at least if 
 you care about getting the extra bonuses for achieving the faster turn-limits. I now see that this 
 was a reasonable game feature. Because you can heal units simply by spending a turn, it means that 
 the game ultimately becomes much easier if you don't have a turn-limit. In the end, it doesn't 
 bother me anywhere near as much as I feared.
  
  The voice acting is good, at least in the human campaign, which is where I am right now. The graphics 
 are good. Nothing jaw-dropping, but fine for this style of game. The sound effects and music are 
 adequate, nothing special.
  
  This is a wonderful game for the turn-based tactician. There aren't enough turn-based games released 
 (IMO) and this one is a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keldaris
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The unimaginative name was a definite turnoff, but there are so few TBS being released that I decided 
 to give it a try anyways. I'm glad I did, because Fantasy wars is one of the most fun games I've 
 played in a long time.
  
  The graphics are great for a TBS. Very colourful, and with good animations for when you attack.
 
  
  The storyline is acceptable. Standard fantasy war of the good elves and humans, chaotic pillaging 
 orcs, and some nasty demonic power in the background. Nothing special, but it's not bad either.
 
  
  The gameplay is where the game shines. Most games are flash without substance, with deeply flawed 
 AIs. So once you figure out the secret, the game turns into a boring repetition of the same moves. 
 This is not the case with fantasy wars. Actually, fantasy war's AI isn't brilliant, but it is decent. 
 When it's combined with the tight mission design, the game becomes a good challenge. You need to 
 be careful with your units and where you move them if you want them to survive.
  It becomes really challenging if you try to beat even mission within the "gold medal" timeframe.
 
  
  With 3 campaigns, the game can take quite some time to complete. So it's well worth the purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eterna2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Fantasy Wars seemed to be the 3D clone of Strategic Simulations's Fantasy General. The unit classification 
 and battle mechanics are very similar with some minor improvements. 
  
  Attack types and sequence are still restricted to Melee, Skimish, and Missile. However, instead 
 of just generic perk to specific units, units are now able to gain perk traits whenever they gain 
 a level. These perks either improve the unit's base stat outright, or at certain terrain condition, 
 or some special abilities such as Cause Fear, Forced Marches, etc. 
  
  But unlike Fantasy General, where research points are needed to research new units type, new units 
 type are automatically available after specific missions. The main improvement over Fantasy General 
 is that terrain modifiers. It is much more advanced as in different units perform differently at 
 different terrains. For example, heavy infantry get penalties in forest, while light infantry excel 
 in difficult terrains. Two separate sets of modifiers apply to the defender and attacker, as such, 
 significant bonus can be applied to the defender or attacker if they make good use of the terrain 
 - terrain is not just about movement points or some small bonus, but plays a big part in the overall 
 strategy. You have to recognise the unit types array against you, and decide how you wish to engage 
 them. Although this will be difficult if you are aiming for a Gold Medal (to complete the mission 
 within a time limit) . The rest of the mechanics follow Fantasy General very closely, as such Archers 
 and Air units are able to provide support to adjacent friendly units.
  
  Overall the plot is simple and boring, but the old-school would love the "remake" of Fantasy General 
 in 3D! The differences between unit for factions are also significant enough to make the tactic 
 usage different! And it is not as difficult as described. I have gotten Gold Medal for all my missions 
 (with some reloads) at normal mode. Just about as hard as typical war gaming. The variances in 
 damage casualty is not big, so overal strategy plays a great part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alejes02
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  This is a fun little diversion. I've been into military games, starting with Avalon Hill, since 
 back in the early '70's. After playing and owning literally hundreds of board and PC military simulations, 
 I've found few that retain my interest for long. Fantasy Wars has drawn me in because it rewards 
 the tactician who employs his troops as they were meant to be used -- archers as support, heavy weaponry 
 to reduce fortifications, and good old foot sloggers to take and hold ground. The animations are 
 terrific and the AI gives a credible, although easily overcome, challenge. As a hard-boiled military 
 junkie, I've never enjoyed fantasy themed games. This one got me out of my rut -- it's a lot of fun 
 and enjoyable if you're looking for something different. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Most peoples just categorize it with Heroes of Might and Magic; or even with Civilisations games... Game-play 
 wise I would compare it to titles from Galactic Assault: PoP (& Domination) , to Celtic Legends 
 (Amiga 500) without forgetting Warhammer boardgames.
  
  The game is about conquering a map. You can move your units in any order you prefer. You can undo 
 any move unless a moving unit affect any other unit (damage/buff/healing/recon) , after which it 
 is locked. Numerical effects are twisted with a random factor, for the better or the worst.
  
  Basically you are brought from a battle map to the next until the conclusion of the scenarios. 
 You can start with the Humans scenario, or with the Orcs scenario. Upon completing both, you will 
 be brought to the final scenario (elves) .
  
  Units are carried over from a map to the next, and even from a scenario to the next scenarios. 
 Units are completely restored between two maps unless it was destroyed. They keep any magical item 
 found and any experience gains. Units have 5 levels they can earn. They have stats which varies 
 from 5-19 as level 0 units, each level give them a gain of 1 in each stat, and the choice of an 
 ability, so an experienced units may be about twice stronger then a starting unit and some abilities 
 can be critical (hero's killer to fight troll for example) .
  
  Heroes can earn up to 10 levels and cannot be destroyed, only disabled for a scenario (which may 
 be a condition for defeat) . Heroes also can carry 3 magical items.
  
  PROS: Solid game-play. Interesting story. Achieving and progression feeling. Graphics/animations 
 are outstanding for the genre.
  
  CONS: Not hard enough for vets. Random damage turn your attention away from the true focus. Easy 
 to forget an unit which didn't move or attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobo7922
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Recientemente consegu Fantasy Wars, un juego de estrategia por turnos.
  
  Instalo el juego y para mi desagrado descubro que nuevamente los diseadores del juego intentan 
 ensearme a jugar Por favor! Yo soy un experto 
 en estrategia (modestia aparte) Ok, no ganar todos los juegos en los 
 que participo, pero siempre me las apao para quedar en un nivel decente. No entiendo 
 esta mana que tienen los desarrolladores de comenzar todas las campaas con misiones en donde 
 solo puedes manejar dos o tres clases de unidades, reduciendo las posibilidades estratgicas del 
 jugador y reduciendo as mismo la diversin, me pregunto cuantos jugadores habrn abandonado este 
 juego y todos los otros juegos de estrategia que sufren del mismo mal, durante las primeras misiones. 
 Si un jugador necesita aprender a jugar el juego por primera vez, pues el juego debera tener un 
 profundo tutorial para ensearle paso a paso todos los detalles. Pero obligar a todos los jugadores 
 novatos o expertos a pasar por una campaa en donde pretenden volverte a ensear lo que ya conoces 
 de memoria me parece una falla de diseo terrible.
  Sin embargo, yo conozco mi ganado, y s que si tengo un poco de paciencia eventualmente el juego 
 me mostrar sus secretos; y efectivamente, pasadas las dos o tres primeras misiones (jugando en 
 nivel de dificultad alto) el juego libera una amplia variedad y cantidad de unidades, que van desde 
 arqueros, lanceros, caballera, etc.
  El juego demuestra entonces que es bastante profundo en cuanto a detalle estratgico, el terreno 
 puede ayudarte o daarte, tus hombres y tus heroes van ganando experiencia y con ello nuevas habilidades, 
 es entretenido ver como una unidad que comenz en tu armada como un grupo de modestos campesinos 
 llega a la categora de espadachines; aqu hay que tener un tanto de cuidado pues es necesario 
 planear por adelantado que deseamos que sea nuestra unidad en el futuro? por que de lo contrario 
 nos podramos encontrar con una unidad de caballera pesada con las habilidades de arqueros a pi, 
 lo cual sera contraproducente.
  Existe adems la posibilidad de encontrarse objetos que puedes equipar a tus unidades o heroes, 
 hasta cuatro por unidad.
  Las posibilidades de personalizacin de tu armada son enormes, desde la opcin de escoger una amplia 
 variedad de unidades, aunado al hecho de que a medida que van ganando experiencia puedes agregarles 
 habilidades adicionales a cada ejercito y sin olvidar como ya dije la posibilidad de agregar objetos 
 que aumenten incluso ms las posibilidades de tu armada.
  Tus guerreros son los mismos entre una misin y otra, siempre y cuando hayas tenido la inteligencia 
 de mantenerlos con vida, esto agrega un nuevo punto de complejidad ya que tu deseas mantener con 
 vida a tus unidades ms experimentadas, pero por la misma razn cada vez irs dependiendo ms y 
 ms de las habilidades de estas mismas unidades que tanto arriesgarlas y que tanto protegerlas 
 entonces?
  El juego te da tres niveles de victoria, Oro, plata y bronce, la victoria Oro requiere que termines 
 la misin en una cantidad de turnos diminuta, la victoria de plata te permite hacerlo en una cantidad 
 de turnos media y evidentemente la de bronce te da mucho ms tiempo.
  Si deseas terminar por lo menos en plata (para obtener alguna jugosa recompensa) necesitars enfocarte 
 muy bien en tus objetivos y manejar a tus hombres con maestra.
  Aunque considero que la victoria Oro es posible, me parece que requiere el sacrificio de demasiados 
 hombres y eventualmente eso no ser bueno para el juego tardo en donde claramente necesitar unidades 
 bien experimentadas.
  El juego adems ofrece la posibilidad de jugar multijugador en direct connect, Lan y mi favorita, 
 Hot Seat. Sin embargo la cantidad de mapas multiplayer es bastante poca, espero que esto se corrija 
 en el futuro con algn patch o alguna expansin.
  No me resta ms que decir que una vez que se pasan las primeras misiones el juego resulta muy bueno 
 y recomendable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KALHETMAN
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Lucky day when I see FW in shop. I buy without thinking and in half hour I have install in my PC. 
 Beautiful colors and animations. 2 tutorials missions, 3 campaigns, 4 individual missions and 5 
 multi-gamers. 
  After read manual I'm sure i don't need tutorial and go to campaign. With big illusion begin story 
 the Derick - Mercenary similar to John Deep. Very good. Explore every piece of missions I finish 
 all in gold time and without lost no one unit. (Of course use saves) . 
  Campaign have one big fault. Is short. Just 2 days. I have many units (in gold time receive new 
 unit and artifact) and finish? Second - Ugraum Story too very good. One and half day. I play speed 
 for open the third campaign (ALLIANCE) . I hopeless - Have more missions?, Is more difficult? Maybe 
 I put more units in maps? the response is: NO! YES! NO! 
  Only 2 or 3 missions is difficult (and I finish in gold time in more difficult level without bonus 
 unit or artifact) . 
  Short - probably problems with edition date because story is like cutting. Very good story and 
 have strange moments in Alliance Campaign.
  Max. 22 units in action. Last mission Derick - 17 an start and five ally to you.
  BUT PLAYABILITY 
 is perfect. YOU play without troubles - only enjoy.
  If is more complete story i want give 9.5. 
  Because the supposes cutting I cut note. 
  Individual 
 and multi-gamers missions have good difficulty.
  Game need expansion with longer campaigns, more level for units and Heroes, NEED POSSIBILITY USE 
 MORE UNITS IN MISSION.
  Sincerity recommended to every fans strategy. At long time I not enjoy like with this game. KAL. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  In a time whee Real Time strategy games have taken hold of the gaming industry most players look 
 at Turn based strategy games with a bit of skepticism. Fantasy Wars is such a game that i looked 
 at with a considerable amount of skepticism. But having played through one campaign and half of 
 the next one i must admit that i am pleased with what i got.
  
  First things First Fantasy wars lacks many aspects to it that would make it a fantastic game. Mediocre 
 Graphics and Music, Fairy good Storyline and a unpolished looking interface hinders this game from 
 obtaining its full potential.
  
  But there are many more aspects that make this game more enjoyable as well. The game play is as 
 smooth as it can be. From attacking on high ground to defending cities the game adds certain variables 
 that always keep the gamer on his toes. The inclusion of hero's, abilities and a fairly wide array 
 of spells also brings in a few plus points for this game. Also the fact that there were no bugs 
 in the game was a real bonus for me.
  
  You should also notice that unlike in most other TBS games this one focuses on the individual movement 
 and attack of units rather than a entire army. This feature is something that i found to be very 
 interesting and appealing. All in all you should play this game if you enjoy TBS style games and 
 enjoy a change from time to time. But if you only go for the perfect type games then this is definitely 
 not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glabro234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Fantasy Wars is everything a fan of turn-fantasy strategy games wants.
  That is, if you&acute; re like me and want to concentrate on interesting battles without production 
 and camp management. The comparisons to Fantasy General are valid, and that was a superb game in 
 its time, as well.
  
  Three campaigns for three different factions mean there&acute; s a lot to play, and the storyline 
 does a good job of keeping you interested. I had nothing to complain about the dialogue, but that 
 might be because it borrows a lot from my favourite franchises.
  
  The presentation is good - vibrant colours and good-looking units. The soundtrack isn&acute; t very 
 broad but does an acceptable job.
  
  Again, if base management is something you expect from a strategy game, you might want to steer 
 clear, but on the other hand if you like set piece style battles with units that gain experience 
 in a well-designed battle system, I heartily recommend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neliz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  In the beginning of the nineties strategy games were hot as armchair generals re-enacted the greatest 
 battles on history in a board game like environment.
  I can hardly remember not playing a strategy game not using a hexagonal board and even a classics 
 like Dune 2 and Command &amp; Conquer use it.
  
  The genre of turn based strategy games has all but died and only the Heroes of Might and Magic 
 series is thriving mostly on it's past laurels instead of creating a hit in the, nowadays, much 
 faster market.
  
  Fantasy Wars is.. not so great. It does everything exactly right but I still can not see the difference 
 between this game and, say Fantasy General from 1996.
  
  It's a nice game for a rainy Sunday afternoon but it lacks ambition, storytelling, animation. In 
 general: production value.
  
  The first time you hear your instructor talk, you can not help but wonder if French creator of 
 this game has a clue how people talk English in a decent manner.
  
  I'll go back to the game now but I'm sure I'll load up a disk with an old Battle Isle and see how 
 a game like this should be done... right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  This game is some sort of a Heroes clone so it takes most elements from the success recipe of the 
 last two games of the series, but this time only 3 races battle for power: humans, orcs and elves. 
 It's turn based and drives attention to strategy rather than economics. So you don't have the cities 
 and upgrades, you only get units that can lvl and can be upgraded between missions and items ( heroes 
 can carry 3 items, units can carry only 1) .
  Heroes lvl up lvl 10 units to lvl 5. , but the units are lacked of any originality so you have 
 melee, archers, knights and flyers. Some units have special abilities, but to be honest i only used 
 only the passive ones ( :) ) ) . Heroes abilities are also useles, except dmg and heal spells. The 
 graphics are nice, but nothing extraordinary (animation could use a little more work ) . The Story 
 is poor, and the dialogs simple and impersonal. Maps are to small. Missions are of two types: defend 
 or conquer, and leave you no opportunity of exploring (even if you had time they have nothing on 
 them) . Some missions are very easy and can be finished only using the heroes, while some missions 
 are very dificult and need several plays to master.
  The battles are no like in Heroes as they are on map, and at this point the camera wins some face 
 for this game as it zooms in and out and moves around to give some dynamic feeling to the game-play. 
 Characters are either similar to Lord of the Rings or not well design (i didn't like the orcs at 
 all, as they have a very big head, disproportionate with the body) . System requirements are low 
 and the game works well with other applications running (on my medium computer) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
