-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fantasy General
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fantasygeneral/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 93 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 29, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fantasy General is little more than Panzer General in a new box with some Dungeons and Drag... err 
 fantasy units in place of the tanks. 

 S. S. I. has a long history of producing excellent RPGs and wargames, but their latest title in the 
 Five-Star Series, Fantasy General, is a strange hybrid that combines the most unsavory elements 
 of both. Backed by some sharp, if lifeless, visuals and a soundtrack that's designed to keep em 
 rockin' in the cathedrals with out-of-place pipe-organ and sopranic arias, Fantasy General seems 
 aimed at a bizarre and very unlikely audience.  

 Fantasy General is little more than Panzer General in a new box with some Dungeons and Drag... err 
 fantasy units in place of the tanks (I could almost hear the game's producer ordering his art director, 
 Quick, paint some fangs on that infantryman!) . The story is almost as original, painting 
 the timeless tale of a beautiful land held captive by a powerful, shadowy overlord (so shadowy, 
 in fact, he's called the Shadowlord) . After choosing one of four different leadersa knight, 
 a barbarian, a wizard, or a sorceressyou head to the hexagon-celled map in an all-out battle 
 to the finish. Before each conflict, you're given a chance to purchase units from a list that your 
 scientists give you. Next, you use the map to select the battle you wish to enter, pushing ever 
 closer to the enemy's headquarters. Incongruously, no matter how much land you gain, if you fail 
 in even one battle, the Shadowlord's minions overrun the entire planet. To put it mildly, this 
 can be frustrating. The rest of the game follows standard wargame policy, and your turns are matched 
 by those of the computer or a human opponent. If you fight hard and conquer an entire continent, 
 you'll be treated to a disappointing single image of your character standing still.  

 In the end, Fantasy General is a game without an audience. Wargamers will find it abhorrently unrealistic, 
 even for a fantasy title, and RPG fans will realize that its poor plot and character development 
 don't make up for the hours spent watching small tiles run into each other. Recommended only for 
 die-hard wargamers who don't care about realism, and for those who want to listen to funeral home 
 tunes for hours on end.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Spygian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:33 am PT
Review:  Storyline
  There is nothing special about the storyline of Fantasy General. An evil wizard attacks the world, 
 and conquers everyone with the use of his powerful army. A core of good aligned rebels are led 
 by a charismatic general (the player) into a glorious campaign to free the world again!
  
  Graphics
  The in game graphics are nothing really special. Small unmovable sprites that simple 
 collide against each other without any real animation. However once you access the unit stats area 
 you are in for a treat. Very good pencil drawing of the unit in close up stances, that make the 
 units "go alive" in front of the player's eyes. Excellent job!
  
  Music
  Simply a masterpiece! We are talking about live orchestrated music with live singers on Gothic 
 motives! If you haven't heard the pieces, please go in you tube and hear them out! I believe there 
 is a fan site also that gives the music away for free, for the people to hear! Just excellent!
 
  
  Game Play
  Hear is the real heart of the game. The Panzer General recipe is being spiced up with research 
 options, a good campaign, reinforcements, heroes, dragons and various missions. And when you end 
 the game and defeat Shadow Lord you will want to play it again! and Again! 
  
  Manual / Package
  I strongly suggest going through the manual of the game at least once. The 
 information provided inside will help the player get comfortable with his enemies and the storyline! 
 
  
  Overall
  A must have oldie, for any player. A must get for a General series fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trestx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Of all the old 5-star series of wargames by SSI, Fantasy General is probably the most under-appreciated 
 and overlooked. Released on the cusp when windows 95 was just coming out, it was lost in the shuffle. 
 The graphics are spartan, but have a certain handrawn quality, there are no fancy cutscenes. This 
 game is all business. Since the troops that you command are in fact, fantasy, this game might sound 
 light on realism, and it is, but this is a difficult slog through some pretty tough maps against 
 an evil foe. The AI is very good at eviscerating your troops, and your resources for expanding 
 your forces are slim. This game will push you to think, and if you like spending hours fiddling 
 around on a 2D-hex map, this game will keep you busy for a long time. The cruelty of the AI doesn't 
 stop, and there are NO cheat codes to fall back on, so save often. There are also a great deal 
 of hero characters to find (that do not add to you troop count, which makes them basically a free 
 unit) , and depending on the general you choose to be, bonuses/discounts on troops of certain classes. 
 You also get to research troop classes and level up the types of troops you can buy, in addition 
 to each unit leveling up for experience (and added damage/defense) . In addition, there are quite 
 a few caves/temples/grottoes, etc. that contain items that you can outfit your units with. 
  
  In short, there's a lot going on here. Non-wargamers probably won't get it, but don't believe 
 the gamespot review. If you are serious about your wargames, this is one you need to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xato_Trabiti
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  I had the opportunity to play this game in 1996, when a friend of mine purchased it. I was hooked 
 right off the bat. Sadly, at that time I was in middle school and didn't have the buying power 
 to get the game for myself. I spent five years watching used-game bins at software stores before 
 I finally found a copy of the game to call my own.
  
  What attracted me most was probably the music: gothic Christian pieces, performed in Latin. If 
 that's not your thing, you're probably not going to like this game. If it is your thing, and it 
 is very much mine, then this game is a treat for the simple pleasure of listening to the BGM. Gameplay 
 is very reminiscent of tabletop wargaming, though with a good deal less complexity. Personally, 
 I found this to be a benefit to the game - when I play Fantasy General, I'm not looking for a rich, 
 deep gameplay experience. I'm looking for a relaxing, enjoyable play experience that doesn't demand 
 a lot from me. There are unique units to be found throughout the game, each of them interesting. 
 Other prizes (magic items, gold, and units) can be discovered at various locations on the battle 
 maps. The rewards are just enough to boost the enjoyment without seriously complicating the gameplay.
 
  
  Is Fantasy General the best title in SSI's war gaming series? Far from it. But it provides a pleasant 
 distraction when I want to waste a little time on a video game that doesn't require too much involvement 
 on my part, with a musical score that I consider second to none. In that context, I feel very comfortable 
 recommending this game to anyone who thinks he/she might enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rindis
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The 'off-genre' Fantasy General title from SSI's classic Five Star Series takes the solid WWII 
 gameplay of Panzer General and transports it to a typical medieval-ish fantasy setting. For most 
 game systems this is simply asking for trouble and a game that feels completely wrong.
  
  Not so, in this case. If anything, the simple little game feels even more at home in the new setting, 
 and captures the feel of small, fluid pre-gunpowder battles much better than many other fantasy 
 games that also feature mass fantasy battles (such as the Heroes series) . While not very 'real', 
 it feels right, and the 'wound' and 'death' losses make sense for the units, with the fact that 
 heroes only take 'wound' losses quietly emphasizes that they are singular men at the forefront 
 of an army.
  
  The background is generic enough. The main campaign features a series of-ever tougher battles with 
 steadily improving troops on both sides. What saves the game from the tedium of fighting battles 
 over and over is that, like its cousins, it is fast. Added to the challenges of different maps 
 (and terrain types as you go from continent to continent during the campaign) , evolving unit types, 
 there are the twin difficulties of preserving your forces for the next battle and the need to hurry, 
 as there is only a limited number of turns in each scenario.
  
  On the physical side, the art is quite nice, but always felt washed out to my eyes. The minimalist 
 presentation, with no animation or the like just emphasizes the fact that this is a game where 
 you need to think. The display is clear, and all functions are available through buttons at the 
 sides of the screen. The soundtrack - all six tracks - is my all time favorite. But there's just 
 the six primary tracks and variations on them which are so soft as to be nearly inaudible.
  
  The game was written for DOS, but was also meant to be friendly to the brand-new Windows 95, 
 so it should continue run well on modern systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanAG
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2004 6:03 am PT
Review:  Wow, what a disappointing review! I loved this game. I think I played it almost as much as Panzer 
 General 1 and 2. The mix of fantasy units was terrific, and really worked together tactically. 
 This game was colorful, original, fast paced, and fun. Maybe it was a bit too long, but at least 
 the clever mechanic of being able to both upgrade and buy new, better units kept it interesting 
 the whole way through. This game is a classic, and if you can find it, it's well worth the investment.
 
  
  The graphics score is relative to other games out then, of course it can't compete with current 
 war games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
