-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Far Cry 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/farcry2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible amount of freedom to approach each mission.
 50 square kilometers of visually stunning African landscape.
 Hefty single-player campaign should take at least 30 hours.
 Diverse reward and upgrade systems feed off each other very well.
 Robust map editor on all three versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story does very little with politically-charged setting.
 Traveling for long stretches can become tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 4,885 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Oct 21, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although you can't say the same for the plot, Far Cry 2's first-person action squeezes every last 
 drop of potential out of the unique African setting. 

  In Far Cry 2's chaotic world of mercenaries, gunrunners, and armed militias, you'll find yourself 
 dropped into a dizzying web of shady clients and paper-thin alliances. All manner of names and 
 faces are introduced during the course of the storyline, but the real star isn't anyone brandishing 
 a smuggled weapon in search of blood diamonds; it's the daunting and awe-inspiring 50-square kilometers 
 of African landscape that make up the game's open-world setting. Aside from providing the opportunity 
 to soak up an amazing sunset, Far Cry 2's free-roaming terrain brilliantly harmonizes with the 
 first-person combat. The diverse landscape and myriad environmental factors work alongside a wide 
 assortment of weaponry to give you tremendous freedom to approach each mission. Combined with solid 
 multiplayer, Far Cry 2's sheer breadth of action provides you with plenty of reason to stay lost 
 in the African wilderness despite an underwhelming plot and the occasional sense of tedium in navigating 
 from one location to another on the gargantuan map.  

           Far Cry 2 is quite the looker.      

  Far Cry 2's story is filled with potential. 
 You're a mercenary working for a client who's sent you to an unnamed African nation engulfed in 
 civil war, and your job is to take out a notorious arms dealer known as "The Jackal." He quickly 
 proves to be an elusive figure, so you'll need to begin working for various warring factions that 
 the Jackal has armed so you can trace the supply line back to your target. The two primary organizations 
 at the heart of all this bloodshed are the militaristic UFLL and the revolutionary APR. You'll 
 spend the bulk of the story working for these two groups, getting to know their power structures, 
 and taking on all of the violent tasks they throw your way. Complicating things is the fact that 
 your character has malaria, which means you'll need to occasionally play nice with the more ragtag 
 Underground, the only group with the medical connections necessary to keep your potentially life-threatening 
 symptoms at bay.  

  Each story mission can be played in multiple ways. There are 12 potential buddies randomly scattered 
 throughout the storyline who you can befriend (nine of whom are available to choose as your silent 
 protagonist) , and they're often keen to tack on their own interests to the quests handed out by 
 the UFLL and APR. Instead of just taking out a target, you have the option to earn extra reputation 
 points by working alongside your buddy to first squeeze any remaining assets from the soon-to-be-deceased. 
 This also earns you the ability to increase your level of companionship with that buddy. It's a 
 neat reward, but it doesn't shed much light on their backgrounds. But that's par for the course; 
 the main story is delivered in such a rushed, quick-and-dirty way that you never feel very involved 
 in the game's overarching conflicts. The plot is less  Blood Diamond  than it is early Grand Theft 
 Auto, a long roster of changing faces that scroll by far too quickly to capitalize on the politically 
 charged setting.  

  Although disappointing for a single-player campaign that could easily drain more than 30 hours 
 of your time, any shortcomings in the plot are mostly forgivable thanks to Far Cry 2's overall 
 structure. The game is organized in a way that provides a daunting amount of freedom to explore, 
 earn currency, and wreak havoc on the game's landscape and its denizens. It's all laid out in a 
 manner typical of sandbox action games. Pulling out your map reveals a collection of icons that 
 signify available missions and points of interest that you can meander toward at your own leisure. 
 Among these are dozens of side missions that you can take on, with various forms of rewards. Delivering 
 transit papers to trapped refugees earns you malaria medication, destroying rival convoys for gun 
 merchants unlocks new weapons for purchase, and performing assassinations for mysterious voices 
 at the other end of your cell phone rewards you with diamonds. You can also rough up militias stationed 
 in small camps and turn their dwellings into your own safe houses. The side missions can feel a 
 bit repetitive when played through in rapid succession, but they offer a great change of tempo 
 when sprinkled throughout the main narrative. But what's most clever is how their differing rewards 
 intermingle so wonderfully with your needs in progressing through the story: Malaria pills keep 
 your HP and stamina up, diamonds buy you new weapons and ability upgrades, and safe houses provide 
 temporary shelter to stock up and save your game.  

           With so much ground to cover, you'll be spending a lot of time driving, boating, running, 
 and swimming.      

  The freedom of choice that goes with selecting which mission you want to perform carries over to 
 how you execute them, and that's where Far Cry 2 really shines. There are a variety of factors 
 that affect the way you approach each mission, from the number of people you need to kill, to the 
 landscape, to the weather and time of day. If your job is to take out a key figure hidden deep 
 within a militia camp in the jungle, you'll do well to take a nap at your safe house until nightfall 
 and silently stalk your prey under the cover of darkness. If it's a windy day and you need to take 
 out a bandit outpost in the dry plains, you can start a fire from far away with a flare gun and 
 let the breeze and arid conditions collude to spread the flames toward their camp, finishing off 
 the survivors with a sniper rifle. Need to clear out a bunch of scattered guards? Why not shoot 
 an oil drum near an ammo stockpile and watch as the bullets erupt in every direction like deadly 
 pieces of popcorn? Of course, you can also get up close and personal with pistols and machine guns, 
 but the moments in which elaborately planned assaults succeed are some of the most gratifying points 
 in the game. The whole process of staging an attack only becomes more intricate and rewarding as 
 you slowly upgrade your safe house into a full-blown armory and unlock new weapon and vehicle abilities -- all 
 done through the gun shops.     

  The sheer variety of weapons plays a big role in your ability to craft a personalized approach 
 to each mission. For every situation, there's a weapon ideally suited to delivering mercenary justice. 
 From the AK-47 to the Molotov cocktail and the remote-detonated improvised explosive device, they 
 all feel like weapons that could easily be plucked from the civil wars of Africa. Furthermore, 
 your weapons will cycle through an authentic level of wear and tear, particularly those picked 
 up from ragtag militiamen; secondhand weapons will show dirt, frequently jam, and eventually break, 
 which means that it's best to buy them from the shop. All of the above makes for a uniquely desperate 
 and makeshift style of combat compared to other first-person shooters.  

           Fire is often your best friend, but not when it's raining or a mission takes you to a 
 dense jungle.      

  If there's one drawback to the combat, it's that it tends to be a little too forgiving after the 
 first few hours of the game. Your health is divided into several individually regenerative bars 
 like Resistance: Fall of Man, but once it gets low, you can inject yourself with a syrette for 
 added health (though if it's really low, you'll first need to perform a slick self-heal such as 
 yanking bullet shells out of your leg or snapping a broken arm back into place) . You can eventually 
 upgrade the amount of ammo and health you have to further tip the odds in your favor, and even 
 have a buddy rescue you whenever you die (though you need to keep an eye on him because he can 
 be permanently killed in a scuffle) . Most of the challenge arrives when you're looking at your 
 map in search of the next mission and then get surprised by a bunch of roadside bandits while you're 
 driving one of the game's numerous run-down SUVs or river boats (which exist alongside hang-gliders, 
 trucks, licensed Jeeps, and dune buggies as the types of vehicles you can operate) . However, there 
 are still very few moments when you don't feel like an everyman caught in a nasty situation, and 
 that sort of improvised payback is what makes Far Cry 2's combat so engrossing.  

  Visually, Far Cry 2 is a stunner. Though not as technically amazing as the jungles of Crysis, Far 
 Cry 2's depiction of the sprawling African wilderness makes up for it with environmental diversity 
 and intimidating scale. Several landscapes are represented here: dense forests, rolling plains, 
 arid deserts, craggy badlands, and even shantytowns and hut villages. You'll see trees swaying, 
 the charred remains of a brush fire, and several forms of wildlife running around. It all looks 
 incredible in the transitional period of the day-night cycle when the sun is falling or rising 
 through the horizon and everything is cast in a warm glow. The game also sounds great, with tribal 
 music accompanying you at all times, from a relaxing ambience in calm situations to a rapidly escalating 
 roar of drums in battle. The voice acting during mission briefings feels strangely hurried (as 
 if it's some trick to squeeze more dialogue onto the disc) , but that's largely offset by excellent 
 enemy banter during combat.  

  Adding to Far Cry 2's value is the 16-person online multiplayer. The gameplay modes on display 
 are nothing terribly special (you'll see variations of Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the 
 Flag, and Territories) , but the fighting captures a lot of the appeal of single-player, including 
 vehicles, fire-based weaponry, and a great sense of scale in each map. But what sets the multiplayer 
 apart is that you don't need to settle for the included maps; each version of the game comes with 
 a deep but intuitive map editor capable of letting you create everything from dense urban locales 
 to sprawling forests. And downloading new maps is simply a matter of seeking out featured selections 
 or hitting "download" when a Quick Match search lets you know that you don't have that one yet. 
 Such uninspired gameplay modes are certainly a letdown, but the map editor has great potential 
 to inject loads of lasting appeal into Far Cry 2's online component.  

           The map editor is easy to use, but capable of making great maps.      

  Although the 
 original Far Cry was available only on the PC for the first year and a half of its existence, Far 
 Cry 2 will see an expanded audience with the PC, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 versions all available 
 out of the gate. However, its roots are clearly on display when taking in the differences between 
 the three platforms. Far Cry 2 looks best running on a PC, with clearer textures, better foliage, 
 and less pop-in. The console versions also suffer from the occasional loading hitch when you're 
 driving into a highly populated city. Another key difference is that the PC version lets you save 
 anywhere you want, whereas the 360 and PS3 games only let you use predefined save points. However, 
 the latter difference isn't quite as lopsided as the graphical disparity; saving anywhere gives 
 you more room for experimentation in approaching your missions, but the console versions provide 
 a more clearly defined sense of consequence that adds extra tension to the combat. You'll definitely 
 want to go with the PC version if you've got a system capable of approaching the hardware requirements, 
 but the differences aren't so great that you won't have a blast with either console version (which 
 are virtually indistinguishable from one another) .  

  Overall, Far Cry 2 is a game in which you can quite literally get lost for hours at a time. But 
 that feeling of exploration is precisely what makes the game so much fun; your creativity never 
 feels stifled when approaching a mission, and the game's overall structure of side tasks, friends, 
 rewards, and upgrades is a diverse ecosystem rivaling the landscape itself. No matter whether you're 
 a PC fan whose played through the similarly structured Crysis or a console owner new to the world 
 of open-ended first-person shooters, you won't be disappointed by Far Cry 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (464 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bobkansas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of FPS since back in the day... this one was more than I expected, based partly 
 on mixed reviews and my recollection of the original Far Cry. It's nothing like the original game 
 and the mixed reviews reflect, I believe, the preferences people have regarding FPS and non-FPS 
 games. This is an addictive and immersive FPS that has plenty of variety, and a storyline and characters 
 that draws you in.
  
  I can't imagine anyone giving this game a chance, and ultimately not liking it overall. Graphics 
 are great, not overpowering, so even those with mid-level hardware can enjoy decent frame rates. 
 The variety of weapons and challenges make this one of my current favorites.
  
  The sandbox map is HaUUUge!! You'll learn to take the bus from point to point when possible to 
 save the drive time and avoid the piddly fights you run in to at check points... those do get tiresome 
 after a while, I admit. However, once you've ranked up and have the right weapons its not bad (I 
 simply stopped a few hundred yards before the checkpoints and sniped the three or four little boogers 
 and went on my way. Later when my jeep was outfitted with grenade launchers it was nothing more 
 than a drive by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iisl33t
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  To start off - this game can be reviewed simply by reading the back cover of the game because all 
 of it is true. 
  
  You can just about do anything you would expect, and the storyline is more than 50 hours for sure 
 if you replay it (which after a break from the first play-through, you will) and take in all the 
 missions you want (including side missions) .
  
  You start off with a short "tutorial" than you're dumped into a huge African enviroment faced with 
 unlimited choices. You must encounter and maintain fighting forces, malaria and finding the Jackal. 
 
  
  It seems a little overwhelming at first, with few guns that occasionally jam and the fact that 
 you don't quite have the  thing. You can play any 
 way you'd like, be it throwing explosives, sneak in stealth, or just run-and-gun. It's not like 
 tactics don't play a role here, of course. Running-and-gunning through a heavily guarded base with 
 vehicles and snipers is not a good idea all the time, but feel free to try it if you're feeling 
 ambitous. Thinking about the battle and scanning it out first could - and probably will - give 
 you an upper hand. But enough tips.
  
  The graphics are fabulous, and the day-night cycle is cool. Enemies do vary down to the clothing 
 and faces, so its not repetitive. The missions however, are. Though if you vary the time of day, 
 and the places you go, they don't seem repetitive at all.
  
  If there's any flaws in this game, it's the travel time. Bus stops that automatically travel you 
 to another stop do little to reduce this time, and enemies along the way are another annoying stop, 
 and if they kill you it couldn't be more irritating. Thank God for tha quick-save feature.
  
  Overall, however, it's a great game with good re-playability and tons of options. The flaws 
 can be overlooked - its that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khaos12a
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE this game. I like it better than Crysis.
  
  The story is NOT bad or weak. It is impersonal, but that is not a bad thing. It is a political 
 story that YOU have the power to CHANGE.
  It is the sort of the thing that the average ADHD fan will not be into, and the Jackal is on the 
 most interesting character in any game I've ever played. That, and the ability to do any mission 
 however you want, makes this a game to not let by.
  
  The graphics are also excellent. The world DUNIA means "world" and that's what it is. A real world. 
 The weather will change and you will find animals around map. Enemies will talk to each other when 
 they don't know that you are there, and even in the middle of battle.
  Trees will sway from wind or explosions, and bushes will be flattened under you weight. You will 
 be injured during battle and have to take malaria pills. This is one of the most realistic experiences 
 in any game. With the final decision at the end, this is the most immersive game i have ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demoncrown
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  yes i have brought this game and played a couple of times and how quickly does it get repetitive, 
 i mean its normally just a case of drive, pick up mission, drive, shootout at cross roads, drive, 
 another shootout, drive, shootout at mission, drive back with another couple of stops for a shootout
 
  
  i finally got bored of this and went back to the original game, i mean this game is like an essex 
 blonde it looks good on the outside but has no depth to the game at all
  
  graphically yes its brilliant eye candy, but i got to have more than just eye candy you no i need 
 a game that captures me and holds me enraptured, i would suggest that if you have the choice of 
 this or Bioshock for gods sake go with bioshock, that way you get the best of both worlds a good 
 looking game and brilliant story/gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Express_Diablos
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  Adventurious and fun to get into, the main story was in my opinion pretty great but could have 
 had more to say about the political setting and war but didn't speak it out-loud. 
  Your dropped off at the airport and begin from the back seat of a cab (truck) , having the relaxation 
 of getting the view of Africa and it's beautiful living aura. 
  After blacking out from your Malaria you awaken to see the Jackal going through your things and 
 giving you his small tale of life and war "Read a book once, can't remember the name". 
  After he leaves your thrown out of bed from an explosion, grabbing your machete and pistol, you 
 finally take control and have to make your way downstairs and outside. Eventually blacking out 
 yet again and waking up at a small room with a guy waiting for you, thus beginning your tutorial 
 mission's.
  
  [Personal Opinion: The voice actor's were really good, would like to see more of them.]
  The 
 Jackal was engaging with his dark humor's intelligence of death and war.
  The mercenary buddys were a nice addition to the cast of the game, voice actors were good at capturing 
 the sense and accent of Africa. Bai always seem'd to make me laugh somehow, maybe just the way 
 he talked.
  Enemy's and other cast of character's will make you laugh or will make you try to yell at them 
 with your machete. Enemy's are always amusing with their funny-paranoia lines of "I'm going to 
 get you" are appealing. It's an approvement from the "Right between the eyes mo-fo, from the original 
 FarCry" 
  But playing the game for a long period of time you laugh at the enemy's paranoia about "Putting 
 a bullet in your skull". 
  
  Mission's are easy and simple to do, go here, kill him, blow that up, get paid. But if you look 
 at it that way it's not going to keep you going for very long. 
  Each mission after the next does blend together but the open-world environment keeps you guessing 
 whats around the next corner, whether be an assault truck or a jackass in a Jeep Wrangler. But 
 after the 3rd or 4th day in the heated sun staring at a group of Zebra's will keep you on edge 
 trying to hunt down your target. 
  Assassination mission's you find a cell phone tower and get upated with your targets where-o-bout's. 
 
  Convoy mission's depoly you to chase down a big truck and blow it up or disable it. 
  Underground mission's involve you taking out the targets outside of the building to unlock it getting 
 your pills. 
  
  Environment is the one of the best things in FarCry2. From the sound of the wind blowing to the 
 burning sun reflecting off your gun. 
  Weather effects are nicely detailed in day to night, rain or shine. 
  The RealTree effects really 
 brighten out the vegatation of grass, swamp water, bushes, and terrain. 
  
  Fire is a guilty candy to the game, always amusing to burn everything, everywhere, better in night 
 to enjoy the glow. But in my opinion it's the most realistic fire i've seen in... well forever. 
 
  Physis are unpredictable in the game, from blowing up vehicles heading straight towards you or 
 barrels and lumber flying all over the place. 
  Gunshot's do seem like they could be more effective when shooting at any range. 
  
  Weaponary 
 has a nice vareity but could have had a little more in the upgrade department. 
  Tactic's of enemy's are just as unpredictable as the physis, running behind and around cover putting 
 more rounds in you then you do them. Greneades work best at flanking out or eliminating any enemys. 
 
  Using the in-game map is interesting and always helpful to where everything is, but can and probably 
 get annoying after awhile. 
  Vehicles handle quite well or better then the previous FarCry, but easily running into things with 
 cause the engine to start smoking, repairing is a neat little add on but can get annoying when 
 you just bump into a tree only 3 feet away. 
  Healing is amusing also, whether pulling out a stick from your leg, digging out bullets or bending 
 back your arm's. What ever it takes to survive in Africa it's here with a flamethrower. 
  
  To conclude this ending FarCry2 is addictive, beauitfully and amusing game, but could have had 
 more to it besides the zebra's. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheexJM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a game that brings a lot of new things to the fore. Fire propagation is one of them 
 and such a dynamic fire system has not been seen in PC gaming before. Open world gameplay has been 
 around for a while now but the setting has never been so unique.
  
  The visceral feel stays true to the game's marketing. It really does put you inside the game and 
 give you a higher level of realism. There is no HUD while playing. It is visible for just a few 
 seconds at a time and only when absolutely necessary, which is very nice.
  
  It does have flaws but which game doesn't? The good thing is that Far Cry 2's flaws really can 
 be overlooked. A masterfully done game, with an entirely visceral feel to it. Go anywhere, do anything, 
 with total freedom. Mercenary of life or death - it is all in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  I initially started playing this game due to a friend talking about how amazing it looked to him 
 from seeing his friend play it. Also, I played the original Far Cry and enjoyed it so I thought 
 I'd give this one a shot. It doesn't take long to recognize that this game is a successor to the 
 original in name only. The game has a lot of potential, and I played on it for some time, but at 
 some point it just begins being too much of the same thing. Getting new equipment is fun but the 
 story really needs some more depth to it. What keeps you playing is the fact that it just takes 
 so long to to build up enough money doing baby jobs to buy new equipment to take on more and more 
 of the main story missions. Perhaps I didn't state that correctly. What kept me playing was wanting 
 to get to the end of the game. I ended up getting so bored of the "Get mission from here, go there, 
 kill/destroy this, come back, do it all over again" formula that I just trudged through it to finish. 
 I even resorted to using a trainer before I got halfway through to speed things up. You have 2 
 main maps and spend all of your time running around the maps from point A to B to C. This gets 
 old by the end of the 1st map, and then once you get to the second one it's the exact same thing, 
 the only difference it different scenery and a slightly different layout to the map. I actually 
 stopped playing this game and played another one all the way through before coming back to finish 
 this one. If you are an action addict then you might enjoy this one all the way through as there 
 is definitely plenty of action, but it's just too repetitious for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2004, Crytek released a game called Far Cry, which pushed the boundaries of PC graphics 
 to whole new levels. The game was published by Ubisoft but instead of making a direct sequel, Crytek 
 opted to devote their attention on their sci-fi shooter, Crysis, released in 2007. Ubisoft stilled 
 owned the Far Cry name and decided to make an indirect sequel, keeping with the spirit of the first 
 game such as wide open jungles and free roaming gameplay. Far Cry 2, released last Fall, was well-received 
 by critics but has had a mixed response from gamers. Yes, there are some quirks with its much-hyped 
 "realism," but Far Cry 2 features a wide open world of freedom that no other game has matched. 
 The only one that has come close would be S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl. Taking place in an 
 unnamed African country torn by civil war, the player is tasked with finding an arms dealer named 
 The Jackal, who has been supplying both sides (the UFLL and the APR) with arms. How the player 
 accomplishes this goal is up to them but they must complete the story missions (total of 30) to 
 advance. If the narrative was to bring attention to how Africa is still torn by warring factions 
 and civil strife, coupled with greed and typical apathy for the general populace, they failed as 
 the plot is incredibly weak and doesn't make much sense until the end. Gameplay largely has you 
 trekking across large areas of jungle and you'll have a variety of vehicles and weapons to help 
 you out. The first 2-3 hours are rather boring since you're only armed with a weak pistol and assault 
 rifle with limited ammo but once you start accumulating diamonds (the game's currency) , you'll 
 be able to buy/upgrade weapons from the weapon shop, which are then automatically added to the 
 armory and you can come and pick up fresh supplies anytime. Unfortunately, there is just WAY too 
 much driving around and you'll frequently be attacked... by EVERYONE. There are bus stations that 
 teleport you to the 4 corners of the map but they seemed tacked on. For a country that's at war, 
 it sure doesn't seem like it as no one seems to shooting each other unless it's a scripted event. 
 Why didn't they take a page out of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and create a more dynamic world? While it does 
 take away some of the realism, the rest of the world is amazing, filled with wildlife and gorgeous 
 vistas. The graphics are rendered with the Dunia Engine and at maximum settings, the game looks 
 beautiful. It comes very close to Crysis but Crysis has a small advantage due to the fact that 
 the jungle featured there had more color. Far Cry 2 has too much.... brown but the dense jungle 
 areas present a variety of fauna and flora. On a Intel Core 2 Duo 2.66 GHz, 2 GB RAM, and Geforce 
 9600GT, the game ran at an average of 35 frames per second. Sometimes it will drop to around 30 
 if you're in a forest area and the game has to render all those shadows. Audio is excellent, as 
 weapons sound like the way they're supposed to, especially the sniper rifle, whose loud 'pop' shakes 
 my room. All the little effects like the crunching of leaves or chirping of nearby birds are perfectly 
 captured. Music is African-inspired. The only weak point is the voice acting, which is average 
 at best. The single player campaign will last you 20 hours if you focus on the story missions but 
 there's also 40 side quests. Some of them are a little repetitive, with you destroying convoys 
 to unlock new weapons or assassinating some dude. Multiplayer seems tacked on and features your 
 standard Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Diamond (variation of capture the flag) and Uprising 
 (variation of Battlefield's capture of control points) . I only played one session and it's fun 
 but nothing we haven't seen before. Far Cry 2 is an expansive game that has a few problems pertaining 
 to its realism but it largely fulfills the box's promise of "playing it your way." The focus is 
 always on the action and it comes fast and furious. Some people might get bored but give it a try, 
 you won't be disappointed. As for DRM, the game uses activations and install limits but there's 
 a revoke tool. Far Cry 2 is only 29.99 now so you really can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a HUGE let down for me. Especially after spending $50 on it =/. I decided to get this 
 game thinking it looked good, man was I wrong. 
  
  The First couple hours of gameplay seems stale. But then again, a lot of games sometimes do. But 
 this staleness stuck with it. The gameplay is pretty much go from point A to point B and back again. 
 Not very exciting. The gunplay involved in the game is quite satisfying. Other than that, the game 
 fails in almost every other aspect. During these missions, you will encounter random people that 
 will come up to you and start attacking for no reason. This made me quit the game. You WILL die 
 from these guys plenty of times. And yes, it takes you back to your last save. The graphics aren't 
 bad, in my opinion, but could be better. The sound is horrible because the voice a acting is the 
 worst I EVER heard. They talk so fast and have absolutely no tone in their voice what so ever. 
 Stay far away from far cry 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 Review (3/25/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Solid Action- The gunplay and the weapons are solid, and make for some spectacular gunfights. The 
 health system is a mix of both recharging shields and health packs which neither make the game 
 just a quest for the next health pack or make you feel as an invincible super soldier, achieving 
 a good balance. Overall the main gameplay is not bad.
  
  Presentation- Africa is rendered beautifully in this game, definitely one of the best looking games 
 released in 2008. The world is huge and really gives you the feeling that you're trekking across 
 the African savannah. Some of the cutscenes are also amazing to watch, such as taking a piece of 
 shrapnel out of your leg, fixing a dislocated joint, or watching as your buddy rescues you from 
 death. 
  
  Fire- Anything can catch on fire and spread, making the molotovs, the flamethrower, and the flare 
 guns some of the deadliest weapons in the game. And it all looks amazingly pretty.
  
  Cons:
  
  Long and Tedious- Although the action and gameplay is solid, the missions are brutally 
 repetitive and there is not much point to the game once you unlock all of the weapons you want. 
 The main story is touted as being over 25 hours long, but should've been only seven or eight hours.
 
  
  Disappointing and Annoying- Before release this was supposed to be a game where you, the player, 
 take on of the two sides in an ongoing war and affect the outcome. However, that's not the case, 
 as even though you do work for both factions in the game, EVERYONE in the game is against you, 
 and enemies frequently respawn once you leave an area for five seconds. This is disappointing, 
 not to mention annoying later on when you're just trying to drive to a mission area and have to 
 get out of the vehicle every two seconds to fight off enemies who attack.
  
  Multiplayer and the Map Editor- Multiplayer is solid, but can't hold a candle to other similar 
 games such as the Call of Duty series. The map editor is very user-friendly and broad, but can 
 only be used for custom multiplayer maps, which means no user-created single player maps.
  
  Voice Acting- Everyone in the game talk very fast without any pauses between sentences. What 
 a way to destroy most of the presentation.
  
  Malaria- The worst aspect of the game, every once in awhile the game will force you to stop whatever 
 you were doing and do a stupid fetch quest to get some pills so your character doesn't die of malaria. 
 This should have been left out.
  
  
  Overall: C+ (One of the biggest disappointments of 2008, being tedious, repetitive, and in some 
 parts annoying.) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecoldfighter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:14 am PT
Review:  Before I start the review I am going to ask you guys (yea you, the ones you give Far Cry 2 marks 
 like 1/10 to 4/10) what were you thinking? Do you think it makes you a better gamer if you find 
 only the bad parts of a game or you just write because you love to? I think those of you who think 
 that making a game is easy just start to make your own! Anyway let's start it. Far Cry 2, just 
 like Far Cry totally amazed me! I've got no comments for this game! If you like the full review 
 of this game, imagine an outstanding game with outstanding graphics and gameplay! This game worths 
 every single buck I've saved for it! It is definetly one of the greatest FPS games of all times! 
 Just buy it and you'll love it!
  
  The Story:
  Caught between two rival factions in war-torn Africa, you are sent to take out "The Jackal", a 
 mysterious character who has rekindled the conflict between the warlords, jeopardizing thousands 
 of lives. In order to fulfil your mission you will have to play the factions against each other, 
 identify and exploit their weaknesses, and neutralise their superior numbers and firepower with 
 surprise, subversion, cunning and, of course, brute force.
  
  The story has been written by Susan O'Connor, who has penned the scripts for really famous - big-time 
 - games like Bioshock and Gears of War. Expect plenty of dialogue from the 55 unique speaking parts 
 in the game!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Storyline: 9/10
  Multiplayer: 9/10
  Impression: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shirahen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Now at first when i got this at Christmas time i bought it along with GTA4 and World of War, so 
 it inevitably took 3rd place honours of importance in getting my much valued 'game time'.
  
  At first i was dissapointed after 3-4 hours of play due to the fact it just seemed to have 
 little story line and i was driving, driving, driving everywhere but...
  
  I think with this game their intention is to bring out a higher sense of realism within the game. 
 You start to notice the changing of landscapes, the setting of the sun, the sounds of the flies, 
 birds, animals, people talking about everyday things.
  
  Then you start to realise how beautiful the game really is. After initially just driving through 
 each village and thinking 'here is another damn village that i have to get through', i started 
 to slow down and realise, 'hey i'm gonna have fun with this!'
  
  Maybe a sniper rifle right at that gas cylinder as he walks by. Maybe i will go in total ninja 
 style with machete only and get me some ammo. Maybe i will pin then off each one by one with my 
 silencer or send the camp into total confusion with a couple of mortars! Even better, ninja style 
 into the camp, kick the gas cylinder over to the jeep, go back down the road, grab their attention, 
 watch them jump in the jeep and sniper that cylinder! How about standing on a hill or ledge, grabbing 
 there attention and as they walk up the dry grassy hill, lob a couple of molotovs at the grass 
 in front ofthem and watch em run!
  The Ai is what rocks about this game! 
  
  The game has been made for YOU to think about what YOU want to do, not what is to be expected.
 
  
  This is the whole point of free roam, which they have captured perfectly.
  
  Let your imagination wander!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  First of one of the biggest mistakes this game makes is the spoken voices of the characters involved. 
 They speak far too fast and it takes out any social involvement you might get in the game. It really 
 is a huge problem when you want to immerse someone in a world. I can only think they wanted to 
 save space to fit the game on one 4GB DVD. I have no idea why they would do this otherwise.
  
  
  Secondly the respawning of guard points all around the world doesn't work, it just becomes 
 annoying driving past a point and killing everyone there then driving back past it 2 minutes later 
 and the whole place has completely respawned. Huge flaw and it takes a lot away from the game.
 
  
  People attack you randomly all the time without any explanation all over the place. It is nonsense 
 and makes the world you are immersing yourself in farcical.
  
  The plot is reasonably adult and could have worked had the above things not been present.
  
 
  I actually liked the driving part of the game, although a wider variety of cars and speeds of 
 cars would have been better.
  
  The combat mechanics are decent but not perfect, however the combat itself is where this game shines, 
 I've never had so much fun in a game using grenades. Blowing things up, setting them on fire, attacking 
 a large well protected area by bombarding them with your grenade launcher then going in with the 
 Mac-10 is a lot of fun. Flawed but fun, enemy AI is pretty bad, sometimes enemies seem to be able 
 to take a full clip to the face from 1 metre away and stay standing... lots of flaws like this take 
 away from a game that should have been exceptional.
  
  Too many flaws to be a classic or a great game. Some nice ideas and its ambition help take this 
 game to an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actsai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  OK but Far Cry 2 is not as good if you (and I) considers Crysis a fun game; FC 2 is technically 
 marvelous and while more drab on its African setting its own Darnia engine beats the feces out 
 of Cry ENGINE 2 and whatever Crytek would throw out for near future.
  
  On the technical side, a low-end machine like mine coupled with GeForce 9800 very little compromise 
 in graphical and physical quality; with only background popups and FPS slowdown in Pala (the hub) 
 but then again state-of-hardware-art already eclipsed a lot of physical processing. Having Crysis 
 too but Cry ENGINE 2 will sputter and having popups even 5 meters away with a visible unsmooth 
 FPS throughout.
  
  But the actual gaming content is drag. Close to GTA but not focused as Crysis. The way it handles 
 hits is confusing so is the enemy combatants (pun here) against drab-looking landscape makes it 
 a visual hunt work to get a bearing to shoot, though this visual difficulty applies to them as 
 well.
  
  Few hours down the road, you know it is routine: underground contracts pops out in Pala when needed 
 malaria pill, routine delivery, routinely being attacked by bandits. Faction contracts are a bit 
 varied but all sourced from Pala. Cell phones are routine assasinations. Contracts from independant 
 arms dealer and bars are varied in otherwise motonomous pace.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcharp
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The first Farcry was an immersive, involving game. It was easy to get lost in. This version is 
 mostly traveling from A to B with a little predictable action on the way. While the story seems 
 modern, the game feels old. It is really no longer a FPS in my estimation, but rather a RPG, and 
 a boring one at that. I was impressed with the original and I'm far from impressed with this installment. 
 Make no mistake, this is NOT an continuation of the first game. The gameplay is completely different. 
 The story is completely different. And the immersion factor is seems to have been lost along the 
 way. The repetitiveness becomes boring after a very short time because the gameplay is so completely 
 predictable. What could have been a great follow-up to a fantastic game seems to have been put 
 together with little consideration for the engulfing action that characterized the original. All 
 in all, I recommend saving your money. I wish I had done so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerslide67
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game to see what my new gaming rig could do, and i was impressed with the graphics..... that's 
 it really....
  
  The story isn't interesting enough that you want to see how it ends, most of the missions are: 
 "go there, kill everyone, get paid". You end up driving most of the time from A to B from mission 
 to mission without sense of achievement. 
  
  Somehow they also forgot to code friendly A. I. in the game so basically all your missions are undercover 
 which means that it doesn't matter which side you are on everyone will shoot you in the face as 
 soon as they see you. Another thing that bothers me a bit is the fact that this game wants to be 
 too realistic, if you pick up guns from dead enemies they will probably jam, you get sick with 
 malaria in the middle of the action (save often) and the map; i can see why some people can think 
 this is cool, but you kinda want to see this things happen a few times and not all the time. Let's 
 start with malaria first, i know that the character has malaria but is it fair that i have to take 
 pills during the best part of a fight not to die?
  Second the map, there is no radar at the corner of the screen so you have to hold map (it will 
 replace your rifle) . It's realistic but come on! It's hard enough to drive the stupid vehicles 
 in this game, but now i also have to read a map while I'm driving? BTW Far Cry 2 has the only satnavs 
 that don't let you set a destination...
  
  The map and the lack of proper story was enough to make me stop playing (i played trough 23% of 
 the game) . The game also can be activated only on 3 different PCs so some store don't trade it 
 and you might end up stuck with a game you don't really want but on the other hand you can buy 
 one for cheap on ebay that has been already activated once.
  
  The graphics are good but playing it felt like homework. If you haven't played it yet get crysis, 
 the graphics will impress you more and it's fun to play. If you have played it already get something 
 else but avoid Far Cry 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pragxyscin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 2:45 am PT
Review:  hell yeah Great game anyone hav every played free roaming may be very old fashion since gta3 but 
 with free roamin action game is this it has real meaninging of free roaming ,you just dont get 
 cars and guns but amazing places with real feel of africa ,car burning along with nearby hay or 
 grass boom of blast it got what any FPS shooter wants, its little boring dat a character you choose 
 no matter who it has malaria and has to get medicine everytime he used up all caps, so leaving dat 
 nothing is there to blame ,DUNIA has done real great job as compare to CryEngine2 ,it requriews 
 real less Specs comparing CryEngine and even though gives good looking effect of graphics, characters 
 look nice and smooth with lipsing are almost matching, african attitude seems done better than any 
 african game outthere, and if you really wanna get to know what is going in africa right now, you 
 gotta either take a flight to africa or buy farcry2, both with be same Trust Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroy3r3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I was anxiously waiting for Far Cry 2 when I learned there was going to be a sequel. Of course, 
 I knew that the plot had nothing to do with Far Cry, but it looked promicing and worth playing.
 
  
  I can't say that the game disapointed me, although I expected a little more from the developers. 
 In the game, you are a mercenary, assigned to kill an arms dealer in an unknown African country 
 devastated by civil war. The story, although looking promising, isn't something special. It has 
 very little to do with political conspiracies and it just follows the action. In ant case, you 
 will not find yourself sucked in the plot, so don't expect much from it.
  
  Next station, is the gameplay. Gar Cry 2 introduces a whole world of 50 square kilometres available 
 to explore. Of course, the world is divined in two large maps, the Northern District and the Southern 
 District. The second map becomes available in the second half of the game, but you cannot return 
 in the first one, so make sure you do everything (collections, side missions etc) there before 
 you move in. The main story is based on missions where you mostly need to take someone out, or 
 destroy something. I would like some more types of missions, like infiltration missions, driving, 
 protecting someone important, kidnapping. You have the ability to do a little favor o one of your 
 buddies before completing each mission. That way, you gain reputation and some improvements to 
 your safehouses, but I really can't say why someone wouldn't do them as he only has benefits from 
 it. On the same time, your employers doesn't seem bothered at all that you don't follow their instructions! 
 Probably, if there were some cosequenses, like reduced payment the player would have some dillemas 
 on what to do. Although the missions are a bit linear, they are higly addictive, as the action 
 sucks you in. The battle system is really simple, as a good FPS should be. You can use noumerous 
 weapons and approach each mission as you want. You can play it stealthy and use silenced weapons, 
 or go in a camp heavily armed and destroy everything in the game. Theenvironment is destructible 
 in a point, so have fun spreading death and fire to the deserts of Africa! Apart from these, there 
 are some side missions you can do for your buddies, or for the arms dealer, in order to gain some 
 reputation, new weapons etc but they are nothing special really. Unfortunatelly, you can't call 
 your friends for help in the battles, they only come when you are on emergency to help you.
  
  Moving to graphics and sound, you won't be dissapointed. The game looks wonderfull, and you 
 don't have to own a PC with 2000$ to play it smoothly, even in higher detail levels. The African 
 world is greatly dessigned and many times you will find youself sitting and enjoying the African 
 settings. Especially the fire and the explosion effects are some of the best introduced in a game. 
 Regarding the sound, I have to mention the wonderfull tribal music which will acompany you in battles 
 but also when you roam in the wilderness with your Jeep. The weapons sound wonderfull. Especially 
 if you have a sound card an a good sound system you will enjoy the sound effects from every aspect.
 
  
  Moreover, we can include in the pros, the great map editor, which allows you to make your very 
 own maps and play them with your friends online. Of course, the game could not avoid the annoying 
 SecuROM protection system, and I had many problems getting online to play multiplayer. Anyway, 
 these little problems can not destroy your experience with Far Cry 2, which will grand you many 
 hours of game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesee
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Firstly dont expect anything to continue from farcry 1 , its a completely different story and setting.
 
  
  The game is HUGE, the map is over 50 km and while its annoying to walk on foot, its great to drive 
 through the africa savana, even running over the odd zebra.
  Graphics are excellent, music is good but i felt it was too quiet in the game but the menu song 
 is great, sound is good as well and is great when you fire a gun.
  
  Story is .......... thin, this is the main point i can see why others didnt like it, but i focused 
 more on the setting and the missions and really enjoyed it.
  This game is nearly a pure shooter, people complain guards respawning in posts after 5min after 
 they leave is bad but what is a shooter without guards to shoot?
  
  Missions can be samey after a while but you can take it however it want, using stealth, setting 
 traps, sniping the guards or just crash your jeep in the gate and shoot stuff up.
  
  Buddies are a really cool feauture, they actually save you should you die and help you kill the 
 enemies, plus they give you other options to do missions. But keep in mind if they die they die, 
 but there are about 8 buddies to go through.
  
  One of my favourite features is the shopping experince, diamonds get you weapons and upgrades, 
 and once you buy also alot of weapons to buy, including a flare gun.
  
  Diamond hunting is a little boring but cheats can save you the trouble, and its nice for the collectables 
 guy i guess but the golden ak 47s are sweet to find.
  
  Fires are super fun to play with, and the veichles include little fast buggies but dont expect 
 hang gliders at every turn.
  
  The interaction is great, when using a map you acutally hold it infront of you and can walk or 
 drive when reading it.
  
  But in the end i suggest you play in first, i really like it, but see why others didnt, i really 
 suggest it for fans of shooters and those who dont mind a thin plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Breadcrab
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The first Far cry was a terrific game. So I was all aboard the Hype train on this sequel. After 
 so many trailers and reviews, I just couldn't hold it any longer. I bought it. But after playing 
 the single-player a lot, I started to ge this feeling. And after multi-player, I just threw up.
 
  This game actually doesn't have anything to do with the first Far cry. The characters, location, 
 and setting is all changed. Instead of an island, welcome to Africa. Good luck. You're gonna need 
 it. You can pick your character from a few options, but the main plot is the same: Find and kill 
 an arms dealer named the Jackal. That's it. I wasn't expecting anything much from the story department, 
 but please. There are two factions you can work for, and the underground, which can give you medicine 
 for your malaria disease. The disease seems to be scripted and never pop out at random.
  Anyways onto the graphics, which is the only good part of the game. The fire effects are especially 
 good, and the textures are great. But the framerate is kind of choppy, even on the lower settings, 
 and I have a fairly good PC.
  The sound effects are pretty good, but the music is bland and gets very repetitive and annoying. 
 It seems to be recycled tracks from the first game. Terrific.
  Finally, the gameplay, which is the biggest flaw. You basically go on missions for factions RPG 
 style, but the problem is getting from place to place. I swear, I spent so much time driving and 
 so little time actually fighting. Couldn't they have put a fast travel feature in? The map is surprisingly 
 good, bt the combat... oh god..... First of all, moving your crosshair is sluggish. thats a great 
 start. But the biggest problem is how delayed the shooting is! On the bigger machine guns I have 
 to wait so long to stat firing bullets, but I can hear the sound before the bullets come out! What 
 happened? The game does a great job of throwing annoyances at you. Every once in a while you have 
 to fix your car, take a malaria pill, heal your wounds, kill some random guy following you, check 
 your map, unjam your weapons, get new weapons and etc. Its completley frantic and makes you feel 
 constanty busy. There are so many guard posts around the land, and when you kill everyone there, 
 they respawn in 5 minutes! So you always have to keep fighting them! And they take so many hits! 
 And you can't carry much ammo! And you can't even pick up ammo from them! You just swap your gun 
 for theirs! And their guns suck! OH MY GOD!!!! The missions are repetitive. And when you buy weapons, 
 you get unlimited supply of them, but you have to constantly come back to get another copy becase 
 they break so fast!
  The multi-player is such a waste of time. There's unranked and ranked versions, in Ranked you level 
 up and get new weapons, bt you always fight people with better weapons than you, so its unfair. 
 In unranked, you have to level up each match and get new weapons, and when a new one starts, you 
 lose all XP. There's also this extremely annoying death mode! When you lose all health, you have 
 to wait 30 seconds for someone to come and help, and if no-one comes, you die. And you can't skip 
 this! You can only speed up the the wait time! And when you're dying, you have to wait another 
 10 seconds for blackout, then another 10 seconds to respawn! And if you want to switch classes 
 or weapons, you have to die first!
  
  Okay I'm going to stop here. Under no circumstance should buy or even rent this game. Just stay 
 away. It's the biggest disappointment of the year. It just blows my mind. How could Ubisoft mess 
 this up so badly!? I just don't get it. Go and play the first far cry or crysis instead. Don't 
 give this game to anyone, not even poor families in Africa. Except the ones in this terrible game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoo2kil
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a beautiful game, the environment is well designed and the physics are realistic. This 
 makes the first hour of the game an awesome experience. However the single player campaign is incredibly 
 repetitive. 
  
  Here is why:
  It takes you 10-15 minutes to drive to the action. Once you are at the destination you will fight 
 3-6 enemies. You can take most of them out with a sniper rifle which makes the battle last less 
 than 1 minute. Then you repeat the exact same thing for the next mission. Keep in mind that the 
 missions take place in the same 5x5 mile (estimate) area, so nothing between missions changes. 
 
  This means that you will spend over 90% driving around through similar terrain using 1 of 4 cars 
 and holding a map in front of your face.. not fun. If you want to experience this without buying 
 a game then I recommend playing Call of Duty 4 for 2 minutes, then jumping in your car and driving 
 around the neighborhood for 10 minutes, then coming back playing 2 more minutes, then driving again. 
 For some of us who are old enough to drive, driving a car in a game 90% is not fun.
  
  Additionally road blocks and checkpoints don't get cleared. For example, if I have to clear check 
 points A and B to get to C, I will have to clear them every time I make that trip. The enemy will 
 appear in the same place and could be cleared in the same way, which makes it unbelievably annoying 
 and boring. All checkpoints look the same, which his terrible. It feels like the developer just 
 designed 2-3 check points and then populated the map with them.
  
  AI is really stupid and loss of sight is not implemented. So, you can't really use stealth, because 
 once the enemy finds you, you can't escape without clearing the whole area.
  
  It feels like the game was made to wow a 13 year old.
  
  Multiplayer is unbalanced. It is impossible 
 to kill a high level player because they will have the .50cal rifle, a grenade launcher or whatever 
 else and take you out with a single shot. I find it frustrating that all beginner guns require 
 a whole clip to bring down a player, where higher level players can kill you in one shot. Hardcore 
 mode anyone?? Additionally you can't just join games, you have to "ready up" in the lobby and then 
 launch the game. Maybe I'm spoiled by Call of Duty, but this is not the way multiplayer should 
 work.
  
  Anyway, in summary if you want to spend $50 to play a beautiful game for less than 2 hours, I highly 
 recommend this game, otherwise don't bother. I assume that official critics don't rate this game 
 accurately because they don't put enough time into it, so the first few hours could be deceiving. 
 I never posted a review before, but was shocked to find this game ranked at 8.5, so I wanted to 
 put my two cents in. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevel024
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  - Great graphics, not as power hungry as Crysis but still requires a decent graphics card
  - 
 Explosions are cool at first, getting a rpg and blasting stuff is fun
  - Fire spreads
  
  Cons:
  - Long, boring, repetitive missions
  - Non-Engaging story
  - Enemies respawn if you 
 leave an area even if you just killed them a minute ago
  - AI is dumb and unreal
  - The whole gun rusting thing could have been implemented better
  
  Before I start this review, 
 I would just like to make a point of the game being described by Ubisoft (I got this from the Steam 
 page) :
  
  Non-scripted artificial intelligence - Medics will drag wounded soldiers to safety. Grunts will 
 come to fear you. Your reputation and in-game actions will make enemies drop their guns and run 
 for their lives. Feel the tension of never knowing just how an enemy will react. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER - Challenge your friends but watch your back-you never know who your true friends are 
 and who might betray you! All the single player technical features are also present in multilayer 
 mode. 
  
  What??? As far as I know, there are no medics in this game, just a simple "first aid" kit mounted 
 on the wall that I've never seen the AI use. No AI has ever dropped their guns and ran away from 
 me, they all just simply either get into a car and try to run me over or blast away. While we're 
 on the subject of the AI, as soon as one sees you, they seem to know exactly where you are even 
 if you are out of their sights.
  
  But the real downfall of this game is the repetitive missions you are forced to do. Drive here 
 (and trust me, you will be driving a lot) , kill or blow up whatever needed, and rinse and repeat. 
 Sometimes, your malaria will catch up with you and you are required to take a pill to control it, 
 so once you run out of pills you are basically required to find more by (Surprise!) driving to 
 a destination and clear the area.
  
  It also would not have hurt if Far Cry 2 had a better story, maybe something to do with Blood Diamonds, 
 or children soldiers, seeing as it is relevant with the African setting. The point is that the 
 story doesn't really grab you in and make you care about your character or the others around.
 
  
  In Far Cry 2, the more you use a gun, the more unreliable it gets, in which case sometimes, guns 
 jam. If you continue to use the gun, it reaches to a point where it magically explodes and disappears 
 (The character actually throws it away but its done so quick you might miss it) . On top of that, 
 enemies always carry rusted and unreliable guns, so it's pointless to pick up enemy weapons.
  
  Although the graphics and physics are good, and the whole fire idea was a good addition, Far 
 Cry 2 fails to live up to expectations. I really have a hard time believing these game reviews 
 after playing this game, as Far Cry 2 is definitely not worthy of an 8.5. Blowing things up eventually 
 gets tiresome, and the repetitive missions will absolutely make this game a chore to play. Not 
 worth the 50 dollars; Ubisoft Montreal has messed up the Far Cry name built by Crytek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hethegreat
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is very innovative in its attempts to be immerse the player. Between jamming fire arms, 
 cars that break down, and propagating fire, the game looks intriguing but comes with a great number 
 of annoying points. Note that the game does not feel like its predecessor.
  
  Annoyance 1: The monocular that you use to get a closer look is so annoying to use, I avoid it 
 until necessary. The game uses a "physical" map for showing you the layout. You must first bring 
 up the map, then use the right mouse button to use the monocular. The problem is, when scouting 
 an area you tend to switch between normal and the monocular and this is not handled well. The map 
 sits right in front of what the monocular will zoom in on.
  
  Annoyance 2: The vehicles break down. This is actually a nice touch, except when you can't even 
 drive a day without getting it fixed. Fixing always consists of popping the hood and tightening 
 a bolt. If I'm having to do this every 10 minutes it would be nice if once and awhile I'd drop 
 the oil pan or something.
  
  Annoyance 3: Everyone wants to kill you. This isn't entirely true, you have some friends that rescue 
 you and there is a "city" that has a no fire agreement. The result is a small population with fights 
 consisting of, drive see a car and go into gunner position, shoot them, fix your car, drive on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that Far Cry 2 seems to tell you is how damn pretty it is - and by God, is it a 
 visually stunning game. Unfortunately, it turns out that this is going to be a one note song. Sure, 
 it'll try a few other notes and chords, but most of them simply ring too familiar, and a couple 
 even fall flat on your ears.
  
  As I mentioned, the game is absolutely stunning, with enormous draw distances showcasing some of 
 the most detailed landscapes in video-gaming history, populated with low brush and trees of impressive 
 realism. Architecture for buildings is realistic and pleasingly impoverished, despite limited access 
 to their interiors, and character models are expressive whilst managing to avoid delving into the 
 uncanny valley. But perhaps most impressive of all is the fire physics. Whilst not as beautiful 
 as Alone in the Dark's, what it has got over that is propagation - with blazes set by Molotov cocktails 
 and large explosions advancing through the plains, burning own trees and enemies alike. It looks 
 amazing, especially when viewing the carnage you've created during the night. Never before has 
 such a realistic depiction of the desert been realised than it has been here.
  
  The physics engine - whilst not quite at the level of the Source engine - is still robust enough 
 to handle most of what you decide to throw at it, be it launching a Jeep off a small outcropping 
 into the middle of, or blasting a group of enemies with an RPG, bodies and chunks of vehicles fly 
 about in a rather entertaining manner.
  
  The controls, too, are responsive and intuitive, with the PC version featuring full gamepad compatibility. 
 Two omission in the form of the ability to go prone - particularly when most cover leaves you with 
 your head and shoulders poking out over it is perhaps a little frustrating - and some kind of rock-climbing 
 ability seem slightly lazy, but those aside, you can pretty much pull off 90% of the manoeuvres 
 that you want to. Coupled with the 'choose your own way' style of mission undertaking means that 
 there's very little to limit how you tackle any given mission. Do you sneak in with silenced weapons? 
 Snipe from afar? Or just throw a grenade into the mix?
  
  The story is fine, although it fails to be truly engaging partially due to the massive expanse 
 of the map - you'll spend hours driving around, and the large amount of time between story missions 
 means that by about the half-way point you'll probably have forgotten what you were doing anyway. 
 Fortunately, it doesn't detract from the action, which is plentiful and just about enjoyable.
 
  
  But this is where the flat notes start to hurt your ears. The weapons - despite having a vast array 
 of them at your disposal - feel underpowered and rather unsatisfying, particularly the smaller 
 of the small-arms. They're difficult to aim, and this fact is compounded by a lack of sticky-aim 
 when playing on console and/or using a gamepad on PC, and you'll have to expect to use an average 
 of four or five shots from a standard assault rifle to kill any given enemy. Given that the 'arcade-y 
 shooter' in realistic context saw its death around about the time Call of Duty hit our screens, 
 its rather bewildering that there are barely any weapons which can kill with a single shot to the 
 head. Notable exceptions are the sniper rifles, and - obviously - any of the explosive weapons.
 
  
  The health system too seems rather flawed - seemingly an attempt to combine the recharging health 
 of new with the health meters of old, it instead is simply an annoying break in combat that feels 
 clumsy and awkward at best. It does, however, make way for one of the more satisfying healing animations 
 - your character leaning down to wrench a bullet from their thigh, or pop out a dislocated elbow 
 feels incredibly visceral, especially from the first person perspective. Had this been included 
 with a true blue regenerating health system, the game would've been better for it.
  
  The final, critical, glass shattering chord, however, lies with the AI. Too clever for its own 
 good, instead of being challenging it comes across as relentless, with generic soldiers hunting 
 you down mercilessly, regardless of how far you run and how many you kill. Almost as soon as you 
 approach a guard post, you'll be greeted with a hail of bullets from at least two sources. The 
 third and fourth guards - depending on whether you're on foot or in a vehicle - will either mount 
 up on a machine-gun-equipped jeep, or they'll spread out and start flanking you instantly. This 
 is without you firing a single shot. If you're in a car and manage to drive through the guard post 
 without your vehicle becoming too damaged, the aforementioned armed vehicle will pursue you and 
 continue to chip away at both you and your jeep's health, until eventually you have no choice but 
 to hand-brake turn and fight.
  
  Considering that there are usually at least three or four guard post between where you are and 
 where you invariably need to go, this seemingly minor frustration ('What? So you can't deal with 
 a few guards every so often? Just because the AI's good at fighting you? Wimp.') turns into an 
 absolutely enormous annoyance, and coupled with the fact that they are seemingly invulnerable to 
 bullets, along with their uncanny ability to reduce you to one bar of health from a mile away despite 
 the fact that there're three trees between you and them means that the combat becomes less of a 
 challenge and more of a grind. Expect to see yourself constantly quick-save and quick-loading, 
 as on the harder difficulties, you will be dying or cowering in a corner using all of your morphine 
 syrettes.
  
  But all things considered, the AI isn't quite enough for me to be against recommending the game. 
 The impressive open-world visuals, free-form mission style and challenging gunplay - relentless 
 AI aside - more than make up for the relatively weak story and lack of any real innovation to the 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krahnic
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Extremely disappointed. Other than it provided a great trip for the code monkeys from Montreal, 
 I don't think Africa was a great choice of location. Drab colors compared to the amazing tropical 
 setting of the original Far Cry and Crysis - both spectacular games.
  
  The graphics and physics engine rate an A+, however, the game is far too "arcade" for fans of the 
 afore mentioned epics that enveloped your consciousness and seduced you into another world with 
 their vast detail and logical, believable gameplay.
  
  Keyboard/mouse interfaces don't translate well to games where you drive vehicles, which is why 
 it's best left as a short add-on experience. However, much of the game in Far Cry 2 is spent driving... 
 bad idea. Plus, the bad guys all have a drive and a gunner, while you have to stop your vehicle, 
 change seats to get to the gun, and then try to destroy the target... not smooth, especially when 
 chasing a convoy target.
  
  To execute the repetitive missions you need to drive over the same road, past the same checkpoints 
 and kill the same bad guys you've already killed many times before... gets boring.
  
  Programmers have virtually eliminated stealth play as an option. As soon as any bad guy sees you, 
 they all automatically know where you are and can hit you from a mile away through dense jungle 
 and behind cover.
  
  Weapons management is silly. I can carry an assault rifle and a rocket launcher, but I CAN'T carry 
 an assault rifle and a sniper rifle????? So I buy a case to put the sniper rifle in and I can access 
 that rifle at any safehouse on the map? Wierd.... not logical or beleiveable, and it takes away 
 from the immersive quality of the game.
  
  Also, the whole malaria thing only serves as an annoyance. The side effect of not allowing you 
 to run for very long is probably the only way they could keep people from playing the game on foot, 
 forcing players to utilize the clunky vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  At first Far Cry 2 starts off kind of ho-humm, but as the player moves on it becomes very addictive. I 
 would even place Far Cry 2 right up next to both of the outstanding CRYSIS and CRYSIS Warhead pc 
 games. However FAR CRY
  2 would be number 3 repectively under these fine games. I am fortunate enough to have a high end 
 gaming system with all the bells and whistles, hence I may see things in games others, whom are not 
 as fortunate
  may not see my reviews the same way. FAR CRY 2 is a very intense action packed game. One must get 
 use to useing certain travel ways to get to their objectives other than the vehicles though, and 
 walking and swimming will try ones patience. I played FAR CRY 2 well over 100 hrs. on different levels. Never 
 once did the game crash or freeze up. The graphics seem to be open to all different graphic systems, allowing 
 for everyone to be able to enjoy the game.
  The sound and music are outstanding. The Ai's voices fool the player quite often as to where their 
 where abouts are. The AI are very very smart. Sometimes, I am open to useing a walkthough for help, but 
 even though I am a Game Spot religious subscriber and user. I am sure there is a explanation the 
 game just seems to have a mind of its own where as walkthroughs at times just do not point the 
 player in the same direction as the writer of the walkthrough writes it to be. Even if the gamer 
 follows the walkthrough from the git go to the end. FAR CRY 2 just seems to steer the gamer in its 
 own direction. In different areas of the game the jungle is so thick I at times thought I was back 
 in Thailand and Viet-Nam in real time.
  Useing surround sound is truly a cool way to play Far Cry 2 it is just so un nerving with all the 
 sounds of a jungle engulfing the gammer. The only thing missing where certain animals. Which would 
 really spice up this fantastic gaming experience. The graphics will tax even the best graphics systems 
 at times. The sounds and the music are a experience of its own and delightful.
  I highly recommennd FAR CRY 2 for the hardcore gamer, don't give up on it, it gets to be a truly 
 great game as one moves further into the game. Not to be a spoiler of sorts but Act 1 of the game 
 is just kind of a training type experience that sets the gamer up into thinking that the game is 
 a hohummm type of game. FAR CRY 2 is a smart and well planned game that will keep the gamer
  coming back for more ! Play it all the way through more than once, you will never finish it the 
 same way you finished it the time before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Some may argue that Far Cry was the original step that Ubisoft took towards perfecting the non-linear 
 style of game. However, I believe that Assassin's Creed was the first, and Far Cry 2 is the followup 
 that does exactly what it should do to keep inching Ubisoft towards perfection in this sub-genre.
 
  
  Far Cry 2 has an intense Assassin's Creed feel to it. The icons, the way missions are received 
 and carried out, the variety of missions, among other things all have a distinct taste of that 
 other non-linear Ubisoft game. However, Far Cry 2 does everything Assassin's Creed did a little 
 bit better. 
  
  Graphics, while not a big deal, are definitely worth mentioning. Light shafts cutting through the 
 trees create one of the most beautiful experiences in gaming to date. The seamless transition of 
 environment is executed well, and the explosions are fantastic. Above all else, though, is the 
 immersion. Ubisoft specifically focused on immersion with this game and it shows. Everything from 
 no cutscenes to always holding your map just draws you into the game like few other games can.
 
  
  The game has the same replayability as Assassin's Creed. I find myself constantly going back just 
 to try as many different loadouts as I can to blow the hell out of enemy bases just for the fun 
 of it. It never gets old, not only because there are so many pretty explosions, but because there 
 are so many ways to approach every single situation.
  
  Again, Far Cry 2 has many flaws. Constantly respawning guard posts can definitely get annoying, 
 repetitive missions, while not as bad as Assassin's Creed, still exist. However, my biggest complaint 
 about the game is the long travel times. While they can be fun for many hours (if you're into that 
 sort of thing) , they do eventually get old and there is no way to get past them. Also, the game 
 makes you spend far too much time holding your map.
  
  Far Cry 2 fixed several things Assassin's Creed did wrong. But, with the FPS view of non linear 
 gameplay, it did a few things wrong Assassin's Creed didn't have a chance to do wrong. It's got 
 its issues, but it is a solid and extremely enjoyable experience if you can put up with the shortcomings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  You start off in a taxi cab in the middle of Africa. Why? I have no idea, but it's fair to have 
 unknown beginnings. Then, you fall ill for no reason whatsoever, but that's ok too since its a 
 plot twist. Finally. your worst enemy walks in, (The Jackal) out of no where, he for some reason 
 spares your life even though you have no idea whats going on, and he goes away. You leave your 
 sick abode, and are shot down by Africans. You somehow wake up alive, and now you must start now 
 start working for some random person. For a beginning, this is starting to sound like a broken 
 plot. No matter though, the game will hopefully be explained to you, right? Wrong. 
  
  This is just one of the horrible aspects of Far Cry 2, also accompanied with boring and time-consuming 
 drives from place to place, seemingly all knowing AI, insensible missions, and overall just not 
 being an engaging game. 
  
  The only good thing I have to say about this game is descent graphics, but you still need a somewhat 
 expensive graphics card to heck it out.
  
  Overall to tell you the truth, I gave up on the game after the first 5 hours. It was boring, the 
 AI was frustratingly unreal, and the gameplay just wasn't fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DD_G
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:48 am PT
Review:  Somebody said here that if you've played Boiling Point you've played (so called) Far cry 2. Ya is 
 the truth. May I say that BP is more fun that FC 2 ?! And I'm sure that White Gold (Xenus2) will 
 be better than far cry 2, and at what price... I compare those 2 games because have some much in 
 common , in fact the ideas are "stolen" from BP: open world, buying ammo, finding diamonds, and 
 boring driving from one point to another.
  
  You are in Africa but you can swim and no crocodile to eat you, no snakes in the bushes or grass, 
 no lions to chase you... Just some plastic (without blood) antelopes and zebras.
  Hmm, where is the Far Cry felling ? I don't like the monsters, mutants, aliens games, but I LOVE 
 FC, and now this guys coming up with this game and tell us : here is Far Cry 2 , enjoy it. What 
 can I say more ? I'm disappointed, but I gave 7 to the game, hoping that will be a FC 2 sometime 
 soon, a real FC this time, ' cause...
  THIS GAME WAS "HUNT THE JACKAL" !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:26 am PT
Review:  I was really hyped for this game before it came out. Probably the only game in 2008 I wanted to 
 play, badly. Well I got it a few days after the release and finished it just last week.
  
  The game looks solid and it has some great physics to offer. For example fire spreading around 
 the bush and the destructive shelters, vehicles. The action starts right the way so there is not 
 much of an introduction to the story (wonder why?) . There are a lot of different guns in the game 
 and they all sound pretty solid. You always want to buy new weapons and this makes the game a bit 
 more interesting. Another interesting aspect of the game is searching for diamond cases, it's fun. 
 The last thing I found positive about the game is the map, it's huge. Those kinds of things really 
 make you think "this is going to be a great game".
  
  But it really isn't all that great. The gameplay starts to get very repetitive because there are 
 no civilians on the map and everyone you come across wants to kill you. Not to mention that all 
 the bad guys you have killed are magically resurrected from the dead after five minutes or so. 
 And the missions are all the same - kill that man, destroy that pipe... It wouldn't be as big of 
 a problem if the AI weren't so stupid. Your enemies will be able to see you through the whole jungle 
 and shoot you in the face, but when they come close (and I mean a few feet close) , they become 
 blind, rotating in all directions and wondering "where is he?". Even though there are a lot of 
 different guns in this game, some very popular weapons are missed out, for example M16/M4, G36, 
 F2000... all those weapons can be found in Africa so there is no explanation why are they not in 
 the game. There is also no explanation why all the weapons use the same kind of ammo (yeah, it's 
 a console port) known as the universal ammo. Furthermore the story practically doesn't exist so 
 there is no motivation to finish the game at all (I needed four months) . Remember when I said the 
 graphics are solid? Well that's true except for the human models. They are plasticized as they 
 would be made with Doom 3 Engine. And the last thing - there are no rpg elements in Far Cry 2, 
 just fps and we all know what that means. You can't have an open world game without some rpg elements.
 
  
  As you can see, there are much more negatives than positives in this review. Yeah, I found Far 
 Cry 2 to be disappointing. Far Cry 1 and Crysis are both better games but that doesn't mean that 
 FC2 can't offer anything to a first person shooter fan. All in all it's a pretty nice looking game 
 that is actually pretty playable. It just has some (big) problems. The biggest ones are definitely 
 the AI and the lack of story which leads to repetitiveness. PS: you'll need at least 30 hours to 
 finish this one, it's up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:16 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 1 (FC1) bright, detailed settings. Interesting characters and story. Fun vehicles. A breakthrough 
 in story telling.
  
  Far Cry 2 (FC2) dark, detailed settings (maybe they began aiming at a Friday the 13 motif?) . Smarter 
 characters acting dumb. Boring vehicles. A tired "been there, done that" story.
  
  Pick up Boiling Point for $5.00 and play the same basic game (do this for that group and get money 
 you can use to purchase better weapons and weapon improvements) . In doing this for that in Boiling 
 Point you get to run and drive all over he -- 's creation. FC2 has you running and driving all over 
 he -- 's creation to ....
  
  I will never understand how a game as fun to play and successful as FC1 can give birth to a sequel 
 as boring and unoriginal as FC2 but this happens so often! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardsza
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2009 12:43 am PT
Review:  There has been quite a bit said about whether or not FC2 is a good game or not.
  
  It is pretty much a given that the AI needs work, the constant driving about in cars that break 
 down too often, the respective missions, being shot at when you are minding your own business and 
 horrible diamond hunting are all problems associated with this game.
  
  It is also a given that the environment is stunning and the graphics are pretty even on lower spec 
 machines and the animations either pull you into the game play or have you reaching for the missing 
 "skip" key.
  
  I must say that I have read review, both good and bad. I have played the game through both the 
 good and the bad and I could see the game for the merits and for all its faults, but I have to 
 conclude that the game was mostly a disappointment for one particular reason, fear; Or rather the 
 lack thereof.
  
  Some might say it is because of the fact that I am live in Africa that I may find the point of 
 the game rather dull. There is nothing scary or foreboding about walking.... sorry.... driving 
 about in the African bush fighting off mercenaries and rebels with rusty old guns. Sure, in real 
 life, I would probably soil myself and go home to a comfy bed and tea, but games are not meant 
 to be real life.
  
  Perhaps I am too eager to relate back to FC1 where the thought of having your arms ripped off by 
 mutant apes made you that just that little bit wary and ultimately made the game worth playing. 
 FC2 fails to instil me with an instinctive desire to survive. Yes, not all games are meant to be 
 scary, but for those types of games, there is another factor which usually drives me and that is 
 a sense of purpose, a drive to go out there, take on the bad guys and win. To be the hero.
  
  The purpose of FC to is to find the Jackal, an unscrupulous arms dealer selling weapons to 
 both sides in and African conflict. So!? Did he kill your best mate? Did he burn down your house? 
 Nope. You just need to kill him with no real apparent reason. The protagonist himself is a mercenary, 
 buying weapons from arms dealers so why should you care!? Again, maybe because I live in Africa 
 I have a different view on things but this does not make a good premise for a game.
  
  If either of these elements had been woven into the game, I feel I may have enjoyed it more and 
 not let the other faults bother me so much.
  
  Nice try guys. But ultimately not good enough.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BizzleBob007
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I should have waited for the price to come down before buying this game. Wait until it's under 
 $20 before buying. It's fun at first, before you realize how repetitive it's starting to look.
 
  The scenery is top-notch. A great looking game. The weapons are a nice mix too. The vehicles are 
 OK, nothing spectacular there. The story is absolutely horrible. I haven't reached the end yet, 
 but I only play for about an hour a day now since it's just so repetitive.
  You can choose where your next mission comes from, and that also determines what type of reward 
 you receive. Help the weapons dealer, get access to better weapons. Help the church, or the underground, 
 and receive medicine for your malaria. Help your buddies and receive upgrades to your safehouse. 
 Help the cell tower mysterious voice and receive money. Help the two factions and receive money 
 and move the story along.
  Which brings me to an interesting point: Why are there two factions in the game? Everyone in the 
 game, except your buddies at first, is going to try and kill you. They only fight each other during 
 certain scripted events. Even if you are working for a side, their people are still going to try 
 and kill you. Would it have been that hard to code certain AI players to not shoot at you if you're 
 working for their cause?
  Missions, other than those involving the factions, have a random feel to them. I've had buddy missions 
 where I had to go get a box that was just down the road. Then I've had assassination missions where 
 the target is on the other side of the map. Forget fast travel. You're either driving, boating, 
 or walking there. No time to enjoy the scenery en route, you'll be dodging bullets and RPG's from 
 every person you encounter on the map. It's so tedious to get those far-away missions. I keep hoping 
 for a nearby mission.
  Checkpoints are respawning points. You clear it out on the way in to the fortress, then you fight 
 your way through the fortress, soaking up bullets like a sponge, and shooting up with first aid 
 kits, and trying to find enough ammo. Then you have to fight the same checkpoint again on your 
 way out. The bad guys you just killed came back to life, or were dragged away and replaced. Either 
 way, every checkpoint you fought your way through has been repopulated and you have to fight your 
 way back.
  This is a lite-FPS game. Don't buy it expecting a sequel, or a decent story, you'll be disappointed. 
 Buy it if you like driving around a huge map and killing everyone you come in contact with. It's 
 good enough to play around with for about an hour, then you'll get bored and find something else 
 to play.
  
  GRAPHICS = 9.5
  SOUND = 8.5
  LEARNING CURVE = Easy
  CONTROLS = 9.0
  PLOT/STORY = 4.0
  REPLAYABILITY = 2.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaMuncherPt
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is a good game... when you play it with your friends, because it has huge explosions 
 , big fires and some cool kills , but when you are alone , it is kind of boring , since you destroy 
 a guard post , and , when you go back there 2 minutes later, the guard post is good and new again, 
 and it would be cooler to pass there some time later , and see the destruction you had made... 
 also , a weak story makes it even more boring. Another bad thing about it , was that you couldnt 
 rest for a while , and there where none safe places in the game (apart from safehouses) , wich made 
 us tooo tense to enjoy the game explosions. Apart form those problems , the game graphics were 
 great and the realism they put into it was good too , but , the realism wich they put there , made 
 a good game into a game you would play for few time and the get tired of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerbc
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:03 am PT
Review:  Remember Far Cry? The tropical island setting, mercenaries gunning for you, trigens hunting you 
 down and the tension of surviving till the end. Its done with, in Far Cry 2. 
  I didnt expect it to follow the same pattern, nor did I expect the same graphics but whatever happened 
 to the code of ethics among the game Dev's and the players who immerse themsleves into the gameplay 
 with such abandon. 
  Blowing up stuff is fun, so is watching the trees and the grass burn. BUT, how much driving can 
 you be expected to do in a game? Navigating through a territory of 50 square kilometers with a 
 GPS and a map that updates itself is close to hell, as I would put it. No, there is nothing fun 
 about having to drive 20 minutes, just to assassinate one person. Or, to make matters worse, get 
 the much needed malaria medicine from which the player is suffering throughout the game. NPC's 
 respawn even after you reduced their checkpoint to rubble and trust me when I say, after a certain 
 period, you'll start ignoring them and driving through their checkpoints while getting shot at 
 and pursued. Ubisoft Montreal's team has stated that in order to fully explore the game, one must 
 play it for 100 hours. Well, the game is only worth playing for 1-2 hrs because there is hardly 
 any content left to explore. Missions are repetitive, AI acts stupid at times, the physics is substandard, 
 blood looks animated and wait.. if Ubisoft is waving that "Realism Flag" in everybody's faces, why 
 don't the enemies blow up or decapitate immediately after I let loose an RPG on them. Its just 
 stupid. 
  Freedom! from what? I do not want go for a long evening walk on the african plain because i need 
 to do some exploring of my own. Even if I wish to climb some outcrops surrounding the mission location, 
 I cant do it because the game dosent even allow you to climb a fence. Rather than inducing stuff 
 from the real world like rusting and jamming of weapons or vehicle repair, they could have worked 
 on the serious shortcomings of the game, which is its name. Its not Far Cry and its not even close 
 to it. A disappointment to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game from beginning to finish when you ignore the lousy story line. Gameplay is 
 not linear and you can approach your enemies whether during the day or during the night. I prefered 
 day fight. Apart from the stories, there are other things that other games do not offer like repairing 
 your vehicle when it is broken. This makes the gameplay more unique and also having to go to gun 
 shops to buy weapons with diamonds is a bonus. 
  You meet buddies in the game who help you out in tough situations and I did not feel connected 
 to any of them at all. The single player map design is superb and vast and beautiful to look at. 
 This game looks extremely good and has the most believable jungle or desert designs in any game 
 I have seen and it runs well too. 
  The gun play is very good in my opinion and things like repairing your weapons or getting new weapons 
 because old ones jam make this a lot more fun. The character animation and tree movement plus environment 
 is top notch. I love to see when the characters move. My verdict about this game is as follows
 
  
  Gameplay: 7.5... It felt repetitive after a while
  Graphics: 9.5... Awesome looking and even matches even some recent games
  Character animation: 
 9.5
  Environment: 9.0
  Story: 7.5
  Sound: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuildsmanCoren
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:26 am PT
Review:  Let's make one thing clear first: if you're coming from the first Far Cry and expect to find a 
 sequel in Far Cry 2, don't bother. I don't know why they chose to keep the name, but FC2 is an 
 entirely different beast.
  
  It's not often that a game offers you the opportunity to explore the African Savannah. Far Cry 
 2 does, and if exploring wasn't enough, you also get to blow stuff up and set stuff on fire.
  In all seriousness, the above sentence sums up everything that's good about Far Cry 2: it offers 
 a pretty and open environment for you to explore, and its fire physics are the most interesting 
 I've seen in a game so far.
  
  That's also basically where the good stuff ends, though.
  The story is told through a seemingly endless series of mission which have you running from one 
 part of the huge map to the other, so that after only a few hours of playing you'll be sick and 
 tired of the Savannah, no matter how pretty it looks and no matter how nicely it burns.
  Then there's the AI. EVERYONE is your enemy. Even the members of the faction you're working for. 
 And even if you just happen to drive through a town with no malicious intentions, its inhabitants 
 will hunt you down. To the other end of the map, if need be, since the AI simply never gives up. 
 This means that you'll be forced to get out of your car and shoot your pursuers every five minutes, 
 which makes the whole traveling thing even more frustrating.
  And here's the kicker: once you've killed those pesky Africans, they respawn. Isn't that nice?
 
  
  The story makes a few attempts at being deep, but when you finally reach the end of it all, you're 
 left wondering if this was worth those 20+ hours you wasted driving around in a virtual Africa.
 
  
  My answer: it wasn't.
  
  Far Cry 2 is technically rather impressive and its setting is original, but the gameplay simply 
 isn't any fun. I'd steer clear from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  The first Far Cry scored 9.0 on GameSpot. Having developed a habit of getting every game that scored 
 9.0 and above on GameSpot and expecting it to be awesome, I was in for a severe, frustrating letdown 
 upon playing Far Cry.
  
  Far Cry 2 was no different. The African civil war setting, along with one of the moral quandary 
 of wars in resource-rich Africa, the conflict diamond trade, are very interesting, but the enthusiasm 
 died down after an hour into the game.
  
  Far Cry 2 is clearly a sandbox game, something that Far Cry (and its spiritual successors, the 
 Crysis games) is not. The range of unlockables confirmed this, as any sandbox game is wont to have. 
 Sure, there is a somewhat linear storyline typical of the -Cry series, but with some rather disappointing 
 and limited permutations depending on players' choices which seemed out of place.
  
  It is also rather disappointing that few of the upgrades actually directly improve the player's 
 survivability. In fact, enemies have access to exactly all the weapons that the player would be 
 able to unlock, even having them earlier than the player (before he gets enough diamonds to purchase 
 them) . It's very harrowing, really, to have gone to the trouble to gather enough shiny rocks to 
 purchase a weapon that you know the enemy already has. The game's weapon-degrading mechanics sees 
 to it that the player does so, instead of depending on looting the corpses of enemies to gain new 
 weaponry.
  
  The vehicles are just plain terrible. They handle well, but the rough African terrain and terrible 
 roads can only reward good driving so much. Sure, the game makes a point in saying all vehicles 
 practically suck on African land, but that's not conducive to fun gameplay. Even the AI enemies 
 on vehicles sometimes have issues with their terrain negotiating subroutines and often disembark 
 to chase down the player on foot.
  
  Oh, and the hang glider is still as useless as ever.
  
  The story is also very weak, with rather 
 disappointing (& even infuriating) twists, especially at the later portions.
  
  Seriously, I would not recommend anyone play this game. It's obvious where all the talent and experience 
 that made Far Cry fun (despite its shortcomings, at least to me) went - they stayed with Crytek, 
 and Crytek is where they should continue to stay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvaglund
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's about time - I've realized that these type of games where you have to run around, drive 
 around to get som action is not doing it for me.
  
  Far Cry 2 is a good game, nice graphics, nice scenery, good story, not too hard on the hardware 
 and still I'm not getting there. 
  
  One more than one occasion I refer to MOH Airborne as the game I prefer, just a notch in front 
 of Call of Duty 4 and 5. It is just a h**l of good fun, lots of action and no explicit violence 
 and and and.
  
  Come to think of it, it's a shame the action is so widely spread out, I'm totally losing it, when 
 I take a wrong turn the momentum disapears, d**m. 
  
  Maybe I am tough costumor but so be it, Far Cry 2 was fun, but just this once, it is going to be 
 deleted and nerver to resurface on my computer. I will play some Delta Force Extreme while I wait 
 for the upcoming Delta Force Extreme 2 and Delta Force Fallen Angle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinH147
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Before the game even released... I was hyped as hell. I couldn't stand the anticipation of this 
 game. And what happened when it released? I was overwhelmed! The game just blew me away and surpassed 
 my expectations.
  
  The first thing that astounded me was the graphics. I couldn't believe how much of a sight the 
 setting of the game was. (Well, after the beginning of the game where you get a 10 minute drive 
 through to your hotel room) . These graphics are some of the best I've seen in a while. Although, 
 the story doesn't really go along well with the superb African setting. You'll be surprised how 
 you can get over the repetitive story with this gorgeous piece of land.
  
  Secondly, I was amazed by the selection and variety in the game. There is so many weapons, vehicles, 
 and extras to choose from. But if you really like to go into detail with guns, gun sounds, and 
 gun animations in the game... Then you're in for a treat. Although, a few of the gun sounds (such 
 as the G3) are recycled from previous Ubisoft games such as Rainbow Six: Vegas. They still did 
 a really great job to give you the immersive feel of the weapons in the game (Not to mention the 
 vehicles) .
  
  Overall, if you are either an FPS lover or a Far Cry fan, I recommend you check this one out. I 
 don't think you'll be disappointed with most of what this game has to offer. The graphics are superb, 
 the game play is stupendous, and how much this game sucks you in is just unreal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignamatador
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Hi, i have played Far Cry 2, i listened that it was great, good graphics, good story, solid FPS, 
 but for me just another disappointing game.
  
  This game was one on my list, i played with a firend, he told me that i was going to like it. We 
 start, first i like that you have different choices for your character, then we start. I saw an 
 amazing Africa, i cant tell you how i was feeling, i think awesome. Then on the trip we could see 
 an amazing engine with not so high demand of computer. At the end we discover that or character 
 has malaria, to bad to be truth. Then we start the shooting, i like it but i think that the guns 
 werent wath i was waiting, i was thinking something more easy to handle, more accuracy. Then when 
 we drive, i like that you can see the GPS. After playing some hours i think that when you repair 
 your car at tthe first time can be cool, but at the time you think its a s.... , dont you?.
  
  The guns. The guns have so much trouble like when it gets stuck and really then of a time you 
 piss off, you think, i hate this!
  
  Then the bots, they are intelligent but they got some trouble like when they get out of the car, 
 sometimes they just watch you. Then its a jungle and you doesnt use wallhack so you cant see them 
 but they got the best eyes you can see on the market and sometimes they kill you but you dont now 
 were they are.
  
  Then you. Your character have malaria so he cant run a lot, so much people hate that.
  
  Then 
 the missions, sometimes you are tired of driving and you want to get fast, how do you do? DRIVE!
 
  
  Some good things are that it has a solid engine and... who knows?
  
  Well i think that really is a bad game, but not so bad, at the first time you are very happy but 
 then start to get bored, is bad, but not so bad. Thank for reading, see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 is a chore the ending a bore & it makes the game score a 4 
  
  The most useless main game plot leaves all cut scenes from the start a total waste of time 
  
 
  Seems like the development team didnt have a ending for this game & it shows 
  
  The game is a good FPS the look & feel to the game is good was a possible 8 but the repetiveness 
 of this game it drags out what eventually is a pointless "main plot" 
  
  l'd seriously have to say its team did gr8 on the graphic side but this appears to borrow so much 
 from the boiling point game 
  
  Hard to believe that story writers can produce such woeful games 
  
  Seriously game writers 
 & development teams go play Mafia an then try to emulate it Mafia being the only game to get the 
 score 11/10 its that good
  
  to finish this review id like to say Boiling point its borrowed from in so many ways and as good 
 as it looks & feels u cant polish a turd 1st an formost the games that are "masterpices have a 
 begining middle & an end sadly this wasnt ever present in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingssorrel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
 
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
 
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
 
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
 
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great!
 
  Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great! Great! not better from far cry 1 but its great! Great! not 
 better from far cry 1 but its great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowshoe
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game is quite disappointing. Further more, it really has no business calling 
 itself "Far Cry 2". To sum it up, this game has nothing to do with the original Far Cry, the Story 
 line is not very captivating, and the game is incredibly repetitious.
  
  It is pretty much my opinion if your going to call a game# 2 ", it will have something to do 
 with the original. I loved the original game. The story was captivating and the plot you followed 
 was always clear, with a few twists. The original also had a strong sci-fil slant which was fun. 
 It was built on a solid game engine with stunning visuals and realistic looking world. The music 
 and sound effects were quite a nice touch. With the Far Cry 2 the story is very weak.... very poor 
 plot development. It does a very good job at being realistic in a war torn region. They add a more 
 open world which you seem to be able to affect. You can make friends who are supposedly to help 
 you along the way. I myself really want more convincing plot development, and all the friends you 
 make end up dying or turning on you in the end. Would be nice to be able to have some loyal friend 
 that makes it to the end of the game. You can never develop a sense of loyalty with any of the 
 factions in the game, never have a sense that you have a sense of direction, and never really know 
 if your progressing in the game. The only way to check this is to look at this in the game stats. 
 A kind of kewl effect in the game is night and day. You can hang out in safe houses and set a clock 
 to wake up at a certain time. But, it doesn't really seem to make the game play much better.
  
  Initially it is very fun to be able to drive all the vehicles. You can repair them if they 
 are damaged. As you travel around you come across check points where you blow up and kill the militants. 
 After a while this gets to be annoying. You are driving long distances gets annoying, and fighting 
 the same check points over and over again gets annoying. You can scout the check points and mark 
 them with your spy glass, but really doesn't seem to affect the game play in any way.
  
  The ending seems to really suck. It is open ended so you can chose two diff paths, but really ends 
 in you dying anyway you choose.
  
  I played this one right to the bitter end, always do, but halfway through it became a conscious 
 effort to play a couple hours a day til I was done. I have talked with a few others and have much 
 the same opinion. Strong:
  Graphics
  Real world atmosphere (night/day, water falls, weather)
  Vehicles
  Repairing vehicles
  
 
  Weak:
  Nothing to do with Far Cry 1 (Crysis would be much better suited to be Far Cry 2) Weak plot
  
 Buddies don't last
  Repetitious checkpoints
  Too much driving 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  2003's Far Cry was considered by many to be the most revolutionary PC First Person Shooter since 
 Half Life with its sandbox gameplay, lush graphics (for its time) , and solid mix of shooting and 
 driving on a beautiful island in the South Pacific. And in 2008, Far Cry returned in its first, 
 true sequel  Far Cry 2.
  
  FC2 bears little resemblance to the original Far Cry. Gone is Jack Carver, the jungle island, and 
 the sci-fi storyline. But it's all for the better as you now play as one of many selectable protagonists 
 who just recently arrived to a corrupt, central-African nation divided by Civil War. You are trying 
 to hunt the Jackal, an arms dealer who was your former boss who double-crossed you. Far Cry 2's 
 single player campaign involves you completing assignments for both of the country's factions  
 The military-like UFLL (United Front of Liberation and Labor) and the APR (Allied Popular Resistance) . 
 Your friendships with these alliances are as thin as tissue and you'll eventually end up working 
 for one more than the other. Most of the missions consist of getting somewhere and killing a certain 
 person, or blowing something up. They pay you in rough-cut diamonds which you can use to purchase 
 the game's many weapons or upgrades.
  
  But what makes Far Cry 2 so much fun to play is the environments in which you complete these missions. 
 The fictional unnamed country you play in is full dry deserts and lush rainforests. They all look 
 great combined with realistic weather effects and full day cycles although it would be nice to 
 see more wildlife. Completing your missions usually consists of getting from Point A to Point B 
 and this is probably the weakest part of singleplayer. While you do have the option to huff it 
 out on foot, your best bet is to hop into a Jeep or coupe and drive your way there. Unfortunately, 
 you're guaranteed to come across several enemy jeeps who will instantly open fire on you, forcing 
 you to jump into the turret and mow them down. This gets annoying when you're almost to your destination 
 and your forced take down yet another Jeep. 
  
  Far Cry 2's story lasts quite a long time, and when you're done with it, you can explore the game's 
 multiplayer world. Unfortunately, I wasn't that impressed with what Far Cry 2 had to offer. Most 
 of the modes are standard-issue and use an XP system completely ripped from Call of Duty 4 as well 
 as custom classes. If you don't like playing the multiplayer, you should still give the map-editor 
 a try. It's surprisingly easy to use and can entertain you for hours. The PC version's editor is 
 the easiest to use mainly due to the mouse and keyboard layout, although it is available on the 
 console versions as well. When you're done making a map, you can upload it into the game and keep 
 track of how many times it's downloaded and played!
  When you put all of this together, Far Cry 2 delivers a fun experience to anyone who enjoys First 
 Person Shooter and Sandbox games. Just be prepared to complete the somewhat repetitive missions! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3edtide
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This is pretty much GTA in Africa with gunplay being the focus. It suffers from being a little 
 too average in places but the greater whole is excellent. For instance, many people don't like 
 it because either A) it's too long or B) it's too boring. Describing each section of the game makes 
 it out to be these and it's really not. The missions are varied enough to keep it fun. The weapons 
 are unique and give good incentive to progress. The story is interesting if cliched and drawn out. 
 The biggest plus for the game is the scale; In game there are few loading screens in some scripted 
 and logical areas. Typically they occur after you character becomes incapacitated in some way and 
 not when you walk across a invisible line like other "open world" games. 
  
  If you love shooters, play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dklingen
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The good: overall interface is good but you can feel the "console port elements". Examples: I had 
 to go online to figure out how to switch from morter smoke to a shell ("x" key if you didn't know) .
 
  
  The bad: 1) The regenerating guards at check points and suddenly on the road behind you gets REALLY 
 old fast. 2) The fact that when you view the map it covers 3/4 of your screen while moving in real 
 time sucks. 3) The guards that are accurate from far away with pistols/shotguns and just happen 
 to see you even when you are not visible. 4) The guns jamming happens way to frequently (even with 
 the ones you have at your supply depot) . 5) Having malaria is a catch 22, it puts a time constraint 
 on movement, but really serves no apparent purpose. 6) The waste of the hang glider and it's limited 
 use. I really wanted to fly over the map with powered craft. 7) No predator animals or herds of 
 big animals (elephants, hippos, etc...) 8) Never really got to use the morter to bombard anything 
 (it should have been a mission) . 
  
  The first time I loaded Fry Cry 2 I played it for about an hour and hated certain elements so much 
 I almost quit. After hanging in there, I would rate the overall experience as fairly entertaining 
 with so much more potential! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2 for me is a good game. It's graphics are really good and it's game play too. But i was 
 a bit disappointed i can say. In far cry 2 u will have to do some missions. But the objectives are 
 really far from your location and i believe this makes the game really boring. I personally wasted 
 3 whole hours to finish only the first mission and obviously i never played far cry 2 again. What 
 a boring game....
  
  Furthermore i don't know why this is happening but the people in Africa are made of gold or something. I've 
 fired so many times on an enemy and they fall down, but in a minute they get up again. Why is this 
 happening?
  
  I also noticed that people shoot at you for no reason. I couldn't understand why i was chased by 
 3-4 cars and being shot every time i encountered enemies. I didn't do anything wrong!!!!! This makes 
 the game extremely difficult. You are always shot wherever you go.
  
  It's multiplayer is good though and HIGHLY ADDICTIVE!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alselius
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is one of the most addictive games I have ever played. The game is made in a way that 
 will make you truly feel like you're there in Africa, blowing up everything on your way to kill 
 the notorious Jackal. The world looks almost real, the sound effects have a really high quality 
 and you have the freedom to do whatever you want. Still, there are some moments when you're brought 
 back to the real world because of things like stupid AI.
  
  Good:
  + Huge environment free to explore
  + Many ways to reach your targets
  + Amazing visuals and 
 sound
  + Big arsenal of powerful weapons
  + Realistic fire, wind and day-night cycle
  + NPCs talk like they're really thinking
  + Easy to use level editor
  
  Bad:
  - Unrealistic 
 AI behaviour
  - AI reaction speed
  - Somewhat repetitive story
  - Unreachable diamonds etc.
  - Mountains block your way
  - ... and of course some minor bugs.
 
  
  Overall, it's still a stunning game, although it has many downsides - there will probably never 
 be a perfect game. The freedom and reality of the game world will suck you in very soon after you 
 start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RK-Mara
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  With the Far Cry license belonging to Ubisoft, Crytek created an unofficial sequel to the game 
 to have full control of the development. At the same time, the Montreal studio of Ubisoft worked 
 on the official sequel while taking the complaints of the customers a bit too seriously. Everything 
 that I and many other hated (and others loved) about Far Cry is gone and what is left bears nearly 
 no resemblance to the original game. Gone are the tropical islands and mutants, now is the time 
 for war-ridden Africa.
  
  Except for the name, Far Cry 2 doesn't have many things in common with its predecessor. Both have 
 vast open areas, people to kill and jaw-dropping visuals. In a way, that's everything Far Cry is 
 about but calling FC2 a sequel is just shameless marketing. But how does Far Cry 2 hold up on its 
 own right?
  
  You are sent to a fictional African country to kill an arms dealer called The Jackal, who is arming 
 both sides of a civil war. Inconveniently there's absolutely no way to set apart these two factions 
 from each other. You are doing missions for both of the sides from the get-go and everyone is after 
 your head, even if you are working for them. As an explanation you are told that all of your missions 
 are top secret and kept hidden from everyone except for the highest ranking faction members. A 
 friendly AI must be too much to ask from the coders at Ubisoft Montreal.
  
  Even though it's an open-world game, there's no quest log and inventory system like in STALKER 
 . You have one active mission at a time and a storage/weapon store, where you can switch between 
 weapons and buy new ones as you unlock them. You can carry up to three guns, one sidearm, one primary 
 (rifles and shotguns) and one special weapon (flamethrower, RPG and light machine guns) , plus a 
 machete for mercy and silent kills. To unlock new weapons, you can do more of the same missions 
 for the arms dealer and once you buy them, you gain an infinite supply of the model. Replacing 
 your weapons every now and then with a brand new one is important as they become less reliable 
 over time.
  
  When doing a mission, one of your so-called buddies always calls you, offering an alternative way 
 of doing the job. These alternatives are often twice longer, contain more of the same objects (go 
 here and kill him or blow this up) and as a reward you only gain friendlier ties with your pals. 
 On consoles your friends might actually be useful as you can only save the game at predetermined 
 points and they can come to your rescue if you happen to get killed, but on PC you can save wherever 
 you want and if you indeed face death, you can simply load the latest quick save, which shouldn't 
 be too far from your current location.
  
  Not that you really need to worry about dying. You can carry up to several syringes and each one 
 fully heals you. First aid kits can also be found at pretty much every outpost so you never have 
 to worry about running out of syringes. In a near-death condition, when a syringe alone won't cut 
 it, you can duck behind cover and quickly patch yourself up to keep fighting. And as long as you 
 have cover nearby, you can keep healing yourself every time your health drops under 20%. And thanks 
 to regenerating health bar, you fully recover after every firefight. If you learn to take advantage 
 of the game mechanics, the game becomes too easy and only things killing you will be silly design 
 flaws.
  
  As for killing the bad guys (that's 99% of all the NPCs in the game) , most of the guns can feel 
 too ineffective for the job. Why waste half of your magazine on a single target when a single shot 
 from a sniper rifle does the job? As soon as you unlock your first scoped rifle, it will be the 
 only gun you use. Especially because the gun you start the mission with, will be with you the whole 
 way through. Not because you can't switch but because no sane person would do so. Every single 
 weapon picked up from dead enemies is old and rusty and jams or even breaks when you least except 
 (or need) it. It's strange how the guns never seem to fail in the hands of their original owners.
 
  
  Visually Far Cry 2 is outstanding work and only loses to Crysis. On my fairly decent E6600, 8800 
 GTS 640Mb and 2Gb DDR2 rig FC2 even looks better than Crytek's graphics king. Of course that changes 
 if you are able to play Crysis on higher than medium settings. The only thing actually ugly about 
 FC2 is the brown overall look which is apparent everywhere from savannas to jungles. Though some 
 people might even enjoy it. Except for being able to cut off couple tree branches, physics are 
 nearly non-existent and the promises of fully destructible environments are blatant lies. Sure, 
 dry grass burns and gasoline barrels explode but that's far from a working physics engine.
  
  Ubisoft has put plenty of effort to make it feel like you are in your character's boots. When 
 you enter a vehicle, you actually see yourself enter and drive and when you open the map, your 
 character holds a map and a GPS in his hands. All the small details make the lack of immersion 
 even more painful. The feeling of a living and breathing country simply isn't there. Civilians 
 are nowhere to be seen and everyone in the game wants you dead, long before they can even know 
 who you are. Maybe they should at least check if the approaching jeep is one of their own before 
 starting to shoot rockets. The two sides don't ever even fight each other outside rare scripted 
 events, which take you further in the paper-thin story. Even the wildlife just loiters around, 
 waiting for the perfect moment to jump in front of your car  or sometimes actually run in the 
 right direction: far away from you.
  
  The world map is massive, and that is not necessarily a good thing. You spend most of your time 
 driving around in the artificial world and the mediocre physics engine doesn't do a very good job 
 of making it enjoyable. Bus stops for instant traveling exist but they are scattered so scarcely 
 that they rarely make the trip any shorter. Busses are only good for avoiding the constant patrols 
 and barricaded outposts at every road fork. Unfortunately buses don't take you all the way and 
 you still have to fight your way through hordes of brain-dead mercenaries. Even if you clear an 
 outpost on your way to do a mission, the place will be swarming with enemies again 15 minutes later 
 when you are heading back the same way. Imagine having a permanent two star wanted level in GTA 
 and you know what it's like in Far Cry 2. It just isn't any fun, or realistic for that matter.
 
  
  If you are a fan of tedious killing, you'll have plenty to do in Far Cry 2. With over 30 hours 
 of gameplay, it's one of the longest singleplayer shooters on the market. But most people will 
 get bored and move on long before the 20 hour mark. I nearly gave up after seven hours and the 
 rest I played in short bits over the next two months. Fans of the original Far Cry should rather 
 look in the direction of Crysis. All in all, there are many better ways to spend your money unless 
 you are looking for as many hours for your cash as possible. There is a lot simple mods could fix 
 and we can only hope for Ubisoft to release some kind of mod tools. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knat4
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  What can I say. This game was a disappointment from the 1 hour mark. After talking to my fellow 
 ex pats in some random bar you are sent on missions to kill rebel troops in some thought up African 
 country torn up by civil war. 
  
  At first these missions seem fun enough but after you get into the game it seems like you are continually 
 playing side missions. You keep on waiting for something bigger to happen apart from killing local 
 police chiefs or raiding rebel camps. 
  
  The game lacks urgency. Its like the developers just want you to stand back and enjoy the graphics 
 instead of press on to the next objective. Also you character contracts malaria after only being 
 in the country a few hours. This in itself doesn't seem to affect you at first but, after a few 
 missions the need to go looking for pills to save you from dying is just bit too annoying. You 
 end up begging for pills when really you should be shooting up the local outpost.
  
  
  One thing the game does do quite well is the realistic weapons and physics it that they put into 
 he game. Weapons get jammed and bush fires can catch out your enemies. Also shooting enemies from 
 distance is immensely satisfying. Apart from this the game is largely bland and the missions you 
 do do seem to have little relevance to your main mission. i. e. kill the Jackal 
  
  It seems to me that Ubisoft tried too hard to improve its formula for the original Far Cry. The 
 new one seems to derive from a completely different genetic pool.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThrillDog28
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  A little annoying at times having to fight off "bad guys" every time you go down the road. I get 
 it, its a country in a civil war and all that but come on, it just gets annoying and repetitive. 
 The game is fun though, I like the missions and the story line. The vehicle driving is a little 
 cheesy and annoying. Great graphics and 3D environment. Start a brush fire if you want, burn down 
 some trees, take out some rebels and use their hut as a resting/save point. Worth playing but you 
 wont die without it. Another annoying part is the fact that you have to take malaria pills throughout 
 the game and return to this doctor when you run out, but I have to admit it was a good tie in the 
 story to keep it going. Other than that it's a good game, I have fun when I play it, it's just 
 not great like some others of its kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 seems an amazing game the first time round you play it. The visuals are quite stunning 
 , however not surprising since this is coming from Ubisoft, who execute visual graphics very well 
 in their games.
  
  The gameplay however I cannot say the same. In Far Cry 2 , you will be doing almost the same thing 
 over and over which restricts the player in a way and the game however doesn't feel flexible. Despite 
 the repetitive gameplay, the little detail put in the game is not bad.
  
  Guns jamming during a firefight makes the game feel more realistic as though you can feel the annoyance 
 of the gun jamming. 
  
  The vehicles in the game are quite sweet, but there could have been more varieties like different 
 models of the vehicles rather than seeing the same thing over and over.
  
  Far Cry 2 does seem to be a good game in the end if your new to first person shooters but in my 
 opinion, Ubisoft has a lot to learn from Rockstar games in developing fun sandbox games.
  
  However, since the game is somewhat decent, I'll give it a 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a fun game to play and to explore its environments. The only favorite part of this 
 game is that it comes bundled with a map editor which I use every day to create some very interesting 
 maps. The single player is like gta style, because you have to drive to your mission area which 
 may be a large pain to get to at times. The weapons in this game are very unique, because they 
 can break down allot, if you don't buy some upgrades for your weapon at the local gun shop. The 
 best weapon that I use allot is the Flamethrower since I just like to watch the cps run away from 
 me while on fire. The currency in this game is blood diamonds which you may earn from completing 
 a mission; you can also find diamonds from just exploring the game. Later in the game you may come 
 across some vehicle's which are way too over powered, try to hijack them because it makes going 
 through the game a whole lot easier. The multiplayer aspect of the game seems to be dull only because 
 not that many players seem to be on it at a time, around 120 at the most. allot of people will 
 have fun with multiplayer for a very long time because it's map community is expanding everyday 
 with new maps being created by everyone for download. I would also like to mention that multiplayer 
 can be played either in a ranked server which give you diamonds on which you game a level and use 
 to get more weapons and player servers which still has ranks but you don't keep them after you 
 leave a match. I would also like to mention that at the end of the game there are 2 ways to the 
 ending and both lead to the same result. Overall far cry 2 is an excellent game to own because 
 you might be playing it just to create some very interesting maps for your buddies to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a stone's throw away from being great, but in that distance is everything. Or so I 
 thought. Enclosed are my original thoughts, along with notes to show updated impressions
  
  Graphically the game is appealing and keeps with the traditional HDR Brown Bloom effects we've 
 seen in everything lately. The engine is poorly optimized and chugs even on a reasonable rig.
 
  *Modern patches have made the game run somewhat better, and people on midrange hardware will be 
 able to play efficiently*
  
  The audio is below average.
  *The audio IS average.*
  
  Gameplay is boring, navigation is atrocious. Having to drive along dirt roads in crappy vehicles 
 is lame, and god help you if you decide to off road it, as even the smallest rock will bring your 
 car to a standstill. The missions are fun at first, but after doing the same damn mission fifty 
 times, you lose all sense of fun, and the maleria sickness is just jarring and unpleasant. 
  *If you make an effort to stick to the more linear missions, enjoyment can be had. The game isn't 
 as boring as it could be, driving is somewhat improved though still a hassle.*
  
  Gunplay is weak, weapons breaking down is lame, and overall, there is a distinct lack of immersion.
 
  *Immersion is reached a bit, and the gunplay may seem flimsy at first, but at the same time you 
 can see it trying very hard*
  
  Do not buy this game.
  *Buy this game. On discount*
  
  Upon further scrutiny, I think I came into Far Cry 2 wanting to hate it, and as a result, I 
 did. Upon further consideration, Far Cry 2 is by no means perfect, but then again, what is? It 
 has a very nice atmosphere, the game's story is interesting, and aside from some preposterously 
 vexing, difficult missions, it delivers a quality length of gameplay. At its current pricing ($30 
 retail, $15 Steam) its a real steal for any gaming enthusiast.
  
  My earlier review made it sound like I hated the game, but the reason in my head said "Well if 
 I hate it so much, and its so bad, why am I playing it on and off constantly?" 
  
  Far Cry 2 is best enjoyed in small, limited doses, but can yield fantastic returns on your investment. 
 If you enjoy first person shooters, you will be able to find something in this game that you enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  After spending somewhere around 25 hours getting through Far Cry 2's single-player campaign, there 
 was one question I couldn't quite answer: why is this game called Far Cry? The sequel, developed 
 by Ubisoft Montreal, retains nearly nothing from Crytek's 2004 original or from the Xbox and Xbox 
 360's Instincts and Predator derivations. The story doesn't carry over, the characters aren't the 
 same, there's no mention at all of Jack Carver, there are no mutagens, no feral powers, and no 
 Trigens. Instead, it's a struggle between warring factions, called the APR and UFLL, in an unnamed 
 African nation. 
  
  The game also doesn't give players a pre-determined protagonist. Instead, you select a character 
 to play as, and the rest of the cast appear in the game world around you as friendly NPCs, called 
 buddies, who you can choose to work with. Things begin with a simple tutorial section, introducing 
 you to basic first-person shooter controls and the game's premise. Your main goal is to find The 
 Jackal, a menacing character that supplies weapons to the APR and UFLL to keep lit the fires of 
 conflict. 
  
  The point is, with this kind of setup, it's odd that the Far Cry name was even used at all, other 
 than for its obvious name recognition value. Pushing that issue aside and accepting that this is 
 basically a totally different game, you'll find there's quite a bit to like. 
  There are few direct analogues for Far Cry 2, as it truly is an open-world shooter. It's a stark 
 contrast to Infinity Ward's unrelentingly linear Call of Duty games, and offers more freedom than 
 what Crytek wound up delivering post-Far Cry with its pseudo-linear Crysis franchise. Perhaps GSC 
 Game World's S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is the best comparison, though even that game 
 differs, because where it leaned more toward role-playing elements, Far Cry 2 is almost all about 
 shooting. There are still ways to upgrade your character, but the focus here is most definitely 
 on action. 
  For instance, there's no inventory in the game, just four weapon slots. There's one for your machete, 
 one for a sidearm or accessory, one for a primary weapon (assault rifle, SMG, sniper rifle, shotgun) , 
 and one for a special weapon (rocket launcher, mortar, flamethrower) . All these weapon types aren't 
 available at the game's beginning; you must unlock them by performing side-quests for weapons vendors 
 located around the world. Much of the game works like this, letting you unlock little bits and 
 pieces here and there to make your journeys across the grassy plains, mountains, and jungles of 
 the world more convenient, and make the process of killing a little easier. 
  
  Also, unlike S. T. A. L. K. E. R., there's no real quest log. Instead, you basically have one 'active 
 quest' at a time, though the single quest can veer in several different directions. Main quests 
 are most often delivered through the APR and UFLL headquarters, and most of the time, the mission 
 you pick up is predetermined. In other words, you can't pick between APR and UFLL missions every 
 time you go to get a new mission connected to the main quest. There are choices to be made, some 
 fairly major ones too, but those are intermittent and mostly don't crop up until the end of the 
 game. Because of this, it's difficult to care at all about the story, setting, or characters in 
 the game for the first few hours. In all likelihood you'll be distracted by exploration and testing 
 out the boundaries of the game world, but it's quite some time before the story starts to gain 
 any real momentum. 
  Outside of main quests there are several types of distractions for you. You can do the weapon vendor 
 quests, which always involve hunting down a convoy and disabling it. The rewards are good, as you 
 get access to more weapons, but the quests themselves can get repetitive. There are also quests 
 you can get from buddies you find around the game world and assignments from ominously garbled 
 voices transmitted over electrical towers. Ultimately, they all boil down to pretty much the same 
 thing: go to a location and kill a guy, blow something up, steal something, or force someone to 
 do something they don't want to and then kill them. And if you're particularly obsessive compulsive, 
 you can spend plenty of hours tracking down the multitude of hidden briefcases which contain varying 
 quantities of diamonds. You'll also occasionally have to quest for medicine since, surprise, your 
 character has malaria. While the premise of a sick protagonist seems like it could have had some 
 interesting implications, the way it's implemented here makes it seem like more of a nuisance than 
 anything else. 
  
  Some of the main quests can be fairly interesting, but usually only if you choose to work with 
 an NPC buddy. Whichever buddy you've unlocked that likes you best will give you a call after main 
 missions are acquired, offering an alternate method of completion. Sometimes it screws over the 
 faction you're working for but ultimately involves the same infiltrate / kill mechanic used in 
 most of the other quests. More rarely you'll get to do something totally different, like using 
 a warhead to drop a bridge on a barge instead of having to infiltrate the barge and killing a target 
 on it. Using buddies like this to complete missions in different ways is also to your benefit, 
 as it gradually upgrades all the safe houses in the game world with ammo stashes, health supplies, 
 and eventually So yes, the quest structure can get tedious, but the open-world design helps alleviate 
 some of the fatigue of repetition that might start to set in by giving you free range to do whatever 
 you want. Assuming you've got some of the more interesting weapons unlocked, you can approach from 
 any angle and choose to engage the enemy with rockets, sniper fire, or peg one of the ubiquitous 
 explosive barrels or propane tanks to start a fire, which isn't as useless a move as it might seem 
 to be. 
  
  Aside from being a pretty effect as it spreads across fields, engulfs trees, and causes chain reaction 
 explosions if there are other combustible elements nearby, fire does play a significant role in 
 the world of Far Cry 2. It's not always useful -- dense jungle underbrush won't burn nearly as 
 effectively as savannah grass -- but when you get a large blaze going, it's a workable deterrent 
 against enemy pursuers, as they'll actively try to avoid its rapid spread, buying you a few extra 
 seconds to heal up, unjam a rusty weapon, or find something to hide behind. 
  Between random fights against roving patrols, guard posts, and the towns in which mission goals 
 are often set, you'll be doing a lot of traveling in Far Cry 2, which feels more out of place than 
 it probably should. After all, any MMO gamer or RPG fanatic should be used to uneventful travel 
 time to reach specific targets or areas. Maybe it's simply a consequence of Far Cry 2's relatively 
 new design as a first-person shooter in an open world with minimal loading. Still, the first-person 
 shooter genre's longstanding relationship with non-stop action makes the lengthy travel times seem 
 odd here. 
  
  It's cut down, however, by your ability to hop into trucks, cars or boats to speed across terrain, 
 which you'll be doing fairly often and which, unfortunately, don't have much of a feel to them. 
 There are also fast-travel buses that, after a load screen, bring you near-instantly to another 
 portion of the map. Enemy vehicle patrols and the tendency for other alerted foes to give chase 
 in vehicles also ensures you're never lonely for long while traversing the terrain, which can get 
 annoying, yet a lot of the navigation works against another of Far Cry 2's potential strengths: 
 immersion. 
  
  When you're low on health and in danger of bleeding out, you're required to perform grisly self-surgeries. 
 Ripping bullets out of your arms and legs with pliers and short knives is a regular occurrence, 
 and you'll also witness gruesome events like yanking long shards of glass or twigs from limbs. 
 The game puts a heavy emphasis on keeping you in a first-person perspective, keeping you rooted 
 in that view throughout practically the entire game. If you sprint for too long, your screen blurs 
 as you catch your breath. You'll see ferns bend in front of you as you walk over them, instead 
 of just passing through them like a hallucination. If you aim down the sights of your gun, the 
 edges of the screen blur to represent a more focused vision. The perspective can be especially 
 powerful when determining if wounded friendlies should live or die. During missions you'll find 
 your buddy NPCs will sometimes get shot down, and you'll have a choice of whether to inject them 
 with a syrette to save them or kill them right there, all with your view directly in front of their 
 pleading face. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  After spending somewhere around 25 hours getting through Far Cry 2's single-player campaign, there 
 was one question I couldn't quite answer: why is this game called Far Cry? The sequel, developed 
 by Ubisoft Montreal, retains nearly nothing from Crytek's 2004 original or from the Xbox and Xbox 
 360's Instincts and Predator derivations. The story doesn't carry over, the characters aren't the 
 same, there's no mention at all of Jack Carver, there are no mutagens, no feral powers, and no 
 Trigens. Instead, it's a struggle between warring factions, called the APR and UFLL, in an unnamed 
 African nation. 
  
  The game also doesn't give players a pre-determined protagonist. Instead, you select a character 
 to play as, and the rest of the cast appear in the game world around you as friendly NPCs, called 
 buddies, who you can choose to work with. Things begin with a simple tutorial section, introducing 
 you to basic first-person shooter controls and the game's premise. Your main goal is to find The 
 Jackal, a menacing character that supplies weapons to the APR and UFLL to keep lit the fires of 
 conflict. 
  
  The point is, with this kind of setup, it's odd that the Far Cry name was even used at all, other 
 than for its obvious name recognition value. Pushing that issue aside and accepting that this is 
 basically a totally different game, you'll find there's quite a bit to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomala
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  Beautiful, immersive setting and control scheme. Lots of weapons and vehicles. Good level of challenges. 
 What's not to like?
  
  So what if 70% of the challenge of any given mission is getting to the site and getting back from 
 it: it keeps the tension up, no journey takes to long unless you're fighting, and there are lots 
 of travel options: boat, bus, or car primarily, but you can drive off-road or on, and take sections 
 on foot. Plus every checkpoint, as well as every mission can be treated differently depending on 
 your mood and armoury: snipe, move in close, hit it with rockets, mine the objective, ambush the 
 guards, sneak past, divert round, etc.
  
  There may be missed opportunities, but perhaps they'll be covered in Far Cry 3 (or perhaps they'll 
 keep it simple still) .
  
  Still loving it after 30h+.
  
  (P. S. The only relationship this has with Far Cry (1) is those beautiful moments when you just 
 enjoy the scenary. GTA: SA is probably a better comparison.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisFPS
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I decided to give this game a ten because it is one of the most realistic video games I have ever 
 played. The visuals, the gameplay, the music and the characters go beyond modern first-person shooter 
 standards. It is because of this game that I realise why Ubisoft is my favourite gaming company. 
 
  
  I have heard that a lot of people criticised it for being repetetive. Well, heres a question: How 
 many video games are repetetive these days? In my experience, quite a lot. There is plenty of reasons 
 why far cry 2 is worth more than Call Of Duty 4. We agree that game is the funnest in the franchise 
 (for me, until number 5 came out) . However, that game proved to be too linear for modern-day video 
 gaming and gameplay was far, far too basic. In Far Cry 2 a lot of stuff is up to you. 
  
  The realism gives you plenty of options. Even if you fail a mission or lose buddies, that does 
 not mean you have to restart from a checkpoint. It is ONLY if YOU die that the game is over. So 
 try not to worry if you lose a friend in this game or a mission goes wrong, because unlike other 
 video games, in Far Cry 2 it does not mean the end of the world.
  
  As you explore the 50 square kilometer environment, you will find diamonds, using your map and 
 GPS. The game does not introduce a mini map. Instead your character holds out his own map to help 
 him around. You will also find people to rescue who become your buddies. If you are mortally wounded, 
 One buddy will come and rescue you. If the buddy are wounded, you can decide whether to help them, 
 shoot them to end their misery or abandon them. Losing a buddy does not end the game, but it means 
 they are gone forever.
  
  You can use diamonds to buy new weapons and upgrades from weapon shops. If you are given a convoy 
 mission by the seller, you will be able to unlock new guns. The player must unlock safehouses where 
 he can go to rest. It is useful because if you want your character to do a mission at night, he 
 will set a timer and the day will fast forward till he wakes up.
  
  The visuals are about as good as the gameplay (when they are on the highest settings) . The story 
 is what got the most criticism, but I actually disagree. the plot is simple, but it is better than 
 the first game's and the twists are very unexpected. The buddies you unlock can be likable characters 
 since they are originate from ethnicities different from each other. Sometimes I actually felt 
 sad when one died.
  
  Getting a good PC is important if you want the game on high settings (the fire looks very realistic 
 on high!) , and the visuals are a bit better than on Xbox 360. I would highly recommend this game 
 if you like a game with good gameplay, good music, good characters and stunning visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game makes you feel like you're in the game with the amazingly good detailed South African 
 bush and with the amazing wildfires but the story begins with you trying to kill The Jackal, a 
 dangerous arms dealer who has brought crates of RPG's and AK 47's into Africa but you have to deal 
 with malaria and is soon forced to work with corrupted warlords to make South Africa you're new 
 home. The gameplay is also exceptional and the team at Ubisoft obviously tried to make the gamer 
 feel like he's in the game for an example: If you sustain a critical injury you have to heal it 
 which he will do some pretty disgusting things like fixing dislocated arms, Taking a bullet out 
 of him with his mouth or using a knife to do the trick. The graphics is also one of the best Ubisoft 
 has made but if you many gamers have this problem: if you have a regular pc not terrific but good 
 then you might be having some trouble because the frame rate will keep freezing every few seconds, 
 I had no problem with this because I have a real good pc but I know lots of people who has this 
 problem and they also have good pc's but further more I must say the concept was good but I didn't 
 like the way it was applied. Furthermore this would have been a brilliant game if it didn't have 
 the frame rate problem.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  The story line is very basic. There is a evil war lord that needs to be killed. The big problem 
 with this game is that there are just two types of missions: Kill somebody or blow something up 
 and its the same for the main and the side missions. Whenever I take a mission I just hope that 
 the point where I have to go is not to far away because most of the time you will find it at the 
 other side of the map. So most of the time you will be spending in a car driving from A to B. You 
 can't take more than one mission at a time. So just taking a bunch of missions and then solve them 
 at the same time doesn't work. It becomes boring after the 4th or 5th mission. The only thing that 
 keeps me playing is that I want to try out different weapons, but you have to finish missions to 
 unlock the weapons. After the first couple of hours you realize that you are going to be doing 
 the same thing over and over again, pick up mission then drive to the other side of the map and 
 accomplish the mission, mainly the only thing you are doing is driving back and forth between identical 
 missions. You feel like there is no reason to play the game. You never really get engaged. However 
 some of the missions are very fun but together they are formulaic and quite repetitive. 
  Physics could be better, you can "use" items, but you can't pick up items. For some reason, you 
 can't stack barrels or boxes on top of each other to climb to a ledge, but you can shove them around 
 enough to get them to stack, although the fire mechanics are very good.
  Playing on a decent computer you can appreciate all the time and effort that was put in the graphics 
 and admiring the scenery. The graphics and spreading fire system are very good. And the health 
 system like digging bullets out from your wounds is a cool feature.
  
  Pros:
  Solid graphics,
  good sound effects,
  some times the objectives and missions have good fun,
 
  open-ended environments.
  
  Cons:
  very repetitive gameplay;
  not much replay value,
  frustrating amounts of back-and-forth.
  respawning enemies,
  enemy 
 vehicles go faster then yours, even if your a mile a head 
  no prone position,
  enemies can see through walls and in the dark,
  bad guys take around 10 hits to die, and thats 
 just in the head!
  
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Gameplay 6/10
  Replay Value 2/10
  Sound 5/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChR666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  To begin with, my high-end PC is:
  -ASUS P5KC motherboard
  -Intel Core2Quad Q6600 @3000Mhz
  -ASUS EN8800GTX 768MB
  -4GB RAM 800Mhz
  
  Which is pretty 
 much a beast ;)
  
  Anyway, on with the review:
  GRAPHICS: 7.5/10
  Seriously, if you turn this all the way up (like I did with ~50fps) , even though it's greatly optimized, 
 it doesn't look half as good as Crysis does. This is not an exaggeration. It's seriously nowhere 
 near Crysis. The graphics are satisfactory, to put it this way, but not awesome. There is enough 
 detail, the ability to set things on fire is very nice.
  Not too much to say here really, suffice to say you won't be excited but not really disappointed 
 either.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 6.0/10
  Not a joke.
  1) Shooting is unrealistic. Aiming is painstaking and you actually aim and shoot and the bullet 
 some times may not even find the enemy even if you've really tried to be accurate. You may instantly 
 think I'm just bad at aiming. Well be informed that this is not the case :)
  2) Shooting is not the only thing that is unrealistic. Driving is very unrealistic as well. The 
 handling is VERY unrealistic. For example you may be driving at 60 Km/h and as soon as you hit 
 the brakes the car is rock still. You tap the right button and the car does a ~45degree turn. Jesus!
 
  3) Feels kinda clumsy overall.
  Warning: Far Cry 2 may easily bore you withing the first 15 minutes of gameplay. You will not believe 
 this, but that's how long it took me to realise the game was a fail - I uninstalled ASAP.
  
  SOUND: 9.0/10
  No drawbacks here, it's just not immersive as it should have been.
  
  
 BUY OR RENT?
  Neither. But if you have to, rent.
  
  Overall:
  Not seriously worth your time. Compared to Crysis, this is much worse. Can't see how it got the 
 8.5/10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grtgrfx
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Yeah the scenery is to die for. The main thing is the open environment, which means you can wander 
 in the game space without penalty or time constraint... but traipsing all over the country from 
 mission to mission starts to drag, and taking out the same enemy guard post every time you go down 
 the same road is lame. Enemy AI isn't smart at all, except when they get the chance to run you 
 over in a vehicle, an instant kill. Topping it all off, after doing 75% of the game, some users 
 (like myself) will encounter a bug that prevents new missions from spawning! That means after investing 
 between 10 and 20 hours in the game, you suddenly can't get new missions and complete the plotline! 
 Ubisoft is (and has been) aware of the issue, but they don't have a solution... in other words, 
 if it happens to you, you're outa luck! This is beyond terrible... it's unacceptable from a major 
 player in the game industry like Ubi. My score: 9 for destructible environments, 6 for story, 1 
 for gameplay. Buy at your own risk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one of about 4-5 games in my lifetime that I've played back-to-back, and that tells ya 
 something. The first one I played back-to-back was XCOM. Remember, back in '95? ;)
  
  I loved the huge world open to explore and re-explore. I hated repetitious rebel check point gunbattles. 
 Yes, it adds to the level of dificulty -- getting from point A to point B is not a joy ride in 
 beautifully-depicted African savanna. But dang it, why do I have to clear the same check point 
 on my way there AND on the way back a couple of hours later. Why can't it stay leaden with corpses 
 and burned to the ground by my previous passage for at least 24 hour hours??? 
  
  I loved the plot - it actually meant something, more than an idea to get you outa there to kill 
 a bunch of guys you've never met before. I hated the fact that whatever choice you make at several 
 decision-making point in the game, they don't affect you future. The ending is the same. Also, 
 characters speak too fast for my ear. Is there a speed dial or a break pedal? No? Make sure you 
 enable subtitles in that case.
  
  I loved the amount of weapons to chose from, A LOT! I hated the fact that about 70% of them was 
 a slightly better version of the one you just purchased. There are only about 5 of them that really 
 stand out and, quite frankly, really useful. Unlocking better weapons is no challenge either, you 
 just pass a couple of side missions and boom, half of the arsenal is open for purchase.
  
  I loved the challenge of diamond hunting... the first time I played the game. But then I realized 
 there's no real point in collecting them. By the time you are done with half the missions in the 
 second map, you've already bought all weapons and upgrades you needed. Now what, deposit them in 
 your saving account? Well, those who've gone through the entire game know it's kinda pointless 
 (umm... did I mention a spoiler?) :)
  
  Btw, what's up with the game saving boxes in safe houses? I seems to me originally those were the 
 only places developers intended us to save the game. Thank god that idea didn't go through all 
 the way.
  
  This looks more of a complaint list than a review and that's exactly what it is. The rest of the 
 game is solid. I easily get lost in the gameplay and overlook these minor annoyances. If you're 
 a fan of open world FPS genre like me, this game will last you for at least a couple of couple 
 of weeks... unlike COD4 5-hour solo player campaign. I'm still so pissed! (see my review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra2er
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  After seeing the Jackal trailer and some developer's diaries I expected all but disappointment 
 from the game. How could the game featuring such body awareness (i. e. pulling shrapnels from your 
 thigh with a knife) , intensive firefights at the sun-baked African soil and plot revolving around 
 the conflict-torn nation could ever be squandered? Alas, I was so wrong. Curse you, Ubisoft! How 
 on earth such impressive prospects could have been underdeveloped by the development crew is beyond 
 my comprehension.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Far Cry 2 has astounding graphic design. Dirty ghost towns, thick jungles, 
 grassy savannas dotted with wild animals - it's all it cracked up to be.
  
  Also, I found the weaponry in my element. There's a lot of guns to choose from and even more upgrades. 
 You have to choose wisely, though, because you can only wear three of them at the time. Arms tend 
 to jam after a while, so you have to maintain them properly and switch them if they degrade to 
 much.
  
  But there's not much juice beyond that. Like the first installment it is more a technology show-off 
 and a graphic benchmark that a real game.
  
  It consists all the sins of the most sandbox games ever created - boring and frustrating repeatability 
 that is. No matter what you do in the game, you have the feeling that you've done this before. 
 The majority of missions is repetitive - kill or question someone, blast or steal something after 
 wiping dozens of goons. But the most frustrating of all is the speed at which enemies at checkpoints 
 respawn. You could wipe the entire village from the face of the this God-forsaken place and you 
 can be sure that the enemies will be waiting for you there upon the next arrival.
  
  The game world is huge, and that's so much a good thing as it is a pressing problem for the player. 
 It's not unusual that the game plot requires you to travel vast distances to remote hideouts. Sounds 
 interesting? Wrong! It's boring like hell and pretty frustrating because of the before mentioned 
 respawns. Despite the fact that you have some bus lines at you disposal, they're often not even 
 close to your destinations, and no matter what you have to get there. On foot, by car or along 
 the river - your choice. But why isn't it possible to fast travel to several other locations? Dialogs 
 that are supposed to drive the plot are pretty brief and badly written so you don't feel really 
 immersed in the game. The same goes for your buddies - they just are there whether you like it 
 or not, you don't feel a little bit connected to them and you experience no grief if they died.
 
  
  The same goes for the plot. At the beginning all you know is that you are supposed to find and 
 kill Jackal - an arm dealer supplying both sides of the conflict. Then you find yourself balancing 
 between the waring parties. But no matter what, you will not feel immersed. The prospects for the 
 story about the country torn apart by domestic war seemed endless. I expected NPCs to be as memorable 
 as those in GTA series. What a fool I was! The NPC creation is shallow and you don't even bother 
 to understand their motivation. What motivation?
  
  All in all, Far Cry 2 lives up to the level of its predecessor. But, like the original Far Cry, 
 it doesn't fill my high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dackchaar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Well this is Far Cry 2, very frustrating, and a total letdown. I bought this game because it was 
 on sale on Steam over the holidays, and boy did they rip me off. It has much the same problems 
 as Assassin's Creed, except this game is much worse. It is repetitive (doing the same mission structure 
 over and over) , crappy story, horrible voice acting, and lack luster fighting, annoying aspects 
 (guard posts, having to drive for 5 minutes before you can just reach your boring objective, and 
 taking that dang malaria medicine, I mean really, what is the need for that?) There are only a 
 few things this game has going for it though, it has beautiful graphics for one, a very nice open 
 world, and the flamethrower! All in all it isn't as bad as it sounds, but really, such a letdown, 
 and rather mediocre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  FC2 is an improved clone of Boiling Point, at that time a game that introduced freedom of actions 
 (pick missions u like) and huge island to discover than any games before. FC2 has very good graphics 
 ( I am playing on High mode) and every little details like grass, trees, leaves motion on wind, 
 or explosion of grenade looks very realistic. Also, i enjoy variety of weapons that is given to 
 the player, and reasonable pricing (currency in the game are diamonds) Story line is very simple 
 and some times boring, i think developers could of think something better. I like that creators 
 thought about establishing bus stops for faster traveling on the island, i am sure most of u read 
 about people getting bored driving around, morons ! take a bus it's faster and straight to the 
 action. One thing is kind of disappoint is lack of freedom on the island, compare to Boiling Point 
 game its very primitive. Main thing you do in FC2 is killing and blowing thing up, but where is 
 options to going to bar and getting drunk or trade and earn money, ect... that part is missing 
 and surely make the game boring after 10 hours of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VK001thunder
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:24 am PT
Review:  i like this game but Crysis is a bit better mulitplayer is awesome for this game very good graphics 
 and a lot more features has a lot of guns mapeditor a big range to go around cool vechiles i think 
 this is a really good game oh and the graphics on PC are the best. i like all the deatails added. 
 ill pretty much like this game and after this review made me wanna play it more. so good luck playin' 
 it 'cuz its LONG!!!! at some points though mabye not the best but okay. Ubisoft has made a pretty 
 good game woot!!!! good job on the map editor because no game that i have seen uses map editor 
 for 1st person. i think you should make more things like obstacle to attract more atteion hope 
 you got his review and make it a bit better!!!!! i also hope readers can get this so they will 
 play this game more often!!!!! This is from: VK001thunder good luck and have fun dont say the people 
 are stupid in the game or something!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deuketc
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Firstly the graphics are awesome,, now that we have gotten the good out of the way....
  
  1.. the gamplay is sooooo bad. 
  
  i see what they tried to do... but you cant even walk through 
 a door without... pause... animation of you opening the door... pause.... alright im in control 
 of my character again
  
  I need to heal,,, OK pause animation of you removing a bullet (all the while your being shot at) 
 pause.. OK im in control.... 
  
  OK i died can i quickly retry and get back into the actions NO of course not my buddy must come 
 in now and save the day..... pause watch an animation for a minute Pause...........
  
  2. Driving. what a crap idea. must drive 10 minutes to shoot 2 guys. and sometimes you gotta get 
 out of your car do some repairs,, another animation sequence.... 
  
  basically it looks like a great PC shooter dumbed down for the console market
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown at:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3297,0. html
  
  "Open-world" is all the rage these days. The FPS genre in particular has begun its migration into 
 less-linear pastures. STALKER is currently the leading franchise in this genre, but it was only 
 a matter of time for competitors to start popping up. Far Cry 2 is the first real new entry into 
 the market, approaching the open-world mechanics from a different perspective. Ubisoft Montreal's 
 sequel to the original Crytek shooter is unique and more than competent, despite some obvious faults.
 
  
  The most superficial difference between FC2 and its predecessor is its setting. The sequel is set 
 in Africa, one of the few environments that hasn't been overused in games as of yet. Far Cry 2 
 has no narrative connection to the original: there's no tropical island, no crazy scientists, no 
 supermutants, no Jack Carver and no bright-red Hawaiian shirt. Everything is ground in reality, 
 a grim and desperate one at that. Africa is being gripped by conflicts between opposing factions 
 armed by a powerful dealer named the Jackal. It's your job to hunt this man down and neutralize 
 his contributions to these wars. The game has you choose from a cast of Buddies, but all this boils 
 down to is choosing different hands and clothing, since the game is entirely in first person and 
 the plot doesn't depend on the character you choose. From there, its a romp through more than 50 
 square kilometers of African environments, taking missions for various factions and individuals 
 that improve your standing and reputation.
  
  Main story missions can be played out in a variety of ways. You receive objectives from either 
 the UFLL or the APR, but you can team up with any one of the 11 other Buddies in order to tie up 
 some loose ends before eliminating your target. This, in turn, improves your standing with that 
 buddy, allowing them to eventually assist you in a variety of ways.
  
  Unfortunately, the main body of the plot is hurt by a rapid pace and little character development. 
 This is a shame, because the unique African setting has some real potential for emotionally and 
 politically-charged storylines. However, spreading out the game over such a large space really 
 hurts the narrative. Characters also amount to little more than talking information terminals that 
 rarely move from the place you find them and are either out to kill you or give you some new piece 
 of information. The pace does pick up after the game's half-way point, but it does take an awfully 
 long time to get there and impatient types might not survive till then.
  
  There's a lot to explore in Far Cry 2, with the missions being laid out in standard, sandbox-game 
 fashion. You use your map (yes, an actual map that your character holds in front of him) in order 
 to locate objectives and points of interest. Many of these can bring you to side missions that 
 often offer some kind of reward. There are many of these, but they also ultimately suffer. Most 
 of them just have you ambushing and killing an important target or taking out a weapons convoy. 
 Basically, don't run through all of the side missions if you're looking for fun variety, try scattering 
 them between main quest missions.
  
  Essentially, you'll almost always find yourself earning diamonds (which you can also find scattered 
 throughout the world) . These diamonds can be used as currency to unlock new weapons and vehicles 
 to use, and they do actually give you more options in approaching your objectives.
  
  This weapons selection is one of Far Cry 2's hallmarks: you can eventually use everything from 
 gold-plated AK-47 assualt rifles to a satisfyingly useful flamethrower. They look extremely authentic 
 to the African setting due to their worn down and rugged nature and they even break down according 
 to the amount of time they've been used, meaning that its always better to pick some new weapons 
 at an armory than scavenge them from the bodies of dead mercs. It gives the game's combat a quirky 
 and unpredictable feel that few other shooters have.
  
  Far Cry 2's strength (like Crysis) is in its Veni, Vidi, Vici philosophy: You approach an area, 
 observe it with your binoculars, and then figure out a way to strike. There are some interesting 
 factors that determine your options: like weather, time of day, patrol patterns, geography, etc. 
 Assassination missions can be carried out during the night using silenced weapons, ammo containers 
 can be shot at in order to set off a hail of ammunition that rips into a guard patrol, and hang 
 gliders can be used to land on the roof of a VIP's building. The sheer amount of choice is quite 
 overwhelming, and in certain situations surpasses similar areas in Crysis. The difference here 
 is your objectives, you're (almost) always sent off on the same objectives, and there's only so 
 much that you can do to change up your behaviors. Another surprising issue is the actual pacing 
 of the game. It's simply too big. Besides four or five "bus stops" that can be used to travel across 
 the map, you're going to have to slog through miles of terrain in order to travel between objectives. 
 This takes a minimum of five to ten minutes to do so and even longer if you can't get your hands 
 on a vehicle. Additionally, you'll often come upon enemy camps and patrols that, while seem like 
 a good idea, end up frustrating you due to their unusually high frequency of encounters. In addition 
 to this, NPCs respawn several minutes after you clear and leave an area, we wish that this respawn 
 timing was a little more spread out so that it didn't frustrate us with repeated encounters...
 
  
  Beyond the expansive single player component, Far Cry 2 does offer something more than a rudimentary 
 multiplayer experience. The modes aren't anything that we haven't seen before but many of the postivie 
 aspects of Far Cry 2's gameplay mechanics are translated over. All three versions of the game also 
 come with an easy-to-use map editor, meaning the likelihood of coming upon some cool new user-made 
 map is relatively high. However, fans of Crysis' and Far Cry's Sandbox editors will be disappointed 
 by the lack of tools that would normally allow you to create single player missions or even import 
 your own assets. Still, its a nice feature that most developers normally don't bother releasing 
 these days.
  
  Far Cry 2 lives up to its predecessor's graphical reputation, even if its not quite the best-looking 
 game out. The African setting is well concieved, the sheer amount of little touches and details 
 is staggering at times: Wilderbeast and Zebras run away from approaching vehicles, grass moves 
 in the morning breeze, heavy winds rip off branches of trees, fire spreads from a tree over a plain 
 and ignites a vehicle, etc... Weapons detail is great and lighting effects do come close to the 
 industry-leading ones featured in Cryengine 2. Far Cry 2's only obvious graphical weakness is in 
 its character models, they simply look and animate worse than some found in last generation games, 
 but its easy to overlook since you'll be spending a lot of time outside looking at the beautiful 
 scenery.
  
  Far Cry 2's PC version seems to have heavily benefited from its status as the lead platform of 
 the game: it simply looks and plays better on our mouse and keyboard-equipped machines. This isn't 
 to say that the PS3 and 360 versions look bad, its just that the PC one incorporates details that 
 are simply not there in the console versions like: clear textures, more dynamic foliage, greater 
 draw distances, more clearly defined lighting, etc.
  Far Cry 2, while suffering from quite a few flaws, is one of the better attempts at an open-world 
 shooter that we've ever played. It's beautiful, huge, and usually fun to play. Ubisoft Montreal 
 did make some mistakes, mainly in mission variety and travel time, but that shouldn't take FC2 
 off your wish list if you're even slightly a fan of shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  I had a tough call to do this month...
  Am i gonna buy Far Cry 2 or Dead Space...
  I took FC2 cause of the Multiplayer and the long playing Time.
  
  At first i was a little bit 
 disappointed... the Graphics are good, but compared to Crysis, they are simply ugly. No Shadow-Depth, 
 only one Layer Normalmaps on the Terrain-Textures and overall, this plastic Look, with sharp shadows 
 and strange Lighting. Not comparable to the almost photorealistic Setting in Crysis.
  Although the PC-Version looks much better than the 360 or PS3 Versions, i should mention.
  
 
  After a little Intro, in a Jeep, i didnt really know what ive got to do. On the Streets 2 Gangs 
 are fighting each other, and me... (Why me too? I dunno) . After this, i got my first House. The 
 Enemys dont respawn there, when u first capture one. U can Save, Sleep and properly get some Health 
 in there. Of course in the PC Version, you can Save everywhere you like too.
  From now on, the Game started to get better, the Shooting-Scenes are really nice. Branches and 
 Leaves are bursting and Fire is burning, almost like it would in Real Life. You`ve got wide World 
 to explore. And after completing about 45% of the Game you get another Map which is just as big 
 as the first.
  
  For the respawning Enemies... Maybe im the only one who likes them. Cause the shooting is cool 
 and Africa would soon get pretty empty if they wont respawn. Although the Respawning could be 
 a bit slower, one Hour should be ok. Many Ppl mentioned the long ways u have to drive... Infact, 
 i was not driving longer than 3 Minutes anyway. Cause uve got Bus-Stations (which will beam u 
 directly to others Stations) all over the Map, and infront of each Bus-Station usually is a Car. 
 So, i was getting around pretty fast. The Main-Missions are cool. Not only Kill X, Kill Y. Youve 
 got to Protect a big Boat with Medicine or get Poison to an Airplane which Sprays it over a farm. 
 Sidequests are a little boring. Cause theyre the same everytime. Kill Convoy X. Or get Passports 
 to X.
  
  The Real cool thing is, the way your "Buddies" are integrated into this World. They will help you 
 out of Trouble and even get you out of a Battlefield if your Health is low and they have alternate 
 Mission-objectives. But even here is one thing that sucks pretty much... you can only revive one 
 3 times. After that, he/she is dead forever... And they die pretty fast, cause they are a little 
 stupid XD
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  
  This Game has much more Potential... but it kills it with little Mistakes. It would have been better 
 if:
  
  - the Enemys would respawn slower
  
  - the Faction which im working for, wouldnt attack me, when im on one of THEIR Missions...
  
 
  - Enemys wont see me while im hiding in a the Vegetation. (Silenced Weapons are pretty useless 
 here, even they got no Muzzleflash, Enemys will spot u directly after the 1st Shot no matter where 
 u are hiding)
  
  - the Cars would have better Physics while driving
  
  - there where more different Animals (not Only Zebras and Deer) the Atmosphere would be much better.
 
  
  - there where Water-Refractions... its a little Thing, but makes Water truely look like Water and 
 not like a blurred Mirror. And with DirectX its not that hard to implant...
  
  - there where softer and Depth-Shadows. Maybe another Layer to Textures when its raining... (everything 
 looks dry everytime) and small little graphical tuning at all. 
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
  
  Overall the Game feels 
 like its developed by People who hate their Work and just do what has to be done. There is nothing 
 really special in it (except the Fire) Cause of the large wide World, the great gunplay and the 
 Fire, i agree with the Score of Gamespot 8.5
  
  Could have been a 9. X if theyd put more Love into this one ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write good reviews.. Sory : (
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that i just try to give my own opinion those games whitout many words.. 
 
  and i think many player just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding me and good gaming
  
 
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Graphic 9/10
  
  
  Sounds 7/10
  
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  
  
  Time Spent Playing 
  about 10hour
  
  
  Difficulty
  medium
  
  
  Gamevalue 6/10
 
  
  
  Where is the gameplay?? is this the Future? looking good but Gameplay is Bad.. i never imagine 
 the game play can be so bad when i buy the game.
  
  dont know who are those who give this game 9-10 points? because gameplay issues are bad.. and its 
 never worth 9-10points because that.
  
  i dont say game its totaly bad or something.. but its not the best 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I can see why so many people dislike this game, there is a paper thin plot trying to hold this 
 game together, coupled with a mission designs that become very repetitive. Once you get past these 
 flaws, though, you enter a beautiful world that is a joy to travel through. If you are a dedicated 
 shooter fan you will find plenty of reasons to like this game. 
  
  Although not as graphically impressive as a game like Crysis, Far Cry 2 provides a very immersive 
 environment. I especially loved the day night cycle, which not only looks great but gives you the 
 ability to choose they time of day to plan attacks. The environment is very detailed considering 
 how huge the maps are, you can see where the Assassins Creed influence comes in. Not only is the 
 environment detailed, but is well thought out if you explore it, you find many areas from which 
 to snipe, sneak, start fires, or launch grenades from cover. I haven't seen the console versions 
 of the game but the PC version ran smoothly at ultra high settings on my machine.
  
  I did get tired of constantly having to fight the same guard posts over and over to reach mission 
 areas, but it is possible to avoid many of them, which adds to the challenge, and you have many 
 choices of travel from driving to boating to hang gliding. Even though you seem to get the same 
 type of mission over and over, the many mission areas give you plenty of choices of how you feel 
 like executing your assault and therefore make it feel different every time. The weapons are varied 
 and are fun to experiment with. I've run missions multiple times with different weapon load outs 
 just to see how it would be. I found the enemy AI (on hardcore) was very challenging and creative, 
 I got flanked and killed many times by enemies using cover very well. With 20-30 hours of play 
 this game also gives you plenty of bang for your buck, and I never got too bored with it. 
  
  I don't usually get into open world games, but I found that Far Cry 2 was one of the best I've 
 ever played. There is plenty of freedom without feeling too cheap. Overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n_anirudh18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  FarCry2 is on of the best first person shooters with ultra-excellent game-play. It doesn't even 
 stress ur computer that much and everyone can easily run it in high graphics. But the gameplay is 
 awesome. Using weapons such as snipers and other weapons is totally awesome and u can choose how 
 to kill ur opponent.
  It is a very huge game though with many many many............... many similar missions. I am the 
 sort of guy who bear this sort of stuff but in this game it is kinda boring. Going in the same stupid 
 truck and being intercepted by an annoying easily beatable guy in another truck who shoot at u 
 for no reason.
  The weapon shop and upgrades is totally awesome ,and the difficulty is just right making this game 
 very satisfying.
  The amount of weapons in this game is staggering and everything has upgrades. There are also a lot 
 of side missions in this game such as assasinations, weapon missions etc. But after finishing the 
 game u cannot continue the game, and that is a must in such free roam games. I really would have 
 liked it if there were stuff to after finishing the game (like the gta games) . This also has stunning 
 graphics but it feels a bit dull and gray (maybe because it is in africa's jungles)
  Overall i would give this game a 9.5/10 sorely for its gameplay, graphics, free roam and the weapons 
 and upgrades.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate22692
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game after playing the original from Crytek. I had my doubts when I heard 
 the game wasn't being done by them, but I still was optimistic after seeing previews of the game. 
 After playing the game for a while I have to say this was a big letdown. The AI is terrible and 
 makes the stupidest decisions all while having the most robotic emotionless expression on their 
 faces. While the game world is HUGE, most of it has very little meaning and is simply there to 
 fill in between Point A and Point B. The story is average at best and the acting is okay, but nothing 
 special. A lot of the weapons are pretty cool, but most fights can be settled easily with an assault 
 rifle and a few grenades. The game gets tiring and repetitive quickly with most missions being. 
 The only this I think this game does an excellent job with are the graphics, which are beautiful 
 and run quite well on mid-level hardware. If you are looking for the TRUE successor to the original 
 Far Cry go play Crysis. It isn't as well optimized as this game, but at least has good game-play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmh2000
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The game was very repetetive, and anti-clamactic at the end.
  
  It was fun, but always left me wanting more. Was a good use of spare time for some entertainment, 
 but nothing to write home about.
  
  Traveling long distances to objectives became tedious. I often found myself more concerned with 
 having to find my way around the map than doing the mission.
  
  Wish there were some kind of compass or mini-map on the main screen that you could toggle on & 
 off without having to switch to a handheld map all the time.
  
  AI was unreal. You'd shoot from 800 yards out with sniper and they would know exactly where you 
 were. The covert aspect of the game did not exist. And, somehow their assault rifles were more 
 accurate than some of your sniper weapons.
  
  Vehicles became disabled far too easily. And why is it that the big, old and ugly assault truck 
 was the fastest vehicle? The buggy or some of the newer Jeeps, to me, would be faster, especially 
 with their clean engines. And where is the large 4x4 truck shows in the screen shots? I never saw 
 that. Not enough types of vehicles/boats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game hoping I would have as good a time as I did with the original, but I have 
 to say that I'm rather disappointed. While it is certainly a very pretty game and the fire looks 
 fantastic, I never quite found myself immersed in the game. For one, the combat feels sterile, 
 and it doesn't pull you in. The second problem is the voice acting. The accents are pretty good, 
 and the dialogue isn't bad, but everyone delivers their lines way too quickly, and that imparts 
 a feeling of a rushed reading rather than giving the impression that the characters are real. The 
 missions are also repetitive to the point of being boring. Finally, the overall story feels slapped 
 together rather than fully fleshed out. Is this really the same team that released Far Cry just 
 a few short years ago?
  
  On the positive side, the healing and repair system is pretty cool, and I do like the music and 
 the length of the day/night cycle. I also love that fire, especially when you can use it on the 
 enemies.
  
  Bottom line: the setting and visuals are great, but the rest of the game is just... meh. I should 
 have gone with my gut instinct and bought Dead Space instead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:28 am PT
Review:  When I first heard the news that Far Cry 2 wouldn't take place in the Caribbean I went through 
 all phases of grief: shock, denial, bargaining, anger, depression, guilt (well, maybe not guilt) , 
 acceptance and hope. Let's face it, the setting made the first game memorable, because the genetic 
 experiment gone awry story was as original as butter on toast. Hearing it would take place in Africa 
 actually gave me something to hope for. Africa is largely untapped material in video games. I couldn't 
 wait to see how Ubisoft Montreal would use its multicultural "expertise" this time around. 
  
  The final outcome is somewhat diluted. Though the game has glimmers of greatness, it falls 
 flat as soon as your character gets into the thick of things. Far Cry 2 is a mindless, repetitive 
 action romp sprinkled with touches of originality. The game is fun in general, unfortunately it 
 missed a great opportunity to make something more of itself. It hacks through its first few minutes 
 of substance like a machete-wielding bushwhacker offering players nothing more than an elaborate 
 shooting gallery with movable targets on an African backdrop. 
  
  
  THE RIDE THAT NEVER WILL BE
  
  After selecting the look of your character's arms the game 
 starts with a taxi ride to a hotel. A talkative cab driver gives you a free tour of the region. 
 You can immediately smell war in the air. We see processions of villagers heading for safer grounds, 
 militia convoys hustling, brushfires raging and checkpoints keeping drivers on edge, all this while 
 propaganda spouts on the radio -- a great first five minutes. You get the impression the game will 
 be epic in every aspect. Unfortunately, reality sets in fast. Far Cry 2 is a run of the mill shooter 
 with marginal depth. After the first plot-driven gunfight the promise of substance vanishes like 
 a hare bolting into tallgrass.
  
  Your character is taken in by one of the two militias (APR or UFLL) and told to kill some poor 
 saps in a nearby camp. A brief tutorial explains how to fix vehicles and use the map. Ten minutes 
 into the game and we are ready for the first mission, which in essence could also have been the 
 last since they all look alike. It's all about killing people. It doesn't matter who they are; 
 if it walks on two legs, it deserves a bullet to the head, at least in the game's rationale. 
 
  
  One problem though: there is no rationale. Anybody you meet is a "bad guy". Why? Because this is 
 an African country during unrest, silly Before this topic derails, let me clarify that Ubisoft 
 made sure to add plenty of white people. The game clearly goes out of its way to avoid any racial 
 backlash. Not that it matters. What matters is the loose setup. A short ride in a taxi and the 
 land is free of bystanders, ready for mindless action. It seriously lacks a human touch. Emphasis 
 should have been put on what Africans go through when warmongers and "Lords of War" mettle with 
 such a rich continent. Basically, the game needs more of the cab driver stuff. Instead, Far Cry 
 2 is a guilt-free playground for Western males. Like the header says: "The ride that never will 
 be".
  
  
  PALA-POW! 
  
  Much like a GTA game, Far Cry 2 is mission-based. Players can roam around at will doing as they 
 please, even after accepting a mission from various locations on the map. Sadly, there's not much 
 to do while free-roaming. As stated above, there are no civilians -- nothing to interact with. 
 Anybody you meet outside of demilitarized cities, like Pala, is a foe. Towns only act as mission 
 depositories and the occasional assassination. Stepping outside city boundaries puts everybody 
 at risk of you putting a bullet between their eyes. Why? Because you are the only competent warrior 
 in the region; everybody else is cannon fodder waiting to pass through your crosshair. It's the 
 closest thing to a human safari as you can get.
  
  Your character meets "buddies" through the course of the trivial main story that can assist you 
 while you off mercenaries. Buddies give alternate ways of completing missions and can help you 
 out of a jam. Your friends add slightly more depth to the game, especially the one that saves your 
 hind when you get downed in a fight (the effect is quite realistic and deserves praise) . You can 
 even save injured buddies by giving them meds, but that's where the profundity ends. There are 
 but three mission types: Kill, Destroy and Deliver, with the last two always involving a healthy 
 dose of the first. 
  
  As mentioned above there are "assassination" missions in cities, though in theory only. You can 
 lob a grenade next to your mark; if he doesn't get injured, nobody gets their panties up in a bunch. 
 Whack your target in the back of the head, on the other hand, even with a silenced weapon and no 
 witnesses, and you get a shootout with the local militias. Huh? 
  
  AI is hit and miss. It seems Ubisoft tried to add a stealth element to all the foliage and night 
 cycles. And though stalking around crouched in grass gives you cover for the most part, enemies 
 are too quick to realize where shots are coming from. Furthermore, opponents sometimes behave like 
 total dolts during shootouts, even in daytime. Players will often spot targets crouched, ready 
 to attack, biding their time for an opportune shot even mumbling to themselves naught but five 
 feet away. Eh? 
  
  The common currency is diamonds. One can find them in briefcases spread out in the wilderness with 
 the help of a tracking device, but missions are what mainly get you the sparkle. The rocks are 
 used to buy a rather impressive arsenal and upgrades. Guns picked up from downed opponents will 
 often jam and prove unreliable. Purchased weapons are more dependable and look nicer. 
  
  
  OK, SO THE ACTION IS FUN
  
  You can drive or take a bus (I guess the fare is paid in diamonds?) 
 to your missions. In the process you come across various blood-soaked intermissions. The region 
 is peppered with checkpoints (shooting gallery #1) , camps (shooting gallery #2) , facilities like 
 train depots and meat factories (shooting gallery #3) and bad guys in various vehicles (mobile 
 shooting gallery #4) . I might be forgetting some but you get the gist: the savannah is teeming 
 with "bad people". After repeating the same assignments for 10 hours, and having to pass the aforementioned 
 "shooting galleries" every in-game mile or so, players begin exhibiting symptoms similar to their 
 malaria-stricken character. To say gameplay is shallow is an understatement. 
  
  At least the action is good. Ubisoft's Dunia engine produces crisp fighting. Shooting is smooth 
 and precise, save for the occasional missed shot due to blocky collision around trees and shanties. 
 Objects are not badly designed; enemies simply take good cover, which requires precise aiming to 
 pick them off. Opponents will react differently depending on where you hit them, accentuating the 
 fine animation. Downed targets sometimes manage to squirm out a few shots from the ground if they 
 are not properly dealt with. Wounded enemies will even help their mates, adding another dimension 
 to sniping. Most of the fighting will be done from long range using sniper rifles, but some parts 
 require close combat. In all, loads of fun, but because of the repetition it's only fun in short 
 bursts. 
  
  The game clearly focuses on how you approach your targets, not what you do to them (the latter 
 is mundanely obvious) . A few cosmetic missions involve getting information out of characters, though 
 getting to said characters unfortunately always leaves heaps of rotting carcasses in your wake. 
 Forgive my griping, but when a game plasters the taxi part in every trailer, one gets the impression 
 production value will be more elaborate, at least in-between all the fighting. 
  
  Like in the first Far Cry, vehicles play an important role. For a developing country, it seems 
 the locals don't care much about their rides -- they are freely lying around in the most convenient 
 of places. Not that there's anything wrong with that. The maps are rather large and require vehicles 
 to traverse. Boats, Jeeps, dune buggies, luxury SUV's, even hang gliders are there for the picking. 
 Driving around is one of the highlights of the game. Controls take some getting used to but are 
 particularly realistic, especially when bringing the map over the steering while driving -- a neat 
 feature that adds a certain "laissez-faire" feel to the whole African experience. 
  
  
  NO AFRICAN SETTING IS COMPLETE WITHOUT EARTH AND FIRE
  
  Speaking of graphics, Far Cry 2 boasts 
 some of the prettiest open terrain seen in a while. Although jungle areas are scarcer than in the 
 previous game, the savannah and desserts are exquisite, as well as the canyons and lakes. Ubisoft 
 also did a phenomenal job with vegetation. Everything moves in the wind, even tree barks. Smaller 
 plants can be cut down with gunfire. Remember the scene in Predator when Arnold and his gang unloaded 
 into the jungle after Jessie Ventura got zapped, and how the foliage was razed in the process? 
 You can do it here too. 
  
  Even more impressive are the fires, which quite frankly produce the most lifelike effects seen 
 in any game to date. Together with wind it can be used to draw out enemies or corner them. Flames 
 spread from grass to trees so realistically it's almost eerie. 
  
  Night and day cycles aren't just esthetic; your visibility and the response time of enemies are 
 affected by it. Weather changes, like windstorms, completely alter the landscape. Graphics are 
 truly the immersive part of Far Cry 2. 
  
  Ubisoft cleverly plays with the First Person perspective by integrating gameplay with graphics. 
 When NPC characters frisk you, the game actually shows you being frisked in first perspective. 
 Switching from the steering wheel to a jeep's mounted gun gives players a glimpse of the character's 
 body as he slides into position. Furthermore, your character has malaria and needs to take pills 
 every so often. Again, graphics creep into gameplay to add more realism, especially when you get 
 dizzy spells before a crucial moment like taking a covert shot or while driving. Knocking on doors, 
 accepting mission files, taking your medicine, looking at your map or watch, all of it enriches 
 engagement, which is a plus. 
  
  Sound has a distinct African feel. Ambient drum scores as well as a few other movie-like tunes 
 kick in when fighting. On a down side, "action" music is initiated when your character shoots, 
 even by accident. Tunes could have also used more African vocals similar to the game's astounding 
 intro song. Furthermore, a few actors sound like they were taken off the street and forced to read 
 lines at gunpoint, and NPC's exchange lines too quickly during fights. I know they are supposed 
 to create a sense of exhilaration, but the effect is rather comical.
  
  As you would expect from a Montreal product, various languages and accents are present, including 
 Afrikaner. Enemies are often heard communicating, adding to the realism and giving the player a 
 tactical advantage. Extra driving effects like clunking sounds, rocks hitting the frame and breaks 
 squealing also spruce things up. Africa is literally alive with sound, from exotic birds to the 
 brush flowing in the wind. Oh ya, and you can hear monkeys doing their "thing" too. Nothing beats 
 monkeys, except hearing someone talking about monkeys in a foreign accent, which sadly there's 
 none of in the game. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  As was the case with Ubisoft Montreal's Assassin's Creed, you wish Far Cry 2 had offered more. 
 Action is repetitive, especially when the game presents the title in such a profound way in the 
 first few minutes of gameplay. Had it added more natives and means to interact with them, Ubisoft 
 might have had a game of the year candidate. Instead we get a pretty, above-average shooter with 
 a virtually non-existent plot. As shooters go, this one is a nice addition for fans of plug-and-play 
 titles. Missions are bountiful and action takes seconds to get into. But for those wanting substance, 
 the game will somewhat disappoint. In solo Far Cry 2 plays a bit like in multiplayer: you get a 
 quick action fix with little depth content-wise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:24 pm PT
Review:  i think that ubisoft make farcry game only for test a power ful engine and make a professional 
 graphic game and don't notice to story of farcry and missions that you should to do. in this version 
 farcry is openworld and you can trip in aferica but it has no much fun ... when you want to do 
 a mission you must driv until north and then drive until a far place and other .... why farcry 
 should this ? when this game has the best progress in this version ... so ubisoft must tried to 
 make a user favorite game. not a booring game.
  farcry is very very long and you can to finish it by killing you'r time. if you don't need to you'r 
 rich time.
  
  i think that ubisoft make farcry game only for test a power ful engine and make a professional 
 graphic game and don't notice to story of farcry and missions that you should to do. in this version 
 farcry is openworld and you can trip in aferica but it has no much fun ... when you want to do 
 a mission you must driv until north and then drive until a far place and other .... why farcry 
 should this ? when this game has the best progress in this version ... so ubisoft must tried to 
 make a user favorite game. not a booring game.
  farcry is very very long and you can to finish it by killing you'r time. if you don't need to you'r 
 rich time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoggi94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with the player in role of one of many characters who are all mercenaries ( Soldiers 
 of Hire) . The story of the game is really long and I mean it, its a little too long ( At least 
 40 hours)
  
  Story - You get saved by the same guy that you are here to kill in the first place, which makes 
 the story really confusing and pointless. The story is so long that some gamers may stop playing 
 the game for that but for a true gamer its a First Person Heaven. 
  So I give it a 7.5 outta 10
  
  Graphics - Just like Crysis the graphic are probably the best 
 ever.
  Defiantly a 10 outta 10
  
  Sound - Very high in detail, You can really feel as if you were in that world, but there may be 
 requirement for better vehicle starting or stopping sounds.
  I give it a 9.5 outta 10
  
  Physics - May need some work on the animals, vehicles and the tangos shot by a bullet.
  Totally 
 an 8 outta 10
  
  A. I. - Great but sometimes does no response at all!
  Deserves a 9 outta 10
  
  World - Big, Giant or should I say Enormous.
  Guaranteed a 10 outta 
 10
  
  Game play - This game is no lesser than a drug.
  Again a 9.5 outta 10
  
  Multiplayer - Not as good as I expected.
  Disappointing a 7 outta 10
  
  Value - Pays back...
 
  As expected a 9 outta 10
  
  Finally Overall - A 8.5 outta 10
  
  By - Jagmeet Brar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterbones
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  After first seeing that this game was coming out, and doing research on it, Far Cry 2 seemed like 
 an amazing game that would've definitely gotten a 10 out of 10 on Gamespot. The game seemed so 
 fun and realistic, from the healing animations to the wildfires and gun jamming. Sadly enough, 
 this was not entirely to be true.
  
  Far Cry 2's gameplay can get very monotonous at times. For pretty much every mission you get, you 
 are required to drive for 5 to 10 minutes to reach your destination, and they all have very similar 
 goals (kill this person, blow up this item, etc.) . Also, the things that are meant to realistic 
 can be more annoying than realistic at times, although they are very neat ideas. The fire propagation 
 is a very good idea, but there are some quirks to it. The gunplay is fun for the most part, but 
 the enemies seem to be able to take way too much damage. One cool part of the gameplay is the ability 
 to go to a safehouse and change the time of day. This allows you to raid a camp much easier, along 
 many other benefits.
  
  The game's graphics are not as good as Crysis's, but they are pretty good. They also seem to be 
 more of a hog on system resources than Crysis's, since the Warhead update. Far Cry 2 has very nice 
 lighting effects, and the day/night cycle is very cool to have in the game.
  
  The sound in the game is a lot like the older GTA games, in that, the voices sound very generic 
 and poorly acted out. The voice acting is very strangely done. The actors seem like they're trying 
 to rush through their lines. On the other hand, the guns sound pretty realistic, and the ambient 
 nature sounds are cool. Also, the vehicle sounds are very realistic. It sounds like you are really 
 driving a car over a bridge or on gravel.
  
  Far Cry 2 is a very different game. It can be pretty fun at times, but for the most part, it is 
 just monotonous. It is a great idea, but it was also poorly made. I was disappointed after seeing 
 how many annoying little things there are in this game. I wouldn't recommend spending $50 on this 
 game. If you absolutely must try it, wait for the price to drop, or just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grokh
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  im not the diehard hardcore fps fan however i do enjoy a good fps, CoD 4 and 5 are perfect examples 
 of nowadays technology good fps, even tho missions are short and id say CoD 5 lacks the part where 
 we should be able to play as nazis and as allies vs the nazis, and as japanese.
  
  which brings me to far cry, i started playing and honestly i get bored, driving around hitting 
 posts driving around hitting posts not to mention it gave me motion sickness ,which is weird i 
 never gotten that.
  plus the whole Rpg+ fps doesnt do the trick for me i mean Far cry has a certain innovative gameplay 
 but it lacks some action in it, maybe because its not an open war game, so it gets boring after 
 awhile because the story takes awhile to kick in since half the time ur driving around and well 
 to me the game bacame more of a fight of willpower to continue playing coz it was just boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  Far Cry, by its very mentioning, brings memories of islands, mutants, and forgettable Jack Carver. 
 Far Cry 2 has none of these. It instead has 9 mercenaries, Africa, and a war between two factions 
 that does not even seem to exist. The plot is you are a merc sent to Africa to stop an arms dealer 
 who arms both sides of a conflict over an unnamed country. Without spoiling too much, your priorities 
 shift to more... medical matters. After a tutorial that takes anywhere from 15 to 30 minutes you 
 do your first mission. The missions are fun but basically filters down to simple things: Kill X, 
 take Y, secure Z. To spice things up you are working under the radar for the side you pick, so 
 neither side know of your allegiances, and to further add some kick to it, you have a buddy (someone 
 that can provide you with equipment, information, and assistance) who will usually give you another 
 directive that goes against whomever you sided with, but overall helps the country. Outside of 
 the missions, this game feels like a less populated GTA FPS. You move from spot to spot, take on 
 missions, which can come from anyone, almost anywhere. The world is huge, beautiful to look at, 
 and not hardware intensive. The story line is quickly forgettable and except for the initial meeting 
 with the arms dealer, there seems to be little plot progression, and no war. I understand about 
 the cease fire zones, but side A should drive around assaulting side B, securing areas, just to 
 mix things up.
  
  Replayability: A
  Gameplay: B
  Controls: A- (Needed lean buttons)
  Graphics: A
  Sound: A
  Multiplayer: C (After Call of Duty 4, I find many FPS multiplayers leaving 
 much to be desired)
  Overall: B (The game is worth your money, but rent before buying just incase) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinto20
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  the story goes something like this, you're a mercenary that just got to africa and since the very 
 beginning you'll be shooting trying to scape from the firefight, from there you're mission is to 
 kill the "jackal" but to get to him you'll need to do like a gazillion missions that are the same 
 one after another, the good gameplay, sound and graphics really help this game cuz it usually gets 
 boring once you realize you're doing the same thing over and over again until you've finished the 
 game, even though the poor story, the firefights are real fun and the flamethrowers are a great 
 addition, old weapons usually get stuck and really look "old" and how you're limited in ammo makes 
 the firefights intense
  Rating:
  Gameplay 9
  story 6 this is the weakest link in the chain
  sound 8 sounds like you're shooting a real ak47
 
  graphics 9
  and as always fps with WASD and mouse rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcySandman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is definitely a great game. I'm easily amused when it comes to things like plot so that's 
 more of your opinion. You'll see me saying phrases like the "whiners".
  
  Game play: Far Cry 2 is a mix of run-and-gun and a tactical shooter. I say tactical shooter because 
 your weapons can degrade, playing on Infamous you'll be dead before you can get out of your car, 
 and the enemies will hunt you down. Now whiners, they will say it's full of flaws and isn't worth 
 playing. I agree and disagree. There shouldn't be so many guard posts every nook and cranny you 
 go. But glitches, dumb enemies, and other things are nowhere to be found. I've owned the game since 
 it came out. Never found a single glitch in normal game play (In which I don't go looking for glitches.)
 
  
  Story: I'm easily amused by stories, and it was a good story. It wasn't eye-splitting, but it was 
 interesting.
  
  Multiplayer: It's pretty addicting, and it's solid. The main confusion you'll find with people 
 is the lobby system. It's not all that bad IMO, but it was confusing at first. I proceeded to not 
 whine about it and go to "custom search" which opened up a server listing. Wow. You'll find in 
 player matches custom map dedicated servers. The map making systems fun to play with.
  
  9.5 Nothing else to say about it. Solid Story, Solid game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Note: this review is from the perspective of someone who has not played the original Farcry game.
 
  
  Farcry 2 is an ambitious rpg/fps game that manages to pull it off quite well. The story is not 
 exactly new but is by no means weak with the interesting backdrop of a bloody civil war in an un-named 
 African country (not South Africa) . There is an arms dealer called the 'Jackal' and your overall 
 mission is to terminate him. Sounds pretty good to me.
  
  Gameplay in FC2 is fun, brutal and realistic. It is not all shooting though (and this is a point 
 to be careful of) , you will be driving around A LOT so if you aren't prepared to go from A to B 
 by car or boat or hand glider then this probably won't be the game for you. But I like this free-roaming 
 aspect. Gunplay is fun with lots of weapons from sniper rifles and shotguns to flamethrowers and 
 improvised explosive devices (oh yeah) . Guns jam, but not if you buy them from an arms dealer and 
 the general feel of gunplay is very good.
  
  The graphics in this game are lovely. From pleasant African sunrises to frozen, black nights, it 
 looks great. You have 50km squared of land and water to roam through, with no specific boundries. 
 Even on slightly less good settings, FC2 still looks nice.
  
  Multiplayer is your standard usual lot so don't expect any surprises but it is still quite solid 
 and fun. The map editor is a great edition ans there is LOADS of options to choose from and if 
 you can't be arsed to make your own like me, then other people have made some simply jaw-dropping 
 custom maps. 
  
  Overall, FC 2 is a very fun and engaging shooter that gets you into the feel of a dirty, underhanded 
 African mercenary civil war- niiiiiiice. Well worth the buy on any platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothing1181
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game not only grabs your face as soon as you press enter, it holds on by your throat the whole 
 way through!
  
  The graphics are the first thing you`ll notice. I have a duo core processor with 4GB DDR2 RAM. 
 a single Nvidia 9800GTX+ card and I'm running this game on max settings!
  
  The story starts out as a POV movie from inside a jeep as you arrive from the airfield. On the 
 way your character gets violently ill and you wake up in a dark room in the middle of a war bent 
 village speaking with a man you were sent to kill. Due to your illness though, he gets away. 
 
  
  From this point its run and gun, duck and cover for dear life. The difficulty is there as you will 
 have look around, aim carefully, crouch, and just plain run! The first part is a series of meet 
 and greet sessions built up as a tutorial. You`ll spend a lot of time driving as every reviewer 
 will say, but it definitely feels necessary to sink you into the games environment and makes great 
 use of the graphics engine.
  
  There's a ton of weapons to upgrade, vehicles to drive, and collectibles to find. the Game is roughly 
 25 hours to complete and will be entertaining the whole way through. After that, there is a map 
 editor and multiplayer itself with a variety of modes. 
  
  I wont give it all away but i will say that the story is submersible, the game play is solid for 
 a FPS of today's standards, and the graphics are right on with Crysis. 
  
  Enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:02 am PT
Review:  aaaahhh far cry... once a best fps game in pc gaming...
  
  okay first start it seems so real, with nonstop first person camera, the views seem wonderful, 
 the ai interaction. I seems enjoyed playing this game, until i found that all the people in far 
 cry 2 world will shoot me when they see me... and that's the reason why i say this game boring...
 
  
  It takes time to travel from the mission briefer to the mission location because of these patrolling 
 soldier who always shoot and hunt me down... arghh... that's so annoying...
  
  Later i found that there's no binocular to see where's the enemies location. Many enemies hiding 
 within the building. so when i rush down to their base, i can only kill the enemy that i saw before, 
 then the hiding enemy hunt me down... beside that i find some bugs
  
  at last i finish this game with some boring playtime... but the last disappointment is... i don't 
 even know the story... it's too complicated for me... cause i don't really like politics... weeew 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  When games like Crysis and Call of Duty 4 opened up a golden age for First Person Shooters, with 
 their engrossing gameplay only being topped by their equally amazing storyline, it's disappointing, 
 to say the least, to see Far Cry 2, follow-up to one of my favorite FPS games, move away from such 
 excellent games, in attempt to be 'original'.
  
  I actually thought it'd be excellent, the first five minutes of playtime. Why, because usually 
 when a game starts with a driving sequence, your player as a passanger, the rule lately is that 
 midway-through there'd be an explosion that'd knock out your car and leave you in the middle of 
 hostile territory with a gun in hand and a point in your map to indicate your destination. Far 
 Cry 2 does no such thing, and your cab driver will actually deliver you to your destination with 
 little to no trouble. And there I was, left with an impressed smile at my face, for such a little 
 detail.
  
  Following up, you meet 'Jackal' (how original) , arms dealer that sells weapons to both sides of 
 a civil war in war-torn [insert generic African country name here] . But there's a catch. You've 
 contracted Malaria... So balancing your time between running errands between each faction, in attempt 
 to get further up their hierarchy, and closer to the Jackal, you'll have to run errands to 'the 
 Underground', humanitarian organization that just wants to see civilians safe.
  
  That would be the base to a great plot, if you actually got to meet with any of the characters 
 you interact with more than a handful of times. There's no 'friendly dictator' you meet (in a 'The 
 Last King of Scotland'-esque environment) , your 'buddies' will only call you with further objectives 
 on every standard mission you get (those being usually the opposite way to your objective) . Character 
 talks are limited to 'how are you doing, do that for me now...'. You don't side with a faction 
 and try, desperately, get a group of civilians, or the family of a friend, off the country. The 
 detatched plot limits every assignment to give him that/kill him/destroy that/reach that point.
 
  
  The execution of such missions is the actual highlight of the game. The sandbox aspect of Far Cry 
 2 amounts for several different ways to accomplish each mission, from dumb 'head there and shoot 
 them' (not advisable, as most guns you'll carry will be recovered from the ground - and proned 
 to jamming) , to wait 'till nightfall and sneak into the ground, all the way to blow a fuel canister 
 up and watch the fire spread. Far Cry, more than any other game, awards players that plan their 
 actions, that calculate approach zones and locate enemy positions prior to the actual attack. That 
 makes each mission, despite often being repetitive, fun to play through.
  
  When you look through a wider scope, though, each mission is 20% planning, 10% acting, and 70% 
 driving. Since the game is sandbox, and in real time, you have to drive to your objectives, through 
 incredibly confusing paths and tracks, being stopped a handful of times each mission by enemies 
 in jeeps that spawn out of nowhere, immediately recognizing you as the enemy and stopping at nothing 
 to see you killed. Wow, you must say, that means action non-stop... Not really... Apart from roadside 
 posts (that no matter if you killed every one within will always be crawling with enemies hating 
 your guts) , they'll always be in pairs, and mean no challenge apart from getting out from your 
 vehicle and shooting at them from behind the cover of your car. The first two times you do it, 
 it's great. The fifth time, it's strange. The tenth time, it's downright irritating, since you 
 realize you probably didn't even get to your first objective. There are no clear pathways. Attempting 
 to cut across open fields leads you to (surprise) enemy Jeeps on those open fields. And once you 
 complete the mission, you need to get back to the city to get a new one, which means more fighting 
 through endless waves of Jeeps and roadside posts. And with such a shallow plot, you often end 
 up asking yourself: why bother?
  
  Now, it's undeniable that the graphics in Far Cry are stunning. Yet, with current technology, it 
 had to be. It's definately a positive aspect, but not revolutionary. It's Crysis-like, but still 
 not as good as it.
  
  Adding it all up, Far Cry 2 has engrossing enough gameplay to keep you playing through each mission. 
 Unfortunately, each assignment is followed by countless moments of boring driving, that the game 
 developers attempted to make more 'fun' by inserting enemy Jeeps along the path. The end result, 
 is moments of fantastic gun-fights and strategic assault, separated by frustrating 'innovation'. 
 Anyone familiar with the first 'Mercenaries' game will recognize the gun-for-hire feel, with jobs 
 for each faction in attempt to increase your reputation and earn info on your target. Well, that's 
 exactly what the first Mercenaries was like... Far Cry 2, is, summing up, a more realistic, first 
 person version of Mercenaries.
  
  Apart from the plot, it's hard to point out where this game fails. It has the engrossing combat 
 of FPS games but its sandbox characteristics are not fully embraced by the genre. The strange, 
 clunky driving, among confusing roads, fails to give any notion of speed, or thrill on running 
 through enemy outposts (they'll always catch you) . It's hollow, broken... Far Cry 2 fails because 
 it is a follow up to a fantastic game, and is easily overshadowed by several other titles. It follows 
 their engines, but doesn't offer nearly as much to even compete with them. Ten years from now, 
 many will remember moments from Crysis, or the A-bomb blowing up in Call of Duty 4. Will any remember 
 any moment from Far Cry 2?
  
  I sincerely doubt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_rider95
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Guys I don't know what to say about this, I mean Far Cry was a success BUT I didn't like it .Now 
 appears this game Far Cry 2 I didn't want to buy it but all the positive words of my friends made 
 me to decide that I should at it to my collection. I confess I thought this game is '''''''''' 
 up but it is not. It's amazing , superb, realistic, with a very big world to discover. 
  I played it a lot, almost 24 hours of 24 hours and I still had some bad thoughts, despite the fact 
 that I was more travelling then firring , the good graphics always was making me happy.
  About the making friends stuff and helping them , well............... IT'S AMAZING, EXCITING. It lets 
 you chose if to kill them or not, if you help them or let them die and when you are in trouble 
 and have a good mate, boy you are so lucky.
  I'll rate this one with a nine, because it made 2008, for me, a bit funnier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devil_delta
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  kickass graphics, kickass storyline, average controls
  Farcry 2 is basicaly gta but in africa and with people trying to kill you at every turn. Also, 
 i imagine that this is one of the first games that you get to chose what charactor you play as, 
 from a group of charactors. also, should you wish that you had chosen another charactor, you can 
 make friends with the other candidates and see how they were gonna be. Also, should you like achieving 
 achievments, like in alot of the steam games, you can do it on this.
  I love the fact that weapons can age and break, it is certianly a new feature of the shoot-em-up 
 game genre. This feature also applys to veichles should you be wondering.
  As i have a fear of needles, the healing section of the game is quite scear for me. Incase you 
 dont know what this apply to, when you lose some health, you have to press 'H' and the charactor 
 injects himself with a mystery solution from a needle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRob01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Overall an enjoyable FPS with spectacular graphics. Lighting effects, explosions, etc all awesome. 
 Front channel sound seemed a little weak during some dialogue - less noticebale on headset over 
 7.1 speakers. Gameplay pretty standard with other FPS games with some minor wrinkles. Plenty of 
 weapon choices and combinations. Biggest problem with this one is the monotony of the storyline. 
 I found it to be a chore to finish this game after the 50th time of driving a war buggy for 5-10 
 minutes to mow down the same opponents in the same shacks. All this game really needed was a more 
 varied storyline to be one of the greats. The attempt to create a stage for an expose on African 
 militarism was admirable, but wasn't exciting enough for a 20-hr game. Only glitch I encountered 
 was trying to shoot too closely around trees - even with a clear shot sometimes the game thought 
 I was mowing the tree down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chingo360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to get this game after reading about it and looking up some screenshots though 
 I had worries that my system might not run it. Even though my system is fairly good this thought 
 did not come unfounded as many people on forums had said they had been having problems with it. 
 All's fine here I can run it on very high with all the flashy fire and forest motions and what-not, 
 its great! (Core 2 Duo P8400 @ 2.26 GHz, 4 Gigs of RAM, nVidia 9600 GT)
  
  Missions are diverse and fun though I do have some issues with some gameplay designs. Firstly, 
 the malaria trick is somewhat overused and gets fairly annoying after a while, having to go find 
 medicine ever 40 minutes get's boring and redundant though I don't want to complain further, it 
 doesn't take away from the gameplay all that much. Secondly, even though this game builds on highly 
 realistic content, firefights seem somewhat... b. s. I can pour a whole round of ammo into a soldier 
 and they might not die which I don't fully understand. Finally, I understand that I'm a mercenary 
 but why are there enemies EVERYWHERE. We all want a good shooter but encountering three guys driving 
 around in a jeep in the middle of the jungle is obnoxious, especially when I ran there because 
 of a lack of ammo.
  
  Graphics and Sound are amazing! It is very satisfying throwing a molotov into a wooded area, hearing 
 the glass break, seeing the flash, and then watching the fire spread or shooting a propane tank 
 or ammo box, hearing the escaping gas sizzle or the ammo shoot out, and then watching the ensuing 
 fireworks... especially if there are enemies near!
  
  Overall, this game will give any gamer a run for their money, best shooter I've played since UT2004.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodgrinn
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game but you just can, t ignore a game that falls flat.
  I'll start with some quick pros.
  
  :Enviroment is pretty (not quite up to par with crysis)
 
  :The way the fires spread and consume could really add to an intense battle.
  :Fairly decent selection of weapons
  
  
  And now with some cons.
  
  :Terrible driving 
 action, clumbsy, uninteresting, overall boaring.
  :weapons lack punch, I hate it when weapons feel like glorified bee bee guns
  unloading half 
 a clip into a guy in a t-shirt just doesen't feel right.
  Too many FPS games are like that, very dissapointing.
  :Can't carry much of anything
  :AI is 
 very predictable and if your a sneak around recon kind of guy, everyone knows exactly where you 
 are after the first kill.
  
  
  WRAP UP: 
  With all due respect to the game I haven't spent a whole lot of time playing
  mabey 3hours, but 
 I just coulden't bear it any longer.
  I had high hopes for this game but I guess it will fall into the buyers remorse pile. Sorry UBI 
 SOFT Montreal. 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_Gamer_94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  What's Far Cry 2?
  
  Far Cry 2 is a first-person shooter video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. 
 It was released on October 21, 2008 in North America and on October 23, 2008 in Europe and Australia. 
 Crytek, developers of the original game, were not involved in the development of Far Cry 2.
  Ubisoft has marketed Far Cry 2 as the true sequel to Far Cry, though the sequel has very few recognizable 
 similarities to the original game. Instead, it features completely new characters and setting, 
 as well as a new style of gameplay that allows the player greater freedom to explore highly realistic 
 African landscapes. The game takes place in a fictional modern-day Central African nation in a 
 state of anarchy and civil war. The player takes control of a mercenary on a lengthy journey to 
 locate and assassinate "The Jackal," a notorious arms dealer.
  
  Settings
  
  Far Cry 2 abandons the science fiction aspects of its predecessor in favor of a more realistic 
 setting. The game takes place in late 2008 in a small, fictional, failed Central African state, 
 never named, currently embroiled in a civil war. The government has recently collapsed, leaving 
 two factions vying for control. At war are the United Front for Liberation and Labour (UFLL, led 
 by Addi Mbantuwe, a former opposition leader) and the Alliance for Popular Resistance (APR, led 
 by Oliver Tambossa, Chief of Staff for the former government) . Both factions have claimed to have 
 the people's interests at heart, but both have shown ruthlessness, warmongering, greed, and a general 
 disregard for the well-being of the people. Both sides have hired many foreign mercenaries to bolster 
 their strength over the course of the conflict. The recent exhaustion of the nation's diamond mines 
 has thrown the nation into further turmoil, leaving many foreign mercenaries without payment and 
 no way out.
  The goal of the player's character is to find and assassinate the Jackal, an arms-dealer who has 
 been selling weapons to both sides of the conflict. The player must accomplish this goal by whatever 
 means necessary, even if he has to reach the level of immorality employed by the warring factions 
 and the Jackal himself.
  The Dunia Engine allows incredibly complex sequences and runevents. The game also features a real 
 time day and night cycle, as well as tree and vegetation regeneration. Also included is fire propagation; 
 the ability of fire to spread and eventually cause large brush fires. The behavior of fire is dependent 
 on factors such as wind speed, wind direction, whether or not it is raining and vegetation type.
 
  
  50km2 = Hell
  
  When the game was announced, the producers also announced that the game will be big, around 50km2. 
 Wow! That cool, not!!! It isn't because it's too long, repetitive and frustrating. Let me tell 
 you how come. Let's say that a fat guy who sells weapons wants you to save his daughter because 
 she was kidnapped by a bandit. He promises you weapons and money if you bring his daughter. So, 
 you accept the mission because you're an idiot and leave. You take car, or steal it if you're a 
 naughty boy and leave the area. The view is so wonderful. It's cool and realistic.... but guess 
 what? You spend more than an hour travelling with you car which has almost empty fuel. You find 
 the place, kill the bustard (the bandit) , save his daughter and you bring her back to him. You've 
 finished the mission! Huraay! But you didn't. He gives you another mission.... to save his cow, 
 I mean elephant (there are no cows in Africa or are there?) which got stuck in a tree. How original 
 and pathetic is that. You save the elephant, get the reward and finally the fat guy leaves you 
 in peace. What happens next? Well, another fool gives you another mission to go to somewhere near 
 a lake which is like 47.2 Km long. What? Not again. Do you see now what I mean by long, repetitive 
 and frustrating? Cool then.
  
  Rambo meets Terminator
  
  I am not impressed about the AI in this game. The AI used in this game is really pathetic. If you 
 play on easy, you'll see that you can kill an army with just a pistol and a knife. Wow! Who the 
 heck are you, Terminator? Also, there are no tactics and strategies in this game. You can beat 
 the enemies just by going on front of them with a knife. Don't worry, cause they are bad at aiming. 
 They just miss you at every 2 shots which gives you the opportunity to kill them. On the hard mode 
 it's the same thing, only that the damage of the shots has increased. Also, after killing a lot 
 soldiers you'll see that many respawn..... quickly, on the same place you killed them. It's like 
 fighting an infinite army, but this time you can kill them easily. I bet my granny can kill them 
 with her eyes closed and no knowledge about video games.
  
  Any sounds?
  
  I don't have anything to say or complain about the sounds in Far Cry 2. They are just normal, exactly 
 what a FPS game should have.
  
  If not Singleplayer, then Multiplayer
  
  If you think that you wasted your money on this game only because Far Cry (the original duh) was 
 awesome, original and very acclaimed therefore this one should be the same, then you didn't waste 
 them. You might not like the Singleplayer for it's bad AI, no tactics, long length and frustrating 
 missions, but you'll love the Multiplayer. The action in there is just enough to satisfy a lover 
 of FPS games and Online games and the AI is extremely high (obvious because you play with real 
 people) . When the game commences, you'll spend more than 10 hours per day playing it and sometimes 
 you'll be amazed how time flies so quick. 
  
  Editor
  
  Besides the good graphics, you get also a map editor. This is one of the best map editors I ever 
 seen in my life because is User-Friendly and easy to use. Wow! Coolio :D! Using this editor you 
 can create from a simple map to a complex one. I bet that in the multiplayer part, you'll have 
 a lot to download. I won't tell more about it because I don't want to spoil the fun.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Far Cry 2 doesn't even compare with it's predecessor. Far Cry (the original) 
 wasn't that big, but you had total freedom and enemies were much clever because they came from 
 universities as Harvard and Oxford when these guys... well, let's say they didn't even pass the 
 4th grade. Overall, I think this game wasn't made for PC games. It was for console gamers. There're 
 so many aspects that relates to consoles in this game which I can't count them. If you want to 
 buy the game, buy it only for the Multiplayer. 
  One more thing, I expected Far Cry 2 to be a little bit bad (like 5% bad) because it's not even 
 developed by Crytek. Hail Crytek!!!!
  
  ---------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 6
  Storyline: 6
  Multiplayer: 10
  Impression: 6
 
  
  Score: 7.7
  Gamespot Score: 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomZaW
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  When the first Far Cry was released a couple of years ago, it simply blew almost all competion 
 away, and was such a good game that nearly all other fps games felt inferior. Now a couple of years 
 has passed, and after a few dreadfull spinoffs on the consoles, Far Cry 2 has finally hit the retailers. 
 Strangely enough the fact that Ubisoft has called it a sequel, as it has absolutely nothing to 
 do with neither Far Cry 1 or all the mediocore console editions apart from the name. Thats right, 
 no Jack Carver, no tropical islands and no mutagens.
  
  This time around you are in Africa. You are some dude/lady you pick at the start of the game (which 
 doesn't have any impact whatsoever except your arms look) , in some unnamed state or whatever, caught 
 up in a civil war, your supposed to kill an arms dealer called the Jackal... that's it, i really 
 mean it, that is all there is to the story in this game. The story is so simple and boring that 
 it might as well not even be there. You run/drive around the country, doing some boring and repetive 
 missions for the 2 different factions APR and UFLL, none of them particulary very interesting. 
 Its all just go-there-kill-that-guy missions, and are so repetitive and boring that you will even 
 forget all about the Jackal until he strangely enough comes by with the : "Blah blah, can't kill 
 me, blah blah, cancer cancer, blah blah, you got a steelwire in your leg, lay still and i will 
 pull it out for you and patch you up."
  As you clearly can imagine the story doesn't make any sense whatsoever.
  Gameplay is absolutely 
 the most tepid thing i've experienced. All missions are as previously mentioned just go somewhere 
 and kill somebody/destroy some object. At the start of every mission a friend will call you to 
 propose some offer to something in the meanwhile and help him out in exchange for an upgrade for 
 your safehouse. The only problem with it is just that you have to drive. And you will drive, you 
 will drive ALOT, there are a few fast travel spots, but it mostly rakes from corner of the map 
 to other corner of the map or to the middel town. Driving becomes extremely tedious, especially 
 as you learn to stop every 2nd minute to kill 2 morons who drove by and instantly recognized you 
 as the nice guy who has been helping them in a firefight, and decide that it would be fun to blast 
 your car to shreds with their mounted machineguns, as they are completely confident that they can 
 kill you, despite they have a 3 second reaction time and lousy weapons.
  
  Another major problem of Far Cry 2 is the complete lacking sense of completion. No matter how much 
 you advance, how many contracts you complete, you will still just encounter all ordinary dumb thugs, 
 not one of them stronger than the other, unless they are carrying a unusually big gun. The only 
 things that will be unlocked are new guns. Even when you do mission for the APR they will tell 
 you that it is absolutly top secret, and therefore their soldiers will still shoot at you... smart 
 way to explain why there is no faction system whatsoever, but it doesn't really matter as you wont 
 be able to tell the difference anyway.
  
  A. I is another big problem. Now you might have heard something about they are intelligent and will 
 try to flank you and such, and i can only tell you it is all lies. They react roughly 3 seconds 
 after you've appeared. And here is where another good question pops in. How come that they can't 
 hear anything, when you dash straight at someone, slash them a couple of times with a machete and 
 they scream and fall to the ground, on the straight opposite anyone hears you when you sneak through 
 bushes and grass, and quickly stab someone, without them giving a sound. And thats not the only 
 things i've experienced. A soldier lighting a bonfire under a roof, the roof ignites, everyone 
 panics and run away, while the arsonist crouches and back away, and all the way out of the camp, 
 and into the savannah. Or a soldier just randomly throwing a grenade at an extremely dangerous 
 rock.
  
  Far Cry 2 is not an all out bad game, the graphics are beautiful (not crysis but still) , the sandbox/fps 
 genre functions well, and the fire functions good. But it overall is just so soaked up in repetitiveness 
 and dumb A. I glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ke8c9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  This is the best game after crysis, that I played. You play game with a character infected with 
 malaria and your only task is to kill arms dealer ''The Jackal''. At the beginning you are driving 
 whit taxi driver and when you come to the spot malaria attacks you. After a few minutes you see 
 yourself in bed and right in front of you is Jackal. After that you have to get out of house. Then 
 the game begins. For buying you have diamonds. You can collect them bi looking them in nature or 
 doing missions. Game is fascinating because you have a lot of weapons the best of all i flamethrower. 
 With it you can burn your enemies and the best the grass. When you fire the grass the whole place 
 starts to burn and your enemies start to run..... beautiful. You can pick up weapons from enemies 
 but they are useless, so you will have to buy weapon. To unlock new weapons you need to do missions 
 for the arm dealer. Because the game has a big map you will have to travel big distance so for 
 that you have 5 vehicles car,, jeep, better jeep, truck and buggy. For water you have a boat. 
  This game is so fun, so i think you wouldn't stop playing it until you finish it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmkays
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Nice basic concept, but really mucked up by long transit times and respawning militia that robotically 
 repeat identical offensive actions at various combat points (example, guard and ammo stations) . 
 Bus stations that allow the player to teleport from one one map quadrant to another help in reducing 
 time spent driving between mission points, but there is still a great deal of drive time with the 
 same battles presenting themselves over and over again, ad nauseum.
  
  The side missions also get monotonous, with missions typically involving taking out a convoy or 
 individual target -- again, facing very similar battle sequences and opponents in each.
  
  There wasn't enough thought put into the story to keep it engaging -- it really drags and is greatly 
 fragmented, with very one dimensional character depictions. The original FarCry was a far, far 
 superior game.
  
  www. asusindependent. com. A virtual sandbox for Asus motherboard enthusiasts and overclockers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a first person shooter that tells a story of a mercenary, that his job is to kill 
 a guy named the "Jackal", and you can choose character from 8 different people but it DOESN'T change 
 the story or gameplay, and you can't see yourself third person so that's pretty much useless, so............ 
 yeah.
  Well......... I have to say that the story pretty much sucks, but the game is less about the story, 
 it's more about gameplay which I have to say, that it's fantastic!
  You have a lot of cool weapons, the controls are great and the AI is pretty stupid but not bad 
 compared to other games.
  
  Also, this game has multiplayer!
  First, I would like to point out, that there's a MAP EDITOR which is awesome, not a lot to say 
 about the multiplayer but it's very fun and addictive.
  
  Bottom line:
  This game could've been amazing but the story makes it worse,
  if you want a great and better 
 first person shooter, you should get Crysis Warhead which is better.
  
  But Far Cry 2 is a great game, that if you like First Person Shooters, you need to buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This isn't going to be a long and extensive review because there really isn't much to say about 
 it. Plain and simple;
  
  - Music is pretty much nonexistent. Not 1 track stands out in my mind and I don't remember hearing 
 any music at all.
  
  - Guns you don't buy are constantly jamming. Realistic? Not realistic? I don't care, it's annoying, 
 and it's a game. Annoyance and Games don't mix but some people in the dev world don't seem to grasp 
 that concept very well.
  
  - You spend more time driving around than you do actually solving the missions.
  
  - Graphics 
 look good at the beginning but they don't really use it too well as the game progresses. Again, 
 nothing stands out, everything is just barely up to par.
  
  - Everyone is your enemy. I am the guy hired to take out the "Jackal", and yet I can't make any 
 friends at all? Your companions just stand around telling you what to do... the AI is absolutely 
 horrid when they do decide to just "show up"
  
  I'm done... I think that is more than enough information for this review. I hope you are happy 
 with the way things are right now because you are the ones they are catering to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarace67
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  After looking forward for sometime to this games publishing I couldn't be more disappointed in 
 it. If you like driving for long lengths for a few minutes action, then by all means this if for 
 you. If you want action like the original I say not. Uncurable malaria keeps you busy and thats 
 ok, but the rest of the time you drive, drive, study a map, and drive some more. I think overall 
 it sucks and is probably the worst of the newest games released. It is not worth it's cost and 
 that much most gamers will agree, however, it should probably be priced at 19.99 on the walmart 
 sale bin at best! Finding quests and especially main quests isn't the easiest thing in the world 
 either. You pretty much drive around with the map hoping you hit a good mission someplace... very 
 very repetitive. Oh, I forgot to mention the little diamonds that seem to be the only reason at 
 times for playing at all. Would have rated it a 0 if possible, however, the 1.0 is legitimate because 
 the graphics are pretty decent. Crysis rocks and is an ultimate in game play. Invest in that and 
 leave Far Cry 2 alone as if it never existed. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  It seems the hip thing to do these days is hate far cry 2. it was started by those with absurdly 
 high expectations, who were let down and started spreading vicious rumors about the game. Many 
 more gamers jumped on the bandwagon, saying the game is terrible, awful, disastrous, most of them 
 i am guessing did not give the game a fair chance. Sure, Far Cry 2 is far from perfect, but it 
 is nonetheless a good game with a lot of content. 
  I'll start off with the game play. Far Cry 2 is totally open world, no loading screens whatsoever 
 when driving about the map, which is absolutely huge. the size of the map can work against the 
 game sometimes, if you become stranded without a vehicle in the middle of nowhere, you will have 
 to trek for a very long time to get another one. The game has an immense sense of realism and submersion, 
 you never leave the view of the character you play for the duration of the game, and the spectacular 
 animations of your character really help bring you in. It has a very unique health system, where 
 you carry a number of syringes with morphine or something used to heal yourself, and if you health 
 gets too low, you have to perform self surgery, which is done with another spectacular animation. 
 
  The combat in the game is decent, but not amazing, and the lack of prone and peek abilities can 
 make cover hard to come by. this is partly saved by a simple yet highly useful sliding mechanic, 
 which has saved my ass many, many times in intense combat. Usually, you will be fighting your way 
 through checkpoints, rather annoying hostile stations placed all over the main routes of transportation. 
 the spawn times of the enemy are very, very short, so if you clear out a checkpoint and come back 
 in 10 minutes, it will be repopulated. The gunplay is solid, with good sound effects and kick, 
 but the enemies take too much damage before they die, and the enemy AI is often broken, with enemies 
 not seeing you when you stand right beside them. 
  Now onto the pacing issues. At times, the plot is very engrossing, between acts 1 and 2, 2 and 
 three, and the end of three the missions link together and the game is at it's best. but between 
 those times, the games slows to a crawl. you have to do often painful side missions to get medicine 
 for your malaria, and other side missions to unlock weapons. luckily, there is a very useful bus 
 system that helps eliminate travel times, but you will still spend a lot of time in a car driving 
 around. luckily the cars handle very well, and those with guns on the back help for clearing out 
 checkpoints. 
  
  If the singleplayer mode is not for you, Far Cry 2 also has a fun and robust multiplayer, with 
 unlockable weapons, and unlimited maps thanks to the easy to use map editor. The multiplayer is 
 held back by a silly match joining system, where you have to wait for a new match to start before 
 you can join, but usually this is not a problem since there are so many servers, you can usually 
 start playing with in 2 minutes of starting the multiplayer, often less. 
  
  Visually, this game is outstanding. It has a very clean, polished look to it, and it is very well 
 optimized to boot. it also scales very well, so the game looks great on more modest rigs. the lighting 
 and shading effects are spectacular, shadows are very detailed but soft, and textures are clean 
 with just the right amount of specular, so that it looks very realistic. The firephysics are very 
 well done, and can turn a standard firefight into a scramble to escape a blazing fires path. The 
 character models are not as good as the rest of the visuals, but they are still decent. the gun 
 models are amazing, the start out shiny when new, and grow rusty and scratched with age. Far Cry 
 2 gets a 10/10 in the visual and technical department, it looks great, runs great, and has minimal 
 loading screens. 
  
  Overall, i would reccomend this game to any shooter fan, but please, go in with a open mind and 
 don't let all the negative coverage of the game sway your opinions. it is a very fun game that 
 can entertain you for months. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I was bored, so I sat down to write a review about a boring game. That's right, BORING is the first 
 thing that comes across my mind when I hear "Far Cry 2". Don't get me wrong I like repetitive games 
 (that sounded different in my mind :D) but in order for a game to be repetitive AND enjoyable, 
 it MUST be short. Just like Prince of Persia, one of the greatest hits this year IMO. Check out 
 my profile for a review. 
  
  Gameplay:
  So... Far Cry 2 makes you CRY from boredom for 2 main reasons. 1.) The insanely HUGE map Ubisoft 
 created on behalf of this game. This may sound stupid, but wait to hear this. EVERY god damn mission 
 (at least the ones that I've managed to finish) has you running all over this "insanely HUGE" map 
 to retrieve "objects" and/or kill someone just because the boss said so That's alright the first 
 couple of hours but try doing this for 20 hours (MAN, that's a lot of time) . Oh, and I forgot the 
 "side quests". You do exactly the same thing only this time your goal is unlocking new weapons, 
 manuals, and other stuff which I can't seem to remember. This makes a total of 40 hours of running 
 across 50km^2 of African savanna killing people and unlocking stuff. Plus the missions for your 
 malaria medicine which are practically the same as the others only in this case you actually MUST 
 complete them or else you die from the malaria illness. There's an annoying thing here. There are 
 countless outposts throughout the game-world which spawn 3-5 enemies. Simple? Yes, but as you pass 
 through them they re-spawn after a minute or so. So if you decide to pass through the same outpost 
 2 minutes later, BAM another 3-5 enemies (and you're like: HOW THE HECK THEY MANAGED TO REGROUP 
 SO FAST :D) . I must tell you though, what I'm talking about is only a small portion of the game 
 (15% main quest completition or so) so I don't know what happens next and if the game gets any 
 better. But the fact that it makes you stop playing it from boredom is a very negative fact. 2.) 
 Every enemy is the same, just with a different shotgun each time. And they don't seem to die. Not 
 easily at least. Shoot the in the head and they keep going. Shoot them again and they fall on the 
 ground. Shoot them again and THEN they die. This wouldn't be a problem if you had more ammo. I 
 just can't find enough in the game-world to keep me going. At times I have to use my knife until 
 I reach a place where I can obtain ammo. And this pretty much covers the bad aspects of the game. 
 So if you like prolonged sessions of running across monotone environments and killing 2 guys on 
 each 10km^2 then THIS is the game for you.
  
  Graphics:
  Not a big fan of SUPER graphics. If a game is perfect then this part is the least important to 
 me (personal opinion, I know a lot of you don't agree with this) . But for the sake of the review 
 I'll say a few words. That's the best looking game since Crysis so all I can say is that the game 
 is beautifully done, the environments as well as the weapons and vehicles are stunning and wonderful. 
 The GREATEST thing about Far Cry 2 is the explosives. Aaah, the explosives. They are AWESOME. Period. 
 Nothing more to say here.
  
  Story:
  Very boring story since you have one main goal and do lots of stupid stuff to achieve it. Guess 
 what, the story is about killing a man. Seems to me that this is the only thing you do in this 
 game. Come on, some hostage rescue, some train ambushes, a little stealth sequences and this game 
 would shine. But anyway. You have buddies in this game that help you with additional information 
 about your missions and give you a hand if you fall injured in combat. They pull you out and give 
 you a second chance. They are one of the few NPC's which you actually get to talk to and not kill. 
 And this concludes this part of the review. Once again, I haven't completed even  of the game 
 so I don't know much about the story, but from what I've seen I can only guess.
  
  Good Aspect:
  The only thing that still keeps the game on my hard drive is the AMAZING map editor. 
 You can do ANYTHING with it. And it's so simple that even my 7 years old brother can use it. What 
 I like most in the map editor is creating a domino effect with explosives and sit on a high spot 
 and watch the show. Just amazing. So here I gave you a reason to buy this game :P
  
  Multiplayer:
  Haven't played but from what I've heard it is not that good. You can't enter a 
 game that is already begun and that lowers your chances of finding a decent server. But then again 
 what do I know. 
  
  Finally, I highly NOT recommend you to buy this game since there are so many more games out there 
 much better than this one. For example (Fallout 3, Left 4 Dead, Prince of Persia, even James Bond 
 Quantum of Solace is better than this S***) . I'm referring to PC games only. But if you're a console 
 owner there so many more titles out there [GOW 2, MGS 4 (my favorite :D ) , Resistance 2] and many 
 more I can't quite remember right now. So don't waste your time with this. In the end I must say: 
 THIS IS MINE AND ONLY MINE OPINION SO I HIGHLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO READ OTHER REVIEWS TO SEE THE GAME 
 FROM OTHERS PERSPECTIVES. For me this was a total waste of money and time and only if you've got 
 nothing else to do buy this game. So go play Fallout 3 and stop wasting time!!!
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 10
  Story: 5
  Overall: 7 (As you see, graphics saved the game from 
 getting a 5 :D)
  
  PS: I'm sorry for any grammar errors and/or wrong usage of words but my English in not the best 
 there is so be forgiving :) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkendoness
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  I find the constant attacks from the Militia is a pain . The map is confusing . The gun jams are 
 really annoying when they happen at the worst times. Sometimes you can spend an hour looking for 
 another vehicle when yours is destroyed. Ultimately I'm very dissappointed with this game. It gets 
 so boring at times you start falling asleep from the constant travelling from one end to the other 
 constantly. The rescue buddy is cool but you have to find him to activate it. It doesn't seem like 
 there are any levels it just goes on and on shoot drive get health fight militia. That's what this 
 game is mostly about. I think anyone who has played this game would most likely agree with me that 
 it's extremely repetitive and drags on about the same thing over and over. If you enjoy watching 
 paint dry or grass grow this is the game for you if your looking for excitment and challenges DON'T 
 PLAY THIS GAME!!!!! Then again if your looking to catch an afternoon nap then play this game for 
 an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  1st the good, FINALY I can play a "villain", I'm was soooooooooo sick and tired of playing the 
 boring annoying US soldier saving the day or the world so BIG+ (10) there, then the map HUGE and 
 for its size relatively well designed (9.8) , storyline as mentioned non existent  how ever because 
 is not the usual americans save the day rubbish still gets a (8) in my book, weapons and vehicles 
 as great, destructible environment just ok (nothing really amaising) , single player takes forever 
 after 40 hours I'm just about 41% although I start to lose intrest because most of those 40 hours 
 where driving or running, so the HUGE map isea its great but then solve the transportation problem 
 please next time, the bus stations are in the worst places  nearly unusable still I had fun single 
 player even if I might never finish it, but 40+ hours compared to most games is really good, plus 
 if you replay the game there is a lot you can do differently, single player still pretty good, 
 MULTIPLAYER is an embracement for near 2009 ! has like 4 game modes witch are all a variation of 
 deathmatch (BORING) no wonder I never ever see more then 200 people online common people its not 
 2003 anymore you wont attract 50000 players with lame deathmatch, and YAY guess what 16 players 
 max !! what are this people thinking ?!? (no there is NO technical challenge having 100+ player 
 per match or battle!) its soooo sad that most of us still has to play with CS (2003) or battlefield2 
 (2005) to experience quality multiplayer gameplay it so sad that developers lost all creativity.. 
 so farcry2 multiplayer gets only a 2 from me, a great map editor alone wont make up for boring 
 game modes ohh worth mentioning is that the ranking is disastrous it fails to update stats more 
 often then not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fat_Zebra
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was just now playing the game for one hour, and got so bored that I quit and came to write 
 this review. Says enough, doesn't it?
  
  Sure, graphic wise this game is solid, although in my opinion no WOW like when we first entered 
 the islands full of genetically mutated animals, or the aliens that froze up the whole place. The 
 huge african plains are indeed miticulously crafted with great attention to detail, but beyond 
 that, the game is lacking.
  
  Gameplay: the gamespot reviewers write down only two negative points, one being the traveling can 
 'become a bit tedious'. My god, have they played the game through? If you spend 30 hours going 
 through the game, 20 of that will have been driving from A to B to C back to B, going to D, back 
 to A and in the meanwhile shooting some guards who always say 'why we are guarding this checkpoint, 
 the fight is over there'. I can assure you that the fight is not over there, and it is all about 
 respawning checkpoints. Boring indeed. Furthermore, this game is NOT a sandbox game. It is a completely 
 scripted linear story, it is just spread out over a huge map to make it seem longer. How lame. 
 The game had great potential, mixing fps with rpg could have been so great. If these people had 
 just learnt a bit more of the lessons of Oblivion, far cry 2 would have been legendary: 1) a skip 
 trip system could have make the action seem stringed closer together 2) more currency (diamonds 
 are super-scarce and only towards the end of the game if you have no life whatsoever will you be 
 able to purchase all guns) . So more diamonds and more things to buy. 3) more NPCs and more life 
 in everything would have been great. 4) in reference to the sandbox part. in this game everything 
 is 'dead', unless you go there on a mission. for example, in the beginning I went to the fort of 
 APR and shot up the place, only to be disappointed. There was no one there, not even diamonds to 
 be found. Later when I went on a mission there to find everyone respawned.
  
  Im ranting. Sorry about that. But just keep your money and play something else. Heck, play the 
 original far cry, it will be a lot more fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shani_boy101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review btw. 
  This game had so much potential. COULD have been the greatest FPS ever. But theres a few things 
 Ubisoft Montreal can't do. Make good gameplay, have a decent storyline, have likeable character 
 with good voice acting, have realistic AI, price it right, and tell the truth. When the videos 
 were around people thought it would be as revolutionary as Half-Life or Crysis in terms of realism, 
 how wrong they were. The game is a major dissapointment.
  
  This is a broken, buggy, boring game. There are numerous game killing bugs which will KILL this 
 game for you such as the Barge Bug, and the Infamous Sediko Door Bug. 
  
  ok, i'll give you the good things:
  -African setting is great and huge, more on that later.
 
  -Gunfights are enjoyable
  -Fire mechanics are great, except for the fact that the fire doesn't emit light
  -Buddy save 
 system is good
  -Self Healing is great. and when i say self healing i mean pulling metal fragments out of your 
 leg, bullets out of your arm, snapping your arm back into place etc.
  -Jackal part of the storyline is intriguing
  -nice selection of guns, albeit some are under/overpowered 
 while in multiplayer
  -Map Editor is excellent
  -You hold a map in your hand
  -good immersive elements and animations.
  
  Now for the bad...:
  - Guard posts respawn infinetely 
 after you leave for 2 minutes
  -Storyline is awful/ non-existent
  -missions are painfully repetitive, just kill this, pick up that, blow up this, drive that, threaten 
 this, blow up that etc.
  -Assassination missions have the exact same voice over, for every one.
  -You have to drive to 
 the other end of the map where there are no Bus stops nearby for fast-travel every single time 
 you do a mission.
  -Weapons degrade way too quickly
  -Enemies' weapons are always close to breaking, when you kill them while they are holding a brand 
 new weapon, it will instantly degrade into rusted trash, unless if you are holding the weapon in 
 your inventory.
  -Completely a linear game, despite what you may think.
  -Your choices have no effect on the outcome of anything, everything is scripted for it to go one 
 way.
  -No planes.
  -Overuse of invisible walls.
  -hundreds of mountains funnel you into annoying guard posts and where you don't want to go.
  
 -complete lack of wide open spaces, which is what this Africa should've been. Everyone knows there 
 aren't that many mountains in 50 square km's of Africa.
  -Malaria element becomes an annoyance. especially when your doing something important and you faint 
 because you haven't used Malaria pills in a while and you get thrown back to the centre of the 
 map.
  -There is no warning sign of you fainting while in the desert.
  -Buddies are not very likeable, talk too fast
  -Graphics for people aren't that good.
  -bugs 
 with voice acting, white guys talk like black guys and black talk like white guys
  -no allies on the field out of safe zones.
  -EVERYONE WANTS TO KILL YOU.
  -they detect you 
 as the enemy from a mile away even if you're in one of their attack trucks and shoot RPG's at you.
 
  -AI can kill you from a mile away with an AK-47
  -killing someone with a Machete alert all the guards, even though its meant to be a sneak attack
 
  -Guards take too many bullets to die, even when wearing no shirts.
  -African setting is empty and pointless, it could have just been 10 square miles of vastly populated 
 africa instead.
  -There are no civilians.
  -there is no abundance of animals, just a few here and there, they flop over if you shoot them 
 in the *** once, if you bump them with your car etc.
  -sneaking isn't as great as it should be
  - No animal predators.
  -They expect you to pay for 
 DLC only on 360 which you can only use in a designated area and only have a few new guns and a 
 car for a price that i would rather buy a good PS2 game for. and it should have been in this broken 
 empty game anyways.
  AND:
  -Lack of any half-decent support from Ubi montreal, apart from half-***ed videos which tell us 
 we're playing the game wrong.
  
  and here are the Multiplayer BAD POINTS. the reason of the lack of good points is because there 
 is NOTHING GOOD ABOUT MULTIPLAYER. do not buy this game for it.
  - Multiplayer sucks.
  -guns such as the AS50 (50 cal. sniper rifle) and MGL-40 (a 4 shot grenade launcher with a scope, 
 wtf???) are completely overpowered and you WILL LOSE is you don't have one.
  -you always get kicked out after playing one ranked game.
  -If you're too good and kill the host 
 too much he'll most probably kick you of the server, which makes you , lose ALL your points from 
 that game.
  -you randomly lose points.
  -no Assault mode. go sign the petit . --- ion.
  -no server browser. making it impossible to get to the sever we always want (or one owned by our 
 internet company so we don't have to waste our bandwidth for the month) .
  -too long of a delay for respawns.
  -no squads
  -no friends list
  -the way to revive a teamate 
 is hard and complicated, and leaves your character open to die.
  -NO WEAPON PICKUPS.
  - class system is bad and broken.
  
  i know this is a fairly to completely negative review, 
 but its the truth. i rate it a 7.9 because despite all its flaws, the single player is fairly enjoyable, 
 but if Ubi Montreal fixes all the things mentioned here, it'll become legendary and i'd give it 
 a 9.5, because i don't think they'll ever fix the gameplay and storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramses48
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Much was expected from Far Cry 2. The original Far Cry was a step ahead of it's time, featuring 
 incredible graphical capabilities, fun gameplay, and a unique sandbox-like world. Far Cry 2 retains 
 all these great innovations and adds some more, while somehow being a step below the former game.
 
  
  Far Cry 2 has absolutely nothing in common with it's predecessor, except in name and genre only. 
 The setting is a fictional African nation torn apart by civil war, and pretty much anything else 
 that can go wrong. Violence is rife, diseases are epidemic, and centralized government is completely 
 absent. Instead, two factions, the APR and the UFLL, are vying for power and control of the country's 
 limited resources. You, as a mercenary, must hunt and kill the individual responsible for the weapons 
 that are being imported from over the borders. This character, known as the Jackal, is elusive 
 and knows you are after him, so finding him will be especially difficult. Unfortunately, the storyline 
 doesn't really develop beyond this, and there is little more to find out about the people, the 
 government, or the resources.
  You spend the majority of the game completing missions for either factions which advances the story, 
 or side missions which simply improve equipment, stats, etc...
  
  Graphically, Far Cry 2 is simply amazing. The whole game world is over 50 squared kilometres, and 
 every bloody inch of that is beautifully crafted. Shadows, water, textures, and everything other 
 possible graphical detail is done immaculately. You could spend the entire game simply staring 
 at the variety of landscapes, including savannah, rivers, jungle, and desert. 
  
  Far Cry 2's gameplay bears many similarities with Crytek's other achievements such as Crysis and 
 especially the original Far Cry. Very non-linear, you can do whatever you want, whenever. What 
 you do is entirely up to you. The action is very intense, with the weapons having varying stats 
 on power, accuracy, etc... the kind of things that you would expect from a FPS.
  
  However, despite these pros, Far Cry 2 still comes with it's own set of problems. Repetitiveness, 
 especially with gameplay and the tedious nature of travel, the constant problem of respawning enemies, 
 a lackluster storyline with really prevents you from getting involved with the characters and experiencing 
 different kinds of emotions. These cons, however, are outweighed by the pros, and Far Cry 2 is 
 an incredible achievement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I was all set to give this game a near-perfect score, but then I was hit with the dreaded Closed 
 Door bug. Very disappointing, had to go back to a clean save and replay 2-3 hours. Up to then I 
 was really, really addicted to this game. It really has created a world unto itself, something 
 many games aspire to but few deliver. The opportunity to do anything you want, go wherever you 
 want, the thrill of planning a mission your own way and watching it come off perfectly. My favourite 
 moment - sneaking up on an outpost and using the Dart Rifle to take out every single enemy without 
 them ever firing a shot - the AI is superb - watching enemies stumbling around in panic, frantically 
 calling to each other as they try to figure out what the hell's going on, picking up their wounded 
 comrades - that thrill never fades. Doing your own thing - I circumnavigated the entire map just 
 collecting Jackal tapes, using the same vehicle for the entire trip. This is a sandbox game extraordinaire 
 - its lifted the bar tremendously for all such games. A few niggles apart from the Bug - the self-repair 
 health system was suitably graphic, but a real pain in the middle of a firefight. The buddy rescue 
 thing was a great novelty the first time, but from them then I always just hit the quickload key 
 when I knew I was going down. The constant & unremitting roadside attacks became a grind, but you 
 always had the extreme pleasure of knocking the enemies down and then finishing them off with the 
 machete - never got tired of that. Niggles aside, a truly great game. Want more, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zweh5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  i guest this is the best FPS game i've play in 2008. crysis, stalker: CS, Call of Duty, Unreal 
 Tournament 3, and bioshock wont beat this game.
  
  There is no doubt the graphic and sound is great because most of the latest game try to improve 
 both of it. Farcry 2 is better than the first one. We can complete our objective either stalking 
 into their base or Rambo style. But some of it has to be a Rambo style.
  
  The AI is good too, they will try to flank you when they know your position.
  
  the only I 
 hate about it is the AI respawn, the game creator should make it respawn at least 6 hours after 
 we kill all of them or make it like a reinforcement from their nearest base.
  
  I like to burn the grass and trees by using molotov or flamethrower, shooting trees using mounted 
 machine gun and hit the animal (that was accidentally) 
  
  hey how did bush dodge the shoes? Is he a kind of neo or agent smith from matrix LOL
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavomp
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 17, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game had all the potential to be one of the best FPS ever made.
  
  Let's talk about the bad things:
  
  1- Where are the civilians?
  
  2- Are all the african 
 animals in extinction? I saw 7 zhevras, 4 things that look like a bull, 3 chickens and nothing 
 more. Africa should be full of animals. Where's the immersion?
  
  3- Are the enemies brainless idiots? If i start shooting at 3 enemies, 1 of them will hide and 
 the other two will start running in circles.
  
  4- Are the enemies wearing mithril helmets? They can take more than 10 SMG bullets between the 
 eyes and THEY DON'T DIE!
  
  5- WOW, THE MAP IS HUGE!!! And empty. Yeah, the map is very big, but where's the fun looking at 
 some rocks, grass and trees that look always the same?
  
  6- Why the fire don't light everything around it? You can start a fire at midnight and THERE'S 
 NO LIGHT AROUND THE FIRE!
  
  7- The map is huge, and you have to walk/drive from south to north every time you want to make 
 a mission. They should have put a fast travel like in Oblivion.
  
  Now the good things:
  
  1- It is a beautiful game.
  
  2- It had potential.
  
  
  Man, i was almost begging 
 this game to end!! I took 2 months to finish it cuz it is sooooo boring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalshine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Set in Africa,, it is one of its kind. A really cool FPS which will immerse you in it. It shows some 
 awesome graphics, great weather conditions with different landscpaes. You choose from the given 
 list, whom you want to be. You are send to Africa to assasinate Jackal, who is known to bring enimity 
 between the two groups APR and force. Though it takes time to immerse in the story, its ending is 
 truly unique, There mainly two maps ,which cover large land. With a large number of weapons to choose 
 from, great effects, smooth sound effects ,many vechiles it will take you to an unforgettable journey. Gameplay 
 would seem boring in the beginning but ,once you play it for hour or so,, u will find its one of 
 the best. The camphian is very big too, it takes lot of time to complete the whole game. Final thoughts,, u 
 like FPS then go for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumloopy
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I loved Far Cry 1, I should mention. It's in my top 5 games I've ever played. My fondest memories 
 were looking through binoculars and watching the world of the game happen miles away, independent 
 of me. It gave the feeling that there really was a world, alive, happening around me.
  
  There have been tons of reviews of the FC2 on the site, so I'll just touch on what really bothers 
 me:
  
  1. Unless I'm in a no-fire zone, everyone shoots at me, on site, from any distance when they see 
 me. Never mind I'm using a vehicle that I stole from their buddies. They instantly know I'm the 
 enemy, yet I should be mostly indistinguishable from their allies. It's one thing when you're fighting 
 mindless monsters who would naturally attack humans, but humans don't automatically know who the 
 enemy is from a hundred yards, EVERY time.
  
  2. I have no effect on the environment. If I "clear" a checkpoint, go down a road for two minutes 
 (literally) and return, the checkpoint will be re-populated with bad guys. What's the point? I 
 may as well avoid them. The only areas you clear that STAY clear are the safe houses. Safe houses 
 seem pretty worthless too since I can save the game wherever I want -- maybe on the harder levels 
 this matters?
  
  3. I've been playing for probably 30 hours and I have NO feeling of a storyline advancing. Go here, 
 go there, go here, kill this person. It's tedium.
  
  4. I can go wherever I want, but who cares? Why would I want to? Jungles, roads, desert, *yawn* 
 Very little is distinct here from the environments, to character models, to vehicles. It may as 
 well be 1/10 the size because all the enviroment does is make the game boring because I have to 
 travel in it to get to the next boring assignment.
  
  
  The GOOD:
  
  Combat is decent, voice-overs are excellent, graphics are very good, variety of guns is interesting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8riot08
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is one of those games that is hard to describe because it offers many innovative features 
 but at the same time fails to implement fundamental gameplay mechanics. 
  First, lets take a look at the pros of Far Cry 2 and the features that make it an enjoyable experience. To 
 begin with, the African setting is simply amazing and is what makes this game truly shine. Every 
 minute you spend in the game world, the more you feel like you're in a war-torn African country. 
 From the mosquito infested swamps to the dry and barren desert. It doesn't hurt that the game looks 
 beautiful. Besides Crysis, this game is probably the best looking game on the market. The shadow 
 quality is some of the best that I have seen in a game since Crysis. The system requirements are 
 not that high and most decent gaming computers should be able to run this game quite well (unlike 
 Crysis) . The story revolves around an arms dealer called the Jackal and your character's journey 
 to hunt him down, which is fairly entertaining but nothing new to the industry. I would just like 
 to add that the game world is massive and works both to the game's advantage and disadvantage. 
 The weapon selection is very diverse and caters to many play styles, such as stealth and all out 
 assault. One of the features that I personally like is the advanced health system where you must 
 perform self-surgery if the health bar gets low enough. When I say self-surgery I mean pulling 
 a bullet out of your arm with a pliers. I hope that I have given you a good idea of the strengths 
 of Far Cry 2. 
  Now I will look at the cons of Far Cry 2. Like I said, the game world is massive and can be overwhelming 
 at first. This fact is made worse by the incredibly slow moving vehicles. I want to make it clear 
 that this game does not have a quick jump option on the map, which can be very annoying when you 
 don't want to travel miles across mercenary infested land. The mercenaries that I'm talking about 
 have so many checkpoints scattered across the map that it can become extremely repetitive. Every 
 time you accept a mission you have to travel basically across the map and in the course of the 
 mission you encounter a checkpoint every 500 ft. Each time you find a checkpoint you must get out 
 and shoot everyone there. I know your probably thinking, "why not just drive through the checkpoints?" 
 Well if you do, then the mercenaries will jump into their vehicles and chase you until their mounted 
 weapons destroy your vehicle. Even with its flaws, Far Cry 2 is an amazing game that delivers on 
 most of its promises but does not always deliver on the basics. Thanks for checking out my review 
 and I hope that it helped with your decision. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokobil
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 15, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 
  
  The game looks great. Actually looks better than great. It looks the best i ve ever seen. It looks 
 better than Crysis, Call of Duty and the like.
  
  Sound: Immersive and original sounds 
  
  Gameplay: The game is repetitive. The map is big but somwhow the story is not capturing you. 
 The weapons luck punch somehow. You need to use far too many bullets to kill an enemy even if you 
 shoot him in the head with a G3A3 from 5 meters distance. This makes you use far too many bullets 
 which are not that easy to have around all the time.
  
  Bugs: READ CAREFULLY.
  
  I tried this game in a Core 2 Duo E8500, 2 GB ram ,9800GT 1gb, WinXP SP3 with the latest updates, latest 
 drivers and thegame was updated with the latest patch. It actually can't start unless it is patched 
 since hiting start game initiates the autopatching system without warning. Which can be bad if 
 you have no internet. Hell i bought this game in DVD version so that i can play it even in a computer 
 without internet but it seems this game needs to confirm you are the legal owner everytime, meh.. 
 The game runs perfectly with everything set to high. BUT ITS FULL OF BUGS. 
  
  MAP BUG: The map bug starts right from the start and just during the tutorial. Initially you can 
 see your position not only in the PDA but also in the large map . Now when you go to Lumber place 
 to do your second mission the game suggest you to open the map press key 5 ands then right click 
 to pinpoint certain things of interest and it supposingly add them in your map. What happens is 
 that just after that when you reopen your map IT STOPS SHOWING YOUR RELATIVE POSITION IN THE BIG 
 MAP. It's only visible in the small PDA screen. That makes the game very hard to play. You will 
 keep losing your way trying to interpratate the small PDA direction relativly to the big map. Big 
 story short. You will have no idea where you are and where you have to be heading. 
  
  SAVE BUG: I haveheard from many people that the saves may get corrupted. Well i have not experienced 
 that. I wish i had because it would be a blessing. My problem is that THE GAME CAN'T BE SAVED. 
 Yes you have read right. When you are in the saving huts you go to that box and chose it and the 
 saving screen appears you hit save but when you go to load screen to load from a previous position 
 you will find no saves in there!!! Amazing bug i mean what are these beta testers doing? And i 
 mean i have the game patched as well. I have no viruses spyware etc i use NOD32 and Spyware doctor 
 and every other game works perfectly except this one. 
  
  Now if the game didn; t have all these bugs that make it unplayable it would probably score an 8.5. 
 It's a bit repetitive but looks to be fun and the graphics are superb the sound is great etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatMith
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  It really is a great game but it has a few flaws that let it down . However the negatives are usually 
 tightly inter wound with the positives . 
  The vast open areas are beautifully presented and fun to run around in ... for a while but there 
 really isn't enough to do and becomes boring very quickly . 
  Moving around the map is an experience to behold , the designers did a great job but is really 
 boring and repetitive after a short while .
  The combat / firefights are really fun , although the AI is a little lacking . But like everything 
 else just becomes repetitive .
  
  The game basically goes drive , guardpost , firefight and repeat infinitely . Which makes moving 
 around the huge maps harder and a more time consuming task . It gets boring very quickly to the 
 point of irritation when on a mission .
  Given the hype around the game it was destined to be a little bit of a let down and it had big 
 shoes to fill given it predecessor . 
  
  All in all it's a great game and has moments of brilliance , just a tad repetitive which could 
 have been made better by a more engaging story . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellishfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Innovative, fun to play, superb graphics n gameplay. Graphics may not be as good as Crysis's, but 
 certainly more appealing. Story is excellent. Only problem is, as everyone has been saying, long 
 distance travel, and if one after guards come (on route to the mission, have nothing to do with 
 the mission) u will certainly feel tired and get bored. The ending is touching, one of the most 
 touching endings I have experienced..
  
  In the beginning, I thought it would be one ordinary FPS, but it turned out to be more than that. 
 Driving those vehicles felt very realistic. In fact every single thing turned out to be extremely 
 realistic. And no game can match it in the field of realism. I mean, how can u expect weapons getting 
 jammed, old weapons getting broken, those fire effects where anything can catch fire if u want. 
 However when u r in danger, ur buddy rescues u, this concept is completely absurd. I dunno.... 
 is ur buddy always following u?
  
  Despite these shortcomings this is one of the best games I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeau42
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft Montreal's Far Cry 2 is amazing in some ways but a total let down in other ways.
  
  The Good
  Far Cry 2's setting is Africa and you can tell that the graphics and visual effects 
 are the result of a labour of love: at sunset soft beams of light will creep through the opening 
 of canyon throwing long shadows left and right, fire will spread like, um wildfire and the general 
 level of deatail is pretty awesome. Another great thing is all the little things that make the 
 game so immersive: guns jam at the most hetic of moments prompting a frantic unjam while trying 
 to dodge bullets, your enemies talk to each other working together to corner you and the sounds 
 of the weapons are so near like-like its almost frightning.
  
  The Bad (the really bad)
  Same as Assassin's Creed, really (and i believe they are both made by the same team) the immersive 
 amotshpere is totally and utterly shattered by repetetive gameplay. Missions consit of going pretty 
 much as far away as possible from the mission start, shooting something/someone and then driving/boating 
 all the way back again. Without exception. As your driving along a road, you will be shot at checkpoints, 
 you can clear out the checkpoint but the enemies will just respawn five minutes later. 
  
  It really pains me to see how much of a wasted oppurtunity this game is; the immersive atmosphere 
 is absolutely torn to shreads by lack of depth in the gameplay. They could have made the missions 
 original and exciting but they just got lazy and tacked a game onto a brilliant realistic envrioment. 
 Its a terrible shame; they really went to town on some parts of the game, but give me 2 minutes 
 and I could think of 30 more mission concepts than are the game.
  
  You would think they wouldve learnt from the same mistakes they made on Assassin's creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAOS100
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The only good thing about this game are the guns and the graphics. Hell even the graphics are toned 
 down, so they can be played on consoles. But I did enjoy shooting the guns, it was entertaining 
 unloading rounds into a bunch of AI that could have been made in 1995. 
  
  AI poorly made, basically cheating and no stealth capability. It seems there is a set detection 
 range, no matter how sneaky you are they will see you at a set range and start shooting or running 
 around. 
  They will shoot through any vegetation of course, because an african military has provided them 
 with advanced see-through-walls goggles. 
  
  Gameplay is repetitive and gets boring. You will be shot everywhere for driving along the road, 
 and about every 30 seconds you will have to kill someone while getting to your destination. That 
 is not totally bad, but these AI respawn in about 2 minutes. SO if you have just driven through 
 some checkpoint and want to go back, you will have to kill EVERY AI OVER AND OVER.
  If you could clear the checkpoints permanently or maybe for a time period worth a couple of days 
 in game, it wouldn't be so bad. But it is.
  
  Missions involve driving to similar places to kill someone. Most of your time is spent driving, 
 but as said above you will have to clear every single checkpoint you just cleared 5 minutes ago 
 passing the same route, and even if you try to drive around they will detect you (as said further 
 above) and chase you. 
  
  Diamond collection for ingame money & weapon purchases is tedious and just a time consumer. If 
 you enjoy driving around collecting hundreds of predetermined placed briefcases, you will like 
 this.
  I think this review sums the game up well 
 
  
  OH, and not to mention the Save Games can get bugged and un-loadable. That's right, the time you 
 just wasted doing said tasks is now completely wasted with no chance of using them, so you better 
 enjoy restarting the game with no progress! 
  
  All of my save games have become unloadable, even the very first ones I had. Ubisoft/ the devs 
 have not released any patch or acknowledged this well known bug, as far as we know they are laughing 
 allllll the way to the bank. 
  
  Crysis is much better compared to this, as it sticks to shooting and doesn't try to be GTA1: africa 
 version. 
  
  Don't be confused by all these extremely positive reviews. Either these people have never played 
 a game in their lives or enjoy playing games that are basically a chore. 
  
  There are many better games that you can spend your time playing this time of year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This story compared to the first had many twist, not much of a challenge at times, especially if 
 you had the right weapons to accomplish the tasks. The AI were much better than the first game, 
 in this game they were all over you if you stayed in one spot and attempted to gun than used cover, 
 time of day or night or weapons. The driving was great compared to some games, the vehicles went 
 were pointed to directed them to go. The as for the watercraft. Gliders, I did not use much only 
 once, just to try it out... I liked driving or the watercraft. The quests, were enough to keep you 
 busy compaired to some games, to few and to short. In FC2, the selection and which side you worked 
 for was up to you. The so-called buddies, only turned out to use you as the warring factions did, 
 later to attempt to kill you also. I would have preferred to do more for the people trying to leave 
 the country vs the armed factions trying to con 
  trol the country. Elimating the warring factions early could have possibly allowed time to do some 
 good for the people who needed help; instead, time was spent going back and forth between the warring 
 factions doing "wet work".... Only to windup eliminating the heads of both factions and at the end, 
 aiding the person you were sent to eliminate in the first place, help him, help people escape the 
 bitter fighting. I would strongly suggest this game and advise other's who have played the first 
 to finish the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wings_008
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Far cry was a fantastic game it featured a huge african forest that spans 20 square miles , you 
 can do pretty much anything with scale 
  you'll drive, swim, take buses, boats and swamp boats.
  The story is straight forward but lacks 
 some depth and feels shallow but it is not bad at all , plus the game makes up for it by presenting 
 probably the best looking game this year after crysis and the great thing is, it doesn't eat up 
 your system i have played it at a laptop to test it and it was smooth even at medium on a 8400m!!.
 
  The weapons are looking realistic and are prone to jam if they are over used or picked up from 
 the ground from dead soldiers which is an amazing add to the game, the guy you're playing with 
 has malaria and as a result you have to go ask for the pills from another cells, and that means 
 that you have to play nice to other people however the malaria sucks some of the fun of the game 
 cuz you cant venture as you want into the wild fearing that you'll run out of pills.
  but over all it still a very good game the sound tracks are amazing to give you the feeling of 
 the african jungle you see lotas of animal out ther
  controls are sharp and the saving system allows you to save any where 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horninc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Graphic is just amazing, bust there is something missing, when you play you realize that it is 
 getting boring, you shoot someone, but after 5 minutes you get bored again. In my opinion- two 
 big map, and there could be more options for killing. There is one small thing that i disliked 
 the most, every time you got some of the main missions you have a call from yourbuddy" ,these 
 missions, if you accompish them, get you revards and it is easier to accomplish main mission, but 
 it takes so much time, becose you need to get new ammo every time you accomplish the misson. It 
 is awfull.
  In the end i would like to say that farcry 2 is realy good game for farcry fans, but for people 
 who like to play real game - buy something else, so dont bother to go for it to the local market, 
 just wait untill farcry 3 and hope it would be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boron1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Boron1995 - Far Cry 2 Review (Note: This is a full length review)
  
  
  Far cry, the sensational revolutionary shooter released in 2005 marked the beginning of a new era 
 of FPSs, beautiful and amazing gameplay. Three years on, Ubisoft takes on the role and releases 
 Far Cry 2 (let me make something clear, Crytek WAS NOT involved in making the game, however 2% 
 to 3% of CryEngine is used) , and guess what, it is pretty darn good. 
  
  It is just what it says, a huge sandbox game sprawling with enemies you want to will AND stuff 
 you REALLY want to blow up. The game's story is simple: hunt down and kill The Jackal, a notorious 
 arms dealer who's been supplying arms to the two dominant factions in the game's African setting: 
 the APR and UFLL, who are vying for control of the nation. The story may seem bland at first, but 
 soon when you get into it the story develops and really becomes interesting, even though it moves 
 rather slow (with the missions and all that) . Personally, I finished (or am finishing) the story 
 and it really is something. You will discover a few interesting twists and turns and after that, 
 there is still a load of things you can do, such as get every trophie and acheivement possible 
 (trust me, it adds up to a huge amount) . Of course the big extras are the great map editor and 
 and super multiplayer. 
  Strangely, you only get to choose from a list of characters to play as, but trust me, it doesn't 
 really affect anything etc. 
  So, in the beginning you and your indian-accented driver well, drive, to your hotel, and guess 
 what, you get malaria as you arrive. And so, you faint and re-awake, greeted by The Jackal (who 
 acts like a smart-arse) . You get thrown out (after a interesting tutorial) to the 50km2 land in 
 front of you. The story progesses in missions and then there side missions and underground missions 
 (missions in which you must carry out a set of instructions to recieve malaria medicine) . During 
 these missions you will encounter people called "buddies", people who help you (in various ways, 
 such as missions) , call you, and sometimes rudely stand by your bed as you had slept. Buddies are 
 of course, NOT invincible so if you randomly leave an area where your buddy is during a mission 
 and return to find a truckload of enemies, well, I don't think he or she will be standing (or sitting, 
 for that matter) . If buddies get mortally wounded you must either heal them (using syrettes, the 
 first aid in this game) , or comfort them as they die, mercy kill them, or simply leave them. Of 
 course if you leave them they'll die, but since the developers included a nifty organizer you can 
 check their condition, living, missing, mercy killed or dead. Of course if you get along with them 
 you will build up your history with them, as in their disposition.
  
  Onto other things:
  
  Graphics:
  As you guessed, the game is disgustingly bad. I mean INCREDIBLY good. The graphics 
 are just right, with huge draw distances, nicely detailed rocks and buildings etc. and great-looking 
 shadows. The graphics suit the African setting Perfectly, although it is annoying to keep seeing 
 the same thing over and over, but hey, it's a sandbox game. The PC version (as always) has the 
 upper hand, with better anti-aliasing, better textures etc. and there are medium system requirements:
 
  
  System Requirements:
  
  Minimum: 
  
  Microsoft Windows Operating System: Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista
  CPU: Pentium 
 4 3.2 GHz, Pentium D 2.66 Ghz, AMD Athlon 64 3500+ or better. 
  Graphics Hardware: NVidia 6800 or ATI X1650 or better; must support Pixel Shader 3.0,
  Memory: 
 1 GB 
  Hard Drive Space: 6 GB of free space
  
  Recommended:
  
  Microsoft Windows Operating System: Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista
  CPU: Intel 
 Core 2 Duo Family, AMD 64 X2 5200+, AMD Phenom or better
  Memory : 2GB 
  Graphics Hardware: NVidia 8600 GTS or better, ATI X1900 or better
  Hard Drive Space: 6 GB of 
 free space
  
  Of course you may have to upgrade your computer a bit. But hey, the system requirements beats Crysis. 
 The game looks great on the console versions but the anti-aliasing isn't as snappy and there are 
 a FEW low textures, it's still the great Far Cry 2 experience. You will definitely like the graphics, 
 with the depth of field and huge explosions and beautiful waterfalls and wildlife etc. Note that 
 the only thing used from CryEngine is (by my reckoning) Polybump. The game runs on a engine called 
 Dunia. The game also has a very slick day and night cycle and storm and rain and fog effects. Please 
 note the console versions have banding issues in the lighting
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game gives you a huge number of real world weapons, including assault rifles, sniper rifles, 
 RPGs etc. and the player can carry three weapons at any time. A major gameplay and annoying feature 
 is that these weapons degrade over time. Weapons become dirty and jam and eventually become completely 
 unusable. Although it is sometimes epic and frustating during a huge firefight to see weapons jam, 
 it still is immersive. A rather slick thing you can do is slide while running. It does feel Hollywood-ish 
 to run along bulidings and slide very stylishly into a hole in a fence and then run and slide again 
 behind the door of a building and sit there, while the uncertain enemy searches for you. You can 
 actually hide in the game, like behind rocks, cars, buildings etc. The game doesn't have a guided 
 cover system, but you can improvise. The music in the game is generally good, and the fast-paced 
 anklets music gets you running, however sometimes there isn't any music at all, and you'd wish 
 you could play music from your hard-drive. The AI in the game is good and better in ways you won't 
 notice, it basically is the Usual. It is funny sometimes (and strange) to be standing next to a 
 enemy and they're shouting about finding you. They take cover, exchange ammo etc. but a annoying 
 yet good thing is that they fire RPGs at you if you are too far away, and even ram you with a car 
 and give chase. You also have a map that you can use (and will use very often) .
  Saving the game is no problem on the PC version since you can save when you want, but on the console 
 versions they are all pre-defined which is annoying, since you may have to occasionaly drive halfway 
 across the map for a save point. Since this is one huge game you WILL be swimming, running driving 
 etc., and a annoying thing is that you will be doing these over and over if you die (unless you 
 cleverly saved your game at the right time and place) . The game's "fast travel" is buses that allow 
 you to travel to any other bus station. The game can be repetitive, with cars, and occasionaly 
 enemies. By the way there are also some cool yet somewhat inconvient heal animations 
  The casual gamer may find this slightly annoying but a sandbox gamer will be fine with it. The 
 vehicles in the game are the usual: cars, jeeps and a few hidden gliders (that are a lot of fun 
 to use) . A few AI quirks are that allies and enemies may stand, say, behind a rock and shoot right 
 through it to reach the enemy on the other side (of course this never works) . You can purchase 
 ammo from arms vendors. There are interesting extras, like finding Jackal tapes or the 221 diamond 
 briefcases hidden in the wild. The game's dialogue is occasionally funny, like hearing a faction 
 leader talking about dressing their soldiers up as women and forcing them to act like animals or 
 using children as an excuse not to fight in the most useless of times. Last but not least, there 
 is a seriously good map editor included in all three versions, it is very easy to use however you 
 may have a few problems with it at first. The great multiplayer is challenging, with over six modes 
 of play and this coupled with a great map editor, really does make Far Cry 2 a great game (or package) .
 
  
  Far Cry 2 is a great game with good gameplay that sandbox lovers will, well, love, but if you are 
 still
  in doubt I recommend you get it in the bargain bin. I recommend the console versions for people 
 with not so powerful computers. The console version are still every bit as good as the computer 
 version (s) .
  
  And there is my review. I know that I have missed out on a few things and hey, this is all I can 
 give for now. Please excuse my grammar and spelling mistakes. 
  
  Coming Soon: A separate review on criticisms! 
  Also coming soon: Reviews on Crysis, MGS4, Oblivion 
 and others!
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flicker66
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  I've played loads of FPSs over the last few years; from the excellence of Half-Live 2 and its subsequent 
 episodes through the more linear Call Of Duty series to Crysis and now Far Cry 2, I thought I'd 
 seen everything the format could offer... until I started playing this!
  
  Firstly the pros. It's a brilliantly-coded game with a richness and depth to the graphics and sound 
 which goes a long way to making you feel completely immersed. Kicking-off with a lengthy cut scene 
 as your character journeys from where s/he has arrived at the airport (I suppose) to the only functional 
 hotel left in the sh! thole nominal capital Pala, you're gradually exposed to the grim civil war 
 which is raging all around you. As a "welcome to hell", you collapse with malaria as you escape 
 an attack on the hotel! 
  
  From there you find your feet as a trained mercenary so, whilst the tutorial missions included 
 are useful for those unaccustomed to the rigours of FPS action, they're a bit pedestrian for the 
 experienced gamer. Starting out with effective but basic weaponry, you can then upgrade them for 
 more powerful and sophisticated examples at the gun shops you encounter here and there. The map 
 is just enourmous: you really get the feeling that the whole of the country is gripped by a bloody 
 struggle but not really why war broke out to begin with or who's actually getting the upper hand. 
 Still, I dare say real-life mercenaries don't ask many questions either!
  
  The fact that you're free to roam around the whole map and take whatever mission you happen to 
 go for makes Far Cry 2 a very open-ended and non-linear affair. Indeed, because things move in 
 real-time... sort of.... you could sit behind a tree out of sight and wait until the night came! 
 The evocation of the sights and sounds of the African bush, especially at night, is brilliant, 
 especially in some of the latter and more claustrophobic missions. Short of actually being bitten 
 by tse-tse flies and more bloody mosquitoes, it could hardly be more realistic! Playing it with 
 headphones on in a darkened room could be quite an experience.
  
  The safe houses work well as somewhere to regain your strength. I found that if I had a good 12-hour 
 kip, my malarial symptoms were far less frequent. Make sure you've your pills with you as running 
 out somewhere isolated will not do you any favours.
  
  The cons? Accepting missions, travelling there by whatever means, completing them and then having 
 to find your way to somewhere else in order to cop for another mission can be pretty tedious after 
 a while. I found that using a boat to nip between places was quicker overall. One of the things 
 I enjoyed least was this scenario: bombing along in an SUV being pursued by faction militia of 
 either hue and having the car eventually splutter to a halt, obliging me to engage the enemy or, 
 in the case of driving a conventional car, somehow trying to drop them when they're in your face, 
 fix the car and carry on! None of the cars have rear view mirrors so you can't see if matey is 
 right behind you or not.
  
  Arguably the distance sometimes between missions can make the travelling involved a pain so I suggest 
 taking the boat when you can or the bus as the latter won't get you killed at least. The idea of 
 a fully tooled-up mercenary catching the bus somewhere seems a bit odd but it works ok. The buddy 
 thing: it felt strange to fall in battle and then be scooped up by someone who had been invisible 
 to that point! Determined to get through the game, I decided not to accept many buddy missions 
 and left them to their own fate. 
  
  Overall it's a great game although I found the endings a bit feeble. You really get a sense of 
 environment and it's just like being there. 
  
  I'm off for a gin and tonic as the quinine in it is supposed to help with malaria... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteWorld
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game's good reviews are a mystery to me. It is the most unbelievably repetitive game I have 
 played in my life. It's like a mix between Crysis and Oblivion except it only has their bad qualities 
 and sometimes does wrong the things they did right in the simplest ways. This game actually makes 
 me miss Oblivion's immersion-shattering fast travel system. 
  
  But like with Oblivion these travel problems could have been solved if the environments had simply 
 been used more intelligently. Why do we have to go to the same places or through the same places 
 all the time? Why can't we just go to new places? Make the mission objectives nearer. Design them 
 before you design the map. That is obviously something Far Cry 2's dumb-as-a-rock developers did 
 not do because not a single part of the environment has anything to do with the story.
  
  I found myself missing both Oblivion and Crysis whilst playing this. I missed Crysis' far superior 
 graphics, its weapon customization, its density, the far more satisfying and realistic shooting 
 (you could hit a nickel a thousand yards away with Far Cry 2's sniper rifles) and the character's 
 smooth and faster movement (or maybe it wasn't, maybe it just wasn't slumping along as it is in 
 FC2) . And apart from the fast travel I found myself missing Oblivion's real character customization 
 (as opposed to Far Cry 2's meaningless character... choosing) , diverse environments, story, dialogue 
 and acting (yeah) .
  
  Did someone say the graphics are pretty? Because I don't think they are. They're ok looking but 
 they're just so bleak. Maybe that is a matter of personal taste as well. I just get really depressed 
 looking at this constantly brown game.
  
  I may be wrong here but was I not promised destructibility? I was eagerly rigging a bridge with 
 IEDs to ambush something (the story is so bad I didn't care enough to remember) and when I pushed 
 the button, waiting with a glorious view from a nearby elevated train bridge, this wooden bridge 
 was still there.
  
  The writers probably would've had to intentionally try to make the story worse to make it any worse 
 than what it was before they made it worse by using the most tired and nonsensical cliche in all 
 of video gaming: the silent protagonist. For some reason people think this adds to the immersion. 
 For some reason people think that a person never uttering a word his entire life with no one asking 
 him "Are you like a mute or something?" or ever waiting for a response does not shatter the game's 
 believability.
  
  Well. This is one game I'm glad I pirated.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  It forgets the mutant islands and monsters paradisaical. Far Cry came back, but it came different, 
 with an innovative air, in a total new environment of that game that made success has 4 years behind. 
 The main reason for all this change can be explained by the fact of Electronic Arts to have if 
 be joined with the Crytek for the creation of Crysis, thus leaving the Ubisoft of side with the 
 rights on the surmounting Far Cry. This is the main reason of the impression that generates the 
 players to whom Crysis is next to Far Cry of what the proper Far Cry 2. E, in the case of this 
 last one, the appositive one of the Ubisoft was something really new to differentiate and at the 
 same time to use to advantage the weight of the name that still has the surmounting in the market 
 of the games. Therefore, it is important to leave clearly since of Far Cry this game alone it takes 
 the name. This rank, let us speak on what it interests. Far Cry 2 takes the player for the way 
 of a civil war in the African continent. Two factions (UFLL and APR) fight for the control politician 
 and the mission of the player is to kill a dangerous salesman of weapons called Jackal, that is 
 the responsible one for supplying armaments and fomenting the war. In agreement history if develops 
 does not make direction very, but who if matters? If you are interested yourself for games as this 
 is because it is action end, of the opposite it would play a RPG or it would read a book, is not 
 same? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanhaines
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  I'll start off with this: Farcry 2 has nothing to do with original Farcry. This game has a very 
 open world, not linear at all. You have money (diamonds... whatever) and buy weapons and upgrades 
 for them.
  
  Graphics: Very nice looking. The graphics are wonderful at times, but sometimes look bland and 
 untextured (usually this happens in the desert/plains or at night) . The game looks the best when 
 you set your watch to a different time, and see the change (shadows roll over the terrain naturally, 
 and are all rendered beautifully. Character models look decent, but start to get very similar. 
 Disappointing that there isn't any blood splatter from soldiers onto the physical terrain. Fire 
 effects are the nicest thing here. Best effect I've seen in a game for the fire. The HUD (heads 
 up display for those of you who aren't learned in the ways of the FPS) is also very clean and non-intrusive 
 (for instance if you reload, it shows your ammo stock but nothing else, and fades away once you're 
 done) . 
  
  Sound: The sound is one of the greatest features of this game. You can hear the sound of glass 
 breaking when you throw a Molotov, and soldiers yelling "Oh Christ, it's shot!" when you shoot 
 them and they fall on the ground, bleeding to death. The guns sound great, all of them have a different 
 noise.
  
  Gameplay: Obviously since this is the most important section, I left it for last. This is where 
 the game loses points for me. It is a very solid shooter, with good AI (multiple times I have been 
 flanked and unexpected it) . But the main problem is that ALL OF THE ENEMIES ARE THE SAME (yes, 
 that was worthy of all caps) . Pretty much every enemy you fight will be some random African dude 
 who happens to have a better shotgun this time. They also soak up a ton of damage (headshots don't 
 instantly kill) . They also all look the same. Missions are fun and varied, but they all boil down 
 to more "shoot some guys and take this document" or "kill this African king for me (which involves 
 shooting some guys to get to him so I can shoot him too) ". I mean most FPS's involve lots and lots 
 of shooting, but usually enemies are varied and have different abilities. Also, another gripe is 
 that guard-posts you already scouted have enemies re-spawn at them which is frustrating if you 
 have to clear out the same post again... and again... If you scout the freaking post, then enemies 
 shouldn't reappear there, right? And one last complaint is the fact that the game is almost... 
 TOO open world. A lot of your time is going to be driving around on a car or a boat, avoiding guard-posts 
 if you can because they just slow you down. Not the kind of open world I enjoy too much.
  
  This is still a good game, and is, well, solid. But solid is all it is. It isn't going to revolutionize 
 anything, it is a very bread and butter game. That's not always a bad thing, but it leaves me wanting 
 a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedramstalker
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  The easiest way to describe the hectic nature of Far Cry 2 is either as a first-person Grand Theft 
 Auto with a crazy African backdrop, or a more polished, easier-to-play S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of 
 Chernobyl. As an unremarkable mercenary, you're sent to a fictionalized African nation engulfed 
 in civil war. Somewhere in this conflict -- which takes place in 50 square kilometers of game world 
 -- is an arms dealer known as the Jackal, and you're tasked with hunting him down. 
  The structure's akin to the aforementioned S. T. A. L. K. E. R. or Grand Theft Auto -- a variety of individuals 
 provide missions to further your progression in the search for the Jackal. Completing these missions 
 rewards you with conflict diamonds, which you can spend at the weapons dealer for firearms, upgrades, 
 and optional equipment. In between missions, you'll cover a whole lot of African terrain -- the 
 fictional nature of Far Cry 2's backdrop allows for desert, savanna, and even verdant jungle -- 
 and you can either attempt to hoof it (which generally takes too long) , jack a Jeep, or use specific 
 bus routes for faster travel. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodyisgod
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Like most, I was extremely excited to see far cry 2 finally come out. I've been following this 
 game for the past year eagerly waiting and hoping the end result would be everything that was promised 
 and more. For the most part I was incredibly satisfied with the experience. 
  
  First, I suppose its only right to start off with the good aspects of the game which included some 
 nice new features. Fire propagation was a nice touch that I thoroughly enjoyed. It did tend to 
 feel like the fires spread in random directions with little to do with any kind of wind pattern 
 but maybe I'm being a little too picky. I also liked the addition of weapons that wear over time 
 and vehicles that break down. I was also impressed by the sheer variety of weapons available which 
 included the usual array of pistols, rifles, and rocket launchers but also added a flame thrower 
 and my personal favorite the mortar. Having to perform first aid on oneself was also a good addition, 
 especially with the variety of animations. As far as graphics go, the atmosphere and environments 
 were done superbly. The main missions kept somewhat varied, although the side missions were a bit 
 repetitive. The main story plot was a bit lacking but still kept interesting enough to want to 
 keep progressing. The AI balance seemed a bit sporadic at times but stayed fairly competitive. 
 All in all this was a great game.
  
  And now the bad...
  
  A couple features that most would consider standard for a fps were oddly left out. For instance 
 the ability to lean left and right and also go prone. This is probably what irritated me most of 
 all. Also I was a little dissappointed in the vehicles. This is something I would have thought 
 they would have spent a little more time on since a good portion of time is spent driving. I would 
 have liked to have seen a couple flat tires and maybe a couple leaks in a boat after surviving 
 countless rounds of small arms fire. I also found myself continually wanting to get higher than 
 the game would allow. For an open world, I found myself feeling a bit limited on what kinds of 
 terrain i was able to traverse. Some may not agree with me on this point, however, my style of 
 gameplay typically revolves around finding a good sniping position. 
  
  Basically when it comes down to it this is not a perfect game, but after praising some aspects 
 and criticizing others Far Cry 2 was still an amazing ride. It took approximately 30-40 hours for 
 me to play through the main mission, including all the side missions and I can honestly say it 
 was very entertaining, and last time I checked, that's what gaming is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartek21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 uses the new Dunia engine specifically created for this game (previous farcry had the 
 cryengine) which is an impressive engine with the great graphics, decent physics and in my opinion 
 exceptional lighting and shadows. The engine has some great features such as the day/night cycle, 
 dynamic weather and display long distances.
  
  The game play itself is what makes or breaks the game. During the game you will take quests from 
 the two factions, weapons store, buddies, underground, telephone posts (assassinations) and you 
 can also get the secret missions from the promotional codes listed on gamespot hints/cheats section.
 
  The fire fights are fun since you have a large selection of weapons from pistols to mortars to 
 flamethrowers, the weapons seem appropriate to the settings and you can do a cool manoeuvre where 
 you slide. Fire fights are not only about the guns about also about the surroundings, for ex if 
 you fire into an ammo pile it will go off sending bullets everywhere or but started a fire you 
 can burn your enemies down (wooden buildings burn as well :P ) . This additional element of combat 
 adds to the fire fights to make them more enjoyable and also gives you the opportunity to make 
 what you wish of the situation. When you are on critical health you can heal yourself through a 
 spiffy animation such as you getting out he pliers and retrieving the bullet from you limbs, if 
 you have a broken bone your character will put it back in place or pulling out objects such as 
 sticks and metal shards out of yourself. This again adds to the combat making it feel more authentic 
 in the sense you literally have to mend your wounds instead of taking a "health potion."
  
  However there are a number of negatives to the game, the first being the weak story, or the lack 
 of it. You will be doing a number of quests however why are you doing it? You don't know. Lets 
 just say ive seen porno with better story lines then this.
  The second issue is the constant respawn of troops. I am not the only complaining about this cause 
 I have been on forums where many people also complain about this. IN the game you will take out 
 an outpost only to return 2 minutes later and wow its back to new with all the guards back! This 
 becomes frustrating especially combined with the lengthy travel time you experience from going 
 place to place since everytime you get to an outpost you have to kill of the guards or they will 
 come following after you.
  The lengthy travel times as mentioned just before are the last issue. There are 5 bus stops on 
 each map (one each corner and one in the centre) which you can quick travel to FROM the other bus 
 stops. The travel time duration only increases as npc's drive on the roads scouting and will shoot 
 and follow you until you kill them off, this means stopping the car killing the dudes, often repairing 
 your car, getting back and in and then continuing with your drive, then do the same at the next 
 outpost and the next set of dudes driving around. This becomes boring and frustrating very quickly.
 
  
  The missions aren't the best nor the worst. They are very repetitive for example the weapons stores 
 mission you have to travel somewhere and blow a car up every time. However there are a number of 
 different types of missions so there is a variety so you can do one of these and one of those not 
 to get bored of the same thing.
  
  The multiplayer part of this game is imo great. The map editor means anyone can make a map and 
 everyone can play on it, there is a validation tool to see if the map will work or not and the 
 editor is very easy to use. I personally think multiplayer is very fun and well designed, however 
 not yet well balanced since the sniper rifles are far too overpowered.
  
  The bottom line. This game has an awesome game engine which looks great and plays well. The gameplay 
 is excellent both in singleplayer and multiplayer. The positives do outweigh the negatives and 
 this game is definitely worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhor
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  The game starts with a film like credit seen where you are travelling within a taxi, after you 
 stumble from the jeep you soon realise you have a few personal problems.
  
  The map is a good size and you find safe houses were you can rest and accelerate time. Later within 
 these same safe houses (that you acquire by killing there residents) you will find friends who 
 you encounter by undertaken missions on there behalf and earning respect. These friends will rescue 
 you when your health is critical which is a nice touch instead of simply re-loading. 
  
  The graphics and sounds are stunning and the missions are in the order you chose them, which gives 
 a nice non-liner feel to the game. The main currency is diamonds which can be found by following 
 a flashing green light on your GPS unit or paid to you after completing missions. There are gun 
 shops which allows you to buy better weapons, manuals (to repair vehicles) and upgrades to make 
 you equipment more reliable and accurate plus carrying more equipment.
  
  The whole time I played the game  I found it to be very stable and responsive. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dude3506
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 puts you into to the perspective of a simple mercenary. In other words you don't get 
 much information on why you are doing any of this stuff. Even though story is not what the game 
 is about, it would still be nice to have a little more. You can choose a lot of mercenaries from 
 the game, but this won't effect the out come of the game. Though, it will effect your "buddies" 
 list. Your character's main objective is to get away from Africa, but you need some money to get 
 out, so you start working for certain organizations and meet some new buddies on the way. Far Cry 
 2 has some great graphics, which really put you into an African setting. The land is realistic, 
 but that doesn't keep you from noticing the game's numerous flaws. 
  
  The game takes place in the first person perspective, and you are allowed to free roam in two huge 
 different areas. The currency in this land is rough diamonds, which are scattered or collected 
 from certain missions (assassination and story missions) . In these areas you can find many quests, 
 some are story missions and others are general missions. There are two types of general missions, 
 the first is armory missions, all you have to do is blow up a moving shipment of weapons. When 
 you get back you will have more weapons that you can buy. The other general mission type is an 
 assassination, you have to go to a cease-fire area and shoot a guy in a suit who usually doesn't 
 fight back. Then you get a large sum of diamonds, which you spend on weapons and equipment. Story 
 missions can tell you to do all sorts of different things, like blow up a building, assassinate, 
 and escort. The third type is buddy missions, which are a longer version of a story mission with 
 a different objective. Any of these will send you all the way across the map. This can get a little 
 old, so they added a nice bus system which allows you to teleport across the map.
  
  Outside of missions, there isn't much to do, you can go diamond hunting, scout camps, or unlock 
 safe houses, but none of these jobs are particularly interesting. The missions should keep you 
 going for a long time though, but that could be because of all the travel that you must do. This 
 game can take well over 40 hours if you do everything, but if you do everything very quickly (like 
 take the bus every chance you get) it may only take 25 hours to complete.
  
  Fighting is simple, just like any shooter, aim and shoot people, but there is a bad part to the 
 fighting is the AI; it's not good. At the start of a fight mainly, the AI takes a very long time 
 to spot you as an enemy, after (if) they do, they become rather good shots, and they do quite a 
 bit of damage in numbers. On the hardest difficulty gunfights can be very fun yet frustrating. 
 However, the healing system takes away some of the difficulty and frustration, after a 1.5 second 
 animation, you are completely healed, but this won't save you every time. For when that rare time 
 comes where you don't get a chance to heal, one of your "buddies" comes along and drags you out 
 of the mess. He will stop nearby, and cover you while you stab that syringe into yourself. This 
 is practically an extra life. He will eventually show up in one of your safe houses, and then he'll 
 be able to rescue you again. Although, after you clear out the enemies he doesn't follow you, just 
 stays around patrolling around that area. This patrol can get him killed, which means you have 
 to come back and heal him or let him die. The buddy system can get a little frustrating because 
 of the AI's stupidity.
  
  The buddy system is a group of buddies that your character has made contact with. You have all 
 mercenaries that you have met marked in your journal, but you can only have two actual buddies. 
 These two buddies will do different things. One will give you some missions and change story missions 
 a bit, and the other will rescue you whenever you lose all of your health. The others just stand 
 in the bar waiting for the others to die. The only way for buddies to die is for them to be abandoned 
 by you. If you don't like a particular one, you can just let him get shot, or shoot him yourself. 
 You can also rescue them, but you have to use a syringe on him. Plus, it can be a pain in the neck 
 to rescue him while you are being shot at.
  
  The weapons count is very large, but you can only carry 4 at a time; the Primary slot, Secondary, 
 Special, and the machete. As primary weapons you can use assault rifles, sniper rifles, or shotguns. 
 With the Secondary slot you can use pistols, SMGs, or the C4. The Special slot allows you to carry 
 rocket launchers, LMGs, a flamethrower, or a mortar. Some considered better than others, but it's 
 all under the player's preference. If you want a little more out of a certain weapon you can always 
 by a few upgrades for it, usually one upgrade costs less than an actual weapon. Each weapon has 
 specific stats. Some people may not work well with large recoil, so they can look in there to find 
 their fitting weapon. Either way, every weapon type has its uses.
  
  You may also buy equipment, equipment allows you to increase the amount ammo you can hold of a 
 certain weapon type (including grenades and molotovs) , a sneaking suit, which makes you more stealthy 
 when in tall grass, and larger syringe packs which allow more syringes to be held at a time.
  
  Multiplayer uses ranks and classes. It also makes use of its diamond system. When you level 
 up you get a few diamonds which you can use to upgrade your class, which changes the weapons in 
 the pack. There is still the healing system, but it was altered. In multiplayer, you can heal an 
 infinite amount of times, as long as you don't get knocked down. When you do get knocked down, 
 a teammate can pick you back up. You'll be ready to fight again after you heal yourself. Multiplayer 
 can be pretty fun, but not a lot of players actually play multiplayer.
  
  You can plan a lot of different strategies for raiding areas, but the difficulty and AI makes it 
 rather superfluous. Still, doing something different can lower the repetitiveness. Also, if you 
 get bored, you can always make your own map in the map creator.
  
  
  I have a lot of fun with Far Cry 2, but I have to give it a 7.5 because of it's repetitiveness, 
 poor AI, and weak story. I don't mind repetitiveness, but I think that AI, is important for games 
 to stay interesting. Don't get me wrong, this game can lead to some great fun, but it's flaws really 
 turn it down a bit. If you like the FPS genre in general, you probably will enjoy Far Cry 2. Just 
 don't put your hopes too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godshalomaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  When you come upon these sandbox shooters it really seems daunting as to what you should do and 
 it all comes down to the story to keep you engaged for the entire ride. 
  
  Forget that...
  
  In Farcry 2 you travel around on your own free will picking up "missions" 
 and when completed payed so you can pick up some new guns. The game has amazing visuals and an 
 excellent array of weapons, but thats about it. The story, or lack there of really doesn't pull 
 you in. All you know is your hunting a very very evil man and the only way to reach him is to do 
 petty side jobs till you gain enough rep to face him. That being said you'll spend most of your 
 time traveling around via car/truck/etc. There is a fast travel system but you can only access 
 it at five bus stations placed on the edge of the entire map and one in the middle. While this 
 seems like a small crack you also have to contend with the road blocks full of people trying to 
 kill you. You'll basically run into these at EVERY crossroad and if you dont have any weapons your 
 S. O. L. The second major drawback to Farcry 2 is Malaria... yes, Malaria. Periodically throughout 
 the game you'll experience attacks of Malaria, where you have to heal by using some pills. This 
 also doesn't seem that bad, but when your about to blow up a convoy and you suddenly have an attack 
 the enemies dont wait for you to feel better. all in all this is a very good game and despite a 
 couple drawbacks you should at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristi_was_h123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  
  I bought this game hoping for a great multiplayer... but its the worst match making system I ever 
 seen. 
  You can only join a game at the start of a match even if all your team has disconnected and you 
 are the only one left and the other team has 10 players. This is true even for simple death match 
 games.: ( ( ( ( They should fire the guy who took this design decision. 
  So it will take some time before you find a good server that its just beginning a match, but don't 
 worry once the match its over you will be removed from the server and you have to start all over 
 again.
  
  However I give it 6.5 because it has great graphics and works well with older hardware.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CavalierX
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  BUGGY BUGGY BUGGY- lock ups (on new system 4 gigs and no problems in other games) , drops out, and 
 bad pathing. The game has a weak storyline, rediculous dialog/quests, mindless AI, BUT it looks 
 good when it is working. Several times I have locked up while trying to save the game- which is 
 really painful and forces you to replay sequences over and over. The game engine is pretty but 
 creates a kind of buzzy lag on my Nvidia 9800 GT 512 card. The attempts at realism with blured 
 vision are annoying more than cool and hurt playability. 
  
  Multiplayer is just bad. Getting into a game is PAINFUL and slow- maybe even unconstitutional (cruel 
 and unusal) . IF you get a game you want you may get bugged out of it and dropped or QUITTERS may 
 kill your game because they are losing. The experience/weapon earning system is week and really 
 just penalizes casual players rewarding 12 year olds. Game lag in internet play creates frustraiting 
 play with lag shielding and suprise deaths.
  
  Far Cry 2 is a FAR CRY from the first game and just not that much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eukendywa
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the review by captaink24. He said a lot of what I felt.
  I will only add that Farcry 2 sacrificed several things that contribute to realism and therefore 
 immersion.
  - Invisible walls are used a lot
  - no prone
  - No stealth, or very little stealth capability
  - Can't drop or holster weapon
  - cant jump 
 or climb to any realistic level
  - Linear game play despite sandbox environment
  - still somewhat buggy even with patch 1.01, hoping for better single player patch
  - AI can 
 be good but is often just dumb even on hardest setting, - too many other issues to list here
  
  I would recommend this game but buy it from the bargain bin.
  It tends to be a bit repetitive 
 and linear despite the claims, Graphics are great. I'm waiting for patch 1.2.
  
  I rate it 7 because of the environment, really great except the invisible walls. Plot, story, buddies 
 are all poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  The format of the game in and of itself isn't bad, per se, as I see it as GTA: Africa edition. 
 But some of the design choices I really disagree with and thought it made the game less fun to 
 play. The ones I can think of are:
  
  - infinitely respawning guard posts; makes it completely pointless to even clear/scout a post as 
 it'll respawn a few minutes later
  
  - fov (field of view) ; For widescreen resolutions, instead of giving them more viewing area along 
 the left and right sides (like how it's been done for EVERYTHING ELSE EVER) , it chops off the top 
 and bottom of a fullscreen resolution, meaning widescreen people actually see LESS of the screen 
 than their 4:3 brethren. 
  
  - ai where when you pass within visual range of a post, they always ALWAYS hunt you down by sending 
 at least a jeep after you; a lot of narrow intersections that you can't quite drive around has 
 an inconvenient post in the middle
  
  - very weak emotional pull on the main storyline; the game tells me I should care about this Jackal 
 guy but there's almost no info on him or why I really should care, other than he's generically 
 evil
  
  - somewhat frustrating mission design; I've played through the entire first area and I do missions 
 for these two sides which are all stupid and secret where if I help one side, their troops will 
 shoot me anyway even though I'm helping, so most of the map is all kill on sight. Many of the missions 
 also just happen to take place on the exact opposite side of the map in between bus stations, so 
 I am guaranteed to spend at least 5-10 minutes doing some very boring driving and dealing with 
 the guard posts.
  
  - unimaginative mission design; go here and kill this guy. Go here and destroy this building. Go 
 here and destroy this vehicle. Fetch cargo for me. Pretty repetitive.
  
  - a very boring world; GTA was fun to drive in that there were people and traffic and overall stuff 
 just happening. Far Cry 2 only (besides a handful of friendly mission-giving NPCs) has people that 
 only want to kill you. They stay in the populated areas (guard posts and various towns/industrial 
 sites) with the rest having absolutely nothing but dirt and grass (but very pretty dirt and grass, 
 I quite like the environmental detail in the game) . Driving across the map is very boring
  
  - driving; you do a lot of driving. Since your world is not very exciting, driving in this 
 not-very-exciting world is just not very exciting. And you have to drive a lot. In GTA I at least 
 felt I was faster than others, or could out maneuver them in the streets. In Far Cry 2, your choice 
 of vehicles is very slim (your normal roofless jeep and a one-seater buggy for the most part) and 
 in some cases, inconsistency in speeds. What I mean by this is that there will be some missions 
 where you go destroy a long cargo truck. Except if you try shooting to blow it up, it will speed 
 up and drive away. And it drives as fast as your jeep. Meaning you can't catch up. The only way 
 to destroy it is to know the path and cut it off or find a shortcut to ambush it, or carry a rocket 
 launcher on you.
  
  
  - voice acting; this is more of a nitpick, as I have subtitles on anyway. These people in the game 
 talk fast, but not like faster-than-normal talking, more like "I have eliminated all pauses in 
 speech and am almost speaking an entire paragraph of words as if it were one long sentence." Just 
 another weird design choice.
  
  - guns jamming; Guns you pick up "in the wild" suck and jam from time to time versus the ones you 
 buy new from the armory. However, ammo is plentiful and all I've learned is to buy all my guns 
 from the armory and never touch the ones the enemies drop.
  
  There are a few things (very few) that I actually do like about the game.
  
  - pretty environment; 
 overall I find Africa's landscape to be supremely boring. But somehow with the lighting and the 
 way they modeled their savannahs, it just looks so good to me. Like it's actually pretty and makes 
 the driving in the game minutely more interesting.
  
  - fixable vehicles; all games should have this, really.
  
  - "buddies"; basically friendly 
 NPCs. For most of the main missions, when you accept it, your buddy will call you and you have 
 an option to go do this other additional task that will usually make your main task easier (such 
 as planting explosives at a certain spot will kill many of the enemy force) . Whenever you choose 
 to do this and succeed, you gain rep which eventually upgrades your safe houses, which is sometimes 
 a handy bonus.
  
  Anyway, these small, stupid design choices frustrate the hell out of me. Why would they include 
 this? The only way I even made it to the second area of the game was by playing in short sessions 
 (like an hour) because I'd just want to play or do something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: israel_hlc
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  It's definitely a great game. A different perspective of conducting the story. You will have one 
 mission - kill the Jackal - and start doing some jobs to discover info about him. When you think 
 the game will be only a  game you are surprised with events 
 that change the course of the game.
  
  Fully explorable, for those who enjoy huge maps, side missions and checking for items everywhere 
 you go.
  
  For those who prefer more linear games, it's still good. You can simply ignore all but the main 
 missions. And I assure it has a great story
  
  You can choose a lot of weapons (snipers, smg's, rocket launchers and so on) , vehicles
  
  It 
 has a cinematographic ending (of course I won't tell how it ends) , really worth playing. Not only 
 6-hours gameplay. It will take you 30h or more. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmsc_12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Graphics, sound, realism, you can't complaint in this game.
  Excelent graphics, the best I've seen and the game is a lot realistic, the time in game is equal 
 to real-life, if you play it 1 hour in real time, only 1 hour passes in game, also you can notice 
 that if you go to an area with new vegetation and go there a few days later, you will see that 
 the vegetation has grown, it's just very well performed :)
  
  What makes me give an 8 ou of 10 to this game ? It's very BORING, at the first hours you play it's 
 a lot of fun, but the game has no innovation, the distances to travel are so tedious, and it's 
 very repetative, belive me, I stopped doing missions at 40% of game completation... Now I just 
 go around in the game, hunting down some zebras with my sniper (hh)
  
  So, if you got a lot of patience, maybe this game is perfect to you, or maybe I am the one with 
 little patience x)
  
  HMSC.12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msalerno03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 tried to be a massive sandbox fps. Although in many areas it succeeded overall it fell 
 short of recent top shooter releases (Crysis, Bioshock) .
  Gameplay is where Far Cry 2 really falls short. The first 4 or 5 hours of the game are incredible 
 as every mission is new and exploring the world provides interesting challenges. After that the 
 game boils down into a rinse and repeat cycle. It is eerily similar to Assassins Creed in that 
 you are asked to complete the same missions over and over and over again with only minor changes. 
 The main plot missions vary but the side missions are almost identical. Traveling around the world, 
 and you will spend a lot of time traveling, quickly becomes hackneyed as you kill countless marauding 
 troops and fight rapidly replenishing guard posts. By the end of the game you are ready for everything 
 to just be over.
  Graphically Far Cry creates an impressive and immersive world. The quality is just below that of 
 Crysis and the environments are just as grand. The game is very successful at drawing the user 
 into the faux African country and there are very little slip ups. Jungles, deserts, and urban environments 
 are all beautifully rendered. Which is good because the plot will do little draw you into the game. 
 There isn't interacting with neutral characters for you to feel involved in any story and voice 
 acting is average at best. The occasional buddy missions help only to provide much needed variation 
 in the game, but little character involvement.
  The usual variety of weapons are also available in the game with the added bonus that guns can 
 now jam. This feature seems to add a sense of realism to the game until a brand new assault rifle 
 will start to jam the very same day it's obtained. Jamming quickly becomes one of the more irritating 
 features of the game and overall detracts from the overall experience.
  Overall Far Cry 2 is another gorgeous game which lacks the plot or inner workings to push it to 
 the next level. The open ended play concept could have been revolutionary but Far Cry 2 does little 
 to add to what Grand Theft Auto or even Assassins Creed accomplished. The game is long, but if 
 you can, I would recommend renting the game for a console rather than buying it for the PC.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dedumdedoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  So I'm sure most of you have heard the news that Far Cry 2 is bad or that it was hyped up etc.
 
  I for once don't actually believe that, yes you could say it was a little disappointing but then 
 again it has really good positives.
  
  Okay let's begin shall we...
  
  Graphics: 9
  Yep, the graphics are good, if not amazing and it should run well even with a budget PC, all the 
 terrain and textures look excellent, tress and grass flow with the wind and the guns look realistic 
 but yet for some reason (maybe it's my PC) the fire doesn't look that good. But in the end Far 
 Cry 2 definitely has great graphics.
  
  Sound: 9
  Maybe the research trip to Africa paid off, the sounds are great, you hear individual sounds for 
 the environment you are in, guns have their each unique sounds also. So you could say sound is 
 positive factor for Far Cry 2.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  So yeah lets start with the negatives... you have open world but what's the freaking point if you 
 have to pass guard posts every freaking 2 minutes. The game is realitively sandbox which is good 
 and bad once you get missions you have to travel over the map going through pesky guard posts and 
 patrols... sure it's fun the first couple of times but it then gets repetitive and boring after 
 a while. "Buddy missions" are no help either, you just have to do more sh! t and kill more mercenarys 
 and you don't gain anything either, oh and did I add that it takes a whole magazine to kill 1 person 
 ( yeah if you aim for the head it will only be 3 bullets) . Ok no for the positives, gunfights are 
 pretty fun, if you don't enter them to often. fire propagation is pretty cool also ( but the fire 
 doesn't seem to last more than half a minute) and the missions are unique and fun.
  
  Multiplayer is ok, but the sniper rifle seems to overpowered or the other weapons are underpowered, 
 which really ruins the experience seeing as you see most players camping with their sniper rifles 
 just waiting for a new player to walk by.
  
  In conclusion with the release of patches and possibly DLC this game could definitely be what it 
 could have been.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdiablox02
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Although I've given this game an eight, it's more for the graphics and the times when you are actually 
 doing something in this game.
  
  The graphics are stunning, a massive draw distance and sharp detail on pretty much everything. 
 I never get bored of seeing fire and explosions in this game which is great because you can get 
 a constant supply of petrol bombs and gas tanks to start them with. Furthermore, shooting or blowing 
 up an ammo pile is fantastic, especially in multiplayer.
  
  Great action when you get in a battle although it's pretty unrealistic when you get in a fight 
 with 10 or more rebels and manage to defeat them all with a machine gun. In saying that, they can 
 be deadly accurate and disappear into the undergrowth. Luckily there's the healing system.
  
  I just wish that they'd sorted out the plot and all the 'big things'. There's loads of guards 
 posts in the game, you sneak up to them, scout them, blow everything up and then drive through. 
 You only get 100 yards down the track and it's back up and running again, waiting for your return. 
 Missions are broken down into three categories and you can feasibly start three missions at once 
 which even overlap. The maps are huge and you can drive for what seems like hours before getting 
 to your objective. You end up fighting with little groups of rebels on the way so you can find 
 yourself dipping in and out of the game without actually acheiving anything.
  
  Multiplayer is good but predominantly consists of sniping maps, if you're lucky enough to find 
 yourself in a close battle map - enjoy!! The downside of multiplayer is you lose points if you 
 want to change weapons midway through a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuculand2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  not rasing to the title.
  
  the game engine might be revolutionary but without a good game to be put in there is no use for 
 it.
  
  the story is not that great, nothing new kill the local weapon dealer and kill everybody in your 
 way.
  
  the missions are verry disapointing from every angle.
  
  the most enoying part is the traveling and the watch posts: u kill all the ppl in the area and 
 u come back in 3 minutes or less and they are back there, the respawn timeis absoltly desastruos.
 
  
  like i said the grapghics are revolutionary no doubt about it, interestinglets burn everything 
 effect, but still a little more work on the tree rests after the burning they look lame, pus 
 the grass is respawning to fast after a burn out, in 1 day is growing all back whats up with that??
 
  
  farcray 2 sill continuos the great vechile drive aspect from fracary. i really enjoy driving in 
 this game
  
  another bad aspect of this game is the map... i mean with this amaizing graphs and engine what ups 
 with that lame map in your hand... good thing u have the GPS in the wrangler jeep 
  
  oever all it really could have been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkalata
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I first off have to apologize to all since I do not have a capture card to grab shots of the game.
 
  I have to secondly applaud the graphics designers and engineers and all others who were involved 
 with the graphics because they were the Best I have ever seen so far on a PC game, the wind effect, 
 fire, and terrain were all top notched ! I would rate the graphics at a 10+ out of 10 as they were 
 a cut above the original.
  I am running this game on a PC with the 590 Sli mother board with 2 of the XFX 8800 GTS (Alpha 
 Dog Series) which each have a core clock speed of 768 with 512 GB of RAM each, the CPU is the AMD 
 5000+ Black Edition at 2.6 GHZ, and the RAM is 4 GB of Crucial's gaming series and all running 
 under Windows Vista with SP1.
  And now for my thoughts on this game Far Cry 2;
  
  I had been waiting for many years for a sequel of the original Far Cry to become available for 
 the PC, so when I heard that Ubisoft was developing the sequel and calling it Far Cry 2, I was 
 very excited and could not wait until I could play it in the same environment as the original and 
 so I pre ordered a copy and waited.
  Needless to say I was so thrilled when it was finally released and I got my copy home and installed 
 it. When it was all installed and I finally was able to see it, I was blown away by how real the 
 game looked, it was actually a bit better than the original (which for it's time was ahead of everything 
 else) .
  But that is where the relation to the original game ends and I have to ask myself, why is this 
 called Far Cry 2 ?
  First off, your character gets a ride to some town in Africa and is somehow drugged and wakes up 
 with the "jackal" (The person he is sent to take out) in his room saying that you will never find 
 him and he then leaves and that is where the game begins.
  You know I may be a bit naive but I usually think that when there is a sequel to anything, that 
 it is a take off of the original ? But with this game in the first few hours of playing, I was 
 trying to figure out how this even ties in with Far Cry ? The name of your character should be 
 Jack Carver (from the original game) but it is not, also the original game allowed Jack to talk 
 which this character does not. And your movement is very limited as far as game play is concerned, 
 for example ; In the game Far Cry, Jack could crawl to sneak up on an enemy, and if he were in 
 a tight spot, he could peek around the corner to get a fix on the next target. He was able to use 
 binoculars (not a stupid monocular) with night vision and he was also able to zoom in on the enemy 
 to see where they were
  Also the weapons I must say are okay for gorilla type activities this game is suppose to be modeled 
 after, and I do like the idea of a weapon malfunctioning and needing a new one to replace worn 
 out ones. But when you see blood from an enemy when you shoot them and they do not die, then I 
 have ask what the ? You can be at close range and they can take a lot of hits which would kill 
 the average person
  So all in all I would have to say that Ubisoft did the best job on graphics I have ever seen on 
 a game, but that is the best mark I can give it do to the weak plot (like any other FPS where you 
 after a bad guy) , because in the original Far Cry they threw in some interesting side plots and 
 not only trying to survive your known enemy, but now you have new challenges to be aware of which 
 gave it that bit of fear in wondering where the next ambush might be, in fact I would urge any 
 one to play the original and then play this and see if you are not also disappointed as I was.
 
  Also the thing that I really could not understand is that when you would clear out an outpost, 
 and drove down the road to another village, and then came back through that same outpost, all the 
 enemies are back, even if you had only been gone for a few moments?
  The title was very misleading in my opinion as it really had nothing to do with the original and 
 I think Ubisoft played on the fact that people like the original so much that if they named the 
 game this way, that people like me would buy it. The game is very tedious and can be down right 
 boring at times. 
  So sorry Ubisoft, you were so close but just did not hit the mark as far as the game play goes, 
 but I give you a Big thumbs up on the graphics.
  Gilamonster5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Alright, I'll confess here that I did not play the first Far Cry, although i did finish Crysis 
 and Crysis: Warhead twice, so that's what I'll be comparing Far Cry 2 to.
  
  First off, the technical details. Graphics and audio-wise, Far Cry 2 has no faults except that 
 the game can slow to a crawl sometimes for no apparent reason. What I mean is that my framerate 
 goes from a solid 40+ to 0 for a second, then bounces back. I thought this might be due to some 
 hardware constraints, but lowering the settings didn't solve this problem. I'm running a dual core 
 with an 8800GTS at high settings, so this should be a non-issue.
  
  The background music and ambient noise are just right, setting the pace for an African adventure. 
 The voice acting is tight (and a little fast) , but does the job. The trees and water of the game 
 are good, no complaints there.
  
  However, gameplay is one area where Far Cry 2 falls short. The FPS engine used is similar to the 
 one in Medal of Honor: Airborne. Holding down the "Aim down sights" takes a little getting used 
 to. The biggest fault however, is the sheer scale of the game. In short, Far Cry 2 is essentially 
 a cycle of getting a quest, travelling, shooting people, travelling, collecting your reward, travelling 
 again.
  
  This cycle becomes VERY tedious, and even Gamespot admits that. It took me more than 30 hours to 
 collect every single one of the 221 diamonds (hidden packages) using the guides available online. 
 Why did I bother? Not because I care much for the achievements, but because diamonds are your currency 
 that you need in order to upgrade your arsenal. The game has exactly enough diamonds for you to 
 unlock and upgrade every single weapon, so missing out even 1 means you won't get to play with 
 all the guns.
  
  The constant travelling becomes a burden because you'll encounter guard posts and enemy patrols 
 on your way to your objective. There's always the option of sneaking past them or going around 
 them, but this just makes it even more tiresome. Then there are the side missions. The rewards 
 are great, but all of them are the same. It always involves travelling halfway across the map, 
 killing someone, maybe retrieving something, and in the case of buddy missions, returning to your 
 buddy.
  
  The story is not Far Cry 2's strongpoint. While the narrative is certainly intriguing, and the 
 conflict between the factions interesting, your missions are actually quite linear. In fact, you 
 don't CHOOSE which faction to work for (so there's no need to replay the game, thank God) , instead 
 all your missions will be spilt between the APR and UFLL. This means that you can see all there 
 is to see in the story in one playthrough.
  
  But it's not all bad. Far Cry 2 does everything else right. The guns feel solid, enemies are challenging 
 without being overpowering (except for a sequence at the endgame) , and you'll generally enjoy yourself. 
 I actually played this game on and off for a week and a half, totalling 40 hours, because I couldn't 
 stomach so much travelling in one day.
  
  The ending sequence is wonderfully done, The Jackal (the main antagonist, sort of) is an interesting 
 character done right, and the African setting is vibrant and beautiful. In conclusion, Far Cry 
 2 is worth playing, but you'll have to put up with the long commute in between objectives.
  
  There's also the multiplayer component of the game which I haven't got around to just yet. 
 But I must admit I'm not much of an online gamer, except for Team Fortress 2. Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_mcguire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 looks great, and... well that's what it does best. The graphics are superb in this game, 
 practically bar-none in the console market. But really, graphics are only a small part of a game.
 
  The gunplay of Far Cry 2 is fun, but really it isn't anything special. The game allows for strategies 
 such as pyrotechnics, and stealth. Using fire to your advantage is very fun and useful, but the 
 stealth system isn't really an option until a decent amount of time into the game.
  The biggest hinderance to the Far Cry 2 experience is the fact that to get anywhere, you need to 
 drive. And drive. And drive. It's honestly no fun. The random encounters with baddys on the way 
 can be fun at first, but it devolves into an annoying pattern of drive, shoot, heal, repeat. Where's 
 the fun in that?
  On paper Far Cry 2 isn't anything special, but once you get into the world, you will definitely 
 me immersed, despite the annoying inconveniences the developers throw at you. I recomend this game 
 to FPS fans, but I can safely say there are better games on the market that are more worth your 
 60 bucks. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Far Cry... the game that set new standards for FPSes in terms of both graphics and game, one that 
 has been used as a benchmark till not long ago. Along comes Far Cry 2 amid high expectation from 
 Ubisoft with a promise of a whole new level of graphics and gameplay features. But does it live 
 up to its promise?
  
  The game puts you in the shoes of a mercenary, sent into an Africa torn by civil war, to terminate 
 the Jackal, the guy who armed the warring sides. Unfortunately for your character, things go downhill 
 when he gets smitten by malaria and gets caught in the crossfire.
  
  The first thing that you notice when you get into the game is the beautiful graphics. It may not 
 be as crisp as Crysis but the lighting and fire effects are well done. What more, it scales better 
 too, which means you can enjoy its graphical excellence even on a relatively low end PC.
  
  The lighting however also proves to be the undoing. It strikes the player as too bright, so far 
 as to say that it becomes difficult to see in the midday sun (in-game, that is) .
  
  When we talk about the graphics it would do the game no justice if nothing is said about the sprawling 
 African landscape. Right from dry savannah to the dense tropical forests, every vista is a treat 
 to watch. The large play area has a striking contrast of environments with even some wildlife thrown 
 it, which is the closest you can get to seeing Africa in a game so far.
  
  If you think the eye candy is the best part of the game, wait till you experience the sounds. Obviously 
 a lot of work has gone into it. The voice acting is apt. Even better is the sound effects - the 
 gunshots and explosions, the hum of the jeep's engines, the rather subtle sounds of your environment. 
 The star of the sound department is the background score. The action is accompanied by an intense 
 score of drums, which fade into the background once the action passes.
  
  The gameplay is quite a letdown, compared to the rest of the aspects. It comes across as repetitive 
 and shallow. The weak storyline does nothing to remedy this situation either. You could be playing 
 without knowing how the story is progressing and it would hardly matter.
  
  The catchword is "freedom". Choose to take a mission you like, from either of the two factions 
 - the UFLL and the APR, or one of the side missions. Go about completing the mission the way you 
 want it. Destroy all enemy camps on the way or just focus on the target, avoiding anything that 
 does not from a part of the mission or just play stealth and shed as less blood as possible. Even 
 though some may not like this, I would say it is quite the positive aspect of the gameplay.
  
  Far Cry 2 introduces the so-called buddy system. There are twelve potential "buddies" to befriend, 
 who would assist you in achieving your goals. The more you work with your buddies, the more you 
 gain reputation. However, you would often find yourself fighting your own battle while he fights 
 his. The main advantage of this system is that it gives you more than one way to do a mission and 
 at times you would find that doing the mission with your buddy gets the mission easier than if 
 you would do it yourself. 
  
  Apart from the main missions, there are several secondary missions, in the form of missions for 
 the "Underground", which secure you the much needed malaria pills, missions for the arms vendor 
 which unlocks new weapons and other side missions, which serve primarily to extend your gameplay 
 time. These side missions are repetitive which requires you to go to an enemy camp and kill all 
 hostiles, followed by meeting someone, destroying something or killing someone. This might get 
 boring soon.
  
  The most irritating aspect of all this is the presence of numerous enemy guard posts and patrols. 
 To get from one place to another you have to pass through several of these. They all look very 
 similar and the firefights play out the same way. This, in my opinion, is the main reason why the 
 game turns out to be not-so-great.
  
  The other irritating aspect is the AI. What were the guys at Ubisoft thinking? Initially you may 
 be satisfied with the "brilliant" AI, but it's not long before you realize that it's just a bunch 
 of scripts overdone. True, the enemy tries to flank you (a bit) , take cover and approach you cautiously, 
 but it's not the sort of adaptive AI behavior you would see in Crysis or even Far Cry. As I've 
 said it's overdone. The enemy will detect your presence and rush out from their camp to intercept 
 you even when you're a mile away. Sniping is an even sorrier example for this kind of behavior. 
 Regardless of how distant and well hidden you are the enemy will always zero in on your location 
 the moment you fire your first snipe shot. So in reality stealth is not option.
  
  Contrary to what Ubisoft and even Gamespot has proclaimed, interaction with the game world is pretty 
 limited and is nowhere comparable to Crysis. There are few objects that you can interact with and 
 the day-night cycle, which the developers claim to have a major effect on enemy behavior, does 
 not have an appreciable effect. Nights mean that there are less enemy soldiers on the lookout which 
 makes it easier for you to creep by or move closer. But once things get hot, night or day makes 
 little difference. However, whatever world interaction is possible is quite rewarding. For example 
 shoot vehicles or oil tanks to blow them up or throw a molotov cocktail into the dry grass of the 
 savannah and watch it burn. If you're luck some enemy soldiers will get incinerated.
  
  Lastly, weapon and vehicle handling. Vehicle handling is quite realistic. It's like they developed 
 their vehicles as they would do for a racing sim, albeit slower and rickety. Vehicle damage plays 
 an important role in speed and control of the vehicle. Each bump and every turn feels solid. The 
 same cannot be said for weapon handling though. Weapons show visible wear and damaged weapons get 
 jammed often. The recoil is lacking and the handling has been made easy. If not for the prominent 
 sound effects, an AK-47 would not feel so much different from a light MG.
  FINAL VERDICT:
  In the end the game isn't all that bad. The missions get a tad too repetitive and irritating, but 
 the way game is structured puts it a notch above the run-of-the-mill FPS. Even if not for the game 
 itself, the sights and sounds are a treat in themselves. I would not call it a must buy but do 
 try it if you can play it at a friend's or something.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I dont like FPS games... I dont like them because I dont like to move around and 
 shoot... anything, person, vehicle, obstacle, anything... But when I heard that this game is open 
 ended and great visuals, and fooled by Gamespot's hyped score, I decided to give it a go...
  
  After launching the game, the ingame intro looked good to me, the looks were good, real good... 
 the cab driver was talking rubbish, I tried to listen to him while I was looking around... then 
 we come to a check point where some mercenaries checked our vehicle, it was tense, then we moved 
 on, the game started... oh BTW I got malaria... no big deal...
  
  Then I woke up and heard the gun fight... I tried to get out there but passed out because of malaria 
 and some people took me to a stronghold of some sort and bla bla bla...
  
  The game is basicly revolved around two factions in a poor African country, while civil war is 
 going on, there is a guy who sells arms to both factions and fuel the war etc etc... Ok the story 
 is not solid but not bad, passable...
  
  The world looks gorgeous, the enemies look great, the blood effects are looking good... but that 
 is all to this game... You do repetitive missions, go, kill, come back... Go, shoot, come back... 
 very innovative right? as you try to complete jobs, certain people offer help like carrying you 
 out of gun fire when you are down, or offer you info about a job so you can complete it other ways... 
 
  
  There is no crosshair, which is good IMO, you have iron sights for aiming, right click for aim 
 left for shooting...
  
  I played Bioshock recently and I have to say, after Bioshock, Far Cry II is nothing... But if you 
 like to shoot people with great visuals, this is your game, but if you are a fan of deep games, 
 not just shoot em up style, you will not like it one bit... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaVoC_DX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  First of all the African setting is "amazing". It really shows the wildness of the game. The weapon 
 system is great too , but during battles our gun sometimes gets jammed , that was really irritating.
 
  The games engine "dunia" features a lot of new things that we have seen never before , like the 
 effect of wind on fire, the spreading of fire and much more. During battles ,when we become out 
 of health,
  our buddies will come for rescuing us ,but this will happen only if we ask them to do so. The currency 
 in the game is diamond. There is no cash. We can earn diamonds by doing missions and also by using 
 our gps system that can track diamonds. The vehicles in the game includes ,JEEP , and some other 
 4w's with machine guns mounted on them, and also some cars and gliders .The multiplayer is not 
 bad. 
  Overall the game is recommended for anyone who likes first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zo0nerr
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all I can give:
  9.5 / 10 - Graphics
  9.0 / 10 - Sounds
  7.0 / 10 - Gameplay
  5.0 / 10 - Replay
  6.0 / 10 - Value
  
  Well, when you starts the game 
 you first note the graphics quality, and it's really not bad at all. The landscape have an extreme 
 build quality made by ubisoft, you can not see any error or empty space on it. Everything on map 
 is unique.
  
  The story is not really original, you're in the middle of an african civil war with two factions 
 fighting by power and diamonds. It should be more attractive and immersive story to reach a better 
 score. It could be, but is not.
  
  The gameplay gets very close to real like Cod 4 or kind of game. Open field, the freedom to complete 
 your mission when and how do you want. In case of shooting is better you get some cover behind 
 a tree or a rock or something. Any shot CAN kill you if you get in a open space.
  
  Everything good till here right?........ NO. Remember that you can burn the landscape??? What is 
 that for? The fire can't burn longer than a minute, you can't kill anyone with that. It's only 
 graphical. That's ok, it "burns" my expectations for the gameplay that I wanted. But when you finally 
 put your hands on a flamethrower and you are ready to KILL'EM ALL!!!..... The thing only reaches 
 2m and not burns you enemy instantly you must be firing at him like 5 secs. That time in a shoot 
 - out is an ETERNITY. You can
  only have 3 weapons, flamethrower is a waste of space in this case. The mortar is another weapon 
 that is IMPOSSIBLE to handle! Very hard to aim and you can only have 3 shots. Too little amount 
 of ammunition to carry, I can carry more than that!!! 
  
  This game is a classic overrated case. The creators made so many promises and they didn't put on 
 the game.
  
  Far Cry 2 can get you bored with very repetitive missions, one like another, LOOOOONG travel time 
 to reach some place. I'm done with this game and I don't pretend restart it all over again. Never 
 played multi player on this, I can't rate the MP, hope is good, cuz a game with no Replay value 
 is nothing.
  
  P. S. : I played on Highest difficulty and even with it . you'll get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ginsy26
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  What makes the second Far Cry so good is that it combines fun, action gameplay with immersive stroyline. 
 the plot is solid and involved a team of quality writers. There were relitavely no glitches and 
 the 40 hour story campaign has you on the edge of your seat. when it comes down to being more than 
 just a hunt for the Jackal. I would personally recommend this to anyone in need of a good game.
 
  The graphics were great even on my nVidia 8600 and if you have surround sound, preferably 5.1 
 then this game just blows you away. all the guns are beautifully reprersented and they are numerous, 
 with over thirty diferent weapons to buy. The vehicles in the gmae range form Jeeps to maching 
 gun mounted 4 by 4s. they all vary in handling and they really make a sense of speed felt. You 
 can take to the water in a range of different boats for use. A pity that there was no aircraft 
 flying in it, except for when you use gliders.
  To sum up, Far Cry 2 is one of the highlights of 2008 and a must buy for any avid PC, PS3 or Xbox 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickHorscroft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I'm very surprised at negative feedback from gamers themselves about FC2.
  This game really advances the FPS genre. 1st off it's a quality title - rock solid stability & 
 no bugs; i've put in over 30 hrs.
  
  This is not a linear game. You have to approach FC2 in a different way. There is a story but it 
 is one you dive in an out of as you progress. You have to survive and earn enough currency (diamonds) 
 to give you the equipment necessary to be effective. You have to deal with malaria - great realism 
 (I got it in Africa - it sucks!) , weapons jam, you have multiple gruesome injuries to heal, the 
 dynamic fire is amazing & can be used tactically, you can skid off bridges, buddies rescue you 
 in intense firefights & then you may have to save them or mercy kill them. The atmosphere and sense 
 of place is unlike anything i have ever seen in an FPS - i love being in there.
  
  The core of any shooter is the gun play and AI. FC2 shines here. The weapons are incredibly modeled 
 & fun to use. each one is unique. And a huge choice as well; you`ve even got mortars! Personally 
 i think the AI is incredible almost as good as the AI in FEAR ( still the best to date in my opinion) . 
 They flank, flush you out of concealment, talk to each other and work together and this is the 
 first game where you will be sniped as easily as you can snipe! I even saw a merc try and crawl 
 under a jeep while I was hunting him down.
  Oh and the physics and graphics are amazing.
  I hear a lot of people complain about re-spawning check points - get over it is my answer. Blow 
 them up - kill them or sneak around.
  It`s a war zone - a dynamic place where everything is continually changing.
  
  If you play 
 this game expecting COD2,4,5, etc you will be dissapointed. Those games are great, but short, with 
 limited re-playability. This game is huge, open and full of choices. You set out on a major adventure, 
 you have to take your time.
  
  Getting tooled up, heading out toward an objective, full health & ammo - only to get caught in 
 a massive firefight at a village or checkpoint, and end up half dead and needing to re organise 
 before you can even think about your mission! Awesome!
  
  i have played all the same games as every body else in the past 8 years & I loved the original 
 FC. However, I believe this game is incredible and really opens the way for a new style of shooters, 
 which i think was very much needed.
  One of my GOTY and i hope a huge success despite the poor feedback.
  My only disappointment - 
 not enough wild animals. Where are the vultures, lions, hyenas, hippos, crocs, etc? How about the 
 first animal patch UBI?! e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: builtman
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I have yet to be able to play this game due to the fact that they are now requiring you to be a 
 programmer or buy an illegal copy to play this. I have been played havoc with securom and some 
 emulision crap. They tell you to do some exe thing and then change this code and some other thing 
 but I am not a computer software genus! I do my spread sheets, word, surf the net and play games. 
 If you want to just put a game in and play, DONT buy this game!!!! I have spent 3 hours trying 
 to get it to run and both UBISOFT and Secruom have been worthless. Hey, console games don't have 
 piracy issues why dink with computer games? I see why people are leaving computer games for console. 
 I am going to consider it as well if this crap continues. I am pissed for paying 36 dollars and 
 what do i get? Nothing. Customer service is they only want your money and do give a damn about 
 you!!!! Boycot UBISOFT and any other game that uses special software.... What happened to just 
 entering a code??? This game gets a 0.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Many have criticized this game for being "broken", lack of story, not really "open-ended", etc. 
 I feel that although the have a point, it is not much different than other games on the market 
 that get praised.
  
  The backtracking in the game can be frustrating at first. This game does have a "teleport" system 
 like Oblivion and Fallout 3, but the difference is there are only 5 places that you can do this 
 as a player. This means that you have to travel in between the majority of the area with a vehicle 
 or on foot. This is frustrating at first because the player may be so used to playing Oblivion 
 or Fallout 3. 
  
  The other frustrating part of the game would have to be the random "bad guys" on the map and all 
 of the guard posts that constanly spawn multiple enemies. This causes the player to stop often 
 and get out of the vehicle to fight the same guys over and over again.
  
  The last major frsutrating part is the lack of the auto-autosave. I am so used to Oblivion and 
 Fallout 3 always saving the game for the player through every doorway and whatnot. Too many times 
 I have not saved the game because I assumed it already did it for me. I have had to repeat a few 
 long segments of the game in order to make up for my lack of saving. 
  
  Everything else about the game is fantastic. The use of fire to control and confuse enemies is 
 very interesting and unique I feel. The graphics are wonderful and look great on my rig. I have 
 a Geforce 8800GT, 2GB RAM, AMD Dual 5600+ (2.8GHZ) , and Vista Ultimate. 
  
  Some of the missions can get repetitive but overall there is a great amount variety and the missions 
 are very fun. The types of weapons are simple but realistic. I felt that the storyline although 
 not the greatest is a realistic setting for war-torn Africa and the interaction with the "buddies" 
 adds some chaos to the fighting if you have to run over and save them. Much like Gears of War did. 
 The fact that if your health runs too low and you have to take cover, remove a bullet from your 
 arm or foot, is an interesting take on combat. It can make things very suspensful and fun (frustrating 
 too, lol) . 
  
  I am impressed that this game has such a long story line for a shooter. Roughly 25-30 hours to 
 finish the campaign, but there are many other missions available as side-quests. In a gaming world 
 where shootes last like 4-12 hours on average and expect multiplayer to make the game worth it, 
 it's nice to see a shooter concentrate on single player and do it well enough that it is worth 
 the initial payment of the game. Multiplayer is also fun but the clear focus of this game was the 
 single player experience (which is refreshing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmaeno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Many people claim this game is too repetitive/missions are boring/too much driving, etc etc. This 
 is true to an extent, but for me, it's not in a negative way. If you have played Assassin's Creed 
 and are familiar with that style of repetitive side missions, you'll find that Far Cry 2 is similar 
 in that regard. Yes, side missions are a bit predictable and don't vary a ton, but Assassin's Creed 
 varies even less, yet it's still a perfectly enjoyable game, as is Far Cry 2.
  
  I'm halfway through and I've played for about 20 hours including deaths, so here are my thoughts 
 up to this point. The game engages you for the first 5% or so, and then you do side missions for 
 awhile so it slows down a fair amount. I started getting sick of this around 20% through, but at 
 25%, the storyline makes huge leaps forward. Lots of crazy stuff happens and you are launched into 
 a new area which is much different and even more visually stunning. Once you get up to about 50% 
 through, you'll be back to side missions and whatnot, but they will be more difficult, and you 
 will be in a new area which makes the missions more exciting. 
  
  The variety of guns and ways you can do missions is really what makes the game great. The gun play 
 and combat is predictable but there are so many ways you can proceed that the repetition is really 
 not a big deal. The AI is excellent. Grenades are exactly as powerful as they should be. Enemies 
 don't instantly run away from grenades like they do in STALKER. It often takes a ridiculous amount 
 of hits to take down a guy which is unrealistic, but once you are used to it, you really won't 
 care. 
  
  This game is visually stunning, exciting, and there is always plenty to do. Getting new guns and 
 choosing the ones you carry around takes a certain amount of strategy and you can really play this 
 game however you want to. It's fun. Really, really fun. I'm amazed that it's getting so many negative 
 user reviews. Just play the game without any preconceptions, take it for what it is, don't compare 
 it to anything else, get a good graphics card, and this game will blow your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMDP92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Long months before its release, I have heard about the game's weird title...
  
  Far Cry 2? hmmm, "weird"...
  
  I searched and researched about the game and found out it is 
 a First-Person Shooter, the game genre I usually play...
  
  Months before its release I watched and watched its features and gameplays in YouTube and I was 
 hyped...
  
  Months passed and until its release date, I bought and played the game...
  
  The game was very wide and open... It's just that you can go anywhere... The player is going 
 nowhere... I think there is no dead end in the map...
  
  The map is 50 sq. km... just imagine how big that is...
  
  And the weapons, no doubt they are 
 so cool..
  
  and the vehicles makes it less tedious to go from one place to another...
  
  The story is kinda letdown because the missions are like repetitive...
  
  Bottom point 
 is: this is the best shooter I have ever played... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archerus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2 let me down. That is the nicest way that I can say it. Is the game fun? Definitely. Is 
 it what we were told it would be? No, not quite. There are a number of ways in which FC2 just fell 
 short on its promises. Lets take the environment for example. The Dunia engine does a decent job 
 of depicting a large, (though not as large as promised) open world with a great amount of variety, 
 ranging from desserts to dense jungle. Given the scale and the lack of loading screens, this is 
 something that can be really impressive. However on a number of occasions I found myself pulled 
 out of the game because of shadows that change detail at an abnormally short range, and a draw 
 distance that was far too close for the highest graphical settings. I would like to think that 
 this could be excused given the scale of the world, but given other games in the market that can 
 pull it off better, I can't justify that. 
  
  The life populating that world is also fairly inconsistent. NPCs scattered around the map provide 
 a decent challenge, and at times made me rethink about my route to an objective because I didn't 
 think I could risk running through a checkpoint. This is a really good sign. But then there is 
 the other side of the AI. For every firefight that is hard fought and exhilarating, there is one 
 that is excruciatingly hard due to enemies that can see me through walls, or insanely easy thanks 
 to enemies facing trees while I fill them with lead. Also, the checkpoints seem to have a ridiculous 
 respawn rate. If I torch a place and kill everyone there on my way to an objective, it should not 
 be repopulated and fine 5 minutes later on the way back. For a game that makes such a point of 
 realism, (and forces you to rest before using a buddy rescue again) , this is just odd.
  
  And that brings me to buddies, which I think was a cool idea that could have been way cooler. The 
 buddy rescues are awesome and a great way to stay in the action, and in a similar way, the extra 
 missions you can get thanks to having a buddy around is a nice addition. But that is it. It stops 
 there. I got to the point where I started wondering why I was doing the missions with my buddy, 
 because it just seemed to make an easy, one stage assassination mission into a harder two stage 
 mission. Not to say it wasn't fun, but I didn't feel like my buddy got me anywhere. It would be 
 nice to see my buddy hoping into the back of my truck to act as gunner after I did him a favour, 
 especially when you have to drive and shoot separately, but this doesn't happen. Did I expect too 
 much when I thought my buddies would play a bigger roll?
  
  All of these problems however don't stop game play in FC2 from being fantastic. There are lots 
 of approaches you can take to any given situation. Lighting a field on fire and shooting the guys 
 that run out of it? Done it. Blocking a road to force a convoy to take a detour into a trap I set? 
 Done it. Waiting until night to swim into a compound and kill a guy with my machete? Done it. The 
 game really is great. The only problem here is that you never really feel like you accomplish too 
 much in terms of the story. You have do missions for both sides of the main conflict, and no matter 
 who you work for, everyone is hostile to you. 
  
  I guess when it comes down too it, I had fun, but not as much fun as I thought I was paying for.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aifo
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  As for Farcry the graphics are simply amazing. The gameplay just sucks. I played it for 3 hours 
 and just couldn't go on.
  It's one of those games where you just can't put up with it after a while.
  It's a shame as this 
 game really looks like it has lots of potential I don't think I'll ever discover.
  I just don't like to force myself into playing, and searching for FAQs to know what to do next 
 in a game. A game should be for everyone and anyone can play it.
  There was a point in the game where I was cruising around with no objective. I pushed all the buttons 
 on the keyboard that i might unluck an objective nothing happened. Didn't know what to do. While 
 cruisng I was constantly attacked by Africans on a Jeep. Then My Weapon just got jammed during 
 the fight. After killing them I had to repair the car each and everytime. And go on for 2 minutes 
 then another fight. It's as if this game was meant to irritate you. The medkits are no where found, 
 and when you buy a weapon upgrade you throw it after some use.
  Tooooo many flaws make this game unbearable, especially when your used to high standards like HL2. 
 What a shame though I had really high hopes for it. I guess if your gonna overcome the flaws you'll 
 have a different experience than i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambidxtrous
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  There is really nothing new to this first shooter person game. If you like half life, Call of duty, 
 Counter Strike, etc. Then play those games, but don't buy this game. It's just another First Person 
 Shooter mimic. 
  
  And the single player mode, there is NO STORY. Just wondering around killing people with no real 
 objectives. 
  
  The Cons:
  
  The controls aren't as good as I thought. Kinda tight and restrictive. There are a few glitches 
 in the Multilayer mode. I really don't want to continue writing a review for this game. Just say 
 it plain and simple. The game is fun at first, but you end up just going back to your favorite 
 games you have. I played this game the first week I got it, but now it's sitting somewhere who 
 knows where. I might mess around with it again, but I rather play Left 4 dead, Half life, Call 
 of Duty, counter strike, or any other first person shooter to get some kicks.
  
  Not worth buying, trust me on this one. It's the same as any other first person shooter out there. 
 
  
  This game never really had potential, looks like one of those try to make a few bucks in sales 
 and move on. Not a special project, just another game to gain some source of revenue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2, a first person action game developed by Ubisoft, tells the familiar story of a country 
 torn apart by war, disease and clichs; A country where the only possible way to survive is to 
 run errands for the locals, hoping they are kind enough to throw a bottle of pills your way; and 
 maybe, just maybe, you can even walk away with a suitcase full of diamonds. Yes, the story of Far 
 Cry 2 isn't something we haven't already seen, but there is still something charmingly simple about 
 it, and although most of the twists can be seen a mile away, it offers an interesting peek into 
 the world of weapon dealers, mercenaries and warlords.
  
  You play as one of nine different mercenaries, who is sent to Africa to eliminate a notorious arms 
 dealer known only as "The Jackal". Right from the start you discover that not only is it impossible 
 to across the street without getting shot, but you have also contracted the deadly Malaria disease. 
 A long introduction sequence and a few bullets later, you find yourself working for both the UFLL 
 (United Front for Liberation and Labor) and the APR (Alliance for Popular Resistance) , two hostile 
 factions rivaling over the control of said nation. From there on out, excluding a few twists and 
 turns, the game falls into a monotonous routine of fetch quests and assassination missions. It 
 is worth mentioning that there are a few very cool story missions along the way, but the side missions 
 (the ones you can pick up while exploring Far Cry 2's rich world) are boring and repetitive, and 
 offer little incentive for completing more than 4 or 5 of them.
  
  Speaking of Far Cry 2's world, exploring the beautiful sandbox version of an African nation is 
 both fun (at first) and breathtaking. The landscape is amazingly detailed and lifelike, with wide 
 savannah plains, thick jungles, and even the occasional desert. Every environment has a unique 
 and distinctive look to it, and the transition between them is so natural, most of the time you 
 won't even notice it. Even with all those varied environments, it is still a bit difficult to find 
 your way around the vast African landscape. To your aid comes the navigation map; it shows various 
 useful icons, such as bus stops, gun shops and even health pickups. The map itself is quite dynamic, 
 and scouting an enemy stronghold before attacking it will add certain information to the map, like 
 vehicles (that range from small cars, through assault jeeps, to large trucks) , ammo piles for you 
 to blow up or loot, and snipers.
  
  Driving around the 50 something square kilometer map (s) can get a bit tiresome at a point, given 
 the fact that there are checkpoints (not the good kind) scattered all over it and driving through 
 them seems to upset the locals, who are obviously armed. This makes for a very annoying obstacle 
 on the way to an objective, since every time you walk/drive past one of these checkpoints (and 
 it is really hard to avoid them, even when they are marked on your map) it triggers a gunfight 
 with the local guards and potentially with surrounding patrols. Thankfully, the most common vehicle 
 in the game comes with a mounted gun, so it is possible to keep these fights short, by stopping 
 the vehicle, manning the gun, and ripping all those around you to shreds. But it still gets annoying 
 to go through this every single time; clearing a certain checkpoint of guards (and valuables) isn't 
 worth the effort, since they will re-spawn there on your drive back, forcing you to do kill them 
 all over again.
  
  Luckily, alongside the annoying guard-filled checkpoints, your map also shows the location of lightly 
 guarded safe-houses. These little huts are usually hidden from the main roads, and offer a chance 
 to stock up on ammo and health, with the possibility of getting a good night sleep, a way to fast-forward 
 the night and day cycle. This cycle, along with the dynamic weather system is probably the best 
 feature in Far Cry 2. A minute in real time equals to approximately 5 minutes in game time, so 
 in one gameplay session of 5 hours you can see a complete cycle of dawn-dusk-dawn. Admittedly, 
 for those who wish to take the more stealthy approach, waiting 3 hours till sunset can be a bit 
 of a drag. Here is where the fast-forwarding comes in handy; just set your watch to the desired 
 hour and a nice little transition scene will play, portraying the passing hours in a beautiful 
 dance of light and shadow. It is possible to do this at any time in the game, without any consequences, 
 even during missions.
  
  The one thing Far Cry 2 seems to put the most emphasis on is the realism in gameplay. You will 
 never, not even when driving or taking cover, leave the first person view, and there are a few 
 moments that the action will get so rough, you wish it did break the realism just a bit, so you'll 
 remember it is just a game. This allows for a much stronger connection with the character you play, 
 and with this connection comes the need to keep it alive; while healing from a serious injury, 
 your character will pause to take bullets out of its leg or remove scrap metal stuck in its arm; 
 there are quite a lot of these animations, and some of them are so horrible, it is hard to believe 
 that is it even possible to keep fighting afterwards. And when it is not possible, and your character 
 dies, it feels real enough to make you try and prevent it from happening ever again.
  
  Apart from the repetitive gameplay, there is only one major issue with Far Cry 2. This problem 
 isn't exclusive to it, and a few other open world action games suffer from the same affliction. 
 Far Cry 2's world is big, with a lot of beautiful sights to see and explore, but it has a big problem 
 when it comes to pacing. I'll explain: while exploring is part of the game, it takes forever to 
 get from one side of the map to the other (and most missions will require you to) , and apart form 
 the random patrol jeep and pre mentioned checkpoints, the map is almost empty of anything interesting 
 and, well, "actiony". Once you get to the objective it is all fine and dandy, but in between missions 
 there is hardly anything to push the player forward, and it is up to him to drag the game slowly 
 into the action sequences and firefights. We already established that the side missions are dull 
 and unrewarding, so with nothing left to do between the story missions, it is really difficult 
 to play Far Cry 2 for long periods of time, without getting seriously bored.
  
  On the upside, the game's graphics are top notch, and this makes this otherwise average shooter 
 a sight to behold. The lush jungles and savannahs turn the endless, tedious driving into a sort 
 of tour in the African wilderness, and with the addition of an ever changing landscape, Far Cry 
 2's graphics are undoubtedly the game's redeeming feature. The "Dunia" engine, developed especially 
 for the game, it perfect for the type of game Far Cry 2 is. After an intense firefight, the immediate 
 environment is totally different from its original state. Small buildings are left in ruins, the 
 ground is charred by explosions and fire, and dead bodies are strewn all over the place. The amazing 
 thing is that by the next time you'll drive through the same place, the signs of the fight will 
 still be there, but it will also seem evident that nature is regenerating itself, and damaged trees 
 and grass will start to grow back in a few days. This really adds to the reality factor the game 
 seems to cherish so much. The dynamic world is backed up by a verity of NPCs who look and act real 
 enough to pass as humans, with believable dialog and reactions. It is a shame that the one mysterious 
 and powerful character, "The Jackal", is so badly acted, with horrible and cheesy dialog and a 
 voice actor who apparently never heard of punctuation.
  
  Far Cry 2 is defiantly a good game, with a lot of well-done ideas, unique features and a state 
 of the art graphical engine, but sadly it does not live up to the hype it generated. More diversion 
 in mission objectives will have made this game one of the best games in 2008, but unfortunately 
 the repetitive gameplay and the frequently re-spawning enemies drag Far Cry 2 down to the land 
 of "close but no cigar". Still, it is not a far cry from perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PluggedValve
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was not complete upon release. It seems like they did not even test the game before release. 
 Almost zero MP community or hope for one. Cant play on the same server for more than 1 round. Very 
 disappointing, mostly because it has ALOT of potential. Moral: It should not have been released 
 at least until christmas, but i would say Jan or Feb would have been better. If you read their 
 website reviews and issues, there is 95% complaints and problems. There are very few compliments 
 and i think the compliments were the mothers of the developers trying to make their kids feel good. 
 Do not buy this game, until it is in the discount bin if at all. The SP seems like it has a good 
 story line and options, but it also has loads of problems according to the numerous complaints 
 on their site. I don't play SP much, but most posts are unhappy to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danz409
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  yes. that's right. if your failure with far cry 1, you will be disappointed when you play far cry 
 2, to find out it doesn't have the same format as far cry 1 and follows a "story" its more mission 
 based like Grand Theft Auto, and even feels ALOT like it. having multiple clans to work for and 
 you have to complete all missions to move to a new map area and complete those missions to finally 
 finish the game. and the ending is about as much story as your going to get out of the game. i 
 don't want to spoil it. but there's not much to spoil so. here goes. you basically find one of 
 the head mercs that are working for both sides and aid him and preventing people from leaving to 
 spread the disease so, you have a choice at the end to pay the boarder potrole loads of diamonds 
 to help or take a battery to the top of the hill next to it and blow it making a landslide blocking 
 it. ether way it ends with the same ending. if you choose to deliver the diamonds you are suppose 
 to shoot yourself afterwords but. i never hear a gunshot so. who knows how that ends. needless 
 to say. that's as much story as your going to get. each mission does however have its own small 
 story but NOTHING like far cry 1 and is a story you follow throughout the whole game. 
  bottom line. if your getting this and expecting a far cry 1 type game. its not. its completely 
 different. graphics however are SEXY as all hell. and multilayer is meh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Mo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  TrueScore: 8.4
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Audio: 9
  Story: 6.5
  FunFactor: 7.5
  
  Playing Far Cry 2 is an experience that can be compared to buying the second album from an 
 artist you loved the first time around. While the style is close enough to recognize, it's still 
 a different expression  for better or worse. 
  
  Mirroring the first installment of the series, Far Cry 2 returns to the single, alpha male character 
 in the lead role. Your character is charged with the task of hunting down and killing a suspected 
 arms dealer in Africa. Again, you can expect plot twists and intrigue with lots of action and cinematic 
 gameplay during the course of pursuing your goal. Other similarities include enemy mercenaries, 
 land vehicles, boats, camps, and checkpoints that are surprisingly reminiscent of the original 
 Far Cry. 
  
  While the game is touted as having open play, there are generally only 1 or 2 effective ways to 
 accomplish a goal. For example, the approach to most of the camps has a direct access and a rear 
 access. Either approach is feasible and after this initial strategic choice, your tactics are up 
 to you. Personally, I tended to utilize a long range reconnoiter and neutralize tactic and then 
 move into the camp with small arms to finish the task. The enemy AI was decent enough, and I was 
 surprised to find myself being flanked when I approached too close in an engagement. This forced 
 me to continually be aware of the terrain so that I could keep my back protected by natural barriers. 
 Engagements were fun without a doubt. Explosions, wild fires, arms fire, screams, and chatter all 
 contributed to the disorientation of confronting the enemy. The physics of the game really contributed 
 to the immersion and I found myself laughing at times when unexpected events occurred during combat. 
 For example, when a driver was trying to run me down with his truck, I turned and hit the truck 
 with a well-placed (i. e. lucky) shot from my grenade launcher. The truck exploded and flew into 
 the air, landing askew in the branches of a nearby tree. If that were not surprising enough, the 
 tree then caught on fire, with the leaves and tree trunk burning appropriately. The passengers 
 of the truck lay at the bottom of the tree, broken and crumpled, with their arms, necks, and torsos 
 twisted in a macabre tableau. Another memorable moment was when I decided to run a merc over with 
 my vehicle. He hit the hood of the car and was carried about 10 feet until I rammed into a rock. 
 Not only did I hear a ghastly crunch, but the weapon he was carrying flew off the hood of the car 
 and landed in the field behind the rock. In other words, the physics acted the way that you would 
 expect them to. It is moments and details like that that really contribute to the high gameplay 
 fun of Far Cry 2.
  
  Unfortunately, there are some drawbacks in this title. Others have mentioned, and I will confirm, 
 the repetitive nature of tasks as you progress towards your goal. The basic format was to receive 
 a task, travel to the task, complete the task. Tasks could be received from 5 sources  the main 
 factions, the armory, the medical supplier, a shadowy voice from a comm tower, or your friends. 
 Depending on which source you receive your tasks from, it will generally always be the same. For 
 example, the armory tasks were always intercepting an arms supply. The comm tower tasks were always 
 assassinating a target of opportunity. The medical tasks were always delivering travel papers in 
 return for receiving med supplies. Very little diversity, lots of repetition. Checkpoints were 
 always manned and you had the choice to engage or try to blow through and outrun with minimal contact, 
 but each checkpoint was virtually the same. While there was some variation in the faction and buddy 
 tasks, they still followed the same general format  approach a camp and complete a target task. 
 While anything could occur during engagements, the underlying current which propelled you through 
 the game was disappointingly repetitive. 
  
  Another disappointing aspect of the game was the failure to fully capitalize on the atmosphere 
 of the African setting. Don't get me wrong  the scenery was beautiful, with sun cycles, vegetation, 
 and wildlife; it certainly looked like you were in an African safari. However, what was missing 
 was the horror and tension that should have been inherent in the story line. The story of an African 
 state in an escalating civil war is ripe with opportunity to display the psychological and social 
 horror of war. While we're tasked with tracking down an arms dealer, we never really get to feel 
 the impact that unrestricted arms would have on the populous of a country. In fact, there are almost 
 no citizens whatsoever in the entire landscape of the game. At one point, there was a chilling 
 effect when I was listening to a radio broadcast that sounded eerily similar to the infamous Rwandan 
 broadcasts that implored neighbors to eliminate those opposed to the regime. However, this was 
 the only point in the game that touched upon anything close to pyscho-social horror. The rest of 
 the game was entirely devoid of psychological atmosphere, and hence, failed to make any relevant 
 commentary at all regarding the social and political events in the game's story. While this may 
 seem beyond the scope of a game, one need only look at how well BioShock incorporated game and 
 story elements to make a broad commentary that was both enjoyable and poignant. A final attempt 
 was provided at the conclusion of FarCry 2, but by the end, the effort seemed empty and weak. Many 
 have expressed disappointment in the conclusion of the game, and I think that the weak attempt 
 to present moral commentary in the absence of any rising tension throughout the game contributed 
 to the disappointing interpretation. 
  
  In the end, Far Cry 2 is an enjoyable ride while it lasts. Strong gameplay and action, coupled 
 with top-notch graphics helps contribute to the "wow" of it all. However, lengthy repetition and 
 an empty story leave you with the feeling that something is missing. I would highly recommend the 
 game for the experience, but don't expect for it to be immersive or even compelling. Unfortunately, 
 with titles such as BioShock that incorporate intense gameplay with solid storytelling, the standards 
 have certainly been raised. I guess that leaves artists with a choice similar to that of other 
 mediums  to either be commercial or to make an artistic impact. Hopefully more will choose the 
 latter  for better or for worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  i was expecting a good amount from Far Cry 2. i never played all the way through the original Far 
 Cry, but that was even way better than this in the gameplay aspect of it. 
  
  Graphics
  fc2s graphics are done very well, and the shadows and lighting are extremely realistic. the audio 
 is done quite well also, like when you throw a grenade you hear the BOOM of it and see all the 
 leaves in the trees fall down around the grenade. It takes a good PC to run this, which i have, 
 and it ran pretty smooth. the worst bug i encountered was when there was a guy actually stuck in 
 a rock and he was shooting at me while i was taking damage. that was really annoying and i just 
 ended up leaving the area because it was so annoying trying to kill him.
  
  Gameplay
  Fc2 starts out with a good premise: run around doing fun missions in an open world environment, 
 and have a good graphics engine to run with it. it does that, but the game gets way too repitative 
 after playing it through for 20 hours. it gets to the point where you look at the map and try and 
 steer away from the checkpoints set up by baddies. another thing about this game is realism. on 
 one merit, its over the top with you ACTUALLY getting malaria and having to take pills for it, 
 but on the other hand, everyone will shoot at you except the mercenaries in the towns but besides 
 that you are everyones' enemy. and that kinda sux actually because there is a lot of guys in the 
 world, and they respawn pretty quick. really, this game can get downright boring cause its so repitative, 
 and uneventful, like the story
  
  Story
  The story in this game is even weaker than the gameplay. youre sent to kill "the jackal" an arms 
 dealer to two major african gangs, and you have to do missions for the gangs so you can trace their 
 doings back to him, and the ending was kinda stupid and didnt and felt tacked on
  
  Overall, this game felt like a unfinished product. i was surprised to see all the good reviews, 
 but the best, most honest review so far was the one from yougamers. com, and it nailed it. i really 
 dont think this game is that great at all, and i wasted 21 hours of my life playing it. dont make 
 the same mistake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRoss_1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game for a long time, and now that I've played it for a few hours 
 I can say that I'm very disappointed! Great graphics, sounds, weapons and animations are completely 
 ruined by the absence of storyline - I've completed about 20 mission and all of them exactly the 
 same!!! - go there- kill that guy type. There's nothing new besides the weapons and the combat 
 system isn't the best: enemies are pretty dumb and sometimes they don't see you a meter away, but 
 sometimes they can easily spot you from 50 meters, while you are tacking cover behind a tree/bush. 
 
  
  Another extremely frustrating thing is that enemies continuously respawn, so clearing out guard-posts 
 is completely useless and every minute or so while driving on the road you'll be 'ambushed' by 
 4WD with a machinegun, or simply a crappy car with one guy in it: while being very easy to defeat 
 - imagine that happening every 30 seconds of driving on the road - while being completely useless, 
 its also extremely annoying and plainly dumb. Every time you are 'ambushed' you have to get out 
 of the car of get on the mg, kill the guy/car, then get out, fix your car and resume you trip once 
 again - you have to repeat that process every 1-2 minutes of driving on the road.
  
  Finally this is nothing like Farcry or Crysis - there's no storyline - its more of a crappy version 
 of GTA: JUNGLE, which is very sad, because this game has A LOT of potential and could have been 
 one of the best games, if it had some decent storyline and mission system 8 ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F-T-S
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Having just bought a brand spanking new PC at the time, I was in a rush to find some technically 
 impressive games to give a whirl. Never getting the chance to play the original in all its glory 
 and with only touches on the various dumbed down console versions, Far Cry 2 seemed perfect. 
 
  
  Eager to play it I installed it, and immediately started the game up. The campaign allowed me to 
 choose a character although I learnt it really made no difference who you picked in the end ,the 
 characters you didn't pick still crop up in the game to lend assistance and give you tedious missions.
 
  The game started well I thought, wake up in a hotel room, gun shots and all sorts of noise coming 
 from outside as a full blown gun battle erupted in the street outside the characters hotel. This 
 was really only one of three moments I can really recall as memorable and fun aspects of the game. 
 As soon as I got onto the main game and started undertaking the missions I found myself bored, 
 the same missions again and again. Respawning check points also litter the land, and the rate at 
 which they respawn makes it pointless and tedious to even bother clearing the guards out of them.
 
  
  Of the features I did like, the first time you make a buddy (one of the characters you didn't pick 
 to play as will become your buddy and if you 'ready' them by meeting them at safe houses will help 
 you out with the fighting) and the first time you get into something a bit more than you can handle 
 and you think your dead, your buddy turns up guns blazing and ready to help you out. It is a nice 
 touch but was underused since you really don't care too much about these random people as they 
 are never fleshed out. Another neat little feature for me was the map and gps system, basically 
 to see a map you need to put your weapons away and actually pull a map out as if it were one of 
 your weapons, it adds a touch of realism. But this for me was where the game fell down, the realism 
 it did have started to grate on me and made the game a bit boring after I had done a handful of 
 missions. Much like Assassin's Creed for those of you who played it, the missions are all repeated 
 over and over with slight variations in some situations and there is only so many times I can blow 
 something up that means nothing to you or the character before I become bored.
  
  In short, it's a decent action game, has good gun battles, good graphics and a large open world 
 but the game allows you little leeway in what you do in this 'open world'.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewilderedRonin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 bears little in common with its Crytek developed predecessor in terms of gameplay, but 
 does keep some elements. The sandbox approach is kept and Far Cry 2 actually offers a much more 
 "free roam" approach than the original Far Cry did. The limited weapon inventory and being able 
 to rearm yourself with your fallen foes' weapons is also kept. After that, the similarities end.
 
  
  Visually, Far Cry 2 is very impressive. It can't compare to Crysis, but not many titles can. Irregardless, 
 the scenery is lush and vibrant with swaths of dried, swaying grass and various brush foliage. 
 The trees are a bit odd looking at times with some noticeable polygon jutting, but this is somewhat 
 forgivable and not much to dwell on. The textures on the character models are incredible and look 
 absolutely fantastic. The clothes have realistic texture patterns on them instead of flat colors 
 with bump mapping and even the skin has noticeable pores and blemishes that add a wonderful depth 
 of realism. The textures on the weapons as the begin to wear down looks great with noticeable color 
 fading of the wood grain, chipping of the metal matte, and encroaching rusting that help provide 
 a very clear indicator of how the weapon is holding up. 
  
  Light diffusion is completely fantastic looking with varying tones of diffusion realistically changing 
 as the sun rises, sets, and as weather effects the light's strength. The clouds and weather patterns 
 look gorgeous and at times are so realistic that it truly provides for some great "wow!" moments. 
 The beams of light as they poke through the foliage and as the shadows from the swaying trees move 
 across the rippling grass are, at times, purely breathtaking. 
  
  The most glaring exception within the visual s department would have to be the water effects. The 
 water's alpha texture looks very plain and looks like an obvious texture pattern. When your character 
 moves through the water, there is no disturbance of the surface and only a few very poor looking 
 water splash objects pop up. Underwater, interestingly, is another story. The effects applied when 
 you are underwater are fantastic looking and some of the more realistic examples I have seen in 
 any game to date.
  
  The audio is a bit of a mixed bag with some of the weapons giving a bit too high-pitched of a snap 
 when fired, but most of the weapons sound fairly accurate. Ambient noises are well done and add 
 a great element of immersion into the game environment. The music is well done and provides a sense 
 of mood that shifts depending on what is occurring. If you are spotted, the music will up its suspense 
 giving you that extra sense of tension. The music itself is, however, fairly mundane and gets old 
 fast. A nice touch would have been been to allow for the player to turn on the radio when driving, 
 which you spend a lot of time doing. But I'll get to that later. 
  
  The voice acting in this game, while well done, was cut in a very, very, very odd and annoying 
 manner. The sound team cut out most of the pauses in between sentences and slightly sped up the 
 dialog, making the characters sound as if they are methamphetamine addicts spouting out run on 
 sentences. At first you might think something's wrong or that it's a bug. It's not. It's just the 
 way, for some incredibly odd reason, that they cut the dialog. Some might find this funny, but 
 I found it very immersion breaking and aggravating. Because of the speed the in which the lines 
 are delivered, it is sometimes hard to hear what the hell they are saying due to rushed manner 
 in which they are jumbling and mumbling their words.
  
  The weapons animations provide a very visceral punch, giving the weapons a great feel to them, 
 and the death animations are very good as well. Some of the player animations are spot on, such 
 as reloading and unjamming your weapon. Others are very static, such as at the beginning when you 
 are given a ride into town. During this sequence your character sits in their seat like some kind 
 of mannequin, but this is forgivable given that we can at least see the rest of our body. This 
 trend of being able to actually see parts of your character besides their hands carries on in other 
 areas as well. Overall, the animation is very well done except in a few minute areas, and the overwhelming 
 majority is very fluid, well timed, and excellently implemented.
  
  All of this sounds good so far, right? And it is. However, it is when we delve into the gameplay 
 that things quickly go downhill. 
  
  The notion of having to replace your weapons as they wear down is a good one and gives an excellent 
 sense of survival and living off the land. Fortunately, you don't have to always rely on picking 
 up your enemies' defunct and decrepit weapons. As you unlock (via missions) and purchase more weapons 
 from the Gun Shop, you can go into any armory on the map (there are several scattered about) and 
 pick up a brand new gun. It only takes one purchase and you are now host to having infinite replacements 
 of that weapon at your disposal. You can also buy upgrades to guns to increase accuracy, reliability, 
 extra ammo, and even boost vehicle repair or buy a camo upgrade to help hide better. Extra currency, 
 in this case uncut diamonds, can be gained by doing assassination missions from an unknown voice 
 received by contact via cell tower missions. Regular missions will also reward you with diamonds.
 
  
  The buddy system is a nice touch. When you die but are out of harms way, your second buddy will 
 come to your rescue and drag you to a safe place to recover. Your best buddy will often give you 
 side missions and easier ways to complete many of the main story missions. This secondary ways 
 can sometimes make a big difference, other times they are merely tedious tasks that only make the 
 missions way longer than would normally be. When not taking other missions, you can take on side 
 missions from your buddies by talking to them at their hangout, Mike's Bar. Keep in mind that your 
 buddies can die, and when they are injured you will need to come to their rescue. You are given 
 the choice to either revive them with a syrette or to end their life with dignity by shooting them. 
 If this happens, your previous buddy will be replaced by another friend, if you have found and 
 rescued more of them.
  
  You are given several syrettes to heal yourself, and these may be replenished by various medkits. 
 Small boosts of health may be gained by drinking bottles of water. It is easy to know what is usable 
 as it will often glow with a faint, strobing yellow tint. Once your health gets below a certain 
 point it will continue to drain very slowly and you will be required to administer emergency first 
 aid to yourself to stop the health drain. The emergency first aid has random actions such as pulling 
 out bullets with a knife or pliers and resetting broken bones. These moments can be a bit much 
 and might make some with weaker stomachs a bit queasy, but it adds a great sense of desperation 
 to the fight to stay alive. The syrettes can make some of the missions fairly easy, as they will 
 immediately boost you to full health. However, going in akimbo with guns blazing will often times 
 result in you getting pumped full of lead so fast you won't have time to heal yourself. When applying 
 emergency first aid, the animation will reset if you are shot, requiring you to attempt it again. 
 Usually this means simply hiding behind a car or some trees.
  
  The dialog for the missions are sometimes interesting, but the missions themselves... not so much. 
 Many of the main missions are simple "go here, kill this guy" missions with a few fetch and retrieve 
 missions. They are generally challenging, though, and will require you to devise a good plan of 
 attack before you make your strike. An interesting addition is the ability to start brush fires, 
 which will spread amongst the dry grass and trees, which can work very well to funnel the enemy 
 into traps where you lay in wait.
  
  Where the game begins to fall apart is in its scope. Yes, the world is large and impressive, and 
 the procedural storyline is a very interesting approach that gives the impression of a unique experience. 
 However, that is quickly revealed to be a facade, with much the content simply being the same but 
 spoken by a different looking character and a different voice-set. The large terrain requires you 
 to drive, run, swim, and boat your way across the landscapes of grassy plains, broiling desert 
 and sweltering jungles. Sneaking by is an option, though stealth is much more limited in Far Cry 
 2 than in the original, with no option to go prone. You can crouch, but that's it. Various "hideouts" 
 are scattered about and can be unlocked once you clear them and they often contain health and/or 
 grenades and ammo as well as provide a place to sleep and save your game. Since you can save at 
 any time in the PC version, the purpose of these safe havens is slightly diminished, but you can 
 unlock storage creates to keep guns in, and once you put a gun in the crate it is available at 
 any and all of your safehouses. This can be useful to swap from, say, a sniper rifle to a machine 
 gun without having to travel too far out of your way to a gun shop. 
  
  And limiting the amount of travel is something you will want to do more and more as you play the 
 game. The guard posts throughout the game will regenerate guards once you have gone far enough 
 out of their presence. This can quickly become annoying. You will find yourself clearing a guard 
 post, going to an objective point fairly close by and when you go back through the guard post a 
 few scant seconds later, it is completely repopulated. This requires you to clear these guard posts 
 constantly or else try and avoid them. It's not the regeneration that I have a problem with as 
 much as the way in which it is done so quickly and nonchalantly. I found myself killing the same 
 guard post over and over and over to the point where I didn't even want to play the game anymore 
 because I knew I'd have to clear the same damn 5 or so posts that I just finished destroying! Instead 
 of creating a sense of "living on the edge" and a feeling of constant struggle, the regenerating 
 guards provide nothing but headaches and a dread of having to do and engage in the same kind of 
 fight that you have several dozen times before. It gets old very quick and you will find yourself 
 using the same tactics repeatedly to clear the posts.
  
  The issue of these guard posts, plus the weird and incredibly distracting voice acting speed really 
 detracts from this title and hold it back from being something really groundbreaking and fantastic. 
 There are a lot of things the game does well, but the constant driving and having to destroy the 
 same guard posts over and over and over and over and over and over and over (get it yet?) makes 
 this game just too much of a chore and have you wondering, "do I really have to do this crap again?" 
 And the answer is, yes. Yes, you do have to do it again. And you will keep doing the same thing 
 until you're so bored out of your mind that your brain starts to hurt. And not just from the guard 
 posts, but even the missions as well.
  
  Aside from that, there are some issues with the PC version's key binding. For example, I bound 
 the "look at map" key to my middle mouse (default, 6) . But the only time it works is when I'm in 
 the car. I changed "use" to mouse 4, and it works to get me in and out of vehicles, but it doesn't 
 work for manning machine gun turrets and reverts back to the default "E" key. Unfortunately, there 
 is no way to fix this within the game's controls menu, so you'll have to do some config file alterations 
 yourself. Also, a large number of people have had problems with DirectX 10. For me, the game constantly 
 reverts to windowed mode. I hit alt+enter and it goes to fullscreen, but a few seconds later it 
 goes right back to windowed mode. This was fixed by using DirectX 9 mode, which isn't a big deal, 
 but I thought it worth mentioning.
  
  In the end, this game is a fun romp and is a very pleasant experience for the senses. The audio 
 and visuals make for a great title, and in many ways one of the better titles I have seen in quite 
 a long time. The gunplay is great and the weapon choices are bountiful and each weapon has significant 
 advantages and disadvantages, making each choice count. The combat feels visceral and really gets 
 the blood pumping due to its frenetic experience. All of these great and wonderful things, however, 
 are quickly overshadowed by some very poor game design decisions that provide so much forced repetition 
 that I found myself completely unable to get excited about the game, or even slightly wanting to 
 pick it up and play again. 
  
  You might have noticed that I used the word "repetitive" a lot in this review, and that's because 
 so much of the game is just that, extremely repetitive. Even for a shooter, where things do tend 
 to easily get to feel like "same old, same old" the redundancy in this title is simply overwhelming 
 at times. All of which holds Far Cry 2 back from being a 10/10 game and relegates it to a game 
 that I, honestly, would only recommend buying if you can score it for $30 or less, and definitely 
 not for the release price of $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  If I had written this in the first 10 hours of play I'd have given it a 5-6 overall rating. It's 
 hard to admit that maybe I needed a little more hand holding to start with. I definitely felt lost 
 for a bit and didn't know where to go. Once I realized that this was a FPS that played like a Role 
 playing game, I settled in and really got into the game. Now that I get it, I am looking forward 
 to playing it again from the start. Hence my rating of "grows on you" and "9.0" which might not 
 usually go together. 
  
  It's definitely worth owning, just think Role Playing game, main quest, side quests etc... and 
 don't expect a constained serial story line.
  
  Pros:
  Great Graphics and sound
  Decent story line
  Vehicles are fun to drive... for a while (see cons)
  Can approach missions 
 many different ways, allows a lot of personalization and creativity.
  Lots of realism, the grass fires, the bullets exploding, the guns jamming, etc... add a lot to 
 the game. 
  
  Cons
  You have to drive everywhere... it gets really old especially when every 5 secs someone is driving 
 up on you and shooting at you. (see next con) I know you can take a bus and avoid this but what 
 fun is that, taking a bus everywhere.
  
  Everybody, and I mean everybody shoots at you. This is ridiculous. If I am working for one faction 
 or another, or just driving along minding my own business, why the hell does everyone shoot at 
 me. I can see as I get close to a target or a base of some kind but everyone!!
  
  It is really hard to figure out where you're getting shot from. I had a really hard time finding 
 some bad guys, I was getting shot but couldn't figure out from where.
  
  Guards regenerate at the guard stations way too fast. Not very realistic. it should take at least 
 1/2 a "game day" to regenerate. 
  
  Finally the Malaria thing gets really old too. I guess it adds realism, my Aunt lived in Africa 
 for 30years and has malaria, but getting the pills becomes a distration rather than adding to the 
 play.
  
  Ok, I went off a little there. Yes there are some frustrating parts to the play but the realism 
 and the personalization and replay ability make the game worth playing for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegreatman2010
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  perfect graphic and characters but the stupid point is iam doing the same missions in the same 
 places ubisoft annoy me
  iam angry of it is there is no enough ideas in there brains to think how to make amazing story 
 they should be killed in the path room soon i will give reward for killing that person who decided 
 to make that story perfect graphic and characters but the stupid point is iam doing the same missions 
 in the same places ubisoft annoy me
  
  iam angry of it is there is no enough ideas in there brains to think how to make amazing story 
 they should be killed in the path room soon i will give reward for killing that person who decided 
 to make that story
  perfect graphic and characters but the stupid point is iam doing the same missions in the same 
 places 
  ubisoft annoy me
  
  iam angry of it 
  
  is there is no enough ideas in there brains to think how to make amazing story 
  
  they should 
 be killed in the path room soon 
  i will give reward for killing that person who decided to make that story 
  perfect graphic and 
 characters but the stupid point is iam doing the same missions in the same places 
  ubisoft annoy me
  
  iam angry of it 
  
  is there is no enough ideas in there brains to 
 think how to make amazing story 
  
  they should be killed in the path room soon 
  i will give reward for killing that person who decided to make that story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Van_manowar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  1. Graphics (0-10) - Absolutely 10. Perfect graphics.
  
  2. Optimization/Performance (0-10) - Again 10. Perfect frame rate. It can be played even on slower 
 machines.
  
  3. Audio (0-10) - Very realistic voice acting. Suitable music. Can't give less than 10. 
  
 
  4. Gameplay (0-10) - 9 .The map is huge and you can't view the full map. Just small pieces of 
 it. And sometimes you can get lost. Sometimes you must travel a lot, so you will often need a vehicle. 
 This is not so boring, because your enemies are everywhere and they will attack. There are many 
 weapons in the game. Really, MANY weapons. If you kill an enemy you can pick up his weapons, but 
 this is not a good opinion this time. The weapons they carry are old and in bad condition. So you 
 have to buy weapons from weapon stores. By completing SIDE missions for the weapon seller you unlock 
 new and more powerful weapons. In the meantime you must find someone who can provide medicine, 
 because of your sickness. So, the game is not boring, you have many things to do. 
  
  5. Story (0-10) - 8.5. It doesn't means the game is not interesting. You are a mercenary and you 
 must kill the big bad guy. You need to kill many people to get to him.
  
  6. Artificial Intelligence (0-10) - 9. The behavior of the people is realistic. They are taking 
 cover, getting in a vehicle, trying to kill you in many ways. When you wound an enemy but don't 
 kill him, he is taking a pistol and trying to shoot you, or somebody else is picking him up trying 
 to take him to safe place.
  
  7. Physics (0-10) - 10. Realistic running, driving, killing, healing. 
  
  8. Realism (0-10) 
 - TEN of ten. For example in night time your enemies are weaker. They can't see you so easily like 
 in the daylight. Very realistic kills. 
  
  9. Total (1-10) - 10. It's just a perfect game. The only weakness of the game is the too big area 
 and big travels by vehicle. It's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pratik_pbr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shankar_461
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Hi guys..
  
  First of all this game very much better in gameplay, graphics and environment compared to crysis.. 
 The concepts that make the game more interesting are buddies, Checkposts in which APR and the UFLL 
 men gaurding.. Then coming to the other side the most irrelevent concept is collecting diamonds. 
 The mission in this game is just as simple to kill "Jackal" , but these childish things of collecting 
 diamonds make the gameplay slow.. 
  
  The other main mistake made is the sniper view. In crysis or say COD 5 when we look through sniper 
 the slight shake will be there which is not there in FC 2. 
  
  I read many comments telling that many guns must have been added to the gamefor which my reply 
 is , how you guys expect that much specialised guns in such a deep forest like environment??
  
  Conclution..
  Many +'s and a little -'s .. My rating is 9/10..
  
  
  Meet you guys in 
 the next review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thor25br
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  As stated, the game is beautiful. Great rivers, falls, deserts, good looking objects, cars, and 
 weapons, anyway, it looks good. However, it's mechanics are soooo.... boring! You have to do the 
 same, all and all over again, over and over again. The shooting action is poor, you aim in the 
 head, shoot the head, and it only scratches the hard, butt headed enemy. Not to mention the miraculous 
 stuff. No really, this is great. Equip yourself with any sub machine gun and, pay attention, fire 
 one round. Yep, only one quick hit on the mouse. What will happen is that, fantastically, you'll 
 listen to TWO (minimum) gunshots. Well, ain't that great. Driving is rather ridiculous, the vehicle 
 control system is weird, like, it doesn't feel like a car, anyone who played Need for Speed knows, 
 anyway, it's not a driving game, although you spend looooong times driving. Bottom line, I expected 
 more. That's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ras668
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  In interviews this game was said to require you to make difficult choices that would dramatically 
 effect your game play. That's just a blatant lie. Let me clue you in. No matter what faction you 
 chose to do a mission for, in whatever order, you will ALWAYS come to the same conclusion. Your 
 choices have little to no impact on the outcome of the game. Even the final big choice you have 
 to make, had no impact whatsoever on the endgame, which is immensely disappointing in itself. Aside 
 from the enormous flaw, it is a pretty game, not so much as Crysis in my opinion though. Combat 
 is exceptional, but becomes routine before too long. Overall I'd recommend waiting for the price 
 to come down before purchasing.
  
  (On a high note, I rarely encountered any crashes or glitches. Three cheers for Ubisoft actually 
 doing testing instead of leaving it to the consumer.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 single player campaign has its moments, but the redundancy and tiresome gameplay bring 
 the game down to mediocrity. 
  
  Pros: Open-ended environments; solid graphics; good sound field; plethora of objectives and missions.
 
  
  Cons: Some graphical glitches; very repetitive gameplay; no native widescreen support; weak characterization 
 and story. 
  
  This was one of my most anticipated FPS titles of 2008 and in some ways it lives up to it. In too 
 many other ways, however, it falls very short. Just for the fun of it, I re-played the original 
 Far Cry before receiving Far Cry 2 even though I knew that Far Cry 2 had no association and resemblance 
 to the original at all. They are totally different games with different stories, characters and 
 locations with only the name to oddly tie them together. To be fair . . . there are a few hang-gliders 
 in Far Cry 2, so I guess there ARE a few similarities. But, unfortunately, Far Cry 2 is a "far 
 cry" from the original Far Cry. 
  
  The basic plot of Far Cry 2 deals with two main warring factions attempting to take control of 
 Central Africa's resources and governmental powers. The main antagonist is a chap by the name of 
 The Jackel who is supplying arms to both side of the conflict, or so it seems. The objective of 
 the player's character is to assassinate the Jackel which is hoped will de-escalate the conflicts 
 and bring stability to the region.
  
  Some things work in Far Cry 2. There are very large free-roaming environments and a host of real-world 
 weaponry. Many of the objects are somewhat destructible. The graphics and sound designs are good. 
 There is a form of vegetation regeneration and day, night and weather cycles. All of that is fine 
 and dandy. Even the basic premise behind the story is okay albeit under-developed and confusing 
 at times. A few (very few) of the objectives and missions are fun.
  
  However, Far Cry 2 falls short in the following areas:
  
  1) Graphical glitches. Aside from 
 the "clipping" issues (which are in many PC games) I found several odd occurrences and annoyances. 
 One of the oddest occurred after I strategically eliminated the hostiles in a small guard post. 
 I was still receiving fire from somewhere, but as much as I scanned, I couldn't identify the shooter. 
 I eventually closed in on the source and found a hostile embedded in a huge boulder. The gunfire 
 was coming right out of the center of the large rock. Occasionally I saw a head and gun poke out 
 of the rock. I couldn't kill him, so I just left. There were several similar oddities throughout 
 the game such as floating bottles, and the like. 
  
  Far Cry 2 also suffers from some general shielding issues. Most of the time I could shoot through 
 foliage, boards or walls, but there were occasional episodes where a few leaves would block my 
 sniper shots. On a few occasions I threw grenades only to have them hit leaves in front of me l 
 and bounce back in my lap. They should have easily gone through the leaves.
  
  2) The main complaint I had about the game is the never-ending repetitive nature. Dozens of missions 
 were exactly the same. The only variation was the location. I go to the cell tower to get the assassination 
 order. Then I travel across the map to where the target stands. The targets all dress in grey suits 
 and carry brief cases or clipboards. They just walk around in loops until you kill them. Over and 
 over again it went. I also experienced some glitches with these missions. On several occasions, 
 I successfully killed the target, but the script wouldn't activate as "accomplished." The map still 
 showed the objective as open. The only way to continue was to accept another mission and abandon 
 the glitchy one. 
  
  Then there were the "destroy the convoy" missions. Again, most of these were across the map and 
 when you get to the target, you find a truck - usually with one or two guard vehicles - circling 
 an area over and over again. You blow it up and move on. After about 20 or so of these missions, 
 I began to think that I wanted my eight hours back.
  
  Then there were the idiotic malaria twists the developers threw in (to add some suspense to the 
 boring game, I guess) . You get some transit documents you must deliver and, in return, you get 
 the medication. Over and over it went. No matter where you were sent, the buildings were exactly 
 the same with the guys by the door and the same families in the back room. At this point, I thought 
 that the developers basically scripted three or four missions and then just looped them over and 
 over hundreds of times with tiny variations in location. 
  
  The only "enjoyable" missions were the mult-faceted variety where I had to complete several varied 
 objectives. These were usually given by faction leaders and, occasionally, by buddies. These were 
 challenging and fun, for the most part. Also, the very ending mission with the plethora of baddies 
 was a little more engaging (FINALLY some action after 40 hours of gameplay!) Unfortunately, these 
 types of missions were the exception, not the rule. I would say that 80% of the missions were of 
 the repetitive, redundant variety.
  
  The diamonds used for bartering was fine, but to hide them in little suitcases on top of boulders, 
 trees, and rooftops is rather ridiculous and, in my opinion, juvenile. Maybe that was added to 
 appease the twelve-year-olds. 
  
  3) The AI was inconsistent. Hostiles did pursue and flank, but not smartly. And it was very predictable. 
 The accuracy of the AI shooting was unrealistic. Often hostiles ran at full speed while I dodged 
 and swerved into brush fifty yards away and I was still hit numerous times. Yeah, sure. Sometimes, 
 I had to LOL as hostile vehicles flew off cliffs or into the rivers trying to get to my location. 
 Sometimes unarmed vehicles came at me and all I had to do was to shoot the drivers in the head 
 as they neared. Idiots!
  
  The spawning thing also was an annoyance. Obviously it wasn't meant to be realistic. I would destroy 
 a guard post and then return minutes later only to find the exact same guards alive and well again 
 and all the destroyed vehicles fully operable. I must have killed Joey the Guard like 238 times.
 
  
  4) No widescreen support. I was shocked when I found that widescreen was just cropped full screen. 
 Using widescreen takes full screen images and slices the top and bottom off and then stretches 
 them to fit the screen. What kind of cheap developer's shortcut was that!! I did find a tool to 
 correct it, but I expected something better from a premium 2008 FPS game!
  
  5) I saved fairly often - mainly because I didn't want to travel the 40 miles over the barren African 
 landscape over again if I died. But each time you save, the list has to "refresh" and depending 
 upon how many saved games you have, the refresh time could be substantial. I ended up having to 
 visit the "saved games" folder regularly to clear it out. 
  
  6) The night play was too bright. I'd rather have night actually dark. Stealth was non-existent. 
 I couldn't tell any difference buying the "camo" outfit for cover. No matter how silent I sneaked 
 up on a hostile and used my machete, the whole camp was immediately aware of my presence. They 
 missed a huge opportunity to implement a good stealth mode to the game.
  
  7) I was also disappointed that there wasn't more variety in the animals in Africa. I think it 
 would've added a lot of suspense to the game to include a few dangerous animals. I could just imagine 
 walking upon some lions and then having to run for my life or gun them down. It would've been hilarious 
 to be trampled by an elephant. It would've given the game a little more "edge" to it as well as 
 some reality to the environment. I also would've liked some moving trains and I was a little disappointed 
 that, at the airfield, I couldn't get into a plane to try to fly it. Even if it resulted in a crash 
 and death, it would've been worth it just to try to fly it.
  
  Because of the tiresome and repetitive gameplay, I have to knock off a good 3 points off the gameplay 
 score. After playing the game, I am leery about its replay value as well. There are no "wow" levels. 
 Everything looks pretty much the same. The missions are very repetitive and redundant. There are 
 really no memorable moments during the 40 hours or so of gameplay. Because of that, I have no motivation 
 to play the game again. Once through is enough. Without a doubt, the original Far Cry was better. 
 In fact, I could play that again right now and look forward to every level of that game. I would 
 score Far Cry 2 as follows:
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Gameplay - 6/10
  Story/Characterization - 6/10
  Replay Value - 5/10
  
  Overall - 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahmid_milad
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  the game is really good ,good FPS, graphics and good sounds as well but i hate the malaria thing 
 its kinda sucking the fun out of the game cuz you cant venture too far in the jungle fearing the 
 malaria will hit you again
  However is unbelievably fun to play, lots of weapons and toys, lots cars jeeps and land rovers 
 and tons of hidden diamonds the story is deep to and convincing enough and its not repetitive the 
 fact that you do favors so people give what you want is a great thing and if i forgot the graphics 
 are sooooo gooooood
  the combat and the AI is good but needs a little work but still very cunning , cuz sometimes the 
 enemy are really stupid and in the event of a sniper attack they will run toward you or just stand 
 still!!
  in the course of the game you'll make lots of buddy and you'll lose many some are trouble makers 
 .some are freedom-fighter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapcore20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  The open world and graphics are the strength of this game. The ability to complete a given mission 
 in the way you choose is a great plus, whether you choose to sneak in on foot, snipe from a distance, 
 or toss grenades/molotov's every which way possible.
  The AI is a mixed bag however. On foot, the AI reacts very well, with seeking cover from incoming 
 fire as well as advanced flanking tactics. The downside of the AI can be seen while driving between 
 points A and B. Not too many people would be willing to try and take out a vehicle with a heavy 
 MG with a unarmed hatchback yet the AI will attempt it every time. Furthermore, that hatchback 
 will continue to try and run you off the road til you get annoyed to the point you decide to take 
 him out, usually the said MG on the guntruck.
  While the open world is a strength, you will spend most of this game driving, which to me is a 
 big weakness. I at least have started avoiding all the crossroad checkpoints that I can because 
 after a while, you really do get tired of driving back and forth, having to kill the same guys 
 over and over again. In the beginning, it was great. Now, if I can't get around it, I usually crash 
 into the middle of it and use the guntruck to take everyone out.
  Overall, if you have the patience, it's a great game and gives the player all the opportunity to 
 complete missions however they want. If you are like me though, you find that you really have to 
 bear down to finish the game cause you quickly get tired of the long drives/AI cars/crossroad checkpoints 
 that become more of a hassle than aiding the enjoyment of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcmorgado
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  This is just to much of a history of bad releasing products just to be
  a simple coincidence...
  
  
  There is a huge amount of people around the world who bought
 
  this game that want answers or maybe a simple reply to there complaints
  about FarCry 2 unfinished game, if you go to the UBI forums here...
  
  http://forums. ubi. com/eve/forums/a/frm/f/1821007696
 
  
  you will see that people in all platforms are having a huge amount of
  problems and most are sound compatible related and graphic related and continued 
  Crash To Desktop 
 , corrupted saved games and more much more.
  
  
  It is not the first time that UBI launches a game with bugs, in fact I can not 
  remember a single 
 game that this company has released that I can say,
 there is one game without problems." but this game is just unfinished,
  and in my opinion wasn't 
 even tested correctly to check hardware and
  software compatibility., so instead of a serious work we have a rushed and
  unfinished game that 
 is now showing the problems related to that...
  
  For most people this game doesn't even pass the third loading intro screen,
  it freezes and forces 
 people to reboot the PC the hard way or just reset, there
  is a option when it reaches that screen , you can always wait and the game
  will keep loading 
 without loading with the intro music rolling and the spinning
  top left harrow spinning for hours until you finally decide to reset or reboot your
  machine...
 
  
  
  So I come here to this very good site from a trusted place like is Game Spot
  and see all good words about this game, and just had to leave the word
  that not all is apparently 
 what it looks like !
  
  I am one of the people that simply can not play the game cause it doesn't load
  after the blessed 
 third loading screen...
  
  And believe me , there is a lot of people , and I mean a lot with all this and more 
  problems 
 with this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grampy_Bone
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  The original Far Cry was a linear, mission-based FPS with wide-open levels allowing for a surprising 
 amount of freedom in tackling each challenge. Far Cry 2 is a true open-world game designed around 
 an FPS with surprisingly limited number of things to do.
  
  You begin the game by choosing one of nine male mercenaries to be your main character. This is 
 the first of many completely meaningless choices you will make in this game. The other eight characters, 
 plus three other women, will appear throughout the game as 'buddies' for you to recruit and work 
 with. Your character never speaks, and they all perform identically. There are no special skills 
 or stats or anything which differentiates each character. When you meet them in the game they will 
 each exhibit a unique and interesting personality, which is why it is so puzzling the person you 
 play as decides to remain mute. It just makes the overall story and its delivery that much more 
 incomprehensible.
  
  The game takes place in an unnamed African nation *cough*Sierra Leone*cough**cough* which is embroiled 
 in a civil war with two factions, the UFLL and the APR. What do each of them stand for? What is 
 the fighting about? The game never tells you. Your initial mission is to kill The Jackal, an arms 
 dealer who is selling guns to each side. As soon as you are dropped off in the first town you contract 
 malaria and wake up in a hospital bed with the first of many visits from the Jackal himself. He 
 talks fast and quotes Nietzsche and says a variety of mysterious things, then leaves. From there 
 you are introduced to each faction and the story ceases to make any sense. Ostensibly you are performing 
 missions for each faction in order to get closer to the Jackal, but even this objective falls by 
 the wayside, apparently forgotten about half-way through the game. Later on it becomes so nonsensical 
 it completely ruins all of the game's attempts at immersive storytelling. You are given no choice 
 but to work for both factions simultaneously and your character develops an almost insatiable appetite 
 for betraying people. Giving your character a voice and providing him with some kind of motivation 
 would have gone a long way towards making the story more engaging, but for the most part you are 
 doing stuff because... it's the only thing the game will let you do.
  
  The gameplay consists of taking missions, driving around, and shooting people. You are paid in 
 rough diamonds for your work which you can use to buy new guns and upgrades from an arms dealer 
 (the Jackal isn't the only one in town, it seems) . Your malaria flares up constantly, so you need 
 to find pills for that too. Everywhere you go, everyone will shoot at you, as little sense as that 
 makes. No matter which side you happen to be working for at the time, every person in the game 
 is always you enemy. This means that just driving around the countryside is at the very least a 
 huge hassle, and potentially incredibly dangerous. Checkpoints and patrols are encountered with 
 frustrating frequency, enemies pursue with unbridled determination, and despite the day-night cycle 
 bad guys respawn at every guard post the instant you walk away from one. It takes even a simple 
 thing like going from point A to point B and makes it a chore.
  
  The gunplay isn't too bad once you figure out the game's little quirks. You don't get a crosshair 
 when aiming but it wouldn't matter if you did, since the guns are obscenely inaccurate when fired 
 from the hip, requiring you to aim with the iron sights if you expect to hit anything. There are 
 a large number of weapons to choose from and once they are unlocked you can pick up an unlimited 
 supply of them from any of the arms dealer shops. You need to buy guns in the game because all 
 the enemy soldiers refuse to maintain any of their weapons so looted firearms will frequently jam... 
 but only when YOU fire them (your enemies never seem to have this problem... Hmm.) Guns are divided 
 into three categories and you can only hold one from each, but the sorting process doesn't make 
 a whole lot of sense. Why can't you have a sniper rifle and an assault rifle at the same time, 
 but it's okay to have a sniper rifle and a heavy machine gun? Some sort of cosmic gun karma or 
 something? Your foes take an alarming number of shots to kill which makes precision guns like the 
 sniper rifles practically required. The enemies do display a fair amount of battlefield prowess; 
 taking cover, flanking you, and such; and may not be quite dead after they fall down, instead crawling 
 to safety or pulling a sidearm and plinking at you. They do also have a disturbingly unfair tendency 
 to fire at you through walls, showing bugs in the game's actor detection systems. Their accuracy 
 tends to be all over the place though so while the game can get quite challenging, it never feels 
 unmanageable.
  
  "Immersion" isn't just a buzzword for this game but rather a bludgeon it will repeatedly beat you 
 over the head with. It uses a strict first person view at all times, which is fine except when 
 you are driving a vehicle, in which case it sucks quite a bit. Your map is displayed by holding 
 it up in front of your face in-game, something you will be doing quite a lot of. Your health regenerates 
 up to a certain point, and can be restored completely with a quick morphine injection. However 
 if your health is critical when you hit the healing button your character will perform some emergency 
 first-aid on himself, pulling a bullet out with a pair of pliers or snapping a broken limb back 
 into place. Car damage can be repaired by turning a single bolt on the radiator. These sorts of 
 things do almost as much to break the immersion as they do to enhance it. Seeing your character 
 snap an obviously broken arm back and then continue on right as rain is not immersive, it is a 
 stark reminder that you are playing a video game.
  
  Another interesting gameplay element is the buddy system. Saving other mercenaries in the game 
 makes them your friend and they will help you out on missions or come and rescue you if you die. 
 The way the game randomly picks the buddies out of the available pool, and then how they offer 
 you secondary objectives on your primary missions is really neat. Too bad it all ends up being 
 a waste. At a certain point in the game you are asked to make a seemingly tough choice, but it's 
 all a sham, the game turns out the same either way. At another point you and your bestest buddy 
 are captured and put in jail. You have the option of helping your buddy escape or abandoning them 
 and saving yourself, but again this choice makes no difference. It really boggles the mind how 
 the developers would try so hard to make this game seem open-ended, then force you down the same 
 path regardless. Why even implement the open-world design at all? What a colossal waste of potential.
 
  
  If there's one thing Far Cry 2 gets right, it's the graphics. The game not only looks good, it 
 also runs great (imagine that!) It even runs better in Directx10 mode than Directx9, which has 
 got to be a first. Day/night changes are spectacular, and the fire effects look realistic as they 
 blow across the grass and spread through buildings. The voice acting is top-notch, though all the 
 actors deliver their lines extremely quickly for some reason. The guns sound great, with appropriately 
 loud and satisfying BANG! sounds with every shot.
  
  Far Cry 2 will take at least 20-30 hours to finish, but a lot of that is repetitive and uninteresting. 
 There are a smattering of side missions to complete, such as assassinations and destroying convoys, 
 but it feels as if most of your time is spent just trying to get where you want to go, fighting 
 off yet another stupid patrol, or having to stop doing interesting missions because you ran out 
 of malaria medecine. There is a substantial multiplayer component, if you're into that sort of 
 thing. At it's best the game can be quite fun, but the main story is bitter and bewildering, and 
 the open-world gameplay is mostly tedious and wasted. Far Cry 2 seems like it could have been one 
 of the all-time greats, but instead comes off lackluster and disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syrio_neutra
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Most things that people find wrong with the game can be rectified by approaching the game from 
 a different perspective and not playing it for hours on end. Its true that the storyline isn't 
 really deep, but should it be in a game trying to be open and non-linear? yet its still there guiding 
 and i thought it was a pretty logical one. There is a lot of driving and definitely some repetitiveness 
 BUT if you break the game up instead of gaming for hours on end it doesn't seem quite as repetitive. 
 Also, you can approach fights in different ways, or boat instead of driving.. it really helps. Probably 
 the prettiest game I've ever seen, but that's more of a personal opinion. The AI maybe could have 
 been a little bit more refined, but at the same time, it was kind of realistic. Which is another 
 point i would like to mention, the realism vs enjoyment and playability i thought was absolutely 
 perfect. 
  
  Definitely not the intense fps some people were looking for as a sequel to the awesome far cry 
 1, but just incredibly fun and theres nothing else like it out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savemejeebus
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and environment are amazing. Everything else is pretty lame. The missions consist 
 of taking a job and then driving for 15 minutes to get to your objective. Along the way to your 
 objective, every single person you run into attacks you. All the missions are very similar involving 
 you having to kill someone or blow up a truck The AI is absolutely horrible and it takes about 
 10 bullets to kill an enemy. It also takes way too many bullets for you to die even on the hardest 
 setting. I don't know how many times I was able to machete two enemies that were driving a machine-gun 
 mounted truck without dying. Blowing up stuff is really fun and the fires are pretty sweet but 
 those are about the only redeeming qualities. The story is terrible and reminds me of a crappier 
 early Grand Theft Auto game. You don't care about any of the characters involved and there are 
 so many of them you can't keep track of them anyways. There are also tons of glitches. My game 
 got stuck at 88% and I was unable to progress because the door to my mission would not open. Ubisoft 
 has failed to address this issue which is VERY common. Half the time the enemies will be firing 
 at you but their backs will be turned, but somehow you are still being shot.
  If you like a game with no story, lots of driving and no shooting, lots of glitches this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlanoJim
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Game had some great qualities in terms of size of universe and graphics were pretty good. I did 
 spend a large amount of time completing the game, but could have done it much quicker if I had 
 not wanted to explore entire game. Thought storyline and ending were both lacking. When I did finish, 
 felt like I had wasted over 60 hours on a game that just wasn't much fun. Tasks and missions quite 
 repetitive and had no real ties or advancement to storyline. Some of diamond hunts frustrating 
 and really a waste of time. Second half of game better than first. Had nothing to do with original 
 Far Cry which I thought was quite good. Really felt the PC version did not take advantage of the 
 possible enhancements possible. Got the feeling Ubi-soft took cheap way out and simply ported over 
 the console game to PC - no ability to go prone, guard posts re-spawned almost immediately, AI 
 of enemy not very good, etc. Bottom line is that I would not spend the $50 game again and cannot 
 really give this game a high recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Bone_10101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I think it's important for me to state before starting off that I live in Africa, so I know what 
 I'm talking about. It seems to me that the problem with this game is that people outside of Africa 
 have their own ideas about what Africa's really like. If one just glances through the forums on 
 Gamespot one can easily see that people really have no clue what is going on in Africa. But enough 
 of that, on with the review!
  
  The game starts off with the player (that's you) choosing which character they want to represent 
 them in the game world. There are nine male characters to choose form, ranging from Africans to 
 Israelis to Americans. Female characters were not implement in the final product for obvious reasons 
 (that would be the voice acting and so on) . You won't encounter the character that you chose in 
 the game, once again, for obvious reasons. I went and chose the character that looked to be the 
 most irritating.
  
  At the start of the main story you find yourself in the back seat of an African cab at a small 
 airport in the middle of nowhere. Note that you can see your body. As you drive to the main town 
 (a ceasefire zone) , you are introduced to some of the local scenery and you get to look at some 
 fire. Pay close attention to the civilians you see walking past, as they are some of the last people 
 you meet that won't try to kill you on sight. On arrival at the hotel, you discover that you (gasp!) 
 have malaria and will for the rest of the game. You'll have to find the rest of the story out for 
 yourself.
  
  Let me just say that the graphics are beautiful. Never have I seen such an accurate depiction of 
 the African landscape. It also runs brilliantly on most machines. You'll even be able to manage 
 a comfortable framerate on a 6800 on the lowest settings, so you guys with 6600s might even be 
 able to enjoy the game if you aren't too bothered about the framerate. Another things that I noticed 
 (or, rather, didn't) is that I didn't experience a single patch of choppiness. The game remains 
 smooth throughout no matter what. After some playing around with the framerate, I found out that, 
 in stead of becoming choppy, the game simply goes into a sort of slow motion.
  
  The sound is also bloody brilliant. I mean, it supports amBX for heaven's sakes. This is a game 
 that can only be fully appreciated with surround sound, or for us Africans, some decent headphones. 
 In my (unimportant) opinion, the game is a lot more tense without the cheap music that fires up 
 any time you imagine anything even remotely dangerous in the middle of an open field.
  
  The gameplay is solid. The enemies are smart enough to flank you and avoid fire and are generally 
 good at not dying. This is helped along by the fact that they are nigh invincible, unless you're 
 using a sniper, in which case shots to the ankle may often be fatal. A single enemy will gladly 
 hold at least a single magazine of pistol bullets inside his own chest for you. But don't think 
 he'll be as enthusiastic when you bring an LMG to the party.
  
  The stealth mostly works. Don't expect to stealth kill anyone unless you have a silent pistol, 
 MP5 or Dart Rifle, as the machete is useless. You have to whack your enemy over the head with it 
 and then stab them once they're on the ground, giving them ample time to call their mothers and 
 tell them to draft the will.
  
  The night/day cycle is brilliant, with beautiful sunrises and sunsets in true African spirit. Stealth 
 is a much more viable option at night, for obvious reasons. Enemy snipers will still spot you the 
 moment you blink too quickly though, so you might want to take note of that.
  
  The producers have really put a lot of effort into this game when it comes to the voice acting 
 of your enemies. There is Afrikaans. Very few of you have probably heard of this beautiful South 
 African language, but to me, it was a very nice touch.
  
  The map is huge. It is nowhere near the 50^2 KM we were promised, but it is still huge. I say not 
 50^2 KM, since the map is 6km long and 3km wide. I don't know if my math is wrong, but that's 18^2 
 KM.
  
  The fire is beautiful and realistic and so is the foliage. Hunting diamonds is fun at first, but 
 gets a bit stale later on. The inclusion of Jackal Tapes was a nice touch to give the game a backstory 
 and are also fun to hunt for.
  
  All in all I can say that Far Cry 2 is a wonderful game, if you can look past its various minor 
 flaws.
  
  -Tyron Maartens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draz3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game is very optimized, unlike Crysis! This game will give you good FPS even if your pc isn't 
 that good.
  
  The multiplayer isn't that good, they could have improved it a lot by adding a lot of things to 
 do in it for an example adding loads of weapons to choose from, customizing your character would 
 be really cool but it gets repetitive, you kill you die you earn diamonds you unlock a weapon, 
 you use the new weapon kill that's it, no more other things to unlock. They should have made a 
 clear rank, maybe a top 10 rank on main page who killed the most etc...
  
  The enemies are not that clever, they could have been improved a lot! I mean... come on.. this 
 is Far Cry 2, they should have worked on nemesis, made them clever... they hardly can see you, 
 that made me feel like I'm not really "shooting" the enemy...
  
  They should have put more guns in single player and multiplayer to choose from.
  
  Overall 
 the graphics are really impressive, it looks really real, one of the most realistic grapics I've 
 seen. The map editor is really fun to use, you can even make your own maps and play multiplayer 
 on it! The animations are quite good especially when he takes bullets out from his body when hurt... 
 the game is quite good but something is missing...
  
  I give it a solid 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syst3mW4rr10r
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Some of you, like me, may be a frequent viewer of Yahtzee's Zero Punctuation reviews and I'm going 
 to show how nerdy and obsessive I am by quoting his review of Crysis. "Something like the CryEngine 
 would be well suited to a game based around exploration." It seems Ubisoft have also been listening 
 in because that is what they seem to be trying to do in Far Cry 2 by plonking you in the middle 
 of a gigantic 50km^2 map of central Africa and then making it very sparsely populated. However, 
 they don't seemed to have grasped that there should actually be something worth finding in the 
 whole bloody map, instead of the occasional militant roadblock and a handful of areas to fight 
 yet more militants in.
  
  At its core, Far Cry 2 is passable as an FPS; you run (or drive) around and shoot guys. There is 
 very little innovation in this department so I'll move on to what it does do differently; fire. 
 Fire physics and flame weapons seem to be the "in" thing in gaming, what with Alone in the Dark 
 and Call of Duty World at War proudly touting them in their press releases. However, I am led to 
 believe that AitD is rubbish and CodWaW's fire effects aren't all that sophisticated, but Far Cry 
 2 does a remarkable job with fire. Flamethrowers, molotovs, fuel barrels and occasionally grenades 
 spark fires that really are a lot of fun. OK, so apart from the flamethrower they aren't really 
 all that useful because the AI is clever enough to run away from fire and it can be hard to predict 
 where a fire will spread, but it looks spectacular and made me cackle with maniacal glee.
  
  Speaking of looking spectacular, being made from the CryEngine Far Cry 2 is of course beautiful, 
 coming from the same pedigree as Crysis. However, unlike Crysis, which basically killed my computer 
 on high settings, Far Cry 2 is less demanding on hardware and still looks truly epic. The environments 
 are very nice as well, though there are some problems with them. For one, the promised blend of 
 jungle, savannah and desert is sadly lacking; pretty much everywhere is jungle, with about 10-20% 
 savannah and a tiny bit of desert with nothing in it. This may sound like an aesthetic quibble, 
 but in jungles it is virtually impossible to stray off the roads because of all the trees, so the 
 50km^2 suddenly becomes about half of that.
  
  Despite the effective area being much smaller than advertised, the game is still needlessly big. 
 Whilst there are vehicles to drive around in and speed your progress, you'll spend at least half 
 of your time driving along endless dirt tracks with nothing on them going from one place to another. 
 Also, only one vehicle type is actually any good; the one with the machine gun on top (for obvious 
 reasons) , because very occasionally you will run into a militant checkpoint or militants driving 
 around as aimlessly as you. These guys, whilst not being all that bright or effective, can damage 
 a vehicle pretty badly in short order, forcing you to get out to repair it (which usually results 
 in you being run over) . Ultimately the massive game world is unnecessary; the game would have been 
 half as long and twice as good if it wasn't there.
  
  Far Cry 2's main problem, though, is its story/main quest. You are in Africa to kill an arms dealer 
 known as the Jackal who is supporting both sides in the civil war. To get his location, however, 
 you have to work for both sides for a very long time and complete missions until eventually you 
 discover his location. However, the two factions (UFLL and APR) are completely and utterly identical; 
 apart from the fact that they have different NPCs for leaders (who hardly ever leave their HQ buildings) , 
 their is absolutely no way to distinguish them; they both shoot at you on sight, both have the 
 same models, both drive the same vehicles and shoot the same guns. It really leaves you quite detached 
 from the experience when no matter how many missions you do for a faction, their footsoldiers still 
 want to kill you. Another big problem is that all the NPCs have similar sounding names and I couldn't 
 remember who was who or why I should care. Yet another one is that the NPCs dole out the story 
 in huge monologues as they give you missions, which really left me confused as to who I was working 
 for and who they were trying to double cross or blow up. The ending is also totally confusing; 
 I won't spoil too much, but characters double cross and change their priorities at apparently no 
 motivation. The Jackal himself is a total enigma, seeming to think himself the good guy and the 
 bad guy at the same time, and your character is strangely willing to obey him instead of just blowing 
 his brains out at the first opportunity. Ultimately, the story is confusing and unsatisfying, which 
 is the easiest and most foolish sin of an open world game.
  
  I suppose really Far Cry 2 is let down by its developers trying to be too clever for their own 
 good. I personally have no problem with linearity; it lets a dev write a much better game because 
 they know what you are going to do and when. However, non-linearity makes people get excited, so 
 they keep making non-linear games. However, the most annoying games of all are the ones that try 
 to fool you into thinking they are non-linear when they aren't at all. Far Cry 2 falls into this 
 category; you still have to do every single story mission and it helps a lot to do most of the 
 rest. The game would have been much better if they'd dropped a lot of the unnecessary fat (like 
 a large amount of the game world and the fire effects) and actually differentiated the factions, 
 allowing you to choose which or both of the them to serve. Or just drop the massive world and fake 
 non-linearity and just do a much more standard FPS. The story might have made sense then.
  
  All things considered, Far Cry 2 is a huge disappointment, its core FPS being nothing to write 
 home about, with a gigantic game world and nice fire physics basically seeming to be a distraction 
 from a confusing and unsatisfying plot. Unless you really need to set stuff on fire, buy another 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  So lets see what has Ubisoft done after their 9.1 User Rated game Prince Of Persia - The Two Thrones 
 in 2005. They ruined the Splinter Cell franchise with Double Agent. They made a Prince Of Persia 
 Rip Off named Assassin's Creed which was so damn Repetitive that i had to tear my Hair Apart. This 
 really makes me fear about Ubisoft's best Franchise Prince Of Persia.
  
  So what is Far Cry 2? Is it better than Far Cry 1? Is it atleast Good? Are Ubisoft BACK ON TRACK? 
 Nope! it misses the smoothness, story, rich environments of Far Cry 1.
  
  Just like Assassin's Creed this game is so close to a Perfect 10 or a 9.5 atleast but yet so Far. 
 8.5 Gamespot is CORRECT Rating.
  
  My actual Rating is 8.9! Can't give that as Gamespot has forgotten Math, they now believe 9.5 comes 
 after 9 instead of 9.1!
  
  Anyways, what is far cry 2 about? 
  
  Far Cry 2 is unlike any other FPS game. Just like its Predecessor its an Original Concept and has 
 a Lot to offer which no FPS has.
  
  This game has stuffs which no FPS ever had. You can Brutally perform surgery on yourself when hurt. 
 Your weapons get jammed due to frequent use. The fire spreads in the Forest if started. Trees realistically 
 Shake and even Fall Down or Get Uprooted when you launch a Grenade or something.
  
  For its concepts alone i would put this game close to my favorite FPS of all time Half Life 2.
 
  
  The best part is that this game is Open world. It feels actually as if you are playing GTA in first 
 Person. You get to drive cars long distance.
  
  The Graphics again are not GREAT. The grasses SUCK like always. But their movement and especially 
 the DAY NIGHT Cycle thing in Far Cry 2 is amazing. You get to RAID Guard Posts and mark the locations 
 with your zoomer lens which looks damn stylish. The MAP is the BEST MAP EVER that i have seen in 
 any GAME. You carry it in your hand.
  
  You can do your missions at night or Day. You can actually do Combos using the short sword. A little 
 inspiration from Prince Of Persia i guess since its the same company.
  
  Your main objective is to kill JACKAL. You get to make Buddies even Girls who help you in time. 
 Since this is Africa don't expect any BABES. But when your health is Zero, when you are supposed 
 to die, your Buddy comes in time to save you. Best thing is once i by mistake thought my buddy 
 for enemy and launched a Grenade Launcher in her A**. She was almost DEAD. But i got the chance 
 to perform SURGERY on her. Amazing.
  
  The SIDE MISSION sucks a bit but its still WAAAAY better than Side Missions of A** Creed. You go 
 to some random place and that guy gives the same mission. Take out this Truck or that. Love to 
 do that mission though using Grenades, seeing the Truck go Heaven and the Trees Uprooted.
  
  WOW!! Some times i really Feel that this game has INVENTED its own genre of First Person Action 
 Adventure instead of First Person Shooter.
  
  The Weapons in this game do require a SPECIAL MENTION. One of the best Weapons. You can store them 
 in a crate. Frequent using will JAM your weapons. It can be frustrating and also FUNNY when you 
 are in front of 10-20 Soldiers and just when you are about to kill them, your weapon jams or even 
 breaks, you get malaria at the same time lol. My favorite weapons are the Grenade Launcher, Flame 
 Thrower and ofcourse the Best is the Rocket Launcher (Advanced one) . But the bad point is that the 
 AIMING sucks sort of. Its no where close to Half Life in terms of the smoothness of aiming. Still 
 its not bad. Manageable.
  
  Okay i have edited my review. This is the final version. I have COMPLETED FAR CRY 2 on my PC and 
 it lags like hell. You need a 8800GT MINIMUM. I have 8600 GT 512mb and thats not Enough. This game 
 took me exactly 31 Hours to Finish.
  
  The Story in this game is so-so. You have friends and some of them will turn back on you. The ending 
 is not EPIC. But it doesn't Suck like it did in Assassin's Creed. You have alternate endings or 
 Two endings alias Warrior Within. 
  
  Ubisoft have worked VERY VERY HARD on this game (much more than Prince Of Persia, Splinter Cell 
 or Assassin'c Creed) and it Saddens me to see their game get below 9.
  
  Overall, this game just like Assassin's Creed looks GREAT and the concepts are a MASTERPIECE. But 
 it still Fails to Deliver that Perfect Punch. Its not a bad game by any Means. If you have the 
 Stamina and 25-30 Hours of time do play this game. Its really a good if not great game.
  
  Lastly, this could have been the Greatest FPS ever and possibly the Greatest Game Ever but its 
 Failed. But in the end its not a Bad Game at all to check out.
  
  P. S. Ubisoft, if you do plan to make Far Cry 3, please improve aiming, A. I and the credits music 
 of FC2 simply was the Worst ever. I had fun playing this game. Thanks for reading my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkuchan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  This game, although disappointing because it doesn't follow the storyline of the original FarCry 
 is still a rather pleasant detour from Crytek. Unlike Crysis, you are not faster, not tougher, 
 and you are not stealthier (well until you get some upgraded weapons) , than the AI counterparts 
 you have to repeatedly beat in small waves. Although the Physics and the graphics aren't as smooth 
 as Crysis, this game's huge draw distance is only realized at 1080P on a large HDTV. Other things 
 I like about this game is that they added 'heal animations' where you fix your wounds, ammo is 
 plentiful if you don't waste too many shots missing your targets. Besides Sniper Elite, this has 
 to be my favorite sniping game. With 3 different snipers and and endless supply of bad guy geurilla's 
 this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufobob1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 was pretty good, but it wasn't as good as i'd thought it would be. And making a map takes 
 forever, what's stupid is when you make a map because there's boundaries and it says get back to 
 the fight. Multiplayer is pretty good to, but people are really good on it. I beat the game pretty 
 fast and i'm only 11 yrs old ,but i'm really good at video games. I could of beat it faster, but 
 i didn't always play it. The game was pretty cheap because there were like 50 million guard posts. 
 I know someone that's been to Africa and it's sad and nothing like Far Cry 2. The missions were 
 pretty cool, but you had to travel halfway across Africa. It's dumb how there were no carnivores, 
 that's so unrealistic. The carnivores will probably eat you, if there were carnivores in Far Cry 
 2 it would just make it harder. And I like challenges, but this wasn't much of one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  i see the main flaw was ubisoft, if crytek had done this, it could have been amazing as crysis 
 and the REAL farcry. what i mean by that is, this game has NOTHING WHATSOEVER! to do with the original, 
 hell like i said, not even made by the same people. ubis name was on farcry, yes but crytek was 
 the real artist. crysis was a huge success, their games being rated as some of the best shooters 
 of all time, yet ubisoft's games get an average of 8 or lower. i dont believe this is a first person 
 shooter at all. this has RPG written all over it! you go out, and do "missions" for people and 
 in exchange, they give you medicine for your malaria (a completely unnecessary addition to the 
 game that can get in the way of the action) , or diamonds (money which you buy stuff with -.- RPG 
 HINT!) and unlocking weapons.
  
  all these mission things get on my nerves, all the missions are the same thing, for weapon unlocking, 
 you assault a convoy somewhere on the other side of the map (the game is all on one map, RPG! FPSs 
 have individual levels. not one big world!) sure, theres fast travel, they also had that in many 
 RPGS!!!!!!!!!! but you have to be at a bus station for it.
  
  driving is the worst part of the game by far in F2 (its farcry without crytek, therefore its no 
 farcry. it wasnt so terrible in farcry because you can see the things around you and enjoy the 
 experience, but in far - 2 its an african wasteland with no scenery to savor. the ABSOLUTE WORST 
 part of the game was that other mercenaries will come out of no where ramming you car and running 
 you over when you havent done anything to them!!!!!!! (this is a FPS element, but if they were 
 going to make it an RPG-ish thing, WHY MAKE EVERYONE HOMICIDAL!!!!!!!!!!!) i mean, wtf! they randomly 
 attack you out of nowhere for no reason!
  
  
  
  i havent played the multiplay yet, but i know its features, its got a little capture the flag mode, 
 a deathmatch, team deathmatch, and a capture several posts thing, in the end the captain on the 
 enemy team MUST be dead. 3 positions in all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Papitar
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2004, Crytek realeased a groundbreaking megahit called FarCry. It offered freedom never 
 seen before in a firstpersonshooter. The game played out on an tropical island.
  It was so popuar, there is a movie scheduled to be released in 2008. Don't know about the movies 
 present state though.
  Four years later a sequal was realeased by Ubisoft, Far Cry 2, which plays out in some unnamed 
 African nation. Too bad these games share nothing except for the obvious name. 
  
  The story is basically about a character you choose, who has to stop a man called Jackal, who has 
 been supplying arms to both APR and UFLL, who are in conflict. You end up doing jobs for both the 
 APR and the UFLL, but you cannot really earn either ones trust or join their ranks. The story is 
 pretty shallow, even though there are some epic moments.
  
  The game has main missions which progress the story for the most part, and then there are sidemissions: 
 buddymissions or weapondealermissions. They both give something back, but aren't neccessary at 
 all. They might even feel a bit shallow, and I think they were added later on. I ended up doing 
 all the weapondealer missions, because you get really fun and lethal weapons in the end. All missions 
 are extremly repetitive, and there is no diversity. The mission objectives are almost always on 
 the other side of the map, so you end up spending ten times more on the driving than on the one 
 minute mission. The cars don't give the sense of speed even though the cars meter says something 
 completly different.
  
  Guns are pretty well balanced, but you'll end up using explosive weapons and snipers for the most 
 part, since they are a bit overpowered both meaning an instant kill, where the other weapons need 
 four to eight hits for the guy to go down. This can pretty wierd since the game aims for realism 
 and the enemies are wearing t-shirts for the most part. You should buy your weapons, since the 
 weapons you pick up easily jam and aren't as good otherwise either. You can upgrade the weapons 
 that you but too. The gunplay itself is really fun since the weapons sound real and there is a 
 challenge in the whole.
  
  As I said above, enemies offer a challenge and see you from very long distances. If you pass them, 
 they'll come after you and hunt you down. They don't mess around. When put to hard difficulties, 
 this is one of the hardest "new-school" fpses there is, since you go down really fast. Using the 
 element of suprise is important, but you can't always count on there being a chance for an ambush. 
 The bad thing is, the enemies don't really get any harder, so you keep fighting the same guys over 
 and over. They do get better weapons, but that's about it.
  
  Being an open game, there are weapons and gear obtainable. You have four slots, one for a machete, 
 one for small arms (Deser Eagle, Mac10 a. s. o) , one for rifles, snipers and submachineguns, one 
 for special weapons like flamethrowers, machineguns and bozookas. There is a fifh slot which is 
 reserved for the map. It's the most vital object of your inventory, since you can't really remember 
 and navigate a map this big. You'll get used to watch the map all the time. You'll find the ideal 
 combination of weapons eventually, and that's when the game becomes fun! The inventory is actually 
 one of the best parts of the game. =) Don't misstake this for a RPG though, FarCry2 is a pure FPS!
 
  
  The map is, as you may heard, the biggest ever made to a FPS. The nature of Africa has been captured 
 really well and the visuals are stunning. If your computer handles it, you can crunch some eyecandy 
 from this game. The graphics aren't as pretty as Crysis, but they aren't far from them. The game 
 also has a complete day/night cycle, which is pretty impressive. If you like to sneak around, be 
 sure to do it at night. Fire and explosions are a big part of the game too. You can burn almost 
 everything, even though it's not permanent. You can strategize using fire, but you'll lose the 
 element of suprise. Your choice.
  Having the biggest map ever, FarCry2 _might _ feel a bit empty. Sure there are outposts/guardposts/crossroads 
 - you name it, but you still end up driving across the map with some occaisonal encounters. The 
 cities doesen't have that much atmosphere in them, and everyone seems to really hate you =)
  It's meant to be that way, but there isin't really anything special in the dialog.
  
  The healthsystem 
 is pretty cool. You have to use morphine to stay alive in the gunfights, and sometimes, the character 
 perform a painful operation, right in the middle of the battle. You'll go down if you don't take 
 cover, so do it. If you die, a NPC buddy might come and rescue you. He also stays and helps in 
 the gunfight.
  I didin't really do any buddy mission, so I'm not that informed on the whole buddy thing though.
 
  
  Your character has an little extra burden, since he gets malaria at the very beginning of the game. 
 You have to keep filling up your pill storage during the game to keep the attack under control. 
 Some may like this, some may not. I think it fitted really nicely to the game, even though the 
 missions to get the pills felt like a timesink.
  
  The saving in the game can be done either via blueboxes in specific houses, or by the "QuickSave" 
 option. I got pretty mad when i found out about the quicksaving, I though the blue boxes were the 
 only option... I don't know what the blueboxes are there for. Well, actually I do. There a result 
 of a consoleport, which is another bad thing about the game. There just is something which makes 
 me feel that it's a consoleport.. Don't know.
  
  I didin't really try out the Multiplayer, since I heard there just isin't anything special. It's 
 good to have there, but it definately isin't worth buying for. I count it as a little plus though.
 
  
  The game includes a Map Editor, which is in skilled hands a tool of God. Just search for the video 
 demonstration where they show different maps. It's not worth buying the game for, but it's fun 
 if you have the artistic hand and patience. Don't excpect to create masterpieces right away. It's 
 still a really easy editor when compared to Sources "Hammer". If you're into mapping, I suggest 
 you go learn that instead. You can make maps to all Source games with the same programs and teqnique, 
 you don't even have to change the file format (if I'm right) . 
  
  Well, overrall I liked the game. It was just non-linear fun. Sure it was repetitave - really repetitave, 
 but it still was fun. Just don't excpect any depth in the missions. There are some big minuses, 
 but there are a lot more of the big plusses, so it still comes out on the good side. The "something" 
 is missing in this game, and it's annoying me. That being said, this isin't a perfect game. Almost, 
 but not quite. A few years in development would've done good for this title. Not that it's buggy, 
 but some things could have been done better, more important or even altered. I recommend this game 
 for every FPS gamer. Even though it isin't nearly perfect, it's worth putting some time into. You 
 can approach most situations as you like, and you can choose which missions you like to do. The 
 graphics are impressive and diverse. The weapons have diversity too, and most are fun to play with. 
 In short - you'll find something you like in the game, that's for sure.
  If you value the OpenWorld, this is especially for you. For hardcore FPS players that like the 
 old formula with the linear gameplay, you might want to turn to some other game. There are better 
 games for you on the market.
  
  GameSpot Official Score: 8.5
  Papitar's Score: 8.5
  
  No, it's really what I personally would've given too. =)
  
  |||||GS SpellCheck failed me, so 
 ignore the typos and faults.|||||| 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  It's a real pity to what extent Far Cry 2 gives away its potential. I'm absolutely sure that the 
 game could be one of the most unique experiences of this video game-year. In the huge and beautifully 
 designed game world you could play a ton of different and challenging mission types. The politically 
 heated scenario of a torn apart African country offers so much space for fascinating characters 
 and unexpected story twists. And of course there could be non-stop outraging shooter action. Unfortunately 
 Far Cry 2 doesn't offer anything of the above-mentioned.
  
  It took me a bit over 30 hours to play through the single player campaign of the game which sounds 
 like a lot at first sight. But for 12-15 hours of this time I sat in one of 4 vehicles driving 
 around the incredibly huge world. In the first 2 hours this was cool because the graphics and effects 
 are awesome and it was great fun driving through this detailed and lively African world. By mischance, 
 the remaining 13 hours were nothing but annoyingly boring.
  
  At the end of every ride there followed a shoot-out with some bad guys. These fights were always 
 challenging and fun to play due to smart AI and great level design. But it's a pity that none of 
 these action-packed scenes is somehow connected with a story-line. All factions, parties and leaders 
 stay nonperson and you don't have a whiff of a chance to develop some kind of relationship to them 
 - including your own character who is Freeman-like and doesn't say a word throughout the whole 
 game.
  
  All in all Far Cry 2 is too repetitive and boring and by far not as immersive and absorbing as 
 it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengi_ikazuchi
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  1. the intro cut-scene was boring. They could have introduced Africa a little more exciting like 
 how COD4 did its "car ride" through the hostile alleys of a middle eastern city. 
  
  2. the controls suck, even on the menu screen. The mouse moved as if mouse sensitivity was set 
 to ultra low. In the game, aiming is horrible! 
  
  3. gameplay sucked. Shot a guy on the shoulder up 1 or 2 times and he's still standing shooting 
 at me. If he didn't die, he should have been on the ground tyring to fire off some last few shots. 
 The constant self healing is cool at first, but gets deeply annoying later on, and that Malaria 
 sickness is just plain dumb to start with. I havent even started to play the game and my character's 
 about to die already. Enemy movement animations are so unrealistic that it makes it hard to shoot 
 them. 
  
  4. don't believe the developers when they say this is an entirely new game engine. It's not. It's 
 just a recycled version of the CryEngine modded for Africa plants and colors. It's has also been 
 toned down... wayyy down. It ran slower on me than Crysis did in which they promised the opposite.
 
  
  All in all, this game had good ideas in mind, but just bad execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salakutt
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I thought, that yeah, it's going to be good game, but it only was disappointment. Come on. First 
 go 10 minutes to first mission place, to start mission. Then go 15 minutes to the mission point, 
 then do the mission half hour, cuz if you make one shot, you are spoted, and whole time they know, 
 where you are. Then when mission is done, go back about 15 minutes, and then 10 minutes to the 
 next mission place.
  
  COME ON MAN, THIS SUCKS! 90 % in game is running, waiting and no action, and then 10 % is something, 
 but nothing big at all.
  
  Then there is animations, what is soo booring. When you die, wait HALF HOUR, to continue playing. 
 Ok, i lied, its about half minute to minute. But it really sucks. Man, its boring and REALLY annoying, 
 when animation come, and you cant skip it.
  
  There isnt fast travel. You have always travel on car or food. Congratulations, woohoo, you did 
 something. You made bus stops, and you can now fast travel from one side map to another. But the 
 mission is middle of map. Ou **** Raelly, it may help little, but it wont help map.
  
  Now you get to the bus station: ou ****, the beginning point of our mission is another side of 
 the map and the path what is going there is so ****ing long and boring way and when you try to 
 take short way, this is so clumsy and hard to go throught, you could get there 5 times faster. 
 Another 15 minutes, you can kick to put, because the way, to get there, is bloody long.
  
  Not lets say, you finally finished most hated, long time made mission, and now your dad come and 
 say "Shut the computer down, right now. We have to to *whatever thing*.
  Usually, you put esc, and then save, but noo. You have to run somewhere safe spot, where you can 
 save the place. But if that place is like 10 minutes far away, how te **** you gonna save. You 
 gonna say: "Wait dad, i have to play more 10 minutes, to save the game?"
  
  BULL****!
  
  Well done ubisoft. Please, at least make possible to skip videos or animations, by esc, or 
 make fast-travel possible to already been places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is set in a factional war torn country in central Africa. Immediately the player is broiled 
 between two main faction fighting for control of the country. There is an arm's dealer named "Jackal" 
 who is trying to prevent peace between the two factions to keep selling arms. The player is a mercenary 
 who is hired to track down and kill Jackal.
  
  The player is permanently infected by malaria. Only way to subside the effects of malaria the player 
 must take medication. When the player runs out, the game gives the player a quest to get more. 
 Giving an interesting twist in the game to encounter predictability by changing priority. It can 
 get annoying when the player starting having effects in the middle of a gun battle.
  
  There is a wide range for weapons in Far Cry 2. There is at least 50 weapons in all and anyone 
 of them can be used to complete a mission. Early in the game, a few guns are unlocked for available 
 for purchase. All the other weapons are locked and could only be available by doing quests. Far 
 Cry 2 also have weapon degrading. A player picks up a weapon off the ground will be more likely 
 to jam or break while in combat. A brand new weapon is less likely to malfunction. This help give 
 another sense of priority for the player.
  
  Diamonds are the only currency in Far Cry 2. They are rewarded by doing quests for the factions 
 or can be found throughout the world in suitcases. The suitcases are like a scavenger hunt if the 
 player wish to look for them.
  
  Fire gives an added sense of realism. It could be set by an explosion or a molotov cocktail. This 
 may be used for strategy for the player to be used against the AI.
  
  The AI can be a little frustrating. They seem to take a lot bullets for them to go down. There 
 have been a number of times where I have fired at least five bullets at close range and the AI 
 is still alive. The accuracy of the AI can be in question. An AI with a shotgun seem to have better 
 luck hitting a player at long range then the player hitting him back with an assault rifle, its 
 been noticeable it takes more bullets to take down the same AI. While driving on the road, an AI 
 coming at the other direction is able to do the fastest U turn ever and then some how catch up 
 to the player. Passing by a base full of AI, the AI is able to quickly get into a vehicle and catch 
 up to the player.
  
  Balance is the biggest gripe for Far Cry 2. Luckily it is made up by the huge 20 square mile map, 
 with a variety of terrain. The gun fights can be thrilling and can be won any way the player wants. 
 There is no right or wrong way to finish a mission. A player can spend at least 40 hours or more 
 playing Far Cry 2, much longer then any standard FPS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptorf_22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Far Cry2 is an amazing sequence of Far Cry one that was sold like hell, the 1st game of the series 
 did look very good for his time. Now Far Cry 2 is just right, its passed in Africa with big areas 
 covered with nothing, a lot of jungle and pretty good time space, the game's quite impressive for 
 a while but after you do some stuff in it, starts to get boring, its a big problem in the game 
 you always do the same stuff over and over, help the bosses, kill some guys, find some diamonds, 
 go take a nap, start over... You have some choice about what mission to do but it does get repetitive 
 all you do is go around Africa and do nothing beside of shooting guys along the way to the point 
 you wanna get, that a big down in the missions too you have to fight your way to the point you 
 want to go in the map, witch makes the trip very slow and uncomfortable, specially cause your nemesis 
 are so nice they spend their time shooting at the car instead of your what makes you always have 
 to leave the car to repair it or to get the other one. If you pass the game forward you will see 
 that this will get better.. of course... but if are new to this game and you try it for the 1st 
 time its gonna be a point of disinterest , beside of that its a pretty good game with great graphics 
 it toke 4 years for ubisoft to make it and i think they've reached their goal, its very realistic, 
 -just imagine that Africa has animals and so the game does :D- specially the weapons part the driving 
 in cars is smooth the Jeep vehicles feel like the real thing, so apart of that 1st part of the 
 game i say out loud that this game is a MUST to buy!
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your a spec ops operative. Go to Africa and kill and arms dealer.
  
  Missions: Point A-B, Kill this and that blow this up. Retrive this to open a door kinda things.
 
  
  Controls: FPS style controls.
  
  Features: ,Great graphics and audio.
  
  AI: Great AI. The enemys seems to know what your gonna do before you do and enact a plan to take 
 ou out
  
  Graphics:. The enviroments are very open and wide and are also very detailed which you dont really 
 find in most games now. Amazing graphics. Very crysis like
  
  Audio: The ambient is a nice touch to the African landscape. from birds to insect noises this game 
 has it all. Makes agreat enviromen.
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard
  
  The Good: Great graphics, and sound
  
  The Bad: Bugs and Crashes.
  
  The Ugly: Overhype 
 for this game.
  
  Replay Ability: Medium.
  
  The Bottom Line: An alright shooter but still not as amazing as it shoul have been. Another overhyped 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is the long awaited sequel to the original game done by Crytek. Far Cry 2 though is not 
 by Crytek, rather it is being developed by Ubisoft Montreal; the same team behind the Splinter 
 Cell and Rainbow Six Games. Far Cry 2 delivers on everything it promised. It promised a beautiful 
 African landscape with an amazing amount of detail. It also promised beautiful graphics, a robust 
 map editor and fun and simple action gameplay. Sadly the game has numerous issues all of which 
 are due to stupid design choices within the game. Far Cry 2 could be much better, it's a pity the 
 design team took it in some odd directions.
  
  To start with, the story of Far Cry 2 doesn't exist. You're supposed to be hunting down some guy 
 called The Jackal who is dealing weapons to the APR and UFLL. It is because of the Jackal the conflict 
 is ongoing in this unnamed region of Africa. Your goal is simple, kill the Jackal. Funnily enough 
 that's about it. The story does not develop and though it attempts to give you interesting plot 
 twists they fall flat since the plot is so bland up to that point. The characters are also uninteresting 
 and surprisingly you'll have a tough time distinguishing characters. You'll feel like you've seen 
 this guy before even though it is a new person. It kind of feels lazy. The voice acting doesn't 
 help, everyone who is African sounds the same and everyone who is European has the same British 
 accent. It doesn't help. When the plot was already this bland you'd think you would get some interesting 
 characters. Nope... I will give it this though, in the end the plot does get a bit interested but 
 by that point you're not glad it's ending well you're just gonna end up saying something like, 
 "About damn time it got good..." The story could have been a lot better especially in such a politically 
 charged setting.
  
  As far as gameplay goes the game is pretty standard fare in the action genre. The guns work well, 
 feel nice and they are all pretty good. You can unlock many new weapons but depending on your style 
 of play you're gonna stay with the same loadout for ease. Something that is annoying though is 
 how when you pick up enemies weapons their guns are rusty and are prone to jamming. This isn't 
 realistic or clever, it is annoying. In a battle when your weapon jams it does help to create chaos 
 which is neat I guess. Fire is the best thing about the guns, it's use is ingenius and can help 
 turn the tides of a battle quickly. If you don't use a flamethrower in this game you're doing it 
 wrong. Driving controls work well and they aren't too lose or too tight. The cars are great but 
 there is no variety, just jeeps and SUVs. Funnily enough, every SUV in Africa is courtesy of the 
 company 'Jeep' but that is beside the point.
  
  The problems in Far Cry 2 emerge in the design choices. There are issues with respawns. For instance 
 all over the map there are random annoying guard posts where you get shot at. Most of the time 
 they are unavoidable and it's annoying to be shot at. The most annoying this after you clear it 
 out if you come back a few minutes later the respawns are already there so you have to do it all 
 over again. It's frustrating. If you drive though you get chased down which is also annoying because 
 then you gotta kill the chasers and go and repair your car. You can also get chased randomly, people 
 come out of nowhere and will just shoot you even if you've done nothing. It's stupid.
  
  There is also the problem of long driving sequences. You can take a bus but you're still gonna 
 drive around forever. You often find yourself driving five minutes, fighting for two minutes, then 
 driving for five minutes. That is no exaggeration. The game also suffers from an extreme bout of 
 repetitiveness. Every mission is the same, go fetch this, go blow this up, or go kill him. You 
 do the same thing for every mission either way. Though the variety to which you approach these 
 missions is up to you, you'll find stealth doesn't work. You might be being stealthy, no one will 
 see you but out of nowhere a rocket flies at you. The guards are way to sensitive. You're gonna 
 end up blasting your way through anyway until you get a camoflauge kit so you can stealth with 
 ease. The side missions don't help either since they are exactly the same. Want more weapons? Blow 
 up the convoy the same way you did before. Want to get medicine for Malaria? Go do the same mailman 
 quest over and over again. Get the point?
  
  Speaking of Malaria, it amounts to being nothing more then an annoyance. You have to do a repetitive 
 mission just to get more medicine. Why does this exist? Why the hell do I need to have Malaria?
 
  
  The game has an alright multiplayer mode though it is nothing worth while. You're gonna go back 
 to a stronger online game anyways in the end. The map editor is robust though and it is a lot of 
 fun though it takes a lot of time to make a good map. The tools though are easy to use but it is 
 not as simple as they made it out to be. The sharing of the maps is neat though and it's enjoyable 
 for a little bit. By no means is it as amazing as it was made out to be though. It's a good map 
 editor, I'll leave it at that.
  
  As far as graphics go Far Cry 2 is top notch. The world is gorgeous and detailed and it has enough 
 variety given what the setting is. It's atmosphere is nailed and it keeps you in awe throughout. 
 The sound is the other way around. The voice acting like I said is dreadful. They used two voice 
 actors, I swear. The music is standard fare. It's like they just copy pasted the soundtrack to 
 Blood Diamond but made it worse. The guns sound find and so do explosions. 
  
  Far Cry 2 is a good game, that's about it. The designers could have done a lot more with this game 
 but they made a lot of stupid choices as to where to try to take it. I hope they fix these for 
 a Far Cry 3 or whatever is next in the series because there is traces of a great game in here. 
 As far as your winter game purchases go, give this game a try if you were interested in it. It's 
 not worth buying though if you were never interested in it. It owes itself to a rent or a purchase 
 when the price drops. Other then that the game is destined to fade into oblivion down the road.
 
  
  Pros: Gorgeous graphics, great African map, good action gameplay. Map editor is a nice diversion.
 
  
  Cons: Downright idiotic design choices, too much travel, terrible voice acting, terrible story 
 for what it could have been, bland characters. Online is nothing new.
  
  Overall: Proof great presentation doesn't make for a great game
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommorris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Some thoughts after finishing Far Cry 2:
  1. Environments are phenomenal -- meaning that they are full of natural phenomena like the wind 
 blowing waves of grass, god rays from the rising sun, clouds and rain, surprisingly detailed terrain, 
 ecologically appropriate plant distributions. I was so struck by the realism of Far Cry 2's natural 
 settings.
  
  2. I liked having the freedom to travel anywhere on these huge maps by bus or SUV or car or boat, 
 or even hang-glider and approach targets from a variety of directions.
  
  3. Credible voice acting for enemy banter. A much better improvement (could anything be worse?) 
 over the crappy voice acting in Far Cry.
  
  4. AI generally was very good, producing mostly sensible and surprisingly effective (and sometimes 
 unpredictable) actions amongst attackers. These guys often ran very quickly and silently to flank 
 me. In short order, an attacker that was in front of me a moment ago was now shooting me from behind.
 
  
  5. Although the physical environments are full of options, the story is not. By limiting the availability 
 of core missions, I found myself being channeled down an undesirable, predetermined pipeline. This 
 limitation seemed excessively artificial and I became very frustrated. As a result, the story never 
 attained cohesion despite enormous potential. Late in the game it became clear that chaos WAS the 
 story -- that my ultimate and inescapable purpose in this tragic African drama had been reduced 
 to that of a callous, unscrupulous murderer. Most unfortunate, especially given that the game begins 
 with my character expressing moral outrage about the artificial nature of this war propped up by 
 predatory arms dealers. My character joins this battle on commendable moral grounds to end the 
 war and the arms deals, but instead instantly becomes just another homicidal jerk with a gun...
 
  
  Despite shortcomings in the story, I give Far Cry 2 a 8.5 because it is nonetheless an exceptional 
 achievement in so many ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Decapitated
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  
  Far Cry Instincts was horrible. Lets leave that at that. No debate. Ubisoft should have learned 
 from the original Far Cry on PC. It was an impressive shooter with non linear levels, epic graphics, 
 "meaty" sound and special effects, awsome AI and an akward plot. The things that were wrong with 
 it was the "unique" plot, the god awful voice acting, horrendous alpha monkies that killed everything 
 in one hit and a weird steroid pumping man named after a bird who talked like he just had a tumor 
 removed. 
  
  Now Far Cry Instics was just horrible. Most aspects about it were lacklusture. But, it did have 
 a few good ideas. The map making kit was flexible yet easy to use. The whole duel weilding thing 
 was also a pretty good upgrade from the original Far Cry. But that's just about it. The guns were 
 weak, the graphics were awful, the freedom of choice was taken away and the AI was horrible. 
 
  
  Sadly, all the bad things from the original Far Cry and Far Cry Instincts were carried over to 
 Far Cry 2. Only a handful of the sweet aspects of both games were brought over. Lets start with 
 the good though.
  
  Far Cry 2 looks amazing. It doesnt look half bad when stacked up to even Crysis. The setting is 
 unique, which makes it fun to play. Not many games are based in Africa at all. The open world thing 
 is loads of fun to utilize. It just feels so liberating having the choice of attacking an enemy 
 chemical dump from the sea, the dense jungle behind it, or the heavily fortified barracks at the 
 front of the instillation. One other aspect I really enjoy is the whole fraction thing. You can 
 take missions from the APR or accept them from another fraction, the UFLL
  
  Now onto the bad,
  Far Cry 2 is a huge dissapointment. Literally everyone is out to either shoot 
 you, stab you, run over you, throw you off a cliff, set you on fire or raid your fridge. What im 
 trying to say is this, no-one is out to help you. Every bloody person in the game will shoot at 
 you the moment that they get a glimpse of your face. Even if you are part of a fraction, you'll 
 get shot at by members of the same fraction. WTF
  
  Another huge problem, the game isnt as open as it seems. They are un-natural boulders just about 
 everywhere preventing you from being too creative. They keep you from straying too far from the 
 roads. This can sometimes damper the experience. But they arent too restrective though... they just.... damper 
 the open world experience. 
  
  Now another problem. The weapons sound weak. I know, this isnt really a big deal but, the original 
 Far Cry had amazing weapon effects. So why cant Far Cry 2 have even better sound effects!?
  
  Now my last problem. The AI is horrible. Im not kidding. They run around like idiots and dont 
 mind getting shot. They also sometimes shoot eachother when they stand behind eachother. They also 
 dont mind standing under your grenades. Another gripe about the AI is this, If you dont feel like 
 getting shot at and stabbed and you drive past an enemy base, they will ALWAYS follow you in a 
 vehicle. This makes the explorating AMAZINGLY REPETETIVE. You just cant "skip" an enemy gaurd post. 
 That boulder thing that I previously mention is what keeps you from straying away too far from 
 the enemy gaurd posts. This wouldnt be a HUGE problem but, the gaurds always seem to spawn if you 
 come back like 3 minutes later. 
  
  Overally, Far Cry isnt a bad game. It might not be the greatest game ever but, it's pretty good. 
 If these flaws werent present, then the game would've trully been a masterpeice. I recommend Far 
 Cry highly but, please do keep in mind that it is a little difficult and the pace might be a little 
 insane at times. It's pretty long so it might keep you occupied for a while. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydenakasha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  It's hard to tell whether someone will enjoy playing this game or not. Personally, I was a little 
 unsure whether I would enjoy the game but after 1 hour or so of game play, I was utterly hooked, 
 and having more fun than I have had in ages in a game. 
  
  Let me start begin by saying this game looks gorgeous, and is scaled so well (unlike crysis) . The 
 grass and trees looks great, the water very nice. Only a few hiccups on a 9800gtx at high detail, 
 1920x1200, mainly with explosions, fire and smoke.
  Oh, and the sound effects are also worth mentioning. They definitely help to immerse you in the 
 game world. The background music is also good, changing from soothing bongos to action music when 
 you are in a heavy fire fight or being chased. 
  
  The story has been criticised, but really, it's a sandbox game, does it really need a story anyway? 
 Personally I didn't think it was that bad. 
  
  Gameplay really does vary depending on how you approach an a objective. Although a stealthy approach 
 will generally be easier (and trust me it is) , the AI makes it fairly difficult to do so. Missions 
 are generally quite enjoyable, and especially satisfying. Maybe it's just me, but the driving across 
 the map aspect is actually quite enjoyable, helped of course by the stunning visuals. 
  
  Most of the time you WILL be chased in a car, and you WILL repeatedly be shot at, however the diverse 
 landscape makes it a very different battle every time. The vehicles are not going to handle like 
 in real life, but who said this was a driving sim?
  
  The game area is absolutely huge, and obviously one of the best aspects of this game. The wildlife, 
 terrain and plants look great and vary greatly, from how deserts to wide dry plains to dense rainforests. 
 
  
  There is too much in this game to cover in a short review.
  Too many people focus solely on the negative aspects of far cry 2, and they don't allow themselves 
 to enjoy it. Play the game how YOU want to, it is a sandbox after all. If you find it repetitive, 
 free roam for a bit, and don't attempt all the unnecessary missions. 
  Ignore the negative reviews this game is getting from some people, simply because the don't enjoy 
 the sandbox fps genre. Go ahead, buy it, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudodog07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  If Far Cry 2 only had the regular 10 hours of gameplay it would have been a huge bust. However 
 it is saved by a long 30 hours playtime and addictive gameplay. If you are looking for superior 
 tactical shooting and great mechanics, than get Crysis Warhead or maybe World at War. If you have 
 more time to kill, then Far Cry 2 may fit the bill.
  
  Graphics: Very nice and runs much, much better than Crysis. Scenery is very eye pleasing and the 
 terrain is varied.
  
  Shooting: Basic. No lean or prone or much strategy involved. Just old school run and shoot, with 
 standard ironsights. I'm playing through on hardcore and am finding the game a little too easy.
 
  
  Gameplay: 30 hours! That's a lot for a FPS. What it loses in strategic gameplay it makes up for 
 in addictiveness. A great game if you are the type that likes to find all the secrets and complete 
 every last side objective.
  
  Multiplayer: Don't bother. MP falls flat and is so old school, it's not worth your time.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy4u
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this straight, this game is good, but I expected more.
  The plot is okay but you don't need a story to shoot people. 
  The graphics are fantastic and 
 besides some texture poppins, it looks awesome. The main flaw is the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay - The game is enjoyable for a while but unless you have an internet connection, you'll 
 want to trade it in once beaten. The shooting is all fun but the AI is incredibly good and even 
 on a low difficulty setting, the AI are too good to make it realistic. The travelling is boring 
 because if I wanted to drive, I'd play a racing game like GRID but at least the driving controls 
 are decent. Little gameplay gimmicks like healing and getting bullets out of your leg are fun at 
 first, but can get frustrating. OVERALL - 6
  
  Graphics - Just great and I never experienced any slowdown. One of the best looking games of 2008. 
 OVERALL - 9.5
  
  Sound - Mediocre and bland voice acting, but okay gunfire sounds. Altough things aren't as loud 
 as they should be. OVERALL - 7
  
  Value - Not enough gameplay for cash, but if you play online it may be good enough to keep you 
 going. OVERALL - 7
  
  This game is cool but doesn't live up to the huge hype. Check is out if you must but I strongly 
 recommend that you play the first far cry or wait until the price plummets.
  
  OVERALL RATING - 6.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: topicolo
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The game creates a great first impression: The graphics are realistic, the game runs smoothly, 
 and the environments are completely immersive but play this game for more than 5 hours and you'll 
 start to notice all the warts.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is that the voice acting is God-awful. Some of the characters sound 
 like they're reading a book to you. Next, you'll notice that while the firefights are fun, enemies 
 seem to be far more bulletproof than they should. The sandbox style of choosing your style of attack 
 is interesting, but it gets quickly repetitive because each of the 54 guard checkpoints respawn 
 moments after you leave them and can make trips across the map to complete a mission tedious and 
 repetitive.
  
  All in all, this game had great promise, but it's marred by too many flaws. If you really want 
 to check this game out, wait until it's in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  to begin i have to highlight the fact that farcry 2 has nothing to do with the first one.
  actually for me the first one was no more than a mediocre game, but farcry 2 ended up as a good 
 surprise for me, even though sometimes the game is bad.
  
  
  the story is pretty simple, you have to kill an arm dealer during a war between two factions on 
 africa.
  the cool is that you will find some pretty art design and a wide open world to be explored.
  
 the world map in farcry 2 is pretty big, so there are lot of stuff to do.
  mainly the main missions and the side missions are just about killing an enemy or blowing something 
 up, so the game is long (about 30 hours) but way to linear when the action experience come to matters.
 
  the other thing you can is look for about 200 diamond briefcases hidden throughout the map.
  you use those to buy new weapons and new upgrades. (you can unlock more upgrades and weapons doing 
 side missions) .
  another bad problem is the post guards around the map with respawning enemies.
  example, you 
 pass through one post guard and kill three enemies there.
  then you do a missions on a place nearby.
  be ready when coming back to face the same three enemies 
 again!
  so during the game you will kill a thousand times the same enemies in the same places.
  
  so 
 even considering those issues farcry 2 is still pretty fun and deserves a try if you love FPS games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is just pure awesome, it's graphics are amazing on very high settings. 
  
  I love how they make you have to work for your survival, how you have to take malaria pills and 
 inject yourself to heal yourself, oh and i can't forget about the taking the bullets out of your 
 arm.
  
  There is one thing that i don't like which is the blood it looks like comic blood blood, i'm sure 
 they did it on purpose but then again they might not of.
  
  The plot is kind of bad considering the awesome setting in this game, i don't think anyone has 
 done an Africa setting. I don't like how your chasing an arms dealer, it's just too old school.
 
  
  The variety of weapons is juts amazing you can go anywhere from a little 10mm pistol to an RPG. 
 I love how you can upgrade your weapons and you have a little armory next to where you buy your 
 weapons, it helps a ton.
  
  I love how if you blow something up the fire just keeps getting bigger like in real life. This 
 game is probably the most realistic game i have ever seen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is one of the most expected shooters these days. I even preordered it from gamestop. 
 When installed the game and played for awhile, I was like-dude that is kind of boring. Just walking 
 around and driving and nothing hapens. 
  Then I realized how I am suppose to play the game-and where to search for missions to advance in 
 the story. That's when the game is really awesome.
  I liked the story in the game. I didn't really liked the ending and the fact that there is no way 
 of skipping the cast and all the names at the end of the game.
  Other than that the gameplay, the fire, the sound FX and everything in the game is amazing. You 
 can pretty much go anywhere and do whatever you like to complete the missions. It is an excellent 
 experience! I recommend it to every Action\shooter fan! It runs better than Crysis and Warhead, 
 however, the graphics its not better. It is awesome, however it's not as good as Crysis. 
  Awesome game! Takes Awhile if you decide to play every mission available, plus you like 6 or 8 
 diff characters to play with. It is really fun. 
  It was worth waiting for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudesa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  First of all the Graphics is just great.
  It took me some time to understand the real potential of the game itself,
  because this game 
 is all about an open-world with no specific game line.
  But after I understood that I started to really enjoy it.
  
  This is a very enjoyable game 
 in which you've got plenty of combats,
  plenty of enemies, plenty of graphics effect which are unique to this game such as:
  1) Fire 
 spreading at fields / trees etc.
  2) A very realistic environment which really gives you the feeling of not just playing but really 
 living it.
  3) The game engine is great and is very powerful and runs smoothly.
  4) Although the missions are more of the same they are very enjoyable.
  5) The enemies AI is 
 good, they don't just wait for you to kill them.
  6) The sound effects is great but the graphics effects is the most amazing thing in this game.
 
  7) Diamond search has become one of my favorite thing and is one of the really surprising thing 
 at this game.
  
  I just love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 will starts off in the badlands of South Africa playing as one of 9 characters to choose 
 from. There is currently a cival war that has recently been caused mainly from supplied firearms. 
 Your job is simple, kill the Jackal-the bastard that armed both sides. Your character has melanoma, 
 and will occasionally affect you randomly, sometimes even in the middle of a five on one firefight. 
 The gameplay is well constructed with fifty square kilometres of open-ended environment to explore. 
 But in my opinion, the combat doesn't seem intense and realistic enough to me. It's hard to explain 
 this theory, but one way i can explain it is that the gun fights won't have that intense COD feel 
 to them. But Far Cry 2 does pack in a large amount of weaponry to choose from. Most of the weapons 
 will have to be unlocked through continuous story mode gameplay. You will find weapon like different 
 Assault Rifles, Pistols, Explosives, LMG's, and a small vocabulary of melee weapons, such as the 
 machette. The gameplay may feel repetetive as you will alot of the time be finding a car and driving 
 all the way to a locked safehouse, and killing the guards outside the building to unlock the safehouse. 
 You can then go into the safehouse and set your watch to a time and your character will sleep intill 
 he wakes up at the desired time, or grab a weapon from a enabled wepon crate.
  The driving part can be avoided by cathcing a bus from one of many bus stops. The campign is suprisingly 
 lenghty and hard (depending on what difficlty) as you will experience yourself doing mission after 
 mission to unfold the plots surprises.
  
  The graphics are superb, with life like flauna scattered all over the large Far Cry 2 eco-system. 
 The character models are very detailed with nice facial toning, and a good amount of polygons.
 
  
  All up i believe that Ubisoft has done a very nice job in the visual department, but the gameplay 
 could have had a little tunining, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhostAPC
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  My love for this game came and went. Really fast. Like a new apple product becomes outdated, The 
 plot just never seemed to suck you in, I found myself playing just so I can continue to get pills 
 for my malaria. (I find it funny that as soon as I get into Africa I have Malaria) Then the game 
 became me just driving in my jeep, finding people to kill, or setting things on fire.
  Also since no one really liked the dude from the first Far Cry, you now have multiple characters 
 to choose from. Still none of them are very likable.
  
  
  
  The main fact is, the missions tend to get really repetitive after say 10 missions. Then they aren't 
 really that memorable. 
  
  The animations on the other hand are actually kinda cool, depending on where you get shot you heal 
 your self in different ways. Say you get shot in the hand your character will actually pull a pair 
 of pliers out of his ass and pull the bullet out!
  
  
  The only upside is the multilayer, and the fact that the map editor is still as awesome as it was 
 back in the day. But really Ubi Soft, this is 2008 go big or go home. As the extreme Terry Tate 
 once said "You can't bring that weak ass $h! t up in here!!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrgb
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The game in terms of image and video shows outstanding images of Africa. The game story in some 
 aspects is a little bit like stalker shadow of Chernobyl. You receive a mission and have to deal 
 with It. The way you are going to do the mission is up to you. This along with the images is the 
 best of the game which is also very addictive like far cry 1 but the story is completely different. 
 a good this on this game is that you got a map and a GPS to guide you through your missions and 
 the work real good. A very good game in the end although as I said above very repetitive and without 
 many surprises in the story.
  The only thing I did not discover is if the game have a second end. What would happen if in the 
 last mission you chose to put the bomb instead of taking the brifcase with diamonts. i could not 
 discover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a first-person shooter that takes place in the varied landscapes of a war-torn unnamed 
 country in Africa. The player takes the role of a mercenary with malaria sent to kill an arms dealer 
 that has been supplying weapons to both forces engaged in armed conflict. His name is the Jackal! 
 Oooo...
  
  Let me just get this part out of the way, Far Cry 2 is not anything like the original Far Cry. 
 Of course, the developers are different for starters. Crytek has moved on to create Crysis, a game 
 that truly deserves the title as successor to Far Cry. Far Cry 2 on the other hand, well... Aside 
 from the name, I can't really point to anything that the two games share exclusively. Far Cry 2 
 offers the player carbon copied missions, repetitive encounters, respawning enemies, broken combat, 
 a complete lack of stealth gameplay or a prone position, time consuming travel between mission 
 relevant objectives, invisible barriers, and not to mention the added DRM software free with every 
 install of the game. None of these speak Far Cry to me. So the AI might be a little better, or 
 at least gives the impression that it is better because of very relevant verbal exchanges between 
 the player's enemies during combat. I'm not going to lie, I was pretty impressed by it. But they 
 certainly weren't dumb-proof by a long shot. It was usually pretty easy to trick them or catch 
 them finding that the shortest path between two points may be through an impenetrable concrete 
 wall. But if you ignored all the visual cues, closed your eyes and just listened - well - it wasn't 
 half bad.
  
  In terms of gameplay Far Cry 2 strikes out. The guns all feel like they are shooting rubber bullets 
 or paintballs that explode dramatically with red paint on your opponents but don't actually inflict 
 considerable damage. The player can spend 5-10 minutes clearing out a guard post of enemies only 
 to have them respawn as soon the player comes back, and in some cases while they are still scouting 
 around. And most trips require the player to pass through several of these guard posts just to 
 reach plot critical objectives. Immediately after sighting the player, enemies will begin pursuit 
 and try chasing them to the ends of the Earth, or until their path-finding goes kaput. Pair that 
 with an example, you can be driving the down road minding your own business when a guy in a tiny 
 compact will kamikaze into your well armored Jeep with mounted turret, then jump out of his flaming 
 vehicle only to try popping you with a side arm. Why? For a region where there is supposed to be 
 a war raging between two factions, why does everyone only appear to be keenly interested in killing 
 a lowly mercenary with no reputation and no allegiance?
  
  After the decently presented tutorial, the game world completely opens up and leaves the player 
 with little direction as to how best to continue forward. Any mission accepted (and you can only 
 accept one at a time) will usually leave the player with an objective on the other side of the 
 game world which is remarkably easy to accomplish if one can simply reach it. Despite all the aforementioned 
 problems with travel in the game, the only patchwork to keep it interesting are scavenger hunts 
 for suitcases with diamonds. These are never worth the effort it takes to reach them and are sometimes 
 placed in the most obscure and unreachable locations, like on the roof of a guard post or atop 
 a train car where the ladders on the side don't even work. Needless to say, I did not play for 
 far beyond the tutorial. All in all, there was really nothing to keep a player invested in the 
 game.
  
  There was one game mechanic that Far Cry 2 did decidedly well. The use of fire in combat was an 
 interesting strategic element that could also lead to some very dramatic visuals. Throwing a Molotov 
 cocktail could start brush fires that would spread depending on wind direction, weather conditions, 
 and plant dryness. These fires could then burn certain buildings or start chain reactions of explosions 
 from vehicles, barrels, weapons crates, petrol tanks, etc. A few well placed fires could flush 
 out an entire outpost of enemies into the open, but these benefits were muted by the lack of stealth 
 gameplay, and the imbalance between the player's ability to orient themselves in terms of their 
 enemy's positions and the enemy's ability to pick out a player from 100 meters away behind a thicket 
 of foliage by moonlight. The map interface also was nicely implemented, but I for one could not 
 figure out how to look at the in-game time without going to a safe house, clicking on the bed, 
 and then looking at one's watch.
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is a game with a lot of technology behind it, but not much in the way of actual 
 fun gameplay. For every feature it does well, there are several that it fails quite catastrophically 
 on. Too many of the game elements seem like mere cosmetics to cover up the flaws of the original 
 design. Though it may be the legal sequel to Far Cry, the apple has fallen far from the tree, and 
 Far Cry 2 has only the reputation of the name rather than the game to carry it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtiscurtis06
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  A beautiful game, full of lush environments and great weapons. The lack of story, and faulty handling 
 of guns are the downfalls of this game. 
  It's big brother Crysis still reins supreme, and definitely something that Crytek is striving to 
 achieve again. 
  Definitely full of many main story quests, and even side quests. These tend to get tedious, but 
 if you take different approaches to these quests then the possibilities are pretty steep. 
  The buddy system is a great idea, but is still something that needs to be worked on in the long 
 run.
  Once again, this game is something that is a great play. However it was definitely over-rated and 
 in the long run that hurt the game. It is a game that I would consider is a place holder in gaming, 
 in which it displays the right ideas and the way that games are heading, but just fails to deliver 
 to its fullest. Coming from Crytek, that expected so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amigro
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  To start off, I would like to say that I had very high expectations for this game. I was a big 
 fan of the original and thought this should be as good or better. 
  
  The graphics are not as good as I thought they would be from the review videos. The foliage and 
 shadows are very well done and the character models and weapons are very well detailed, but the 
 far off landscapes and sky don't look that great. I still think the graphics are top of the line 
 for the games out there right now (obviously not better than Crysis) and I think it runs with a 
 great framerate at the very high settings on my rig at 1280x1024.
  
  I'm not too fond of some of the physics though. It seems like the plants are made out of a heavy 
 rubber and are close to indestructible. If I throw a grenade in the plants, they just "bounce" 
 around, but don't get affected much other than that. I haven't messed with the destructible trees 
 too much yet. Also, the death animations are horrible. If you shoot someone they kinda just crumble 
 up, no ragdoll physics at all. Sometimes, they will fall in a completely different direction than 
 how they got shot or will take 1-2 seconds until the hit is registered. 
  
  The AI initially seemed to be on par with the original Far Cry, which I always thought was pretty 
 good. They do try to make effective flanks and seem to employ some pretty good tactics instead 
 of just taking cover and staying there. After the first couple of firefights, however, I noticed 
 that the AI was very lacking even though I'm playing on hard. Sometimes they do just stand there 
 and shoot at you without taking cover. Also, if you shoot close to an AI, he will stop running 
 making him an easier target. Other times you can almost walk right up to an enemy and he won't 
 do anything. Kinda of inconsistent considering, sometimes an entire checkpoint will notice you 
 from so far away...
  
  One thing that I really like is how they make this game seem pretty realistic. There isn't much 
 of a HUD and it also goes away after a few seconds if you haven't pressed reload or weapon switch 
 or something. Also, the crosshair is defaulted to off when you start. Pulling out a map and looking 
 at it or having a GPS tracker that you physically look at instead of going into a seperate menu 
 never takes you out of the game. 
  
  Driving around was pretty annoying at first and it can still be a pain in the butt from time to 
 time, but after I discovered the new area (about halfway in) , I'm revived again and it seems a 
 lot more hectic as well adding to the fun. 
  
  All in all, I'm looking very forward to finishing this game. I might have been a bit disappointed 
 in this game since it didn't meet my expectations, but I also had very high expectations for it 
 and I think that all in all it will be a very good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgdl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Right, cant be bothered to write this out in paragraphs etc.
  
  Good bits
  - Very nice graphics that will run great even on older machines
  - Diamonds as currency and the 
 hidden ones about the map
  - Great selection of guns to keep you interested, allows you to take whatever combination you like 
 (ie 3 automatic weapons, or even 3 grenade launchers pretty much)
  - Ammunition is plentiful and so you almost never have to worry about it, so you always get to 
 see the lovely explosions :P
  - The spread of fire after/during/before a battle is really nice and its great fighting amongst 
 it.
  - Day/night cycle
  
  Not so good bits
  - Missions are all quite repetitive, go here kill this person/blow certain item/truck up. Lots 
 of blow up the convey missions for the gun shop.
  - Travel times between getting a mission and its location, very annoying driving through hositle 
 camps on the way and getting bogged down in fighting, especially as their trucks are faster than 
 yours (can get through if you drive well and they wont catch up with you sometimes) . Still though 
 very boring driving. Also I hate driving through an encampment and then having to repair my car 
 on the otherside.
  - Fast travel bus stops not abundant enough, none anywhere near the centre of the map in the first 
 area - very annoying, so you have to drive, see above.
  -The point of safe houses when you can save in menu or F5 at any time, apart from to change the 
 time of day.
  - Respawn of troops in encampments very soon after you have just killed them all, you could walk 
 away a little come back and they would all be there again.
  - AI can sometimes be a little stupid and then there are the glitches of them firing side on, and 
 they also still have the ability to spot you 300m away in the dark and manage to hit you with shooting.
 
  - Stealth killing with the machette doesn't work at all as after killing someone with it everyone 
 is alerted to your presence, would have thought it would be a quiet kill.
  - Storyline is pretty much non-existent and non-engrossing, although quite a good start to the 
 game I thought. 
  
  Bits that some may like/some not
  - Weapon damage, I actually like this idea as sometimes it forces you to go back to the guns that 
 you have stopped using, and as you never know when you are going to jam adds another level to combat
 
  - Health system, i don't really have anything to say about this, you need syrettes to get health 
 back and if below a certain point you get a little animation of you fixing part of your body, which 
 is nice I guess.
  - Firing of weapons however I like, with cross hairs off its all about iron sights and this means 
 that you can't fire full auto and see where its all going. This means you have to constantly look 
 to where your target it is, harder than other FPS's, but I seem to like it (more at home with COD)
 
  
  
  It is quite a long game though, I have been playing for about 15 hours and have probably done about 
 2/3 of the game, but I think I may be at the point where I am only playing to finish the game atm, 
 unless something spectacular happens soon. I though the game was going to run of what allegiances 
 you too with the factions but storyline is all linear as you do secret jobs and so everyone is 
 always hostile to you, bit of a pain. But for the combat this game is still worth playing, heh 
 at least you get your moneys worth duration wise.
  
  Have prob missed somethings out and I did end up writing quite a lot, also I tend to do more detail 
 on the things that I didn' like as much - dam :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This is Cry !
  
  Extremely Stupid A. I
  Foolish Engaging I have ever seen
  Ridiculous Story
  Same Music
  Frothy Health System
  Repetitive Tasks
  Arriving to target 
 is always long and boring
  Buddies make the game very arcade
  Unlimmited Ammo
  Steep Jam
  etc...
  
  This game is not related with far cry. Single affinity is being of vehicles. Where 
 is "Incredible amount of freedom" ? I guess Somebody doesn't know "free" means. Map Editor, Outstanding 
 Visual Design and Solid Atmosphere are biggets values of the game. Also ignating jungle is cool. Besides, 
 seeking blod-diomands is a good idea but it was maked from a very absurd way and I dont like trade 
 system in game. For God sake, can somebody explain the utility of save houses ? already we can 
 push F5! Finally, I am aware that Ubisoft does not like Ati. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomu
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  FarCry 2. Let me nitpick about the name quickly before giving the actual game a review. The game 
 is CLEARLY not FarCry 2. It has nothing in common with its predecessor, in fact, this game is probably 
 a better 'Mercenaries 2' than 'Mercenaries 2' was. Okay. Onto the actual game..
  
  The first thing I noticed when I began the game, is that the engine is a million times better than 
 the CrySis engine. While it may not look as good as crysis, it looks amazing, and unlike the CrySis 
 engine, it actually has programming to back up the flashy graphics. The game can run on almost 
 any computer, making the engine very versatile and much better than CrySis' tendency to be a slideshow 
 in 'low quality' on a machine less than a year old. My own computer is 4 years old, CrySis barely 
 runs on low 640x480 at 5 fps. FarCry 2 runs in 1680 x 1050 on the 'Very High' setting at a buttery 
 smooth 45 fps on average. Apparently there is some imagery cut off in widescreen, but I haven't 
 noticed that problem yet. 
  
  The game itself is an open-world Mercenary sim. While it has a 'story' the story isn't really very 
 thoughtful or interesting. The world itself is interesting, but there are times where you will 
 learn to hate the world despite its impressive nature. The game is something like 50 sq miles in 
 size, which is NOT a good decision considering that the game is an action FPS title. A map this 
 size is forgiveable in a game such as Oblivion or an MMO title, but that is because there is much 
 more populating the world. While there are many locales to visit and it is realistic, it can slow 
 down the pace trying to get from one point to another. When you consider the desolate landscapes, 
 a fast travel option (The buses don't count) like in Fallout 3 or Oblivion would've been nice, 
 as well as taking off a good 35 square miles. It can be boring sometimes, and as the game is not 
 an RPG or adventure game, there isn't much to explore and there's not much incentive to explore. 
 The only incentive are cleverly hidden gems, much akin to GTA 3's hidden packages, except you get 
 extra money. It can be fun to search for these items, but not when you are in the heat of battle 
 or trying to get to your next battle. It can become boring and frustrating when you have to go 
 all the way to the center of the map after taking on a mission that takes you to another area away. 
 It is fun to scout merc camps and fight in them, but even they seem far and few between despite 
 there being something like 6 or 7 in each separate map area. Simply put, the game needs to be a 
 bit smaller. A free roaming FPS game shouldn't be so big and empty, as it slows down the action. 
 
  
  The action itself is visceral, and great... when it works. . The AI seems to be completely binary. 
 When you are fighting ones, you are fighting intelligent foes that bring a fierce battle along 
 with them. When you are fighting zeros, you will be bored stiff. There was one time that I walked 
 in front of an enemy machine gun, and the enemy was scouting. I jumped up and down in front of 
 the machine gun whilst firing random bullets past the enemy. He heard the bullets, but still kept 
 his thumb up his ass and couldn't see me. Another time that I tried this, I got mowed down and 
 had to be saved by a friend. 
  
  Overall, FarCry 2 is a bit of a disappointment. It IS a good game at heart. When it is good, it 
 is great. However, when it is bad, its awful. It can be intense, fun, and wild and at the same 
 time, your next journey into the game will be slow, boring, and painful. I recommend you play it, 
 it is worth playing, but you may want to wait for a price drop first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastorT
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is using the Far Cry tag but has virtually nothing to do with the first game.
  
  It's a fictional African state, but it's jungle parts are heavily based on the Congo-basin. While 
 the woodland/savannah areas seem Kenya-like.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and the overall gameplay is rather enjoyable - your tactical opportunities 
 are virtually limitless. Feel like burning down a camp with a brushfire? Feel like playing an Iraqi 
 and ambushing a weapons convoy with IEDs and RPGs? Feel like going in Rambo-style with your grenade 
 launcher and Mac-10 blazing? Feel like sniping from afar in a gilly suit? And that's just scratching 
 the surface.
  
  The downside is that the mission structure is essentially GTA3 meets Africa. That, and it gets 
 rather repetitive when you have to clear out the same bad guys from the same outpost for the 20th 
 time as you drive between your safehouse and the town. 
  
  Also I don't understand the stealth system... I sneak into a camp, use the machete to kill someone, 
 but after he's dead, everyone knows where i am.
  
  Constantly respawning enemies. my god, what a pain. It wouldn't be so bad if a day or two in-game 
 had to pass before they respawned. As it is, if you turn a corner and come back the road-block 
 you JUST cleared is there again. One instance I cleared a road-block, started walking away, didn't 
 even get 100m from the road-block before I realized I had forgotten to stock up on ammo. I turn 
 around, and see a reconstructed roadblock fully stocked with mercs. Annoying is an understatement.
 
  
  The enemies with mortars are the most annoying thing in the game.
  They can hit your location with perfect accuracy, doesn't matter if they can see you or not.
 
  
  There are aspects that declines the gameplay.
  Driving is tedious and boring and an useless aspect, but as it's a big map so it's understandably 
 why they exists. They're just however lowering the overall impression, and repairing things and 
 more. I'm playing a FPS. I wanna shoot stuff.
  
  Good attempt but Ubisoft doesn't quite make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbyrd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Far Cry. Well, let me rephrase that. I enjoyed it up until the point 
 that I was all of a sudden killing mutants, and I wasn't too sure how I'd gotten there. Killing 
 mutants is all well and good, but the original Far Cry left out the transition details that made 
 me care why I was killing them.
  
  Far Cry 2 follows the same shallow pattern of trying to do too much, and ultimately leaving the 
 game bland and dry. 
  
  The graphics, sound, environments and character models are all excellent. It's obvious that a lot 
 of work went into how the game looks and feels. It's a shame that's all the work that seems to 
 be put into it. 
  
  There is no strategy required for Far Cry 2's combat. None, what so ever. You're just as likely 
 to come out on top charging into an area with enemies then you are sneaking around and trying to 
 take them out individually. There's no cover system, which there's no excuse for anymore. The jungle 
 environment is beautiful, and completely wasted. There's tall grass everywhere, and none of it 
 can be used well enough to hide to make it worth having. Yet trying to find an enemy is so difficult 
 that you're basically reduced to waiting on muzzle flashes (meaning you're getting shot at) to 
 find out where everyone is. It's not that people are particularly difficult to see, the aiming 
 system puts your gun in front of all the action. So you're either shooting wildly, or blocking 
 your view by trying to aim. 
  
  The storyline seems fine, I haven't finished it by any means. But it's really not drawing me in 
 and making me want to finish it. From what I've seen it's extremely linear, yet they tried to turn 
 this into a sandbox type game. The problem is, there's nothing to do in between the plot events, 
 except a whole lot of driving. Sure, there's safe houses that you can secure and enemies at road 
 blocks to kill. But as soon as you kill all the enemies and leave, they automatically respawn for 
 the next visit, so what's the point? There's also briefcases with diamonds that you can find, which 
 server as currency for weapon upgrades. The weapons I've gained access to are underwhelming at 
 best, and I'm guessing the biggest selling point of the game is using the bigger and cooler weapons. 
 That's hardly enough to make me care about finishing it though.
  
  I'm really disappointed with the wasted potential this game has. Everything about it screams, "Blockbuster 
 hit," except the actual game play and content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmae1990
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  While the environment created is engrossing, unique and fun - it becomes boring after the hundredth 
 trek, boating or driving trip down the same road. Once the destination is reached, the A. I often 
 results in simple sniping that can wipe out entire bases of enemies that run around and shoot in 
 the wrong direction. It is also disappointing to note half a clip can be emptied into a single 
 enemy and he is still not down!
  
  Animals play a large part of the African environment, from the zebra herds running around the desert 
 to chickens in the streets. But they seem only good for looking at, where games like Fable 2 gave 
 out quirky awards for interactions [like shooting] animals, far cry's creatures fall over like 
 a brick when killed, and sound like you've hit a tree - often i've driven along pushing a zebra 
 that wasn't fast enough to avoid my jeep.
  
  Other than these faults, Far Cry 2 delivers engaging and addictive adventures through a wonderfully 
 created world, fun missions and weapons to unlock and characters to interact with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  I takes lots of patience and persistence to classify this game as a great successor to the original 
 FarCry game. FarCry 2 is an example of every component of the game being tight, but overall the 
 gameplay is weak and enormously REPETITIVE. Graphics are great; weapons and weapons upgrades are 
 also great (weapons jamming sucks tho) . The story is mediocre as it was in FarCry 1. However, the 
 gameplay, that was superb in FarCry 1, sucks big time in FarCry 2. Repetitiveness of action kills 
 this game -- after a first few hours I kept playing just to try new guns pretty much giving up 
 hope that anything new in terms of action will happen. It's always the same. I expected much more, 
 and that may be the cause of my disappointment with this game. 
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Audio - 8/10
  Game mechanics - 8/10
  Gameplay - 6/10
  Negative: DRM via Securom does nothing 
 to protects honest user rights limiting us to 5 reinstalls
  
  Overall, a disappointing sequel. Playable, but disappointing. If I were not influenced by the superb 
 job Crytek did on FarCry 1, I'd score this game even lower. Maybe Montreal UBI Studio is just not 
 cut for this type of game. Who knows how would this game look like in terms of action if Crytek 
 made this sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adeboli
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't until I learned Far Cry 2 was developed by Ubisoft Montreal that I could pinpoint the 
 negatives of the game. The similarities between Far Cry 2 and Assassin's Creed, Ubisoft Montreal's 
 2007 game, are striking. Both offer players an amazingly sized world, with great attention to detail 
 and immersion as well as near total freedom on where to go. These are all good things, and it certainly 
 makes Far Cry 2 an impressive display of how far gaming has come.
  
  The bad side of the similarity becomes apparent when the missions start to dominate gameplay. They 
 are repetitive, very easy and ultimately of no consequence. The almost ten year old GTA2 had a 
 reputation system, and it had more factions than Far Cry 2. But since all your missions are apparently 
 "top secret", even the guys you end up working for will shoot you, and in the end it's justified 
 by a plot that aims to make a political statement. The missions, as said, have no variety past 
 the usual: get mission at A, get offered to meet someone at B, do the mission at either C or D. 
 That's all. And it's repeated about 30-50 times depending on how many side-missions you end up 
 doing.
  
  Far Cry 2's AI offers little to spice up the gameplay, though it's often confused conversations 
 and reactions make it easy to briefly suspend disbelief. However, respawns in an open world are 
 always suspect, but when they occur as quickly as in Far Cry 2 they become simply annoying.
  
  In short: Far Cry 2 offers a great virtual world, but ultimately leaves much to be desired 
 when it comes to bringing the world alive. To end on a positive note; the map editor is one of 
 the best in recent FPS history, and will provide online players with an amazing variety of maps 
 on which to compete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Le_Colonel
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Alright, let's face the facts. There's three main categories in a game. Gameplay, Graphics and 
 Story. Far Cry 2 is loaded with great ideas, a neat setting and a good name, but it's a fine example 
 to show that ideas alone don't make a great game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Far Cry 2 are great. Africa has never looked better. It has a full day/night 
 cycle and the sun makes beautiful rays through the branches. Although it doesn't look as good as 
 Crysis, the game covers 50 km2 (or 20 square miles) and has no loading times between areas, which 
 is very impressive.
  9/10
  
  Story: Let's face it, Far Cry 2 doesn't HAVE a story. You're a hired assassin sent to kill an arms 
 dealer named the Jackal who's been causing some problems in Rowandastan (or an unnamed African 
 country) . On the way there, you get sick with malaria. After that the Jackal nearly kills you, 
 and then the game tells you to go blow things up, burn things and shoot lots of people. It's something 
 a 10 year old could've written up.
  1/10
  
  Gameplay: IN my opinion this is the most important category. No matter how good the graphics or 
 story are, if the gameplay's no good then the game itself will be no good. This is exactly the 
 case with Far Cry 2. 
  The AI in the game is questionable at best, as in they can see you 300 meters away at nighttime 
 through several bushes and still hit you with Ak47's... Yes they seem to be hacking.
  Another problem is exploration. You can't drive more than 200 meters without encountering a guard 
 post where the enemy will shoot you ON SIGHT, even if you're in a civilian car and pose no threat 
 to them. To make this even more frustrating is the facty that if you try to drive away from them, 
 they will chase in their own vehicles, which sound like jet engines and can go even faster than 
 your vehicle. With constant enemies the game doesn't encourage to explore the beautiful world it 
 gives you.
  Another cool idea was fire. In all the video's it showed the player being able to easily start 
 a gigantic forest fire that would destroy enemy encampments. Let me tell you I've never been able 
 to a create a fire that goes farther than 50 meters, let alone somehow control which direction 
 it's going.
  Enemies can also sustain unrealistic amounts of dammage. You can shoot an enemy 6 times in the 
 chest with an assault rifle, and HE WON'T DIE. They're only wearing T-shirts, yet it seems like 
 they're wearing body armor. That being said most weapons lack the satisfying oomf that all fps 
 lovers look for.
  Speaking of weapons, they can sometimes jam. Yet when the enmy uses them, they never do. As soon 
 as you pick onr up, it seems to jam on the first reload. One time it took over 2 minutes (I timed 
 it) to unjam a shotgun. Having weapons that get dirty and break is a neat idea, but makes it very 
 frustrating that you can't just pick up and use every weapon that you see. The game seems to discourage 
 you from experimenting with different weapons.
  Most of the mission objectives are very repetitive and get old very fast. Mostly it ends up being: 
 drive across the map, kill guys, rinse and repeat. The gun merchants' missions are even worse. 
 For the first threee missions it's drive across the map, blow up a truck. Repeat this three more 
 times.
  6/10
  
  Oh and did I mention that you CAN'T die in this game? If your health ever reaches zero most of 
 the time a buddy will come out of nowhere and drag you to safety... so there's no consequences 
 for dying. To make it even better, your buddy GIVES you a brand-new pistol. Yes, the game REWARDS 
 you for DYING...
  
  On the bright side the map editor is very comprehensive, though you must be very skilled to actually 
 make anything worthwhile in it.
  
  Overall: Loaded with great ideas that are executed poorly sums up Far Cry 2. It's just not that 
 fun to play. The game discourages you from exploring, trying new weapons and gets very repetitive. 
 Most mission ideas are almost always the same. Far Cry 2 is more like a very nice day/night driving 
 simulator game in Africa.
  6/10
  
  (Note this review does not include any multiplayer aspects of this game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Compared to the original Farcry, I am at a loss to see how Farcry 2 is actually a sequel, in fact 
 it's more like a GTA4 clone.
  
  To begin with to make matters clear, this is a FPS game. Yes it has "RPG" elements like improving 
 skills for shooting, but it's still just a FPS. For what that's worth there's plenty of shooting 
 to be done, but unfortunately it gets very old very fast. I've yet to be impressed with the AI 
 as I've seen enemies constantly charge at me while I was in the open in a truck armed with a machinegun, 
 or show equally suicidal tendencies
  
  You will spend a great amount of time driving round in generic trucks and cars with different paint 
 jobs. God forbid you loose your truck out there because running is painfully slow. You can repair 
 your vehicles with a quick adjustment under the bonnet though, even if it's had a .50 cal machinegun 
 riddle it with bullets so as long as you jump out before it's completely wrecked you're ok
  
  Gun's don't last in the gameworld, they "wear down" with use (which is reminisce of Dark Sector 
 although more forgiving) and most weapons that are picked up are in such poor condition they look 
 as if they came of the scrapyard, and they jam repeatedly (meaning you have to repeatedly stab 
 the X button on the Xbox version) but you CAN "buy" guns which are brand new and therefore last 
 longer in game (The AK47, heavily used in Africa, was designed to be tough and rugged so this seems 
 rather silly)
  
  Once a new gun has been purchased, you have an unlimited supply of replacements as long as you 
 head back to collect one. I'd hate to be the arms dealer who agreed to that!
  
  No matter how many times you drive through and slaughter everyone at guard posts within minutes 
 the damage is repaired and the same soldiers are back
  
  Upset someone and as long as you drive far enough away, or get to a "safehouse" you'll be ok (again 
 rather too GTA for my liking)
  
  Graphically the game seems nice enough, although I found that at night it was hard to see anything 
 even with brightness adjusted, and during the day even resetting the brightness it was then too 
 bright and glared at times, again if this is suppose to be realism you'd not be picking new guns 
 up every half hour or repairing critically damaged vehicles within a minute
  
  Farcry 2 is an overhyped game that steals too much from other games already out there, and looses 
 what the original had, such as the storyline and a truely fun island to fight through. There are 
 better games to be bought at this time of year, including Fallout 3, Fable 2 or Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Fantastic graphics and sound make you feel like the environment is living and breathing.
  
  Pros: Awesome African environment with great sound and fun weapons. Weapons are easy enough to 
 purchase so you get to try out all available options. Traveling is fun. Great replay value and 
 play time.
  
  Cons: Quicksave is bad (it uses a separate save every time you push F5) Flat Characters make story 
 difficult to follow. Repetitive.
  
  Suggested Tweaks:
  The story should flow. Don't make us return to a previous location multiple times - the map is 
 too large to keep bouncing backwards and forwards.
  
  Boring enemies. Change the types of enemies we fight - don't just increase the numbers.
  
  
 More animals in herds running on the open savannah. Elephants, lions, crocs, hippos (there's enough 
 space, use it)
  
  I'd love to ride alongside a fast moving train filled with diamonds and fight the militia while 
 the train is speeding towards a bridge that I blew up!
  
  I can't help but feel game developers are not creative enough. The technical ability and skills 
 are clearly there but the missions lack variety and flavour.
  
  Far cry is a great game - I'm just sad it wasn't even better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmallory
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game, it's almost a great game. These non-linear fps have these rpg elements 
 which make the game more deep. But the core gameplay and action is lacking something. The animations 
 and explosions are great. I guess it just get's pretty repetitive. It's frustrating to have to 
 travel so far for some missions. The weapons are very cool. I haven't tried multiplayer yet so 
 keep that in mind. All in all this is a fun and interesting fps shooter, just falls a little short 
 for me. How is this not enough words? I need more words but this seems like enough. Ok so this 
 game is fun but this minimum number of characters for reviews is pretty stupid. Honestly I don't 
 want to reed a review that is this long, it is just too much for me. So all of these words are 
 pointless and this kinda disappoints me about gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkery
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  After seeing all the trailers and the dev's journey trough Afrika, I was sure this game was going 
 to have it all, if only.
  
  Graphics are good, certainly not top notch though.
  If you stop for a moment and really look at the textures thing a low res/blurry, but looking at 
 the game as a howl it does not look bad.
  
  Gameplay, ooh boy here we go.
  This is what made me dislike the game.
  Its repetitive, every time you do a mission, its "kill 
 this man" or "stop that convoy", the most stupid part is that the convoy just drives in circles, 
 they are not actually going anywhere.
  And constant you come across enemy's in a jeep, really waaaaay to often.
  O yeah btw EVERYONE 
 that walks/drives around the map wants you dead.
  Weapons can jam or even explode, when I heared that I was impressed, but playing it, it just sucks.
 
  Every enemy has a broken/rusty gun, no one of them has one in a good state.
  That just does not make sense.
  Want good guns?, buy them.
  
  That is actually one of the 
 few good things about this game, the amount of guns.
  On the other hand, there are to little variety in animals and vehicles 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircyrus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  Positives:
  
  Graphics
  Animations
  Wildfires
  Weather
  Day/Night Cycle
  Voice Acting
  Weapon Durability
  Weapon Shops
  Safehouses
  Variety of weapons
  
  Negatives:
 
  
  Repetitive missions
  Shallow gameplay
  Stealth system borked
  Enemy LOS borked
  World too large but not populated
  Storyline
  
  Verdict:
  
  Far Cry 2 features great 
 graphics, but that glossy coating doesn't make up for the shallow, repetitive gameplay. Missions 
 will all play out in the same way, and travel time takes far too long (5+ minutes each way for 
 missions) . You will spend more time traveling than you will fighting.
  
  The game's stealth element does not work due to enemies having a sixth sense as to where you are. 
 Even using a camo suit and silenced weapons, enemies will still B-line straight to you at night. 
 They will also fire right through the jungle bush, shooting straight on you even though their LOS 
 should be blocked.
  
  The game takes numerous steps backwards when compared to the first Far Cry, and it feels incredibly 
 simplified and dumbed down into a run-and-gun shooter. 
  
  Stealth is virtually nonexistent, enemy LOS is screwed up, the travel time is too lengthy, and 
 they've made mission locations on the map too closed in. Whereas in the original you could scout 
 around camps to figure out how to best launch your attack, this time around most mission camps 
 are surrounded by impassable walls. You will have usually 2 points of entry, but in either case 
 you're going to have to shoot it up through a gauntlet of enemies due to the lack of stealth.
 
  
  Anyone hoping to get an enjoyable experience out of it's single player side is going to be let 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeaconW
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. Far Cry was excellent and immersive. Far Cry 2 simply gets annoying 
 and has no nuance at all. I gave the game 5 points for having a beautiful engine... it really is... but 
 that wears off after a while and you realize that there are serious gameplay issues (for gameplay 
 i give it a 0.5) . Every gun shop mission is a "go destroy the circling convoy on the other side 
 of the map". Oh, BTW, at just about every intersection of the large gamespace is a checkpoint of 
 people who want to kill you... and they respawn almost instantly so you'll fight 'em again on the 
 way back. It doesn't matter why... everyone wants to kill you, period. Your buddies are slightly 
 interesting but they become cardboard cutouts as well after a bit. I enjoyed the gameplay of Crysis: 
 Warhead 10x better. Sorry UBI... I couldn't stomach trying to finish the game on SP... just didn't 
 pull me in. I am off to explore Fallout3, which looks infinitely more interesting now. I really 
 wanted to love this game... sigh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronzeman77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the original Far Cry and regard it as one of the best shooters ever made. I had 
 high hopes for FC2 and pre-ordered. After 20 hrs of gameplay, it is now for sale on ebay.
  
  Firstly, let me say the game has tremendous graphics and a beautiful looking world. The problem 
 is the world is shallow and very much empty once you leave the main roads. It may seem like a cool 
 idea to be able to explore 50 sq km of jungle, plains and desert, but the emptiness soon makes 
 this a boring activity. The wildlife is almost non-existent.
  
  The characters in the game are underdeveloped and uninteresting. The missions are highly repetetive, 
 involving constantly travelling back and forth through the same terrain carrying out similar objectives. 
 The baddies are constantly respawning, which becomes irritating after awhile.
  
  You never really feel like you are progressing. FC1 had a good sense of progression which kept 
 you playing to see new environments. In FC2 you can explore the whole territory without doing missions, 
 and as the missions are tiresome the game becomes stale very quickly.
  
  Its a shame as it seems ubisoft had some good ideas and could have developed a really interesting 
 world. They could have included more rpg elements to flesh out the game and make the missions more 
 interesting. As it is, FC2 is a missed opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 108976
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Wait for the price to come way down before putting your money down. I let the patch in and it messed 
 everything up. Redundant is a good word for this one. There are other games coming that look to 
 be better than tis. It's kind of like watching NASCAR racing. The cars don't drive well it could 
 certainly look better. It is a far cry from being a game of today. A few years ago this would have 
 been fun. I don't think going over the same ground with the same bad guys in crossroads at every 
 turn is very interesting. Some of the missions are good and have a challenge to them. But not for 
 the New Game price, I work to hard for my money to spend it on an OK game. I bought the game after 
 watching one of the reviewers on Gamespot. I should have waited myself and read some other reviews. 
 I hope other software companies are taking note and instead of PUSHING games out for cash. Put 
 out product you can be proud of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: head_hunter986
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The GOOD: Superb effects, eg. when you throw a molotov cocktail in a grassy area the fire flares 
 up and spreads realistically, AI is ok they give you a run for your money. Graphics are pretty 
 good, they even optimised them so you can play on low end systems with good enough frame rate to 
 view a smooth experience of the game. Heaps of weapons and upgrades to unlock, Vast Open map gives 
 you thje impression you are in Africas with limitless locations to explore. You can Pull Bullets 
 out of your leg and arms and heal your self with bandages and seringes.
  
  The BAD: Yep there is plenty wrong with this game it is ultimately disappointing, it could have 
 been a really awesome game but instead is rather boring and dull i have only played the game for 
 10 hours and it was a real struggle to continue, ok to start. Missions, oh my god the missions 
 are really boring and annoying all you have to do is go to some place and either kill someone, 
 rescue someone or blow something up ZzZzZZ... boring not to mention to go to the place where you 
 kil, rescue or destroy you have to drive their, which at first seems great but it takes hours litrally 
 to get there. like for example i had to go and kill this guy and so you go into town tp get the 
 mission to kill him, then you have to drive god knows where to do it and all you have is this crappy 
 map and GPS thing and even if you know where your going the actuall time it takes to get their 
 is like 30 minutes to 1 hour, and thats being generous one time i was trying to find a weapons 
 dump and it took me a good 2 hours (acctual time) to find it and then it took me 2 minutes to kill 
 the baddies and blow up the ammunition, which then leads me to another grueling journey back to 
 the dude who gave me the mission, then you do the exact same thing again. The vast land scape is 
 both amazing and bloody annoying mabe next time they should add a small propellor plane to get 
 to places quicker, also sometimes to get somewhere there is no clear way to get ther and you end 
 up having to ditch your car and swimm accross a river to find that you have to walk another 200 
 Km which takes even longer then to drive.
  
  Overall the game is good for the first hour untill you have to start travelling long distance which 
 is like the second or third mission, i probably wont even bother completing the game saying this 
 the gameplay and things you can do such as repair the car, heal your self, cause massive buchfires 
 which burn you enemies to death not to mention driving which is pretty cool for an FPS but again 
 it gets absalutly murdered by long travel times and repatitious missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This review could easily change with some decent patchwork but the game for me is very broken. 
 First, an error message pops up that I must click through 6 times to finally get the game going. 
 I made it 16% through the game only to have my save file corrupted by some unknown element and 
 then I had to start over. On very high settings, my rig can run FC2 at about 30 to 40 FPS. When 
 collision sounds and some explosion sounds occur, the game drops to 1 fps and starts to lock up. 
 I ran the game on low settings with around 70 fps and the same thing happened. The game is almost 
 unplayable and contains the worst bugs I've ever encountered, other than maybe the first Sacred. 
 Oh, and all my drivers were up to date as well. Some friends suggested it was due to the fact that 
 I run Windows XP 64bit but I have yet to have problems with other games.
  
  The graphics are great, sound is incredible, gameplay fun, but the bugs ruined it for me. The cons 
 such as repitive side missions or bullet magnet buddies can be overlooked but the bugs can't.
 
  
  Good attempt at a great game and if they patch the bugs, it will be worth but until that time, 
 I will be playing other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why but Ubi isn;'t allways prepared to continue a franchise that they buy so with 
 Far Cry they haden't done well at all , like in many other reviews from numerous players Far Cru 
 is a GTA in the jungle but not so diverse .... the enginne at first looks quiate great ... i mena 
 when it comes to nature enviroments it comes 2nd after Crysis ... but the feeling it provides isn't 
 thhat great , as they promised + the game on a gameplay standpoint feels under-realized so it dissapoints 
 evan ore .... lets \say that its polished but but not finished the way it should be ! All the game 
 feel slugish & the 50 km2 dosen't provide the same emersive feeling as Crysis ... because it dosen't 
 have the same height & immersive feeeling i can't expalin it right ! Anyway i'm dissapointed but 
 i feel that in part is a great game but mostly lets you wanting for more including a story , Who 
 could evan imagine that UBI Montreal who made PoP & many other masterpieces can make such a weak 
 story ! The END ! Back to Dead SPace & wow its made by an EA studio that's a 1st exce [t LA & C&C 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Like most FPS fans, I was really looking forward to this game. The game world/level design is all 
 it was cracked up to be; combined with excellent ambiant sound and atmosphere. The only fly in 
 this ointment, is the lack of any dangerous wildlife (lions, crocs, etc) , and that may be due to 
 the part of Africa the Devs modeled their world on. The weapon sounds are some of the best I've 
 heard in the last couple of years, and there was plenty of potential in the story. The variety 
 of weapons is good (though most of the assult rifles and MGs are very weak and unbalanced) , and 
 provide for a wealth of play styles (and replay value) . What's that yo say? Oh yes.......... the 
 physics. The ability to set fires, and blow stuff up. They're on par with the level design and 
 sounds. Great! The fire aspect turned out to be far better than I thought, and the explosions and 
 effects should please any destruction junkie! 
  
  There are a lot of VCPs (vehicle check points) in this game. The enemy respawn time frame; after 
 you've eliminated the VCP guards and any mobile patrols who arrive on scene is ridiculous (less 
 than five minutes on several occasions) . You can run up and down the trails, fighting your way 
 through VCP after VCP, or you can travel cross country by foot (frequently by 4 x 4 too) bypassing 
 the VCPs, or eliminating the ones you choose, you can use the river network (via boat) to move 
 more quickly and with fewer check points, or you can take the bus (1 center and 4 quadrant locations 
 on each of the 2 maps) to teleport around quickly. Offering many options in game play style. 
 
  
  There are plenty of diamonds in glowing briefcases, laying around the maps, to be used for weapons 
 and upgrades purchases, and you'll receive even more diamonds for taking main missions. Though 
 the trader/weapons purchase mechanism will soon part you from most of your ill gotten gains (and 
 I thought the whole point of mercing was to make make money in addition to the adventure of it 
 all) .
  
  The story? That's where the problems start. The story is very weak; heavily scripted in you must 
 take the main missions as offered to advance the game, and if you don't, the game halts for all 
 practical purposes. Sure there are plenty of side and buddy missions. The side missions are all 
 for the arms trader, who will ask you to blow up the same rival arms convoy over and over, varrying 
 only in location, where they'll be driving in circles on the local trails, waiting for you to come 
 by and ruin their day. The purpose of all this convoy busting is to "unlock" more weapons for purchase 
 at the arms trader. Buddy missions add some variety, and a relationship dynamic that's ultimately 
 destroyed by the story progression, rendering the the buddy aspect meaningless. The game ending 
 is beyond lame........ weaker than the story itself, and not worthy of the game world. Yea, they're 
 games, and we're not expecting high art, but it's such a shame, as the story could have been so 
 much better (and it did have a fair bit of potential) with only a little more effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jllife
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Dear FPS friends,
  
  Just a quick command, as it suppose to be!
  
  Sorry to say, but FC2 is not "THE shooter" we wished for, especially for me!! I played/playing 
 a lot of FPS shooters and I was hoping this is "the" one, ... unfortunately...
  
  Okay it has some very good visuals and sound effects (except the in game voice acting) .
  
  Don't 
 get me wrong; FC2 is not bad, but..... beside the very nice graphics and sound effects, it is going 
 downhill, the game feels repetitively and... .. what the HECK is this malaria "thing", you can't 
 even explore the full world on your own, because you are pushed to use a (safe) house, to take a 
 ... Duhhh... rest?! :- (
  
  Ubi soft, you did nice (honestly) but, this is not a sequel on FC1.
  
  
  However, you ppl. 
 who are loving this game, okay and enjoy.
  
  My advice: go for Crysis Warhead instead!! 
  
  BTW: Main setup really sucks.
  
  
  Respect to all you FPS fans, J-Life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Borges2207
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  OK, first off Far Cry 2 is not a sequel to the original Far Cry by Crytek i see it more as a new 
 start for the franchise and i like it.
  
  GRAPHICS: Far Cry 2 has impressive graphics, ok, not as good as Crysis but still impressive and 
 they run very smooth on my PC (Intel C2D- 2GB DDR2- 8800GTX- DX10) .
  The hot african setting is very well done (Hey im from Africa) with the lightning and dry foliage 
 adding a sense of intense heat, Fire spreading on the grass and trees with the wind directing its 
 effect, animals wandering in the savannah, the sun reflecting on the rivers and burning the deserts, 
 gorgeous sunrise and sunset.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Gameplay here is similar to "Boiling Point" (Remember that game?) , the game does a good 
 job offering varied elements of play, the player suffers from malaria, the player can get injured, 
 the guns jam, the vehicles can get repaired, you are able to choose how and when to attempt a mission, 
 you can buy weapons and upgrade your skills at any time. The negative point is that after playing 
 at least 50% of the game you'll feel that some elements are being repetitive and traveling from 
 one place to another may get boring.
  
  SOUND: The sounds play very nice with ambient sounds changing when day becomes night when a sunny 
 day suddenly becomes windy and rainy, the intimidating sound of a sniper rifle in the distance 
 the fire burning and the shouts of an angry militia seeking cover or trying to flank you.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Far Cry 2 is a very good game with impressive design that gives the player a sense 
 of freedom in a hot african landscape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crispenz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are amazing! cool sunsets and dark and light sequences look 
 fantastic! Not exactly as good graphics as crysis but... no game does... it is also multi-platform 
 so if they used crysis graphics, they would have to tune the graphics much lower to let the consoles 
 play.
  
  Gameplay: This game adds many great new things to the genre like its health system. Instead of 
 just regenerating health over a short amount of time like CoD 4, you have to use needles and pull 
 out bullets to gain health back. This realy does make the gameplay quit realistic.
  
  Control: I really didn't think some of the control scemes on the PC were all that great compared 
 to CoD 4 or other fps games. To use iron sights, you have to hold down the right mouse button and 
 keep holding which can be quit annoying. You can easily change these controls though so it isn't 
 to much of a turn off.
  
  Presentation: The Menu screens in Far Cry 2 looks really great and the begining of the game really 
 does show you how impressive this game is. You start the game riding in a car which shows you the 
 fantastic graphics and then you pass out from maleria only to get a nice talk with the Jackal. 
 Right after your conversation with him after he spares you, you immediately get into a huge firefight 
 and are trying to escape the town.
  
  Overall: If you are a fan of the FPS genre and like openworld environments, this game is a must 
 even if you only play the single player. The multiplayer levels are great and you get to use a 
 robust map editor to make some fantastic level designs for online play. I HIGHLY recommend this 
 game to any PC owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caligua_65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  UPDATE 1/28/09.
  
  Finished this game last night. I had to modify my score down to a 7.5. Terrific graphics and detail 
 aside, the game has what I consider a disappointing tedium level due to the excessive travel and 
 too many similar quests for the length of time it took to complete it. Ending was.... well, I don't 
 want to give out any spoilers, but I think they could have done better.
  
  There were a lot of good things about this game, no doubt. I think a lot of future designers are 
 going to take notice of the open-sandbox style of play in this game that was very attractive. But 
 think they could have consolidated a lot, made it a 20-25 hour game and it would have been a much 
 more polished product.
  
  
  
  
  As many have commented before, this is a game that has terrific potential, but falls just a tad 
 bit short from falling into the "off the charts unreal" category.
  
  Personally, I find it amusing that those who complained that Crysis didn't have enough of the sand 
 box style, are now whining that there's too much sand box in Far Cry 2. Exactly what do you people 
 want? I'm discovering that the completely open-area of Far Cry 2 is a refreshing take from the 
 usual linear paths you're forced to travel in other RPG/Shooters. You decide you don't want to 
 complete an assigned mission right at that time? Then don't. Or don't take the mission at all. 
 Want to go hunt for diamonds? Go do that. Tired of dealing with broken and bad weapons? Go on some 
 of the weapons missions. Tired of running roadblocks? Take a bus or just go cross country staying 
 away from roads, boats and the railway. The game has a freestyle play with a multitude of games 
 within a game like no other.
  
  As a side note, it's both unfortunate and nice that we have games like Crysis and Bioshock to compare 
 this genre of games to. Unfortunate because we expect portions of Crysis and Bioshock in every 
 game we play which doesn't allow us to enjoy new games for what they are. But nice that we have 
 those games as benchmarks to refer to.
  
  For Far Cry 2, I find the terrain and colors redundant. However, that's Africa. I've been to Africa 
 and what you see in Far Cry 2 is exactly what you get  for thousands and thousands of square miles. 
 So you can't fault the game maker for making a near perfect replica of Africa. Unfortunately, that 
 doesn't translate well into a 50-hour game where terrain variety is a must to help maintain interest. 
 Before release I thought the African background was a terrific idea. Now I'm wishing there were 
 portions of the game chasing the Jackal into Europe or Asia to break up the scenery.
  
  I also find the enemy AI lacking, particularly compared to the above mentioned Crysis and Bioshock. 
 I'm accustomed to enemies using near real-life tactics in their fights. However I see instances 
 of "just stand and get shot," or "charge right into the line of fire" in Far Cry 2. Same thing 
 with the critter AI. I've seen water buffalo walking directly into each other or rotating in circles.
 
  
  However, overall  I think Far Cry 2 presents a great storyline, your play options are unlimited, 
 the game pace is yours alone to set, weapons, sounds and effects are terrific. This game will keep 
 me well entertained for several more weeks and anytime I get a quality bang for the buck like that 
  it'll receive a deserved high score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamh9999
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  i tried and tried and tried to love this game. I had such high expectations, but like alot of the 
 other reviews ive read on here, the repetition just gets to you after a while. At the beginning 
 its a very fun game and all the driving you have to do and all the guard posts you have to pass 
 and pass and pass again dont bother you so much. But the constant respawning of the enemies and 
 the REDICULOUS amount of time you have to drive just gets really old. Every mission is basically 
 the same. Go find someone and kill them. The first few are fun and you keep thinking the missions 
 will get different but they don't. Alot of the weapons you can get are just stupid to use in a 
 mission. For example you can get a rocket launcher but it only holds 3 or 4 actual rockets and 
 after the first rocket you fire into a mission area you have 10 or so people charging at you with 
 assault rifles so therefore you need a shortrange weapon which you can only carry one of if you 
 have the rocket launcher equiped so then you run out of ammo to quickly. Overall, the game was 
 fun for about 10 hours I guess. It jsut could have been so much more. I am not going to complete 
 the game. I have completed 24 of the main missions and i Just cant go any further. It saddens me. 
 Luckily 2 other great games have just been released. I will now indulge in Fallout 3 and then try 
 out Dead Space. Nice try with Far Cry 2, but you just dont cut it. Way to much monotony. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixxl15
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is definitely one of the best games of the year. Fantastic graphics, amazing game play 
 and moves and unbelievable reality of the game. It's for sure that F. C.2 is better than the first 
 one, but there's missing something to make the game for a number 10. Ex. the missions are in some 
 parts partially not connected, what was not the problem in Far Cry part 1. The game could have 
 been a fantastic game and almost a 100% GotY, but it's still great as it is. As for the multiplayer, 
 i don't care, but the plan and organization it isn't bad. I believe this is one of the most revolutionary 
 games in the history. Ubisoft has proven here that they can stand next to EA games on the throne 
 of games. Although EA and Ubisoft have great games this year, none of their games will probably 
 take the GotY award. The winner will probably be Rockstar with it's fantastic game GTA IV, or even 
 Bethesda with Fallout 3, but no doubt, they will fight to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper0324
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 provides a huge open map for player to explore, and player can choose what mission to 
 take and have their own way to complete the mission. The format is kind of like playing GTA in 
 FPS mode in Africa. Farcry 2 sounds very compelling, but in fact too much repetition in all aspect 
 of the game make this game quite disappointing.
  
  No doubt graphic is one of the big hit for Farcry 2. The environment is absolutely beautiful and 
 photo-realistic. Player can have some interations with the environment such as shoot certain kind 
 of trees apart, and blow away the roof of certain kind of building, but the interaction is very 
 limited. 
  
  However, the enjoyment brought by the beautiful scenery will diminish very soon after so much travelling 
 around the huge map. The scenery is very repetitive as well, after a short whiole they all look 
 the same, and boring. All your safe houses look prety much exactly the same.
  
  The vehicles in Farcry 2 felt really lazily drown. There are 6 kinds of vehicle: boat, truck, technical, 
 jeep, buggy, and a hatchback. However, all vehicles of the same kind looks exactly the same across 
 the map other than the color. The rear mirror on the car is just a blur shinning texture that doest 
 absolutely nothing at all. 
  
  The car interior looks ok, repetitive too though. One thing that really bugs me is when you pull 
 the hand brake, you can see the player's hands don't even leave the driving wheel for a second. 
 When you look at the player's feet, it doest move at all when you accelerate or brake. Moreover, 
 you can fix your can when the enging is smoking, but there is only one graphic for it. You see 
 the player open the hood and tighten one bolts inside, and then the car is new again, which is 
 absolutely stupid and useless feature. I know this is not a driving game, but consider the amount 
 of time we are going to spend on driving they should have make this feature more detailed.
  
  The sound effects are very good, with a 5.1 speakers and a decent subwoofer you are definitely 
 going to enjoy all the gun fires and explosions. All guns sound different as well. One big draw 
 back on sound effect is whenever a enemy inside a vehicle see you, they will try to persuit you 
 and the first thing you ever and always going to hear is this huge roar of their vehicle's engine. 
 For every single car the roar sounds the same, and consider the number of times you are going to 
 hear it, you will get sick of it very very soon, and it felt idiotic too after a while. Music is 
 very blend.
  
  The gameplay is very repetitive. Eventhough you are offered a big open world, but due to the player's 
 lack of skill of jumping, I suggest you stick with the road most of the time. Once you arrive at 
 each mission area, then it is just like a small Battlefield map where you are suppose to reach 
 an objective, which is usually killing somebody or obtain some item. And this pretty much sum up 
 the contents of every single mission, and all the mission maps feel really similar as well.
  
  There will be lot of driving, more than you ever want. The enmy respawn at every guard station 
 very quickly, so once a while you have to get down your vehicle and slaughter them all. How about 
 just zoom past the guard post? I don't know is it my driving skill or what, if I try to zoom past 
 a guard post the enemy always catch up on me with their vehicle, and before I can get rid of them, 
 which I doubt will ever happen, my car will be smoking already and I need to get down and slaughter 
 whoever is chasing me, fix my car and get going again.
  
  The mission you take from the weapon shop and cell phone attena are all repetitive as well. For 
 the weapon shop mission there will be a convoy for some reason just continuously circling around 
 an area forever, waiting for you to blow them up. And the celllphone attena mission are all about 
 assasinating some one, or at least the first few are, because I got sick of it and stop taking 
 them after a while. Even the direction the guy give you on cellphone feel recycled.
  
  The conversation in Farcry 2 are very repetitive as well. Every time after you obtained a mission 
 from a faction leader, they will remind you you are a secret agent and even people from their own 
 faction will attack you when they see you, and they say it every single time when you get a mission. 
 After a while you would really want to punch them in the face. Everytime after you are finished 
 a mission with a buddy, they will tell you to leave first and he/she will stay to clean up, which 
 I don't know what he/she actually does.
  
  The AI in Farcry 2 is... I don't know how to describe it. They are very good at hunting you and 
 super presistent. The AI are so good that they can shoot through tall grass and bunch of tree branches 
 that should have totally blocked their view.
  
  Some little things in Farcry 2 are not done very well either. For example in one mission you are 
 going to kill a target in a building in a cease fire zone. In cease fire zone enemy will not attack 
 you until they are fire upon, and in the past when you go in that building you will be asked to 
 surrender your weapon. For that particular mission your contractor manage to bribe the guard for 
 you so he doesnt take your weapon away, and will give you a "ok no problem gesture" when you enter. 
 After you go in, kill the target, and come out the building. Every single person start to shoot 
 at you because you fire a weapon in a cease fire zone. What the hell did the bribe only works for 
 the "gatepass"?
  
  The story is really boring, if you can actually tell there is a story. And after all the hard work/killing/driving 
 you have done. You got a about 30 seconds ending cinematic....
  
  Overall Farcry 2 is a beautiful game, but because everything is so repetitive, and the open world 
 is not really that open for player to explore. I don't feel like to play it again at least for 
 a short while. Farcry 2 didn't live up to my expectation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 had a lot to live up to. The first Far Cry, while not for everyone, even FPS fans, definitely 
 hit the nail on the head for me. But did Far Cry 2 meet them?
  
  It's a mixed bag in how it meets, or even surpasses the first game. It obviously surpasses the 
 original in terms of graphics and engine capabilities. The Dunia engine is really quite a looker. 
 It delivers a picturesque rendering of a typical African landscape, with Jungle, Savannah, Woodlands, 
 and Urban terrain. It also has some neat capabilities, like a full day/night cycle, revolutionary 
 fire propagation system (short for 'realistic fire') , interactive foliage, erosion and terrain 
 noise, and high quality textures. 
  
  Game-play is a bit of a mixed bag, but for me, it did pretty well in this department, as well as 
 basically delivering what the developers promised. 90% of the game world, all 50 square kilometres 
 (or 33 square miles, approximately) of it, can be traversed in some form. This gives you many ways 
 to approach an objective. The environment is also a potential weapon, with the fire propagation 
 system being able to wipe out enemy ranks. Yet, the travel system can be tedious as hell at times, 
 especially when objectives are found far away from the bus stations (basically quick ways to get 
 from each corner of the game world) . The patrols you encounter, the sometimes sketchy terrain and 
 roads, and the map, can bog down the experience. While this bolsters the sandbox style the game 
 was meant to be, this may not be a good thing for the players themselves. 
  
  The vehicles work, and the feel of driving is solid. However, there are only a couple of vehicles 
 that really serve to be useful, such as the technical truck, buggy, and fishing boat. I can't say 
 much about the Hang glider because you don't get to use it often, nor do you get to go very far 
 with them. 
  
  The missions are not the most varied bunch. It's typically of just several types that you'll have 
 to undertake: 
  
  1) Rescue: Either rescue a group of people who can help give you medicine for your malaria, or 
 rescue an interactive NPC who may help you on your quest (buddies) .
  2) Destroy: Blow up something, or destroy a convoy that ships weapons.
  3) Retrieve: Take something 
 from a place, such as a map or detonator for a bomb.
  4) Assassinate: Kill someone, such as an official for one of the factions, a shady teacher who 
 helps a faction produce IEDs, or even a rogue buddy.
  
  This small variety of mission types can feel like a drag at times, especially when the variety 
 doesn't change too much within a certain amount of time. You may have to assassinate someone at 
 the start of the game, but you may have to kill another person in the next mission you're given. 
 Between each mission is often tedious travel that is often inconvenient and can spell a game-over 
 (especially frustrating if you haven't saved your game for some time) . 
  
  The story isn't noticeable. It takes analysis to understand where the game is going. You're in 
 the war-torn region to take out a weapons dealer who supplies guns to two hostile factions that 
 war with each other. Basically, as you progress through the game, things get different, such as 
 factions getting increasingly violent towards each other, or even parring up for whatever reason. 
 You're basically the guy in the middle (even though there is a neutral faction of people who are 
 actually there to help the civilians in the country) . There's a plot twist in the game as well, 
 which may not, and has not pleased too many players to this day. As I said, one needs to be intuitive, 
 and willing to understand just what is going on. The tedium of the missions and the approach can 
 take some interest away from some players, unfortunately.
  
  The weaponry is fine and dandy, but you're limited until you progressively unlock new ones. You 
 can grab weapons from fallen foes, but they're too unreliable to depend on for your survival from 
 point A to point B. You can pick up ammo from each gun by simply walking over them, or past them, 
 or whatever, but you don't want to pick them up. This can be bad though, since the weapons that 
 you actually acquire from the shops or safe-houses may not be the same that you find in the battlefield. 
 These unreliable guns can jam and even blow up in your hands, right in the thick of battle. A bad 
 time to be fighting indeed, and you never know when it'll happen.
  
  Each character, no matter how alike they are (which is a bit of a downer) , is stricken with malaria. 
 You'd think that each character would have something to call their own, bar the aesthetic differences, 
 but they don't. Anyway, the malaria you're stricken with throughout the whole game can actually 
 force you to think about your approach, and your resource management. At times, you have to scout 
 new areas to find more medicine. If you are out of medicine and you are forced to find one of these 
 places (even though they get marked on your map) , you can be at risk of losing the game. 
  
  There are neat touches, like animals in the landscape, all of which are herbivorous (UM was 
 a bit wise to avoid the carnivores, since PETA or other animal activist groups may complain about 
 any depictions that may have come forth) . They go about their own devices, not posing a threat 
 to your progress. Another touch is that you can break apart the foliage, to a degree anyway. Don't 
 expect to uproot a large tree though. You can destroy some of the structures in the game, such 
 as some fences, certain shanty buildings (which is strange, given an actual shanty's vulnerabilities) , 
 and foliage as mentioned. 
  
  Multiplayer is another matter. There are four game modes, 3 of them pretty much run-of-the-mill. 
 They're slight variations of those modes, but they're here and at least you get to play them with 
 the FC2 touch. The fourth game mode is a Capture Point type mode. This isn't all that unique either, 
 but it's probably the neatest game mode offered. 64 player slots are available, but for optimal 
 performance, a game should only have perhaps half of that. 
  
  The game comes packaged with a solid, well-rounded map editor. You get to do pretty much anything 
 that the developers could, so don't worry about not being able to have that neat touch you saw 
 somewhere in the game, wherever that may have been. In either version of the game, you can jump 
 in and out of the editor and right into the map in progress, to see just how it looks up close. 
 So far, in experimenting with the map editor, I am quite pleased. It does what it was intended 
 to do, it doesn't make any far-out promises nor does it break any. 
  
  Anyway, this is a solid game, but it isn't for everyone. I am a huge fan of the PC original, but 
 this shouldn't exactly be compared to it. I find that the game follows the same plot theme, where 
 you're in the middle of a conflict between two groups, working your way through until you find 
 the one who is causing all the mess, and there's a plot to change just what is really going on. 
 
  
  Lastly, I am personally sick of the comparisons to Crysis that people make, almost like it's a 
 reflex for them. There's no true competition either way. Either engine is different and has different 
 purposes (even though they have a few similarities) . The graphics are almost on-par with each other, 
 despite some ups and downs of either. The gameplay of either game is entirely different with a 
 different approach to the story and objectives (I personally like the open-end approach to FC2, 
 more than the pseudo-linear GO TO THIS ONLY MISSION OBJECTIVE approach of Crysis) . Whatever game 
 you prefer, that's your choice. I just can't be arsed into participating in silly bickering fights 
 about which game looks better.
  
  Check out Far Cry 2 and see where you stand. Please, don't give up in the first 5 minutes; you 
 should give it about half an hour before really making up your mind. Whatever you think of it after 
 a proper acquaintance period, at least you got to play this intriguing, immersing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefftc14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing like what I was thinking when I heard there would be a far cry 2. the first 
 far cry was fun to play but this one however is pretty much unbearable... I tried to give this 
 game a chance because I loved the first one but I was let down. This game is soooo obviously made 
 for these lame xbox kids to just get achievements on, by collecting diamonds... making the player 
 run all over the map by driving in a vehicle... you will no kidding spend more time in a vehicle 
 than anything else in this game. also as soon as you clear a guard outpost... they will respawn 
 minutes later and you have to kill them all over again. the game also contradicts itself constantly... 
 for instance it tells you that weapons you buy from the store don't jam and that rusty weapons 
 you find off guards you kill will jam. in my experience the guns I bought from the store jam'd 
 almost double that the guns I found off bodies... not only is the game and plot just retarded but 
 I had numerous difficulties just trying to play the frickin thing. there is nothing wrong with 
 my pc it plays all other games perfect and I do mean ALL other games... in fact the only positive 
 thing I can think of about this game is the DECENT graphics and the flame spreading over everything... 
 THATS IT! so, to wrap up I highly suggest you guys play Dead Space as that game is better than 
 doom and prey combined or play Crysis or F. E. A. R, because those are games that are actually worth 
 playing... this game is a POS meant for stupid xbox achievements exactly like assassin's creed... 
 if anyone who works in game's reads this PLZ STOP MAKING GAMES FOR THE SAKE OF ACHIEVEMENTS!!! 
 you will ruin this industry for the sake of making money off stupid little kids trying to get a 
 high gamerscore. keep the pc games for the LOYAL pc fans and stop ruining sequels that should and 
 could have been way better, there is simply no need to ruin awesome games because you aren't creative 
 enough to make different games for the console kids... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deciusius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I have just recently bought Far Cry 2 and so far I can honestly say that I'm enjoying it a lot.
 
  
  Far Cry 2 has amazing graphics and a huge 20 x 20 kilometer world. There are a ton of things to 
 do , from side missions , working for arms dealers , to doing work for other rebel factions.
  
  One thing I really liked about this game was it's setting. The world has a really nice feel 
 to it and you get the feeling that you're in Africa when playing the game.
  
  As for the storyline , it's a fairly decent one. You have many rebel factions getting ready to 
 go into armed conflict and you must find and kill 'The Jackal,' the arms dealer who is supplying 
 all sides with weapons.
  
  The game has a large amount of weapons and vehicles. The weapons are really fun to play around 
 with. There are flamethrowers you can use to start forest fires, there are IEDs you can use to 
 stop pursuing enemies, and a countless number of other weapons.
  
  Another thing I liked about Far Cry 2 was it's missions. They vary the game-play up and you won't 
 feel like you're doing the same thing over and over again. Sure . you'll be assassinating a lot 
 of people and blowing a lot of things up for sure , but they're in such different locations and 
 scenarios you really don't feel like you're doing the same thing over and over again.
  
  The multiplayer in Far Cry 2 is also very fun. You have your Team Death Match , Death Match , and 
 another few game modes. With the map editor that comes with the game this can lead to ultimate 
 possibilities.
  
  Overall I think Far Cry 2 is an excellent purchase and worth the money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I just found this a complete damp squib. You spend most of you're time driving around the map - 
 there a no large scripted action set pieces which I have come across so far, and all in all it's 
 just completetly lacking in excitment and fun factor. The storyline didn't grab me whatsoever, 
 and the graphics and gameplay feel way to console-ish for my liking: weapons respawn endlesley 
 once purchased, the currency is diamonds, which are scattered casually about the landscape in briefcases, 
 and the alternative travel through the complete warzone you play in is a bus route system - boy 
 they must use tough buses! All of these detract from the believability of the environment. When 
 it comes down to it the only two things which I enjoyed about this game are the fire system, which 
 is great, and the bundled map editor, which I found way more fun to use than I did the actual game. 
 In actual fact - I found the game so unisipiring that I'm still on the first map, and can't be 
 bothered putting in the time to get to the second one. And DRM it uses means that I can't sell 
 it. The only reason I'm not rating this a five is because of the the fun I'm having with the map 
 editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  The story doesn't carry over, the characters aren't the same, there's no mention at all of Jack 
 Carver, there are no mutagens, no feral powers, and no Trigens. Instead, it's a struggle between 
 warring factions, called the APR and UFLL, in an unnamed African nation. 
  
  The game also doesn't give players a pre-determined protagonist. Instead, you select a character 
 to play as, and the rest of the cast appear in the game world around you as friendly NPCs, called 
 buddies, who you can choose to work with. Things begin with a simple tutorial section, introducing 
 you to basic first-person shooter controls and the game's premise. Your main goal is to find The 
 Jackal, a menacing character that supplies weapons to the APR and UFLL to keep lit the fires of 
 conflict. 
  
  The point is, with this kind of setup, it's odd that the Far Cry name was even used at all, other 
 than for its obvious name recognition value. Pushing that issue aside and accepting that this is 
 basically a totally different game, you'll find there's quite a bit to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a good game. If I were to meet a friend and say what the game was like, I'd probably 
 not be bashing it to smithereens. I'd also not praise it to death. But I'd say its a good FPS. 
 Short, simple, too the point, but definitely no Call of Duty 4.
  
  And there's the cake right there. Really, Far Cry 2 is not a hard game to review because the critics 
 have it on the spot. It's a great game with new concepts, that gets repetitive every once in a 
 while, thus leaving it as a game that 'could have been better'.
  
  Far Cry 2 has many strong points: it has a VERY attractive graphical setup, with a nice minimap 
 function and cool action choices like opening doors with your actual hands, and pulling bullets 
 out of your bleeding leg.
  
  I also find the world of Africa rather pleasant to view, and my first couple of hours driving were 
 of pure delight and freedom. I kind of compare this feeling to the feeling I got from Assassin's 
 Creed when I first started that. However, these two brother games have the same darn genetic problems.
 
  
  I was lucky to be graced by Assassin's Creed on the PC where the repetitiveness was severely dummed 
 down. Far Cry 2, despite all its greatness, however feels like AC BEFORE the PC patches.
  
  In short, FC2 can get pretty repetitive... and I admit that I had to take little 'breaks' while 
 playing this game. Which is, play this game for a couple of days straight, and you'll start getting 
 all out frustrated by how boring it'd get.
  
  But I didn't do that, I actually took a long hiatus in the middle of the game, and came back to 
 it feeling happy about it.
  
  Repetitiveness is FC2's biggest weakness. Having characters you don't care about, a storyline that 
 is so-so but not quite good, and a world that feels a little 'dead' at times doesn't seem to help.
 
  
  But remember what we are rating here. Apples to apples and oranges to oranges. FC2 is an FPS; most 
 that fall under this family involve innovation with WEAPONS. And FC2 has some pretty sweet weapons. 
 Lackluster characters and story, but great weapons and best of all no stupid mutant monsters. Leave 
 that for Fallout 3, which can actually pull that off.
  
  In short, I'd recommend FC2 for kind of quick plays. You'll enjoy it for being the cool game that 
 it is, but it doesn't quite hold interest like Call of Duty 4 or Fallout 3, or other games as such. 
 Basically: DEFINITELY a good game, but also definitely NOT a great game. It has a few issues to 
 work out regarding repetitiveness and story/characters. 
  
  I'd say this game is great for that occasional aggressive spurt. For great story and a compelling 
 world, leave it to Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  ... I was waiting for something way greater then this... I've played way better games than this. Some 
 people say that Far Cry 2 is better than Crysis, but I just cannot agree with them. That's because 
 the game is boring and very lame. On first place-the story is perhaps interesting, but the way it 
 opens to you is very dumb. Everything in this game (except shooting) goes really slow. You have to 
 drive a very uncomfortable vehicle every time you start a mission. You have to drive 5 minutes to 
 the objective's place, shoot 5-10 minutes and then more 5 minutes to go back, to the person that 
 gave you the mission... and that's it, the whole game is only this. The action is, but, very cool, actually. There 
 a lot of weapons in the game, some of them are very stupid, but still is better than nothing. The 
 problem is that they jam really quick and that stops the action in the most awful way. The effects 
 are very smooth, too. The flames are very cool... the graphics are not the best ever, but still they 
 do their job really well. So that's from me for now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NagaSin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Both graphics and sound are superbly done. The developers were quite successful in bringing realism 
 of the African wilderness into the game. The gameplay, however, leaves much to be desired. After 
 completing only the first few missions, you realize things are beginning to get woefully repetitive.
 
  
  Usually in this genre of games, you get that feeling of exhilaration when you unlock a better weapon, 
 or get an upgrade. Unfortunately in Far Cry 2 that excitement is never realized because of the 
 severely limited mission variance. You can only kill the same old "2-3 enemies at location X" so 
 many times before you get bored. Even if you tried using a different weapon each time, you will 
 quickly run out of new things to do in this game.
  
  FC2 looks and plays great for the first few hours but is disappointing from there on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maltbyfamily
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Game repeats over and over, communications tower missions = all the same, weapons dealer missions 
 = all the same!
  
  Last part was kinda cool before compleating the game but thats about it, definitly not the FAR 
 CRY i was waiting for, the original had so much more class and style, was fun in parts and i had 
 to finish it otherwise it would bug me but it didnt keep me gripped like the first one did,... total 
 abuse of the FAR CRY name.
  Best thing about it were the graphics, the fire effect was coool, definitly think they could have 
 added more wildlife, some crocks added to the swamps would have been nice, as would have blood 
 to the animals, lets hope the far cry 2 mod for crysis will be more than this. sorry to sound negitive 
 but this game definitly doesnt deserve more than 7.5, finding the diamonds were a kinda a cool 
 activity and what happens at about 96% is a prob the only suprising thing in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stargategamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is great with grafics and stuff like that, but my main consern is the fact that no matter 
 faction you play as, they have you go against it's own people. Why? You should be allowed to be 
 granted safe passage through some checkpoints and safe houses. Driving is cool, and so is useing 
 the day/night cycle as a tactical advantge. The glitches and bugs are rare, but anoying as heck. 
 Anyway, the game is great in many ways. But really, going AGAINST your own faction when passing 
 by a checkpoint, for crying out loud. If they are going to make a Far Cry 3 based on this, make 
 sure that they have your faction HELPING you instead of killing you. The fact that you have to 
 unlock weapons in also a pain in the neck, there is no way to find a dimond case, only a beeper. 
 Overall, the game is a grahical step into realisiom, but please make the story more realliastic.
 
  
  A 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokenz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  edit:
  for those reviewers that talk about repetition. how is it grand theft auto gets 9/10 and yet has 
 lots of repetition. Crysis, 9/10, repetition, just different settings. Lots of highly rated games 
 use a repetition structure to add time to the game play. I think people are obviously playing it 
 different than the people that rate it highly. As I don't have a problem with repetition, as I 
 have always approached missions differently, at different settings as I've mentioned below.
  close edit:
  
  
  If you are buying it for amazing graphics, you will be disappointed. Although 
 it's very nice, it's not up there with the likes of Crysis. 
  
  But for a well laid out sandbox game, this is great. I always found with most FPS, they are great, 
 but never had too much replay value. You would complete it, and that was pretty much it. Usually 
 following a set path through a level. 
  
  The GTA sandbox games, although I really tried to get into them I could never for longer periods. 
 The lack of real free roaming that you first think of is annoying, mainly not being able to enter 
 every building on the map. 
  Sure it's free roaming, but really, how annoying is it walking past buildings, shooting cops, but 
 you can't scale any building internally for better sniper positions, havoc etc?? I know this will 
 come, but until then I will pass on these games trying to cram tooo much detail into a map and 
 missing out on more realistic points.
  
  Far cry has that nice balance of free roaming into all areas by not applying vast amounts of buildings, 
 houses etc, nice graphics once you start playing it and your eyes down tune as such from Crysis. 
 I find the story is pretty good, and it has a good way of balancing out story missions, malaria 
 and weapon missions that you get a good mix.
  
  This game is definitely a game you need to play for a few nights to really start to appreciate 
 it. Everything starts to untangle and you approach missions differently, you have more action and 
 it keeps you on your toes. You start to experiment with missions, sometimes guns blazing, sometimes 
 sniping, sometimes only using your weapons, sometimes using items at bases to work in your advantage. 
 
  
  Approach during day, approach at night, rain, sun, mist etc. It's great, and the time system adds 
 different elements to the feel of the game and how you can approach missions.
  
  Great game. Stop comparing to other versions, and just play it, you will enjoy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellishDude
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  No question about it. Far Cry 2 has one hell of a rich and detailed world. Its not just the trees 
 and the rocks or the desert that makes this game looks good, but its everything inside it. You 
 have a living breathing Africa here, and I can say I'm quite astonished. I wish I could say the 
 same for the rest of the game. Not that it is bad game, but I was hopping something more from Far 
 Cry 2...
  Story seems pretty straight forward, choosing a faction don't add anything else and even more there 
 is no consequences for choosing one side or the other.
  Far Cry 2 adds some nice stuff for a change of pace. For once you can heal yourself by pulling 
 your bullets out of your body or fire up your wounds or even put a bone or two back into their 
 place.. but it gets really boring after a while. I was hoping combat to be a bit more realistic. 
 The physics don't seem to work well with the game and their are not so many destructible parts 
 you thought they were.
  But I have to say that sound is quite amazing, from music down to gunfires and the wind blowing 
 the trees... simply amazing.
  Overall its a nice game that should keep you for lots of hours in front of your computer but don't 
 expect much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I never hate to say this, but this game will always stand against the test of time. One for its 
 beauty being the landscape, passing AI, the buddies that rescue you when you are in trouble
  
  In terms of playing the game has if your life depended on it - it's very refreshing especially 
 using a hard difficulty.
  
  However, if you not a serious hardcore gamer from time to time - this game is for you.
  
  Again, 
 I shouldn't give the game such a high standing because of the reviews put before me ie ) no sound 
 story etc.
  
  But there aren't really any games out there what could match the Dunia engine than Cryteks. And 
 look at the landscape - you can sleep upon them!
  
  Its a strange game to Crysis in terms that you have no super human powers, and that the game it 
 self is not a sci fi than its predecessor - I suppose the game is a far Cry...
  
  ... Anyway, I've opened champagne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit2006
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD : Beautiful graphics brings out the real beauty of Africa, intense firefights and brilliant 
 fire effects, weapons feel real and powerful, great amount of rewards and weapons to play for and 
 unlock, Map editor is fun to work with. The biggest surprise was that the game was optimized to 
 run even on low end systems with good frame rates. In fact a the system which would run CRYSIS on 
 medium settings, would easily run Far Cry 2 on its higher settings.
  
  THE BAD : There is no plot or story, In fact there are no story missions, although there are Main 
 Missions, but they have no story in them. This game is all side missions which are repetetive and 
 boring. You have no idea as to where you have to go to progress further and finish the game. All 
 you have to do is travel from one place to another to do side missions. Travelling is also a huge 
 headache because of the long distance between the objective, just like it was in NEED FOR SPEED 
 UNDERGROUND, where you had to drive to races to drive in the races. The developers would have made 
 life much easier had the provided a helicopter. Also driving only in first person is also a bad 
 idea given that you need to look at your map every now and then. The biggest flaw is that the enemies 
 you kill in outpost or bases spawn back after return to that place for the second time. This was 
 a total foolish and unnecessary thing and would have any gamer frustrated because there is no point 
 blowing out enemy bases if they always come back. I doubt that anybody would have the patience to 
 finish the game with same kind of missions and respawning enemies. For me FAR Cry 2 was total disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the bad points -- wich I found there was quite a few, though not enough to counter-balance 
 the good ones:
  
  -Repetitive. The side-missions never differ. It's always the same thing over and over again, only 
 thing that prevents it from making it boring is the astonishing evironment and the mindblowing 
 action.
  
  -No choices. When Ubisoft said you would be as free as the wind to work for anyone you want, and 
 even to "betray" anyone you want, it was bull****, wich I found quite deceiving. Sure, you chose 
 whom your first few missions will be for, but at the end, you're forced to go work for the other 
 one then... they screw you over! Second Act, you work for the first one again (even though you betrayed 
 them) then... you have to work for the other one once again even if they f****d you previously, 
 surprise!
  
  -Weak Story. The only good part of the story is the twist with the Jackal and the interactions 
 you have with him, what happens inbetween (and there's a lot) is ... bland.
  
  The good points:
  Open World: They didn't exaggerate when they said it was open. You can take 
 your mission however you want and it's great.
  
  Action packed: The action never gets boring in the game. Even if - as mentioned previously - it 
 gets repetitive, blowing up stuff with the grenade launcher is fantastic.
  
  Visuals: Great graphics, probably only beaten by Crysis and Fallout 3 (even though I haven't played 
 the latter yet)
  
  Buddies: The Buddy system is great, even though if -- without giving away any Spoilers -- from 
 my experience, your History with them means nothing in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DF2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry was evolutionary and it hold its rightful place in history as a groundbreaking title during 
 its time. Then came Crysis powered by the successor to the first Cry Engine appropriately named 
 Cry Engine 2. While the the original Far Cry was demanding on the hardware of its time, I managed 
 to play it with reasonable frame rates on a Radeon 9500Pro which was out dated at the time. I have 
 played Crysis and Crysis: Warhead on a G7900GT and G8800GTS 512 and on both cards to I felt that 
 the engine was not built for play on anything below a souped up development rig. Even at medium 
 graphics there was too much overhead demands from the engine and the physics were also poorly effected 
 as the PC tried to keep up using an Core 2 Duo E4600. So while the Cry Engine 2 games have potential 
 over 80% of gamers would be severly limited by hardware. Farcry 2 uses the Dunia engine which is 
 a super tweaked Unreal 3 engine. However only 3% of the original engine remains with everything 
 else tweaked for DX10. The end result is a beautiful engine that is highly scalable and renders 
 like a hot knife through butter on most modern medium spec rigs on high graphics. Dunia has some 
 killer AI; the best I have seen to date and its actually playable on high settings on a medium 
 rig without too much overhead in comparison to the Cry Engine 2. Well done Ubisoft Montreal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Why is it called Far Cry 2?? It has no sci fi whatsoever. The story is not even related to the 
 previous game. The developers are getting so wrapped up on their engines that they think of titles 
 as brands... They are two different words. The game story is... oh well, not very interesting. 
 It plays GTA style that is not a good thing, but thank god it did have all the up to do date pc 
 elements and it does not feel like a console game. It tried to have multiple endings but instead 
 it just had two different ways to die with the same video clip on the end.
  ====================================================
  This review is dummbed down and biased. 
 GameSpot does not allow me to express myself freely. If I say something they dont like or it goes 
 against their sponsors I get punished. So you will not read all the truth about my opinion here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been a PC Gamer for approximately 11 years. The first game I ever played was WestWoods Lands 
 Of Lore II, and since then I've played a few hundred games; some have stuck in my mind, but most 
 of them have vanished in the darkness of my memory.
  
  Crazy how it may seem; I can dream dreams about certain good games that I have played when I am 
 sleeping. On many occasions I've found myself in dark corridors waiting for an enemy or monster 
 to jump out and try to snag me. These dreams have not been nightmares, on the contrary - these 
 dreams have been recollections of times spent when my adrenaline was pumping and my love for adventure 
 was going over the scale. But for each good game I've played, there have been 50 bad games. Games 
 that couldn't make me care less just make me yawn and wish for a better day.
  
  My definition of a good game is a game that has:
  
  1. Interaction & storytelling
  2. Feeling 
 & characterisation
  3. Imagination & plausibility
  4. Craftsmanship & depth
  5. Devotion, and finally:
  6. Heart
  
  I am sure you can name a few games that have really 
 made your day, perhaps even changed your life. Those are the games we look after each time a new 
 game rears it's beautiful head. It is beautiful in the beginning, but just like a rose, when you 
 get closer you see all the details that make your skin crawl...
  
  But, we should not compare games; it would be like comparing women with apples, water with wine 
 or mothers with fathers; they are simple different beings, things that exist and should and are 
 different.
  
  Far Cry 2 is a game that makes my skin crawl; and I will tell you why and not compare it to another 
 game. Lets start with the positive aspects of it.
  
  This is my PCs hardware:
  (if you are not interested in this, just skip these few
  rows...)
  
  Samsung SyncMaster 245B 
 / 24' (1900x1200)
  Intel Core 2 Due E6600/ 2.4Ghz
  ASUS PB5 Deluxe DDR3
  SoundBlaster X-Fi Extreme Music
  Seagate Barracuda 7200 / 250Gb SATA2 X 2
  Asus GeForce 8800 
 GTS 768Mb GDDR 3
  
  Conclusion= My hardware is about two years old, and this game flows like a river on a summers day 
 on the highest settings.
  
  Thus:
  
  + Graphics are optimized for old computers...
  + Graphics support 1900x1200 60Mhz
  + Graphics are stunning on DirectX 9.0c
  + Sound is good 
 and vibrant
  
  If you are an avid gamer, you know that Far Cry & Far Cry 2 don't have anything in common. There 
 are many out there that feel this game feels like it was directed by Uwe Boll; and frankly; they 
 may have a point.
  
  I will not go into the story of this game since it is quite a simple one; but rather look at the 
 interaction and the character.
  
  I love literature, movies and games. When I read, watch a film or play a game I want to be drawn 
 into a story, not just look at pretty pictures that pop up in my brain; it would be like staring 
 at a waterfall, not knowing what to do next. In Far Cry 2 this analogy is close to the truth.
 
  
  Since your character is a silent man that walks or drives around in a "flat universe" - you are 
 never compelled to find out more about him, there is not really anything to find out but to go 
 from one point to another; that is the diversity, that there are low hills and high hills, that 
 there can be day or there can be night. In any good story there is a problem to be solved, here, 
 the problem is the game, not the character, he is just a white sheet of paper and you are controlling 
 his world not knowing what this world is, and it is a darn shame...
  
  Let's look at my list again -
  
  Far Cry 2:
  
  1. Interaction & storytelling
  - Not much, 
 go from here to there, "talk"?
  - Just pretty landscapes...
  
  2. Feeling & characterisation
  - Nice graphics, but more work has been put into
  the visuals 
 than the story
  - The character is "silent"
  
  3. Imagination & plausibility
  - Africa, a real country, although a bit "hollywoodized"
  - Well, it could happen
  
  4. Craftsmanship 
 & depth
  - Perfect controls, smooth, no crashes at all
  - "Small" maps, enemies around every corner
  
  5. Devotion
  - The gamestudio began with a 
 great vision, that ended up black
  
  6. Heart
  - Yes, and no. Yes, it was made for gamers who enjoy visuals, no - it was not made for gamers who 
 want a "real" story
  
  Negative aspects of the game:
  
  - Animals, where are they?
  No lions, snakes or rhinos that can kill you?
  
  - Blinking objects, diamonds, weapons...
 
  
  - The map, the "compass"...
  
  - Non-existing story, it is like a click and point game...
  
  - Lack of women characters...
 
  
  So, how can I end this review with a positive twist? Well, you can visit africa from your home 
 and not get malaria. There will be better games for sure; it was a good try, but I cannot recommend 
 it...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h7nichan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  First of all FarCry 2 is not a sequel nor does it have anything to do with the original FarCry 
 1. Now the first farcry was alright, there where some elements that set it apart from others. Like 
 the ability to crawl under shacks and shoot the enemies from underneath... even the super powers 
 later on where an acceptable touch. The control scheme for some reason is a little different and 
 it could take some getting used to. the graphics are no doubt amazing.... but heres another thing 
 I have a beef with the game. Sometimes when you do a mission you wipe the enemies... when you take 
 the same route however they respawn back like WTH?! does Africa have some Uber hospital or something 
 geez.... any this game a alright.... if youre woo'ed by pretty graphics then by all mean be prepared 
 to sit back and enjoy on long, long, long, long, long driving portions of the game.... and there 
 is alot.... enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firo999
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  how about that I've been waiting for like 2 years or something all free roam and stuff they say 
 ha! you are more constricted to roads than fable in this game i even prefer fable over it it really 
 breaks my heart just to know i wasted a year or so of my life waiting for this game to get. But 
 wait there's more they say 50 hours of game play gamespot say 30 hours of gameplay i say 12 yes 
 12 that's all i needed to finish this game 100 % with side missions and the story and bought all 
 weapons. ok ok the game is kinda nice when burning people alive and stuff but what about the ones 
 who take 100 bullets to die and not to mention the snipers i was deeply disappointed to know that 
 sniping didn't feature any skill to it u just point and shoot nothing special i was expecting more 
 like sniper elite realism were u shoot infront of a running guy because the bullet needs time to 
 get there the huge map is great for like the first 1 or 2 hours then u just start cursing because 
 of the ai which seems to follow u at every corner i know i know its supposed to be the thing which 
 made the game great but it actually ruins it i mean it takes me like 20 minutes and 5 firefights 
 with enemy's on cars shooting at u with their machine guns. and last but not least the repetitiveness 
 of the game well were do i start the missions are always the same not to mention the same dialogue 
 that they repeat i mean i almost memorized what the arms dealer says. this game could have been 
 so much more but it always turns out bad doesn't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msumike
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Good: Graphics
  
  Bad: every character looks the same, same missions over and over, enemies can take a full clip 
 of bullets and not die, have to keep repairing your vehicles which gets REALLY annoying, bad blood 
 effects, traveling to point a to b takes WAY too long (it gets to be a hassle more than something 
 to enjoy the game with) .
  
  I was REALLY disappointed with this game. When I first started to play it I thought it was cool 
 but then the game never changed and you did the same things over and over and over and over. If 
 they made a few tweaks it could be an awesome game but they won't. Unless someone totally mods 
 out the game it won't be worth the money at all. I don't even know if i would pay $20 for this 
 game let alone $50. Please guys. Don't listen to anyone giving a 10 review because there is NO 
 WAY that this game is EVEN CLOSE to a 10. At the VERY highest this game should get a 6 from someone 
 who enjoys repetition. 
  
  Overall - please save your money. I sure wish I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redskins2824
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  If your an insomniac, this is the game to put you to sleep. Very repetitive, unrewarding, and lame 
 weapon upgrades. Just a few things could have made this a great game.
  
  1. Slower respawns of guard post (even a day would have been great) .
  2. Rewards for killing 
 the same guards for the tenth time (maybe put a diamond or unique weapons on each guard)
  3. Better upgrades (how about night vision, infrared or even better scopes) . Better weapons and 
 stealth gear overall. If it was more rewarding to kill the guards they could have charged more 
 for upgrades.
  4. The ability to climb or even jump higher (The preview said go anywhere, it did'nt say unless 
 it's only a foot off the ground) . 
  
  There are tons of things that could have made this a better game . I hope by writing this it saves 
 someone else from wasting their money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychopit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  A kind of GTA with no one and nothing to do when driving. Boring after 10 hours but fun when played 
 occasionally. Honestly, in 14 hours play at this moment i think i spent 8 hours driving boringly 
 through jungle and savana with nothing but checkpoints to destroy at some bridges and crossroads. 
 If only missions with muliple objectives were in the same area, it would be more fast paced and 
 funier to play. Here, each time you pick a mission up, it sends you to the other side of the map. 
 I think it's a way to increase timeplay and hiding lack of preconception. What a shame after such 
 a great first game, make me think of Deus Ex franchise wich was totaly killed by poor use of the 
 universe and gameplay. 
  
  Good side, graphics are sweet (with nice fire and good explosion effects) and adapt well too various 
 budget configurations, BUT it's not as beautifull as it should be with top gamer configuration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  I was completely psyched when I first heard that there was going to be a sequel to FarCry, one 
 of my favorite games and quite frankly one of the best games ever made. However, I was a bit disappointed 
 with how it all turned out in FarCry 2.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Good engine. It's solid, it feels realistic and it's enjoyable. The only aspect that irritates 
 me is the amount of shots it takes to kill an enemy. Even when shooting them in the head, it still 
 takes 2 or 3 shots to finish them off. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Excellent. The developers really paid attention to detail with the African landscape. In fact, 
 some of it looks better than Crysis...
  
  PLOT:
  
  Boring. Missions feel the same, it takes hours to drive through the huge map to new destinations 
 and objectives. I stopped playing the game due to the story being dead.
  
  Overall, FarCry 2 isn't a bad game. If only the plot was more engaging, I might have continued 
 playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrrusher2007
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Here it goes, a game that was supposed to be a very great one, turns out to be a total waste of 
 money. I feel very sorry for FarCry, the FC 2.0 is not even closer to the feel FC has given. I 
 expected it to be a great game like Crysis, but it seems like a total twisted mixture of Oblivion's 
 long travels and rusting guns. A gun that gets rusted just by 2 hrs of use??? where did that idea 
 came to their minds, trust me its totally frustrating to see your favorite gun rusting while you 
 are traveling a useless time wasting distance, with 3 very lame targets to shoot at every outpost 
 at every turn, and then repair your vehicle and repeat everything once again. And, missions are 
 more like killing a horde of enemies with a few shots of grenade launcher... Buy out a gun and you 
 will see a better gun outside your door but, in rusted condition, which in no way affects the damage 
 you do. There is really nothing that can keep you bound to the game and stop you from clicking 
 the exit button in under half an hour. The game could have used the fantastic setting of desert 
 and grassland, and great deal of graphics, but it comes out to be a disastrous waste of money!!!! 
 that's what I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcritch4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing for a very short time, having had it for only a few days so far but so far 
 its amazing. The graphics and special effects i find are beautiful, with the controls being very 
 similar to other FPS. I never played Farcry, so i can't compare, however i can compare to Crysis. 
 Both are good games, yet i would put my money on Farcry 2 simply because i do not enjoy the alien 
 sci-fi factor of Crysis. Anyone who buys this game and gets frustrated with the time it takes to 
 go places is a moron. The game says right on the box, 20 square miles of play area. Do you think 
 its going to be a war zone across the whole area? Yeah right... I will admit travelling around 
 gets a little boring, but i've found with the enemy patrols and check points it keeps your adrenaline 
 up. Its especially enjoyable when you take a corner, come to a clearing and take a few rounds in 
 the windshield. That! Gets the adrenaline going... Not much to say except anyone who says this 
 game is crap just simply doesn't like the style. They want a Call of Duty 4 style game where the 
 player doesn't use their brain and simply shoots as much as they can while running around in a 
 tiny map. But this game is far beyond that, i've attacked enemy lookout points using guns blazing 
 or stealth. Both of which are enjoyable and take effort to achieve properly. The AI are intelligent, 
 moving into cover, flanking and preventing my advance. I would say that the only part of this amazing 
 game that i find a little annoying is the travel time. Reminds me of Oblivion, minus quick travel... 
 But there are Buses to save time. Travelling by car from one corner to the other is painstaking, 
 and you WILL have to stop and fight enemies along the road. So if your heart is set on just doing 
 your job... Try and floor it through the road blocks... But overall. This game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlineit77
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  It is really immersive, eats up a lot of time. Looks spectacular. Would like to be able to lean 
 with sights up. All multiplayer games, no matter the platform or type of game, should take after 
 COD2&4 PC ver. Join game, refresh list, add favorites. Select what server you want to join, no 
 matter if the match has started or not. I do like the Map editor for PC better than for PS3. It 
 is very intuitive and noob friendly. It too can eat a bunch of time. The AI is a bit strange at 
 times. The bad guys can spot me through thick brush at times, and other times when I am evading 
 the bad guys, I will run right into another bad guy who doesn't even know I am there until I run 
 into him. Perhaps I just need to learn the particulars of how the AI works. But in all, I really 
 enjoy playing this game. Get lost in the jungle and the freedom is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assasin51
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Like playing Medal of honour its not that good I expected it like better graphics it lets it's 
 self down as its Direct x 10.1 the balance issues as well you can take a whole magazine of a AK47 
 to kill which really should take one round there is lots of blood even when they shot when they 
 are dead story wise its good but get tedious having to keep going back to the Bar to get missions 
 its not an all action game , it has a very long single player ive not finished it but I have got 
 bored playing it do not compare it to crysis as it loses hands down we have been spoilt I expected 
 better so what can I really classify Farcry 2 its made by another company and different producer, 
 I think its been made to cash in on the original Farcry by Crytek should have really been brought 
 out at Christmas really as a stocking filler for those long boring nights or days when you have 
 nothing to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klanora
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Traveling around Africa, given multiple decisions on how to achieve one objective, kill the Jackal. 
 This is truly a great idea and maybe even revolutionary for fps's. The freedom to do things the 
 way you want and the possibilities involved as well. This is the essence of Farcry 2 and it while 
 it does deliver the feel, I truly felt something was lacking. It is hard to pinpoint whether it 
 is the vast African landscape, the vagueness of some missions or just the confusion involved in 
 what to do or how to do it. It can seem daunting and annoying to undertake the game at first but 
 after playing awhile, it actually becomes quite immersive. I can say that the game is not for everyone, 
 some might enjoy this kind of gameplay, others not. It really boils down to the gamer and what 
 he/she makes of the experience. Beyond some minor annoyances, Farcry 2 is a great game to play 
 and just get lost in the African jungles trying to discover your way to killing the Jackal in whatever 
 way you please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 exists in a bi-polar state. The game is quite enjoyable, but suffers from several oversights 
 that quite ruin the experience.
  
  Far Cry 2 is set in an unidentified African Country that's mired in the middle of a civil struggle 
 between two factions. The country's not at war yet, but that doesn't stop people from shooting 
 each other indiscriminately. You're a bad ass mercenary, sent to this dangerous land to kill an 
 arms dealer, named the Jackal. Apparently the powers that be don't like this gentleman and his 
 bloody little trade and would like him removed by any means necessary. You start the game off with 
 a little jaunt in the country, just you and your taxi driver in what I can only assume was the 
 developers way of showing off their engine and the landscape you're soon going to be gunning across. 
 Unfortunately you come down with malaria, and find yourself at the mercy of the Jackal. He'll leave 
 you to die alone miserably (though he'll leave you both a machete and a gunbecause he's a nice 
 guy) . When you come to, the city is in turmoil as the two feuding factions APR and the UFLL start 
 to tear the place apart. You'll eventually be rescued/recruited by members of the UFLL (because 
 nothing says hardcore killer like a malaria-sick patient) , who'll put you to work against their 
 enemy.
  And that's where the story stops. From then on you'll be doing missions for various organizations 
 that operate in the country. Working for the factions will bring you closer to the Jackal and an 
 opportunity to take him out but you'll have plenty of other opportunities to improve your skills, 
 reputation, weapons caches, and relationships with your 'buddies'.
  
  This is an interesting section of the game. There are various people who are willing to become 
 your friend, and support you as you progress through your missions. They'll offer you alternative 
 routes to accomplish your goal, which are longer and more difficult, but pay off more in the end. 
 Your buddies will ask you to do things for them that will increase your 'history' or improve your 
 relationship. But the coolest thing, and unfortunately the most broken thing about your buddies 
 will occur when you 'die'.
  When you finally succumb to the countless hordes of cannon fodder that you'll encounter, you will 
 not die. You'll be incapacitated, and wake up in the cheery arms of one of your buddies. He'll 
 revive some of your health and will shoot any bad guys that come near your area. And herein lies 
 the problem. He has a small patrol area, and he will not move from this spot. He won't jump in 
 a car if you drive up next to him, he won't man a turret, he won't go "okay, you're in good shape 
 now, I'm off". He will stand there. I remember the first time I 'died' I thought, "Wow, this is 
 pretty cool." We continued killing the bad guys in our immediate vicinity, and I tried to talk 
 to my savior. Other than making a note that I needed to patch myself up, he had nothing really 
 to say. Unfortunately, during the fire fight, a barrel exploded and had set the area ablaze (this 
 is an awesome feature) . As we were standing on the grass, I moved quickly away. The next thing 
 I heard was my buddy shouting "Beware of the fire!" and then succumbing to the flames. His AI was 
 so low, that a) he could not left his designated patrol area even to take cover or avoid the flames 
 and b) even though the immediate threat had left the area completely, he was going to stand around 
 and protectsomething. So now it was my job to run in and save him. Fantastic.
  
  When you're playing a deadly killing machine, there are a couple of things that you expect. You 
 expect skill with weapons, survival techniques, cool equipment, neat moves, and personal fitness. 
 Apparently, the developers decided that jumping and climbing will not be a strong trait in Mr. 
 Merc-4-Hire. See that rocky outcropping that has a perfect vantage point for you to snipe your 
 opponents? No you can't climb it. Okay, fine, well how about that tree? Can I shoot from its branches? 
 No you can't do that either silly man.
  No climbing, no jumping, no physical exertion of any kind. We don't want to damage your fragile 
 physique. This is badyes, but it's not the deal breaker. One half of the deal breaker is when 
 you put the diamonds, the diamonds that are your one and only source of income, on the roof of 
 a blown up bus or in a train car with no ladder or on the roof of a building. No you can't pick 
 up boxes and build a staircase. No you can't pull yourself up with raw manly strength. You'll snap 
 your girly little arms. Too many FPS's have an allergy to the player interacting with their environment. 
 Go play an adventure game if you want to climb stuff. Which is a problem when the game has the 
 player utilizing everything and anything to assist him in surviving.
  The other half of the deal breaker is the vehicles. Small, little motored boats with low, low sides 
 are IMPOSSIBLE to get out of. You will spend 70-80 percent of your time screaming in frustration 
 as you desperately try to jump out of your boat and onto the pier/land. There's no cover on the 
 boat, so one, obviously, would try to get to land as quickly as possible. But if you don't have 
 the angle, the jump, and the side of the boat just perfect, then you're stuck there. Trying to 
 get from the boat to land, in some situations, can be considered suicide. This isn't fun, it's 
 just ridiculous. The many cars, jeeps and trucks in the area are always more than happy to get 
 jammed on a rock and come immovable. Apparently none of them are four wheel drives, because why 
 on earth would you take a four wheeled drive to the heart of Africa? You can only fix this if your 
 truck has turned OVER. If the vehicle is not at the right angle, then you can kiss goodbye to your 
 favourite car.
  
  The graphics are definitely worth mentioning, Far Cry 2 is beautiful, event on a lower end machine 
 (I was told my computer can't actually run Far Cry 2, it took me some tweaking to get it going, 
 and it looks quite good) . The terrain is lovely to look at, especially when you've started a forest 
 fire that's spreading likewell wildfire. The water is quite unspectacular, but that could just 
 be because of my computer. It's no where near as beautiful as Crysis, but still complex and detailed 
 enough to be immersive. Your enemies will be recycled often, but you're going to be moving so fast 
 that you won't notice much.
  There isn't much variation between your enemies, other than Black and White. There's no way to 
 tell the difference between the factions, but that's indicative of the conflict in the region. 
 Their AI can be quite sneaky at times, but is generally terribly slow to react. FPS's often get 
 a bad rap due to the imperviousness of your enemy, and Far Cry 2 is no exception. I don't care 
 how tough a guy is, when I unload a clip into his chest, with whatever weapon and he's wearing 
 nothing but t-shirt and shorts, then that guy goes down. Far Cry 2 keeps the 1 shot headshot rule, 
 but unloading a pistol clip or 15 bullets from a machine gun doesn't seem to faze your opponent 
 much. This isn't good game play, this is just annoying. The game isn't really that hard, on the 
 higher settings your enemies just seem to replace their skin with Kevlar and laugh heartily at 
 your attempts to kill them. Oddly, this issue doesn't seem to arise when you're armed with a sniper 
 rifle.
  
  The sound in Far Cry 2 is sufficient. The music seems quite happy to sit in the background and 
 hope that no one notices that it's there. The weapons and explosions sound quite solid, while the 
 enemies will spout off the same lines over and over again. It seems the developers only used 2 
 guys (one white, one black, both African) for the countless hordes populating this country and 
 then recycled their comments for every engagement you encounter. I was impressed by the use of 
 an African language in the middle of combat; it added an authentic feel to the game.
  
  All in all, Far Cry 2 is a good stint of jungle combat. It's good fun to traverse the country, 
 fulfilling objectives, blowing stuff up and killing people. But it does feel a little recycled 
 from time to time. It's evident here that the story has taken a back seat to the game play, however, 
 if this is the case, then why on earth does the game play come with horrific bugs that ruin the 
 experience?
  Despite its flaws and fragile treatment of your PC, surviving in Far Cry 2 still remains enjoyable, 
 if a little frustrating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_JoNNo
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Ok for those of you who are looking through reviews trying to establish whether this game is good 
 or not here is a sincere summary :
  
  Good: - Graphics. Fire effect is cool (Blood splatter looks ridiculous though, like highly pressurised 
 ribena) - The in game log book and attention to atmosphere was fairly good.
  
  Bad: - Realism gone bad. Only certain games pull off a degree of realism in a fun way, but this 
 is horrible. Apparently in the real world you can have your car shot to pieces and then simply 
 by the cranking of a wrench, repair all damage. imagine doing this 100 times, because you will. 
 and it isnt fun.
  
  - Unsatisfying combat. Enemies soak up lead, and dont die in a satisfying way. 
  
  - No story 
 and map is too big. You feel like you've been dumped in a huge sandbox with no purpose, and no 
 means to extract fun from this open endedness through meaningful combat or nice weapons. In short, 
 this is not revolutionary, it does not gel well together or make sense and is not worth your time 
 or money.
  
  Hope i've saved someone some cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozbirdboy
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I'm really disappointed with this far cry release, i was once a really big supporter of far cry 
 (even running the far-cry. net web site back in the day) but this just brings shame to the name. 
 
  
  Bad Points:
  
  - This game was very very repetitive
  - Every time i was in a fire fight i always had to repair my car (pretty much every 3 minutes)
 
  - Once you clear an enemy outpost... you try and drive back through it again a few minutes later 
 and you have to clear it all out again
  - the story line is... boring. There is only so much you can do in Africa before you get bored guys.
 
  - blowing up a bomb next to a truck for a mission would do absolutely nothing
  - Every single car goes suicidal mode and drives straight into you... i don't know where they get 
 their inspiration from.
  
  Good Points: 
  
  - I now have an extra 3 GB of space on my computer to use else where.
  
  Conclusion: Stay away 
 from this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hartsickdiscipl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The scale of the game is absolutely awesome. The game world is larger than Oblivion.. making for 
 a truly wondrous gaming experience. The graphics and physics are excellent and help to immerse 
 you in the game must more than most. The sounds are even better, and make the game truly creepy 
 at times. The last game that I can remember that had sounds that made the game that much better 
 was Medal of Honor: Allied Assault (if you've never played it, you still should) .
  
  The gunfights are just above average, maybe a 7/10.. but don't let that stop you. I can't imagine 
 how much time a player could spend just exploring the entire map, without even trying to complete 
 the game. It's a world unto itself. You can actually just walk across the entire map if you want 
 to... or if you dare.
  
  The AI is scary. They will never stop chasing you if they have any sort of bead on where you are. 
 The enemies will actively drive off-road to try to kill you, which is amazingly scary and realistic. 
 The time of day and weather mechanics just add even more to the awesome authenticity of the experience. 
 
  
  This is a once-in-a-lifetime game, and everyone who likes shooters or RPG's should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperwol_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Let's talk about graphics.
  Graphics
  I played crysis & warhead too. People are saying its graphics are not as good as crysis but look 
 at the things.
  All the things are made very clear, like trees, Grass fields, Mountains etc. The only thing which 
 I think is weak is water and its animation. They just animate the texture.
  AI
  The AI is just average & it looks just like crysis but one thing which Ubi should improve is when 
 you are driving the AI is targeting you from miles.
  Sound
  No doubt the sound is excellent particularly the sound of guns.
  Story
  Sorry I think there 
 is no story in the game you drive and kill and so ..
  
  A lot of things are annoying like using map, diamonds on roofs, running & Mal. 
  The graphics 
 & sound of game looks good but game play & its story is disappointing.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gphilli15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I was expecting more and was ultimately disappointed. I got it cause I very much enjoyed 
 playing the first one. I figured this would be a step up, considering the next-generation goodies. 
 I loved the graphics and the game play was fun, for a little while. The game is amazingly different 
 on low graphics to very high and I think if you can't run it on at least medium you shouldn't be 
 allowed to write a review dissing the game.. it looks like pure ass on low, taking away the feel 
 completely. On low, the AI when zoomed in on look like characters from roller coaster tycoon, further 
 than that away and they turn into a grimm reaper, seriously give it a try... lol. Without shadows 
 and bloom and HDR turned on the game looks like old school games I played years ago. To get the 
 full experience you gotta play it on a decent setting, that makes the game that much better; with 
 all that eye candy you will soon forget about the games lack of plot, repetitive missions, driving 
 more than you're blowin sh*t up, etc. Overall this game was a good investment and definitely worth 
 playing again, but I still feel like something was missing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelp1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Too many bad guys chasing you on the open road. Gets old quick. Here's the game so far. Get mission, 
 drive to mission site, get attacked on the way, stop and kill bad guys, fix your stupid broken 
 truck that the bad guys damaged, complete the drive to mission site, hope you don't get shot at 
 again, kill bad guy, head to one of the few sites to get another mission, fend off bad guys repeatedly, 
 and do this all over again for the next mission. 
  
  Disappointing this game isn't more than this as it's decent looking. The most frustrating part 
 is the endless waves of bad guys attacking you on the open road. They're not very smart, or difficult, 
 just mostly annoying and in your way. Oh and the dialogue is pretty cheesy. 
  
  I wished I'd picked it up in the bargain bin, it wasn't worth $50. I put off playing COD4 online 
 for this, but this isn't nearly as much fun. COD4 SP was way better too.
  
  I gave it a 7 because some of the graphics are really wow, but really it's a 5 or a 6 compared 
 to some way more fun FPS games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  The first time i played far cry 2 i was truly impressed. it is without a doubt, a truly unique 
 gaming experience that excels in every category... for about 5 minutes.
  
  first i will start with the graphics, because this is the first thing to catch you eye.
  the 
 graphics in this game are really amazing. better than the quality however is the optimization, 
 in that i could run it on all very high (with a high end system mind you) without so much as a 
 stutter. however once you go above your maximum by even a single setting, the game grinds to a 
 crawl. the only issue i have with the graphics, and it seems to be more common in new high end 
 games, is that all the colors seem to blend together too much. everything in game is either really 
 dark or some shade of green. while this isn't really a problem, it does sometimes cause some frustration 
 (ie hitting a rock you couldn't see because it is the same shade as the bushes)
  this really is a non-issue however, as it can be fixed simply by looking a little closer.
  
 
  the second this i will talk about is core gameplay. farcry 2 is by far ubisofts worst game for 
 core shooting dynamics. you find yourself unloading on someone 5 feet in front of you and never 
 landing a single hit. the game works much like crysis, in that hipfire is a crapshoot at best. 
 ironsights improve accuracy as can be expected, but most of the weapons ironsights take up too 
 much of the screen (about 50% total screenspace) and blurs out most of the rest. this leaves you 
 with an area about the size of your target that you can see clearly. 
  
  the third thing i will talk about is were this game shines and fails at the same time. 
  the 
 open world gameplay is really a cool concept and far cry 2 really pulls it off nicely about 90% 
 of the time. the remaining 10% however can absolutely ruin the game and have you red in the face. 
 
  a good 60% of your total game time will consist of driving in overly crowded jungle terrain. the 
 vehicles you drive will feel like they are made of cardboard and have a lawnmower engine powering 
 it. It takes very few shots to effectively take out your vehicle and nothing more that a small 
 rock in the road to send you flying and land upside down.
  
  The missions in the game are really very fun but require a ton of effort to drive out to. Your 
 average mission will consist of about 10 minutes driving to the area and about 1-2 minutes actual 
 combat. one you complete your objective you are left out in that area with nothing to do but drive 
 back to town.
  
  The little things that you can do while not completing missions seem to be fun at first but really 
 get boring and repetitive.
  
  the final thing is for me the worst. this game is really really hard... but not in the way you 
 would think. i can scout out a guardpost for a good five minutes, taking note of every enemy present. 
 but no matter how good you are you always lose track of them! AI seems more reactive than proactive 
 and usually end up running off someplace that makes NO SENSE at all...
  Not to mention the fact that AI in the last few years seems to have taken a fall. they seem to 
 get dumber and dumber every year. 
  If you are shooting at me, from a mounted .50 cal... why would you get out and shoot me with a 
 9mm? 
  anyway...
  
  
  
  
  
  THE GOOD:
  - very pretty even on lower settings
  - not too hard on the system
  - is good in small doses, but a power gaming session is out of 
 the question (any more than about 2 hours gets tedious)
  - Your environment seems truly alive. animals run around, birds chirp, etc.
  - alot of really 
 unique aspects make for a truly special game
  
  
  
  THE BAD:
  - Repetitive...
  - the game is very intrusive, you are always getting interrupted by some message or hint.
  - 
 malaria... why? does not affect gameplay, just annoying
  - open world seems too open at times... you come to dread long drives
  - unintuitive core gameplay. 
 hipfire hits seem to be as random as the AI you are shooting
  
  
  
  
  ALL IN ALL:
  
  this game was somehow really good AND really bad all at the same time... just as it seems to 
 be adding up to be a really great game, you are faced with something that takes it down a notch. 
 this quickly passes and shapes up to be really good again, but is once again and just as quickly, 
 dashed... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radoom
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I wondered myself what does this game have in common with the original Far Cry? They named it Far 
 Cry 2, didn't they? Well, let's see:
  
  -I've recognized some of the music from the first one
  -There are plenty of boats, cars, machine 
 gun turrets and even some delta planes you can use. They remind you of those in the previous version, 
 they look better, but the usage is worse.
  -err.. that's it.
  
  The story in this one has nothing in common with the original. The same I could say about the story 
 line: if in FC the game was bearing you through different world views and levels of complexity, 
 in FC2 you found yourself in the middle of a map somewhere in Africa, with 2 local factions fighting 
 each other, and the only thing to do is to run from one point to another and kill a bunch of people. 
 You can easily miss the meaning of the actions and everything then reduces to go there, kill that 
 and, eventually, bring something back (doesn't matter what and why) . It is not only the two have 
 nothing in common, but the story and the story-line in FC2 are boring.
  Still, the name is a good marketing move. Good, but not for the buyer, of course.
  
  The graphics 
 is good. You can see beautiful views and feel like really walking in a tropical area. The sound 
 is also satisfying. I like the idea about eye adaptation to the light, though, if we're talking 
 about real world likes, an eye adapts much faster that your eye in the game and sometimes that 
 is annoying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveRambo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game has a huge environment but with nothing to do, except take missions which ultimately 
 involves shooting people, shooting people and shooting people which after a few hours gets very 
 boring, story is practically non existent you just get sent off to the far reaches of the map which 
 again is very boring and nothing but a chore driving the slow vehicles around and taking out the 
 respawning enemy at the guarded outposts. All you get for completing missions is diamonds to buy 
 guns which ultimately there are only so many guns to buy once you have bought them, all you do 
 is go and shoot people, you don't get the feeling you are stronger after you have wiped out another 
 wave of enemies that will be there again when you are next passing through, it gets so boring you 
 cannot be bothered to kill them but they just leech onto you and one or two bullets and your vehicle 
 slows right down rendering it useless so you have to get out kill the enemies then repair your 
 car and continue until you reach another outpost. The entire game is basically like this, I had 
 higher hopes for this game but it really is the pits its all good having the looks but this game 
 hasn't got the gameplay.
  
  Even the combat is frustrating, after taking so many hits you are almost dead you have to heal 
 and he will sit there trying to pull a bullet out of his arm but if you get hit he stops and you 
 are still nearly dead so you cannot heal, also if your gun jams which it does after like 3 shots 
 your guy does an animation and you are unable to swap guns or switch to your sidearm which again 
 if you are getting shot at is frustrating. The guns don't feel authentic or as powerful as they 
 should be and the hit detection is laughable, the blade you carry is really lame you will swipe 
 at someone and they will just fall over going "argh" it's like the blade was a last ditch addition 
 to the game as it doesn't feel authentic whatsoever.
  
  Overall this game starts well but after a few hours it becomes very boring as you do the same thing 
 over and over so I think anyone thinking of buying this game to think again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageFrenchkiss
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 has a strong resemblance to the PS2 game Mercenaries, with the main difference being 
 the perspective and the lack of air support (supply and vehicle drops) .
  
  Single player is really enjoyable if you're the kind of gamer that doesn't necessarily need constant 
 action, since the game tends to be split between combat and exploration (lots of driving around 
 and navigating using the map) . There are bad guys galore, and they all re-spawn after a certain 
 point, but the overall pace is slower than games like Call of Duty 4 where the action is fed to 
 you at a constant rate.
  
  There isn't much variety in the way of enemies or vehicles, but there are lots of different weapons 
 which provides the opportunity to tackle the game however you want. I think that's the main draw 
 of the game... it allows you to approach the combat from many different ways, whether it be with 
 stealth, long range sniping, balls-out assault with automatic weapons, setting strategic fires 
 with Molotov cocktails and flamethrowers, or explosive destruction using grenades, rocket launchers 
 and even mortars. Each approach works well by itself, and you can mix and match your load-out to 
 experiment.
  
  The story isn't too bad, but it's fed to you in small segments, either through the missions and 
 NPC's you meet, or through the interview tapes you find scattered around. Far Cry 2 is the kind 
 of game where the meat of the story is created while you play it, since the environment and political 
 landscape change depending on which faction you complete missions for, and your actions usually 
 have a direct effect on the progression of the overall story.
  
  There are quite a few side missions to complete, but for the most part the missions you get throughout 
 the game consist of "Drive here and blow this up" or the alternate choice of "Drive here and talk 
 to one of your buddies who will ask you to retrieve something, or blowing something else up." There's 
 not a lot of variety in the assignments, but the countryside and scenery will generally keep you 
 immersed, and the size of the playable area is huge.
  
  
  One of my biggest gripes with the single player game is this: 
  
  For a game that's all about 
 exploration and freedom, there is a ridiculous restriction on where you can go on foot... you can't 
 walk up ANY steep inclines, which seems totally arbitrary and stupid. Why give the player total 
 freedom to drive wherever, but prevent them from walking up a small hill because it's just a little 
 too steep? You're supposed to be a tough as nails mercenary, but you don't have the climbing ability 
 to walk up a steep incline? 
  
  ===============================
  
  Multiplayer is fun for a while, but there are some really nagging issues that detract from the 
 experience. There's no in-game voice chat, and the text chat system is way too basic and underdeveloped 
 (the amount of text you can write in one line isn't nearly long enough, and the text disappears 
 from the screen about 3-4 seconds after you hit enter) . This makes it really hard to communicate 
 with your teammates, since you have to take the time to write each line individually, and then 
 hope that they read each line as it appears.
  
  The matchmaking system centers around quickmatches, so you can't join games that have already started, 
 and once the match is over, you're booted back to the menu again. It makes it a lot tougher to 
 have a consistent multiplayer experience, since you won't always be able to find an open match 
 in the game mode you want to play, leaving you with no alternative. If there aren't any open matches, 
 you have no choice but to sit and wait.
  
  
  The Map editor was one of the main draws for me when I first heard about FC2... and for the most 
 part it's just as intuitive as promised. They don't offer everything that you'll see in the main 
 game (no waterfalls, and you can't create caves of any kind) but there are still TONS of options 
 to create all sorts of maps. Even so, it's not as open as I'd like. 
  
  You can't have more than 6 vehicles of any kind in the entire map, and you can't have more than 
 16 players, which eliminates the possibility of having genuinely huge maps to play in.
  
  Additionally, you can't test out your maps offline with bots. You have to host them in multiplayer 
 on your own server, or be lucky enough to drum up online interest from other players. If you don't 
 have a group of friends who all have this game and play it on a network, then you have to convince 
 the rest of the internet that your map is worth trying out, which is easier said than done, especially 
 since the ease of this program allows just about anyone to flex their creative muscles and give 
 it a try.
  
  I know that this sounds like I'm just complaining about not having my own group of friends to have 
 a LAN party with, but there are plenty of people out there like me who play multiplayer games exclusively 
 on the internet, and if we've created maps we want to try out with other people, we first have 
 to compete with all the other map makers out there to get people's attention.
  
  Aside from that, making maps is still really fun and easy, and there are an incredible number of 
 options available to make just about anything.
  
  
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is good, clean fun and has a good amount of depth and length. There are a few 
 minor issues that mar the experience, but that shouldn't stop anyone from giving it a try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khardubaba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  .asy to play .... have 6 cractor to choose in begainig of game in game allso have side missions 
 ,,,,, and wooooooooooops u know??? the game hero have been infected marleria hahahaha nice na allways 
 u have to get tablets well i had played and completed 50% yet now u can download save games... one 
 more things in desert area invirement is too good and most of all i like the regenration of  
 enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy 
 enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy 
 enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy 
 enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtom33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Here are a few things that i have come to realize about this game.
  I have been following farcy 2's progress for a long time now, about a year. ever since i found 
 out about it and its features it WOULD have, i was stoked. talks and videos of vegetation growing 
 back in realtime after been burnt down, talks of insane ai that pick each other up when wounded 
 and get them behind cover, talk of a dynamic story, where every action you take alters the outcome. 
 there is a demo where clint hocking, the director of farcry 2, shoots a dude in the ankle to cripple 
 him, yet when i try to do it, the ai turns and starts shooting at me or runs off! what? i have 
 been playing the game for exactly 21 hours at the moment, and i currently have seen none of these 
 would-be features. like everyone has said, disappointing. it REALLY hurts me to say this, but it's 
 fact. a possibilty i can think of is that when they decided to make it for CONSOLE as well as pc, 
 some things weren't possible (crappy consoles lol) for the console to do and so they needed to 
 be chopped : (
  there are many good things though. i LOVE the whole buddy system how it gets you really personal 
 and making relationships with the buddies. but again, ubisoft said ALL the buddies would be roaming 
 around dynamically doing their own thing, and if you were in trouble they'd come and save your 
 ass and vice versa. this would be real cool i think. a pity only one can be your "bail-out buddy" 
 at any one time.
  the fire, beautiful. graphics, not insane, but still real nice. i also LOVE the way the weapons 
 wear out and jam, and the first aid system is in my opinion the highlight of the game. also plenty 
 of weapons to play with hehehe.
  fighting is mad fun, but can get real tedious when you leave a guard post, and it INSTANTLY respawns 
 with more africans/irish. grrr. the ai's randomness, which makes crysis' ai (which is renowned 
 for being quite dumb) look clever, can , make you feel like you're cheating sometimes.
  overall, this game is pretty good, but sooo much was left out that was promised. think about it, 
 they spend all the money and time to develop this GORGEOUS african world, which the developers 
 even went to africa to get inspired for, they build a new game engine for the game, and they just 
 didn't do as much as they could have with it. there was huge talks that this was going to be game 
 of the year hands down. frankly, i don't think it'll make it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Ahh so much to talk about here... Basically this game throws you in an open ended world and then 
 the rest is up to you. You are here for one reason, taking out the the jackal, a dangerous arms 
 dealer. how you do that is up to you. The game gives you a few buddies to watch your back, and 
 you can check out an online store to purchase guns and such. There are 3 type of missions; main 
 missions, which lead you to the jackal, buddy missions which get you perks and side missions that 
 help you get better guns that arn't prone to jamming. This is another feature in the game, jamming 
 guns, sure it sounds realistic, but it's annoying to have a gun jam in the middle of a shootout. 
 Also this is probably the first shooter to give you malaria, it doesn't happen often but it could 
 definitely switch your priorities in a gun fight. The health bar is split into 5 bars. Once your 
 down to the last bar you must hide and perform some quick self surgery like removing a bullet with 
 a pair of pliers or your health will deplete very quickly. With a massive open world, there are 
 many ways to travel including bus stops and boats and to your surprise, hand-gliders. Overall i 
 would say the experience is average if you expected a lot from this game. The missions are repetitive, 
 the journeys are long and its not the type of game that has high re-playability value.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are great, the textures are smooth, the sea is reflective and the 
 sun shines in your eyes. The lush african savannah, this game was designed to be graphically great. 
 On the plus side this game is extremely optimal, it shows as it can run on a normal computer on 
 optimal settings. There isn't much to say here.
  
  Sound:
  
  Thats one part of the game which i thought lacked... and lacked a lot. There is very little sound, 
 the machine guns don't feel like machine guns, it sounds more like a toy gun. Then there are the 
 guards screaming and the starting up of a car which i thought were cool.
  
  Value:
  
  Worth the money? No. It's too much for a game that even though it features a big open world, many 
 quests, great graphics, it still plays average and 50$ is too much for a game like Far Cry 2. If 
 you can get it cheaper then go ahead, but the original price is way too high. Sure you have the 
 multiplayer and the map creator but the multiplayer won't revolutionize the online gaming market 
 and if you have CoD4 then you won't be touching Far Cry multiplayer.
  
  Lifespan:
  
  This depends on the person. If you enjoy the game, then your gonna play this alot, with many missions 
 on offer you may want to finish it 100%, however if you feel this game plays average then it's 
 the main quest and stop there. For some of you it won't even last a day as you will uninstall it 
 and return it. The multiplayer isn't all it's cracked up so if you have any other great online 
 shooters then Far Cry 2 multiplayer will not be touched. The map editor is great and allows a rating 
 system and it would be interesting to see some of the ideas people came up with, but like i said 
 if you have better shooters then you won't be playing the Far Cry 2 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twistgrip007
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Great Graphics !!! ... BAD GAMEPLAY !!!
  It looks good and is very scenic ...
  ... but play for a few hours , and your fed up! 20
  
  Looks like developers are consentrating 
 on graphics and not on gameplay , I exspected Farcry 2 to be the next standout with new idees, 
 and interesting missions ( What a disapointment ) . If doing a few missions and shooting up the 
 same guard point 5 times over is what makes a game great , then this is it !!!
  
  PS. The surroundigs is done very realistic and the shaddows and sun rise and set are Perfect!! 
 .. I live in Africa , so I'll know .. lol!
  
  Well over all it's good enough, We all just exspected way more, Ubisoft made us think its more!
 
  
  Enough said: the rest is becaus it must be 800 characters long. WHY? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptnPrice
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  +) amazing graphics; the nature, the people, the animals... 
  +) great open world; sometimes it looks like there are to many roads between mountains, but if 
 you have seen everything you're stunned
  +) great weapons; although you can't put silencers or scopes at weapons like in crysis, the rockets 
 (explosions) and snipers are awesome, so is the fire
  +) storyline after your own choice. In fact the whole story isn't that much, but there are some 
 very cool characters in the game. The map and the details in everything make the game realistic.
 
  Also cool were the variety of missions, but the 'destroy the convoy'- missions could get boring 
 after a while
  +) The A. I. of you enemy's is good and funny, but your buddies act very stupid sometimes
  -) 
 the respawning of the soldiers at the guard posts are a problem, if you know there are many guard 
 posts in the game...
  -) why do they ask to save the game after you went asleep in a savehouse, if you can save the game 
 whenever you want?
  
  conclusion: far cry 2 is not crysis; its diferent. Less suspense, but the graphics and some awesome 
 details make it one hell of a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quarterdot
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Well, everything has already been said about boring gameplay, long distances, dumb enemies and 
 repetition. So I wont go over them again.
  
  Instead I want to give my two cents on the plot and strategy viewpoint. When I started to play 
 this I expected a few easy missions to start with. You know, just to get to know the mechanics 
 and controls. This worked nicely. But when it kept going on and on and on..
  
  I kept waiting the time when I was called to make a decision on witch "team" to join in. Yea, the 
 character is a merc but surely two rival gangs don't want to use the same guy to kill their enemies...? 
 Loyalty and trust anyone? I was looking for strategic decisions. For example, you get different 
 weapons and stuff for joining one side and different missions as well. Then you could have alternative 
 endings and missions, thus increasing the replay value. But no. This is basically a bad grand theft 
 auto in a rain forest (as a reference: http://myspaceantics. com/images/funny/gta-somalia. jpg ) .
 
  
  About the weaponry. I love the flamethrower. Who wouldn't? But as the man selling the guns says, 
 you need to buy weapons so they are clean and reliable. You CAN NOT find reliable weapons from 
 enemies. WHAT??
  And when you go to your "armory" right next to the gun shop you seem to have the primary, secondary 
 and special weapon crates there. But you just can't use them until you buy them. WHAT??
  Ok, I forgive the game for having spawning weapons and ammo in the armories all around map but 
 it might have been cool to not do that. Again with the strategy thingy...
  
  Vehicles.. they're like bumper cars with machine guns. The speed gauge shows your speed as about 
 100 with the jeep. Now assuming it's 100kph not mph, why am I not instantly killed when rammed 
 head on with another jeep traveling 100kph?? Jesus.. And the car doesn't even brake!!
  That reminds me.. I thought this was supposed to have destroyable environment. Sure I can cut off 
 smaller branches and plants with a machine gun but the bit trees don't seem to mind. I can also 
 ram a "chicane" in an outpost and nothing. Considering the obstacle is constructed of old tires, 
 boards, a crate and some random small objects.. what the hell?? I wanted to drive through one of 
 those shack-thingys as well. But no...
  
  All in all, this game offers soooo many disappointing moments that after the hype it's definitely 
 NOT worth the money. They spent too much time working on the fire and making it look, sound and 
 act very VERY nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anibox
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  -) This is a console game. This is not good. They even did not try to make it look like PC game: 
 safe houses? Weapon crates? Is this Resident Evil's save room? Why these messages like "don't forget 
 to save in safe house..." if you can save game any moment on PC version?
  
  -) Respawns: It's like online game - you kill a mob and it respawns after a short time. At least 
 in online games you get experience and money and items, but here nothing. (Maybe a counter of kills 
 +1 & Low Quality drop) . Enemy is always the same: the same looking people, snipers are in the same 
 places, in time only their weapons change. All destroyed/moved objects get "rebuilt" in the same 
 places.
  
  -) What's the point of selecting your character in the beginning? Right, I'll have different initial 
 buddies' faces.
  
  -) Weapon system: I don't really like it too... ... . At least you can have lots of different explosives 
 which is fun, but most objects are not destructible. Explosions are the usual big red flash. Fire 
 is OK but it can hurt you through any wall if burning nearby outside. Shooting is no fun because 
 recoil is too big, even after upgrades. I have to use every automatic weapon as a gun/pistol (manually 
 - no single shoot mode) . I must admin I enjoy weapon jamming animation. A mission for a new weapon 
 is a good idea but they (missions) all are the same.
  
  -) My health (Malaria) . It kills me... and the gameplay: I can't run - its blur FX hurts my eyes.
 
  
  -) Very difficult jumping & slope climbing & running.
  
  -) Using the map is very annoying.
  
  +) Sound is very good. Shooting, explosions - good.
 
  
  -) Driving: twice slower than enemy - must kill them, repair my car and then go on. Also can't 
 pass a guard post even at full speed because of the same reason.
  
  -) Quality of graphics is good enough for me, but it's too much brown (and brown enemy can comuflage 
 themselves by taking off their clothes) and the grass is too long; The world is nice (day, night, 
 weather) but a little boring. It's an open world... but in the real gameplay it's actually mountains 
 separated by roads. No real point to go to explore. You might find a diamond but to get it you 
 need to play an arcade jumping game. You can't shoot the box (or a tree, or a roof) to make it 
 move and fall from that tree or that roof.
  
  -) Story, missions: Kill last boss? Actually, something interesting begins only after 80% of game; 
 all before is a build up for this. It's OK, I don't care. ... If gameplay were good, but it's not 
 good enough to afford such story. 
  
  But I'm still playing it for this silly fun when I want to make some noise (when I need no good 
 or bad guys, just kill them all!) , mostly using sniper rifle and rocket launchers.
  I like to jump out of my car (when enemy's car collides with mine - it's inevitable) , then I run 
 a little and fire a grenade launcher to fix all this mess with one explosion. Fun is over. Then 
 I walk and enjoy the nature... since I can't run; sometimes I close my eyes and run.
  
  This game is like a good skeleton and is unfinished (or maybe its because of the limitations of 
 consoles? Can afford only small save file size? Too little RAM?) and becomes more annoying than 
 fun after a short time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foosiemac
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe Ubisoft did this. The "safe houses" tell you everything you need to know about 
 this game. They are the same repetitious artwork over and over. No variation.... same walls, same 
 cot, same pictures hanging over the cot. The game is the same repetitious thing over and over. 
 I hate that I can't use more weapons, that I walk too slow to defend myself, that I have malaria, 
 that I have to travel over the same roads, same rivers and same paths repeatedly just to battle 
 the same guys. What's the point. Don't waste your money now buying this game.... wait until the 
 designers create a multi-gig patch to fix it..... then maybe give it another look.
  
  The Far Cry branding is tarnished by this latest release and this is too bad since the original 
 Far Cry was a game I played of months on end and enjoyed every moment. There is something cold 
 and impersonal about the game and gameplay in Far Cry 2. It really needs to be played by the creators 
 at least once so they can see how often it fails to deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap_thirteen
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to Far Cry 2 for some time. I read the gamespot review and assumed it would 
 be a great game give it's score of 8.5. I then ordered my copy from amazon. Upon further reading 
 into the user reviews I noticed a lot of negative reviews. Some suggest the Far Cry 2 is an old 
 style game in new games clothes. I couldn't agree more. While Far Cry 2 looks great it plays bad. 
 The environments feel very restraining and liner a surprise since the game is billed as a sandbox 
 game. The missions a dull as well as the story. I am growing tired of games which try to be like 
 films. We want a game for game play not to be an interactive film. I don't care about the story. 
 There in lies the problem with Far Cry 2, the game play, the guns feel cheap the controls are lacking. 
 Nothing feels big budget about this game, it feels like a bargain bin game. Some of the annoying 
 things are when you kill someone they are alive again when you revisit the area, if you blow up 
 buildings they are back a few moments later. The character meshes do not deform. I do not recommend 
 this game even if it was free. Not only is there vast problems with the game play but the game 
 is desperately buggy, sometimes does not even start for me. I never get any problems with other 
 games normally on my pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h1dd3n5had0w
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Quite a mixed reaction the community gave this game. Perhaps few expected high results as the first 
 Far Cry did very well. Either way, this game has no connection between the first game and we should 
 not be comparing apples and oranges. 
  
  First off, from a basic FPS game standpoint the game does a terrific at the gunplay. Combat is 
 smooth and consistent meaning there is no clucky feeling when shooting guns and the AI do their 
 job well of getting cover and flanking you. Plenty of guns to chose from such as the accurate m16 
 to rocket launchers. Sound quality is very nice and each gun as a distinct fx. Birds will chirp 
 around trees and distant explosions are muffled. 
  
  The open environment itself is something to witness. I've played throughout the whole game and 
 did not find two locations that were identical. Everywhere you go has a unique look and artistic 
 feel to them. One moment you are running through dense jungle foliage, next you are out in the 
 wide open plains. One complaint is the 'dead' water. Water is not dynamic and does not seem to 
 have any life form such as fishes or alligators. 
  
  One of the biggest areas everyone looks at is the multiplayer portion. How can I say this nicely? 
 Well let's not, because multiplayer is perhaps is the worse part of the game. The biggest flaw 
 is that you cannot join games that are already in session. That already cuts the ability to join 
 servers in half (perhaps more, but I'm being considerate) my total time online is 45 mins total. 
 Other than that, I won't go into further details, because I can't!
  
  Other minor issue everyone seems to be considered about is the checkpoint systems. I do admit it 
 can get annoying at times, but at least it keeps the action high. With that said, there are a few 
 ways to avoid conflict. Either drive a boat, crawl your way pass the checkpoint, or take your car 
 off road. A few minor bugs here and there, but nothing that is extremely critical that will keep 
 you from playing. For example, I got stuck in mid-air while trying to drive a jeep. Another issue 
 I found odd is that the player cannot go prone. Seems really strange because this is a sandbox 
 game and the player's movement should be flexible. 
  
  Overall, perhaps the PC community expected the high level of quality for it being a successor. 
 I would even say you 'could' skip this game, but you really shouldn't. Do not be blind by all the 
 flaws everyone is talking about, the developers have put some time and effort into this game. If 
 you liked Crysis and its expansion Warhead, then definitely do not miss this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pl1002
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Very very diassapointed, if i wanted another GTA i would have gotten one, but this game just shot 
 itself in the foot here. I have only played for a couple days, and i have to say that thats probably 
 it. WHY? Simple, too much driving, too little shooting. The story line is just plain boring, actually 
 i have no idea what is going on. The weapon system is very brutal, and manouvering is just awful. 
 The objectives are just as confusing as GTA's, but i was expecting a lot more then that. Each objective 
 is on another side of the map, and it becomes very annoying with the horrible controls on the vehicles. 
 Conclusion, if you are into, open world, confusing objectives; very little action, and a lot of 
 talking, then this games just perfect for you. But for a COD fan, GOF fan, and other fantastic 
 shooters, i will never play this game again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrzejSugier
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to make it quick.
  
  In minus:
  -Game is preaty repetetive, but not so much as Assassin's Creed was (but it gets really close)
 
  -Dialogues and story have potential to be truly awesome. But they were broken. They're told eternaly 
 without any punctuation, and there's not much of it,
  -There's a lot of traveling, and while it's funny at the begginging, it soon get's old.
  -Some 
 missions are well writen and extremally fun, other feel rather standart and boring.
  
  BUT
  
  In plus:
  -The most enjoyable arsenal i have ever, EVER encountered in a video game.
 
  -Ammo is so plentifull and easily ecquired that your're always giving your best-a truly awesome 
 feeling that's hard to desribe.
  -Sandbox-style of combat: each encounter is a new expirience, it all up to you to figure the best 
 way to approche it.
  -Astonishing FPP-some moments witnessed so close are extreeme expirience (a buddy dying on your 
 hands aven though your're giving you best to save him, ripping bullets from your own body ets)
 
  -RPG-like aspects (upgrading your safehouses, buying and unlocking your weapons) are highly enjoyable 
 and make the game addictive
  
  To sum up:
  its not a game without flaws. But in its core it's an FPS. And FPS-wise, its a marvelous game. All 
 the downside's are connected with the open word aspect. If you didnt like any of STALKERs, you probably 
 wont like it. If you did like the concept of the open world to explore but were turned down by 
 bugs-i didnt see any in that one. Give it a try. You might fall in love with it. 'cause that's 
 exacly what love it-overlooking the shortcoming to get what's best in life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DayjZizo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a good game even if it's way different from Far Cry. Many people considered the difference 
 between Far Cry and Far Cry 2 a disappointment. They consider the game "terrible" because they 
 didn't expect this type of games under the title "Far Cry". Honestly, I didn't expect that Far 
 Cry 2 will be like this, but I DON'T consider it bad AT ALL. In fact, there are many many positive 
 sides in this game: graphics are not bad, physics are really good, gameplay is fun, missions can 
 be treated in different ways which is awesome, weapons are realistic, AI are intelligent, and sound 
 effects are incredible.
  Many people won't like this game and that's true because Far Cry 2 adresses specific people.
 
  Unlike Call of Duty 4, stealth is more considered in this game.
  Finally, it's different, but it is NOT bad!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silveressa
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  (Note this review is somewhat lengthy, but accurately covers all aspects of the game with a mildly 
 humorous slant.
  
  
  First off please note normally I would never rate a game as low as 1.0. But due to this piece of 
 trash shipping with multiple game breaking bugs that get you permanently stuck and unable to finish 
 the game (requiring a restart) I consider it not worthy of the store shelves. Were these game busting 
 bugs not present, I would rate this game roughly 4.5, now on with the review.
  
  For those that have played Far Cry #1 be aware this game is marketed solely off the name, offering 
 *nothing* similar to Far Cry as far as game play or interest.
  
  
  From the start, Character selection:
  
  Over a half dozen mercs to choose from, (all are male 
 btw so if you wanted to play a female merc you're out of luck) Each with a different background, 
 appearance, and name. Sounds good right? Indeed, on the surface, unfortunately the reality doesn't 
 even begin to live up to the hype. 
  
  No matter which merc you choose all you see of your character is from the elbows down. Also regardless 
 of the hero choice all of them are mute (you never say a word in the game or even have text diolauge 
 selections) and all have identical skills, health etc..
  
  They could have done so much more with this, tons more, making each merc have a weapon area specialization 
 
  (sniping, assault weapons, demolitions/heavy weapons etc..) Instead char choice is nothing more 
 than fluff. (Old nasty fluff from the bottom of the container I might add)
  
  
  Next and most importantly is game play style:
  
  They say in numerous ads the game is "open 
 ended" with "a huge expanse to explore." Unfortunately this area is mostly uninhabited, aside from 
 a few wandering stuffed animals they claim are "wildlife." (more on those things 
  later)
  
  Missions are often deliberately placed on the opposite side of the map, requiring several minutes 
 of tedious driving to reach. This monotonous driving is broken up by enemy spawn points dubbed 
 "guard posts" that consist of little more than 3 shacks and a half dozen yogurt brained men. 
 
  
  These posts also respawn like bunnies in heat, full of bad guys about every 5-10 minutes, making 
 them a never ending source of irritation. 
  
  Also along the road a reoccurring "assault truck" spawns regularly to chase you down and machine 
 gun your vehicle. Amazingly whenever these trucks are piloted by the enemy they can outrun any 
 and every vehicle you drive, guaranteeing they can over take your vehicle. Not to fear though, 
 as even on the higher difficulty settings they can be easily destroyed in 30 seconds each.
  
  In between these checkpoints and and enemy encampments off the road is nothing besides empty 
 jungle. No wandering patrols, no deadly predators, nothing beyond trees, water (empty of leeches, 
 fish algae or anything else of interest) , and rock. (and the occasional diamond cache that's completely 
 unguarded) Yay, you can explore lots of boring empty landscape, hurray!
  
  The missions themselves are bland and uninspired, consisting of equally repetitive variations of 
 kill everyone and occasionally retrieve an item or free a person. 
  
  After playing for 2 hours you'll have a good idea how the rest of the game will be mission wise. 
 (Personally it reminds me of a cheap boring rip off of the GTA series, minus all the fun and variety.)
 
  
  On top of this tedium is numerous game breaking bugs involving doors not opening to allow you access 
 to the next mission, or mission critical npc's not activating to talk to the character. These bugs 
 currently are unfixable and require you to restart from the beginning of the game. (they most often 
 occur at 27% completion as well as 74% 88% and other points in the game)
  
  
  Now on to all things that go bang and boom, Weaponry:
  
  Like any other fps game on the market 
 your char gets their hands on dozens of different weapons, from grenade launchers, sub machine 
 guns and pistols, to assault and sniper rifles, each being somewhat different from the 
  others.
  
  The downside to these guns is they all feel very vanilla. Not a one of them has 
 a secondary fire mode (beyond aiming) or even the ability to set the weaponry to single shot or 
 burst for assault rifles and sub machine guns. Also there is NO option to add attachments like 
 silencers, scopes, or under barrel grenade launchers.
  
  Add to this the irritation that these weapons degrade and break down faster than an acme product 
 from Loony Toons and you have guns that feel more effective as blunt instruments then firearms. 
 (Oh and no melee attack with guns, you need to pull out your machete for that) 
  
  
  Now onto things that bleed and go "ACK!" Enemies:
  
  These guys are a huge step below your 
 average AI, approaching the fencepost and box of hammers intelligence scale. Much like a fence 
 post these guys tend not to notice much of anything, at night seeming to overlook you standing 
 a mere 3 feet from them even while you unload a 
  shotgun, or assault rifle into their friends.
  
  Also much like a box of hammers these men 
 are nearly bullet proof, those wearing only t-shirts or no shirts at all able to survive an entire 
 slip of pistol ammo or upwards of 15+ rifle rounds to the chest and head.
  
  Top this off with the courage and stupidity to stand still and die in the middle of a raging fire. 
 the uncanny ability to fire in the complete opposite direction they are facing without needing 
 to turn or point their 
  weapon, as well as hear a silenced weapon from 2km away and you find yourself wondering if they 
 are even human.
  
  
  Now for the stuff we all love to destroy and explore, The Environment: 
  
  Most of the graphics 
 in this area feels like a throw back to the original far cry, and despite their wooden and otherwise 
 organic appearance are actually composed of titanium alloys and are otherwise indestructible.
 
  
  Thin wooden shacks and mere wooden trees are utterly invulnerable to not only high speed vehicle 
 collisions but also immune to grenades, rockets, machine guns, and even fire! Granted some of the 
 small underbrush can be mowed down by a vehicle or on foot, but anything bigger is invulnerable 
 to anything you (or the enemy) can throw at it.
  
  Compare this to games like Crysis, with near fully destructible environments, and old games from 
 the beginning of 2001 like Red Faction (which had fully destructible environments.) and this game 
 seriously feels 
  like a predecessor to even Half Life.
  
  
  Next would be those amazingly durable tin cans called vehicles:
  
  There's really not much 
 to say about these strange contraptions besides they seem strangely durable (bullet proof tires) 
 and even after taking close to 100 rifle rounds can be fixed up as good as new by tightening the 
 
  radiator or engine bolt.
  
  Now for the afore mentioned stuffed animals called tamelife, er Wildlife?
  
  These things are 
 pretty much stuffed animals, that aimlessly wander about, ignoring such trivial things as speeding 
 vehicles, explosions, fires, and men unloading machine guns inches from them. However, as soon 
 as they are touched by a single bullet, or are dumb enough to walk into the side of a parked vehicle 
 they die instant soundless, bloodless deaths. 
  
  I'm not sure what they are supposed to be beyond some kind of freaky automatons in the shape of 
 herbivores (no predatory animals out there) but the plant life has more intelligence then these 
 things.
  
  This review wouldn't be complete without covering your buddies:
  
  These guys are kinda like disposable heroes, in that they give you missions, try to accompany you 
 on them, and usually get themselves killed during them. (they will stand in the middle of a raging 
 fire and burn to death while yelling for help) 
  
  There's NO way to give them any kind of orders such as "Cover me," "Attack my Target" or even to 
 "Stay here" or "Follow me." The end result is they are mostly a lead shield and waste of your medkits.
 
  
  On the upside, the game gives you the option to shoot them yourself if you don't feel like healing 
 them. :) (seriously)
  
  Now for a few other things, such as health kits, and civilians.
  
  First off your char is sick, literally, with Malaria, meaning you need to pop pills like a 
 health nut to stave off the symptoms. During a flare up you vision goes blurry, and you groan like 
 you; re constipated, being pretty much helpless for the duration of the attack until you take some 
 pills. (this can also happen in the middle of a firefight, pretty much guaranteeing your death)
 
  
  Health kits in this game are a junkies wet dream. Your character even when burned, riddled full 
 of bullet holes, or run over by a truck simply needs to inject a needle full of drugs and he's 
 at 100% health again (oh and 
  rip bullets out of his body with a pair of pliers if he's at 10% health otherwise they don't matter.)
 
  
  Civilians are pretty much non existent. Even in town you have enemies, but they won't fire first 
 because of the cease fire that's in effect. 
  
  There's NO factions to join, NO npc's to have meaningful duologue with. None of that. It's more 
 a place to get missions given to you, and pick up health kits/ammo/guns.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  All in all this game rates down near the bottom of the barrel for 2000-2008, and is nearly 
 as bad as Turning Point Fall of Liberty if not worse. (the game breaking bugs making playing it 
 a waste of time.)
  
  My advice is to steer clear and by some other (any other!) game and save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeroripper
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game since I enjoyed the beautiful locale of the previous Far Cry, and 
 the openness of the world with an interesting story (up until the Trigens) . 
  
  The setting had potential for a truly engrossing storyline, but it was tossed away for a bunch 
 of random gunbattles and many hours of driving\walking through the African landscape. Not to mention 
 all the short distance running you'll have to do before your screen blurs and slows you down from 
 overexertion. You would figure that a man running through the jungle so much would increase his 
 capacity to run without getting tired over time.
  
  By about 20 hours into the game, I was screaming for some sort of airplane that I could eventually 
 unlike to fly across the beautiful world, but so far it is looking like a hang glider is as close 
 as you can get to flight. The vehicles are fun to drive at first, but eventually you can really 
 only use them freely when not worried about where you're going. Not to mention the many guard posts 
 you'll pass where gun toting rebels will chase you down bringing your joyride to an end.
  
  I found that the main character having Malaria was merely the new version of your main character 
 having a mutagen infection like in the previous Far Cry. Except this time its only power is that 
 you have to keep popping pills to keep it in check, and that you need to replenish occasionally.
 
  
  
  PROs:
  
  - Beautiful engine with day/night cycle, wind, and fire simulations.
  
  - Very easy to use map editor for making more beautiful and creative levels.
  
  - Weapons/Models/Vehicles 
 are modeled well and everything is good looking.
  
  CONs:
  
  - Tedious cross country driving/limited running. 
  - Repetitive gun battles, no sense of real 
 progression with enemies.
  - Lackluster story. Could have been much more if it followed more linear and engrossing story. 
 Instead its a hodge-podge of random sandbox like missions.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This game could have been so much more with a more engaging use of the story and improving the 
 more tedious aspects of the game like driving and running. They've created a very beautiful simulation 
 of the African Savannah, but the game itself seemed like an afterthought.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shebes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I like this game because I like to wander around a huge map not constantly gunning down bad guys. 
 I like being able to sneak up to a camp and plan my approach (usually involving setting the entire 
 camp on fire and sniping people from farther away) . I also like driving a jeep off road and the 
 drive times aren't as bad as some people make them out to be. I also realize that not everyone 
 likes a more laid back game and some people want the run and gun experience and that's fine.
  
  Personally I enjoy playing this game, but I definitely was expecting something different. I 
 thought that I would literally be given 50 square miles (Km w/e) and the Jackal would be somewhere 
 in it (random and moving on a schedule) , and I would be able to kill him from the start if I new 
 where to find him, and you would do missions to get information to use to kill him. (if any developer 
 wants to make that game let me know and you will have my money) So that was kind of disappointing 
 and there were some other things that were hyped up too much in my opinion.
  
  Anyway the game play is good and the second map is much better than the first since you can go 
 around the roadblocks easier since there are less mountains and playing around with different weapon 
 combinations makes the firefights seem different. All in all I'd say the game is very fun to play 
 if you treat it like real life like its meant to be played by trying not to get shot and trying 
 to sneak around in the enemy bases. If you just run in shooting you'll probably win but it will 
 get repetitive.
  
  Once all the little bugs get fixed (lack of beta testing) and people can mod it it (i. e. roadblocks 
 respawn daily not once your out of sight) this game will be even better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  The graphics on this game are amazing. Shadows, textures and the lot look really good. Sometimes 
 looking better than Crysis. 
  
  The sheer amount of options given to the player puts GTA games to shame. 50 square kilometers of 
 South African marshland, plains, wastelands, urban areas and swamps are fully explorable and exploitable. 
 
  
  The missions are varied but side quests are usually recycled. Don't expect much of a story. Far 
 Cry 2's biggest appeal is how realistic the in-game Africa can get.
  
  In combat, if you soak up too much damage, you have to get to cover and heal up. Light damage usually 
 gets auto healed. Heavier damage requires painkillers from a syringe. Critical damage requires 
 the player to find a good spot to remove bullets, or snap bones back into place. Which is really 
 cool to watch. 
  
  Weapon choice is very satisfactory. There is a wide range of unique weapons that the player can 
 choose. Flamethrowers, mortars, rpgs, AKs, and many more give the player freedom to finish the 
 job whichever way he wants to.
  
  Picking up weapons is sometimes necessary. Earlier in the game, you'll want to pick up fallen enemies 
 weapons. Or if you brought a sniper rifle to a close combat situation, you'll have to take someone 
 out and grab his gun. Vice Versa. Weapons that are picked up are badly maintained. They will jam 
 up, forcing the player to take cover while trying to unjam the weapon.
  The animations are very cool to watch and bring a whole new level of planning before going into 
 combat.
  
  The single player buddy system is the first of its kind to actually work out. Your buddy will contact 
 you with information before missions. If you are shot beyond healing, which usually results in 
 death for most FPSs, your buddy will come to your rescue.
  
  On the downside however, you NEED a dual core processor to even run this on minimum. Also, the 
 story is a real let down. I mean, it was a good story, but the full potential wasn't squeezed out 
 of it. 
  
  Another minus is that there isn't that much of a quick travel option. The player will have to get 
 in a vehicle and travel for minutes just to get to the intended destination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxwellsmarty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  first let me start with my respect and love to the original far cry which i did play many times 
 and 4 years ago thought it was awesome. now... let me explain to the guys who rate far cry2 lower 
 than 8 that simply they live in the past a huge blind sentiment to old games and cannot see the 
 greatness of new ideas and amazing technics and physics of a brilliant new game like the game far 
 cry2/which true has not much to do with far cry/ get over it!!!! its not far cry game... so you were 
 disappointed ok i understand.. but rate this game for itself not what you expected to get...
  An other approach to liking this game could be that you get rid of your 10 year old pc and your 
 32 Mb video card
  or you simply learn how to play far cry2!!
  was this insulting??? ah sorry but how about some morons rating this game 1???????? or 3?????
 
  lets look at the graphics... incredible is it not, but that alone would not make a game good i agree... well 
 the gameplay and feel of guns are amazing and fun and so is the realism that on a huge map you 
 do have to drive... you can take the bus as well... night and day cycle wow wheather effects wind... setting 
 grass treees on fire and the spread of it to cut off enemies... jamming of old weapons.... are we 
 playing the same game i wonder sometimes... oh and about gamespot deleting games rated1... i agree... please 
 gamespot please keep doing that... rating this game 1 is childish anger over not getting far cry1 
 and has nothing to do with this brilliant game...
  now the bad: why i dont give 10... simply i never give 10, there is no perfect game... yes driving 
 and missions in the beginning seemed repetitive and could have more variety... i started to buy 
 and choose different weapons and go stealthy occasionally... in the beginning of playing it was 
 new for me that actually just like in real life i had to do "boring" driving now after 20 hours 
 of play i got used to it and realised its actually great. 
  i forgot to mention that there is no loading time on a huge map, and unlike crysis it runs great 
 on a decent pc no need for top of the line rig.
  i highly recomend this game for real FPS fans and i agree with all gamers who give above 9 points...
 
  English is my second language... sorry for spellhingh mistakes... cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyriderlink
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 doesn't worth 8.5 I'd say 5 or 6. 
  
  Farcry2's greatest mistakes is letting you to go anywhere around the map. It feels like a ripped 
 off Mercenaries 2, which can offer more customizations anyway. 
  
  The name FarCry 2 is also very deceiving because it not only doesn't resemblance original Far Cry 
 but also make it worse. Free roaming is fun for first few hours but every time you past a check 
 point you have to kill guards which you've already killed before. There is no fast travel except 
 for stupid bus system which takes you to the corners or center of the map. 
  
  Driving is not bad but AI is very stupid. The enemies don't know what to do most of the time other 
 than shooting continuously at you. They don't run when you throw a grenade at them and pretends 
 to duck when your sniper miss the target. When compared with Crysis, even at the medium difficulty 
 Crysis's AIs know what to do and respond accordingly.
  
  Overall design is good but could be better. Unlike Crysis, vegetation does not respond to anything 
 other than your legs except for some bushes which can be cut by bullets. The gun fight is not satisfying 
 either. It is very odd for FPS which doesn't offer good guns to shoot. And there is no bullet penetration.
 
  
  The story is one of the worst I've seen this year. Those two so call war factions are like high 
 school gangs fighting for nothing but nothing. I eagerly played 5 hours non-stop only to find out 
 there is no main quest at all other than to kill an idiot who let go his assassin.
  
  Conclusion if you want to play free roam FPS think STALKER, there is no driving but it will make 
 you feels much much better than Far Cry 2. If you've played Crysis, Brothers in Arms Hell Highway, 
 Call of duty 4 avoid this game and better save your money and grab Fallout 3 or wait for better 
 FPS games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joseph42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  The technical achievements of the game are great, with the vast expanse of scenery, lighting, wind, 
 rain, etc. However, the game bears no resemblance to the original Far Cry game. It should not have 
 been called Far Cry 2. A big problem with the game is the forced traversing of the map to achieve 
 your objectives, and the same fire fights at the same locations, every time you traverse that particular 
 area. How many times do you need to take out the same enemy guard post, or destroy an enemy jeep? 
 It gets boring and frustrating. You travel back and forth over the same roads, past the same guard 
 posts, and have to fight the same enemy forces over and over. After destroying all the forces in 
 a particular area, once you leave and come back, the enemy is back again. There's nothing new, 
 just more of the same rag tag enemy fighters. They all look the same, act the same, and have the 
 same capabilities. It's fun for the first few times, but gets boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jellocube
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most frustrating games ever created; it's as though everything in it 
 was designed not to entertain the player, but to slowly destroy them as a person. Surely any game 
 that combines a sand-box world, cars, guns and awesome looking fire would be a smashing success? 
 But alas!
  
  Nothing about the game really sucks you in. The combat feels empty, the audio is terrible and the 
 graphics are ruined by the extreme contrast causing the player to spend most of their time blind. 
 As for the plot it feels like it was written the night before recording the dialogue. Far Cry 
 2 attempts to bring a lot of realism to the table, but all it manages to do is steal the tedium 
 of real life, and cram it into a video game. 
  
  The vehicles are incredibly unexciting (probably not helped by the atrocious sound) , and have a 
 nasty tendency to flip over or get stuck when you're in the most obscure locations. The inability 
 to summon vehicles leaves the player in what feels like a survival situation just without the 
 cannibalism or anything entertaining like that.
  
  The combat is ruined by an AI which must have magical eyes and nerves of steel; having the amazing 
 ability to fire a shotgun more accurately than your assault rifles at long range. Not to mention 
 the guard posts, which completely re-spawns every time you turn around. 
  
  The closest thing to a highlight in this game came up on one of my long journeys back from the 
 corner of the map (my car got stuck on a rock) , where I stumbled upon a zebra. The idea occurred 
 to me that throwing my Molotov Cocktail at it would possibly make the journey worth it; but no. 
 Zebras don't get into throwing range; that'd be unrealistic (also known as fun) .
  
  
  Summary for the too lazy to read:
  
  Positives:
  Good Graphics.
  You have a button to give 
 yourself Surgury.
  
  Negatives:
  Boring Gameplay.
  Awful Audio.
  Horrible Design.
  I'd rather watch paint dry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomicbro
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  While I loved the original Far Cry and it's hyped cousin Crysis, Far Cry is leaving me somewhat 
 bewildered. I was really looking forward to playing a game in a new environment that offered something 
 I hadn't seen before. When I started this game I was amazed at the detail the developers have put 
 into making the game world seem so alive, but after about fifteen hours in, I find I'm frustrated 
 at the circular nature of the game. Every mission seems to force me to backtrack to another quadrant 
 of the map and in doing so, forces me to fight all of the same enemies (who are all google-eyed 
 and have clown mouths for some reason) all over again. Killing the same guys a thousand times over... not 
 so fun anymore.
  
  I'm not sure why developers are turning toward this trend, but repetitive gaming is NOT the way 
 to go, and calling this a sandbox game does not mean that every mission has to be the same. Look 
 at other sandbox-style games, like the two mentioned earlier, as well as GTA: SA and STALKER. These 
 game were open, but still had a funnel like design that kept pushing you toward the bigger picture. 
 Sadly, I still have no idea what the bigger picture is in Far Cry 2. The fact that the AI is dumb 
 as mud (we've receded back to the days of Doom 2, where enemies just charge at you as if they are 
 all coked-up football players with no peripheral vision) and the touted 'buddy system' makes absolutely 
 no sense (mine can't seem to keep themselves alive long enough for me to get there... oh and I killed 
 one, because they were aiming in my direction when I did get there) is making me wonder what the 
 real virtues of this game are at all. I mean pretty graphic engines are a dime a dozen these days, 
 and designing a good one doesn't mean that you can ignore all of the other aspects of the game. 
 Buy Crysis: Warhead instead and really enjoy yourself.
  
  Just my 2 cents...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexandros_m
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 starts out with a tour on jeep which will introduce you to the world you will play the 
 game. The world seems alive and sharp, but later in the game all this will seem like a -grey and 
 not at all alive designed through toolset- map.
  
  The main story involves a gun merchant named Jackal who you are sent to assassinate in a fictional 
 unnamed african country. Jackal will find you first though and given the fact that you are inflicted 
 with malaria will let you to your own luck. So as far as the player knows, the main quest involves 
 finding Jackal and killing him. Apart from it the setting is set upon a civil war in the country 
 between two groups which will hire your services in case you choose so.
  But the point is that all of the missions come down to this: Proceed to the mission area on map, accept 
 the mission ,drive to missions location, complete the mission, move to take on another mission. 
 
  Typicaly the time needed to perform these steps goes as such, assuming that you are close to the 
 mission area: Drive to the mission location 10 minutes, complete the mission 5 minutes or less (depending 
 on the style you want to play it ,more action more stealth, etc) , move to take on another mission 
 10 minutes.
  So the game becomes extremely boring because you spent 90% of your time driving from one location 
 to another (and the driving part was just plain in my opinion) . All this repeats itself time after 
 time with the exception of very few scripted events.
  
  The main idea of the game set in a afican country where civil war is on is very interesting and 
 really could have taken the story miles up in rating but instead of it it just stays in the background 
 static and colourless.
  The games graphics are some of the best currently (not as good as crysis though) and its gameplay 
 is fair enough ,typical of a respectful fps .
  So in conclusion ,if you want a good story don't choose far cry 2, instead take it if you want 
 something of a fps gta game but with slower speed and less variation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microsoft_360
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  The best first person shooter ever hands down! So many technicalities, so much freedom, this game 
 has been aboslutely amazing to play.. It was just awesome!
  
  The gun choice and the ability to do missions in any order makes you feel like your not following 
 a storyline even though you are.
  
  Absolutely golden!
  
  ask ldfk la sdf kjl asd jk sd fj kl sdkalj kasdlj klsdaj asd klf asdfkl asfj fjas kdjl sadfk asdf 
 kl; jas. a bab abba rad bam 1 dont want to have to write 100 words for a review ask ldfk la sdf kjl 
 asd jk sd fj kl sdkalj kasdlj klsdaj asd klf asdfkl asfj fjas kdjl sadfk asdf kl; jas. a bab abba 
 rad bam 1 dont want to have to write 100 words for a review ask ldfk la sdf kjl asd jk sd fj kl 
 sdkalj kasdlj klsdaj asd klf asdfkl asfj fjas kdjl sadfk asdf kl; jas. a bab abba rad bam 1 dont 
 want to have to write 100 words for a review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epox1130
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  You know a game is good when you can go through a tutorial and not know it. Far Cry 2 does almost 
 every aspect of a first person shooter expertly, the only drawbacks are the sometimes lengthy travel 
 times and the frequently respwaning baddies.
  
  The gun choice and the ability to do missions in any order make you feel like your not following 
 a storyline even though you are.
  
  All in all, great game
  
  ask ldfk la sdf kjl asd jk sd fj kl sdkalj kasdlj klsdaj asd klf asdfkl asfj fjas kdjl sadfk asdf 
 kl; jas. a bab abba rad bam 1 dont want to have to write 100 words for a review ask ldfk la sdf kjl 
 asd jk sd fj kl sdkalj kasdlj klsdaj asd klf asdfkl asfj fjas kdjl sadfk asdf kl; jas. a bab abba 
 rad bam 1 dont want to have to write 100 words for a review ask ldfk la sdf kjl asd jk sd fj kl 
 sdkalj kasdlj klsdaj asd klf asdfkl asfj fjas kdjl sadfk asdf kl; jas. a bab abba rad bam 1 dont 
 want to have to write 100 words for a review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonymoretti
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Personally I was excited for this game with the engine of fire and the new story line, turns out 
 commercials and the actual game are a big difference, like all other games, but this I was really 
 disappointed at, lets begin shall we?
  
  THE GOOD
  ____
  Nice graphics
  Nice detail to landscape
  New Features to the FPS Franchise
  
  THE BAD
  
  ____
  Very 
 lacking storyline (Doesnt draw you in whatsoever besides the fact *Spoiler alert* you have malaria 
 *spoiler alert*.
  Very buggy ( I experienced many bugs and a few crashes.)
  Small map ( Yes beleive it or not )
  Lacking Vehicles ( Only a diffrent cars and boats and bugees. 
 )
  AI is also lacking, very easy to kill.
  ______
  OVERALL
  ___
  I would highly recommend in looking for more information from a none payroll from ubisoft review 
 or another fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfireknight
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is an amazing game with lots of explosive, high-octane action.
  
  Ok lets start by analyzing the game-play of Far Cry 2. The thing I like best about this game is 
 the ability to roam free and complete missions your own way. You can take the stealthy approach 
 to a camp of soldiers, or you can run and gun. One of my favorite elements of the game-play is 
 the fire, you can set it and the wind will carry it, and if it's set right, it can be devastating 
 to a camp. And the best thing about it is that you don't have to set a foot in the camp. I love 
 the weapons in the game, they picked the perfect weapons to include in the game. I personally love 
 the AS-50 sniper rifle. The size of the map is huge, you can entertain yourself for hours just 
 going around raiding the enemy camps.
  
  Now, onto the story. The story is about a violent, bloody conflict between two African factions. 
 You are a mercenary sent in to kill an arms dealer called "The Jackal", who has been supplying 
 both warring factions with weapons. Not to mention all of the great side missions you can unravel. 
 I won't go any further because I don't want to give away anything. I know that some reviews say 
 that the story is dull, but It was action-packed and kept me interested the whole time.
  
  Ok, now for technical specs of the game. The graphics are absolutely stunning as you would expect 
 from a game using the Crytek 2 Engine. The environment looks very realistic and the people and 
 animals all look lifelike. The audio has also performed great for me on my 5.1 surround sound system. 
 The game really utilizes the 5.1 surround in a way to immerse you into the game world.
  
  This game in an immersive, exciting experience that no one who enjoys action games should miss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0cain31
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Don't bother... It has almost no storyline, and definitely no aliens (as in Far Cry) . If you want 
 to drive **** vehicles endlessly, please do try it, but if you want to be involved in what you 
 shoot - not your game of choice :) Don't say I didn't warn you! ;) Toronto, please make an effort... 
 I think it took longer to load the final credits than it did to play the final mission. That might 
 be good in Counter Strike but it definitely is not enough if you are playing a single-player campaign 
 on a PC. So my final verdict is: play the first 5 missions but don't get involved because it will 
 most probably bore you to death! By the way the game has some really cool graphics, but do you 
 think that will replace all the action that we need? Hmm... don't think so... And if you see something 
 that's worth it, wait a bit more and you will see what a cr*p offer it is! Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RodinaRossija38
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  At first, I have rated this game a 10 out of 10 for its sheer beauty, good quality, gameplay, etc. 
 Now, when I got 62% completed in the game, it turned into stupidity. I, for now, literally cannot 
 perform any stealth whatsoever like I previously did. Why? Every other guard post has 5 snipers 
 and the most annoying thing ever: some idiot blazing heat seeking rockets at you, even if he can't 
 see you nor can you see him. Every other person now owns the skills to inevitably see you no matter 
 where you are, even when I bought the most expensive stealth suit. Also, most of the time now I 
 am trying to dodge the hordes of vehicles with the most crazy drivers and the ridiclous mounted-grenade 
 launchers, which destroy my car in one shot. This game was an amazing experience at first, but 
 turns into a stupid, subhuman environment. Waste-of-time!
  
  I would rather invest the money or buy anything else.
  
  And the multiplayer isn't even worth 
 mentioning. It's a very lame and boring experience.
  
  The Map Editor is alright but defiantely not worth buying this game for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyu
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe - top graphics, engine, sound... but story, well, it could not be simpler (somebody 
 hardworking must have definitely spent at least 20-30 sec on the way to work to make the story 
 saying - ok guys, here it is, just leave me alone) - it's level of lowest possible budget movie: 
 there is a bad guy - find and kill him. To take (waste) you time - at some points you yourself 
 have to get missions to kill other bad guy/s wasting even more time driving from place to place 
 across 50 sq km with slight change of the terrain. That is all? Where is that juwell of mystery 
 to make player anxious, exciting to spend hours without leaving comp thinking, trying to predict 
 what is next and why? In case of Far Cry 2 I know unfortunately for me what is next - I get one 
 more mission at nearest point. In this case I prefer Stalker or Crisis or old Far Cry. As many 
 preferences as people - somebody likes to wonder in savannas. JUST TO ADD - STILL THIS IS THE BEST 
 AFRICAN COMPUTER ADVENTURE AND SO THE SHOOTER IN SAVANAS EVER MADE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smilliey2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  
  I'l get one thing clear from the start I was expecting a lot from Far Cry 2, I thought the preview 
 footage looked good and the damage/physics model looked solid. 
  
  However after playing the game for 10 hours or so it becomes increasingly clear why all the preview 
 information was dominated by footage of fire and flashy slogans like "most realistic propagating 
 fire ever!" thats because Ubisoft clearly spent no time developing any other part of the game. 
 
  
  You start the game with Malaria (for no reason other than it means ubisoft could prod the story 
 along using missions related to Malaria medicine) there is a fairly brief tutorial section of the 
 game that teaches you the basics. 
  
  However what becomes apparent almost as soon as you finish this section of the game is that there 
 are two main flaws with game.
  
  First UbiSoft have plonked guard posts at every junction on the map and virtually every 100meters 
 on all the roads, fair enough if theres an alternative to killing everyone you meet but as there 
 is no alternative to a fighting everyone this is just annoying and pointless. 
  
  for example even if all your mission calls for you to do is drive from a to b and speak to someone 
 you are still required to kill and army of goons just to get to B, its like if in Grand Theft Auto 
 the police attacked you whenever they saw you even if you werent doing anything, that would be 
 annoying wouldnt it? 
  
  Second problem with the game is the fact that the AI is really quite stupid.
  
  Remember when 
 Halflife came out and the marines would use cover, flank and throw grenades at you, well hold onto 
 your seat because the AI in Far Cry 2 dosent do any of that. Occasionally the AI will wonder around 
 a building and "flank" you but in general all the AI does is stand there and shoot at you or it 
 gets in a truck drives at you madly then shoots at you. 
  
  Sadly most fire fights degenerate into you standing blazing at the computer while it does the same 
 thing until one of you is dead. 
  
  In addition to the gameplay the damage and physics model is rubbish.
  
  All the vehicles in 
 the game have a very limited damage model, you can break the glass, knock off doors and thats about 
 it, oh sorry I forgot you can shoot the spare tyre off some of the jeeps. You cant pop or blow 
 off wheels (like you could in crysis) also were supposed to beleive that all Africa is driving 
 Jeeps and VW Golfs.
  
  Much has been said about all the plants and things that break when there shot, well the plants 
 do break however very little else is breakable.
  
  Bottles disintergrate rather than smash, some very small boxes can be chopped into tinder wood 
 and a few bits of wood will break but other than that there is very little that will break. In 
 fact I'v played console games that had more destructable terrain
  
  Did I mention bullet penetration? basically in the Far Cry 2 universe it dosent exist, the following 
 items appear to be able to stop a speeding bullet and dont break at all, Sandbags, wooden fences, 
 doors, tin walls in fact anything thats not vegetation is capable of stopping a bullet there is 
 no penetration anywhere. 
  
  Oh and watch out because in game apparently sandbags are made from concrete because I drove into 
 a pile of them and they stopped the officially indorsed jeep dead in its tracks. 
  
  Lastly remember to reload because the damage model/kill box on the AI players is awful dont be 
 surprised to see people wearing jeans and a t-shirt be able to take some serious punishment and 
 still walk away happy as larry.
  
  One good point the Map editor is excellent shame the game you edit is lame. 
  
  I was really 
 quite excited about Far Cry 2 and really do think that its one of the worst games i'v played in 
 an age, its at best a pretty but very average first person shooter and playing it really feels 
 like it was aimed at the console market ie cheap, simple and, unimaginative, note to ubisoft propogating 
 fire dosent make excellent games it just makes tech demos pretty. 
  
  Save yourself some money dont buy Far Cry 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robsmits
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 has been hyped to death & I must say I was really looking forward to this game. Once 
 I started I felt that the game was going to live up to all that hype. After seeing reviews of 94% 
 & words like 'OMG it's incredible' I thought this could be one of the true greats.
  
  The game begins well, with you riding in the back of a jeep & cruising through the game world you 
 will be exploring. You will certainly be wowing at the game by this point as graphically FC 2 is 
 a fine looking game. I'd say about half as beautiful as Crysis which is still quite a compliment 
 if you consider Crytek's masterpiece leaves almost everything else in the dust.
  
  The graphics are nicely complimented by the audio. Weapons sound terrific & explosions even better. 
 The ambient noises at night time are very well done. Voice acting however, is not so impressive. 
 The games storyline is so bad that I think Hollywood talent would have been wasted here. Characters 
 just blurt their instructions at you & thats it. 
  
  My biggest complaint about FC 2 is the amount of bizarre omissions from the game. There is no lean 
 function. I almost yelped when I realised this. I was hoping to use a fair amount of stealth but 
 without a lean function in first person I really don't see the point.
  
  It gets worse. Theres no night vision or flashlight. Headlights yes, but as you step out the vehicle 
 they turn off. It's not critical but many times I found myself yearning for said items. 
  
  Where did all the wildlife go? I counted 3 types of animal & some birds in the sky. No giraffe's, 
 lion's, elephant's, snakes, nothing. At first I dare not dive in any rivers for fear of crocs, 
 leeches & snakes but alas the water in FC 2 must all have been poisoned. The land is bare.
  
  The travel system is poor. There are five bus stations that take you to the corners & centre 
 of the map but there is still plenty of mind numbing travelling to be done. What makes it worse 
 is those idiotic jeep gunners that just appear, drive straight into the front of your vehicle & 
 open fire with a heavy machine gun. No hassle. While he unloads dozens of rounds into my face that 
 in reality would tear you limb from limb, I'll just hop on my gun & mow him & the driver down in 
 a few seconds. Then use a syringe to heal the one segment of health I lost & thats on Hardcore. 
 Softcore more like.
  
  I really don't like the AI or enemies in this game either. Sometimes they'll flank & take cover 
 but often it's the same old story: they'll just stand in the open or run around in a daze & be 
 shot. Quality AI still seems to be very elusive with these single player fps games.
  
  To be honest I could moan about the games faults for many more paragraphs but heres the thing. 
 I love this game. Bit like Stalker. Theres a great game to be had but the developers underperformed. 
 I enjoyed many things about this game. I loved the weapons & upgrade system, the way fire spreads, 
 & the fact that the game is huge. Hopefully mods and/or patches will come to this games rescue, 
 because they're needed & whoever designed those jeep gunners & respawning guard posts needs the 
 sack. Don't these people learn that these are not fun things to put in a game. I think Bioshock 
 is the only game I can forgive respawning enemies.
  
  I have yet to play the multiplayer so this review is based only on the SP.
  
  So overall I 
 would say get Far Cry 2. It has plenty of annoyances but the game itself plays very smooth, looks 
 & sounds great & will suck you in. It's unique also being set in Africa but they sure could have 
 made it feel a bit more like Africa with more than just Zebras & a few Antelope. As I say hopefully 
 some of the grievances of this game can be modded or patched but even in it's current state it's 
 well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  First off, sequels are never as good as the original. Far Cry was a head shot, and Far Cry 2 was 
 a grazer. Hey, at least it touched the target.
  
  To make this the least painful review possible, I'm going to use categories as my criteria. The 
 overall rating will be based on the "average". Everything is out of 10.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  Alright, after the whole Crysis bismo, we clearly know that Far Cry 2 does 
 not take the "Most Beautiful Graphics" reward. However, it's still good... It's great. There's 
 a lot of detail. The fire looks like fire while men and women can actually be distinguished without 
 a microscopic analysis between pixels. Unless the producers purposely made the distinct differences 
 to be absent, in-which they haven't so far.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Repetition is present! And, it's inevitable. Missions, tasks, quests, or whatever you want to call 
 these objectives, is basically the same thing over and over again. Find this man, kill him, and 
 you get your diamonds. A lot of that. But, what game doesn't possess repetition? It's a common 
 fact that every game will have similarity in your log of "Stuff to do". Far Cry 2 does make the 
 constant "do it again" process pretty entertaining, so I have no argument. Yes, blowing up stuff 
 is quite silly yet very eye-catching.
  
  Artificial Intelligence: 5/10
  
  I had to do a mission which involved the assassination of a man inside a vehicle with a couple 
 of guards. One car, two jeeps with machine guns: What do I do? Well, I have a grenade launcher 
 and my target drives in circles. All I need to do is set up a tent and monitor the cycle and wait 
 until they reach me. Simple. So minutes pass and they finally come. I get ready and aim and to 
 my surprise... Well, not really... I miss the car I need but blow up one of the jeeps. My target 
 and his other jeep drive on by and repeat the same circle. Nothing happens. They don't go out to 
 see, they just keep driving. And I repeat. The next time, I kill the second jeep yet the main guy 
 still keeps going. I'm sitting there going like, "AT LEAST TRY TO RUN". 
  
  Basically, the AI is laughable. You can run in front of somebody and wait 3 seconds before they 
 can even tell you're there. Gunfights are dull with their 'intelligence' but... There is one catch. 
 They have really, really, good aim. Just shoot them when they're oblivious to your existence.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Simple. Everything sounds like they should, and the voice acting isn't terrible. As in, I know 
 what they're saying and they aren't completely monotone.
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  It's interesting but nothing really new. I can't go on with this simply because I don't always 
 pay attention to "why" but more on "what". There are some aspects that will keep you wondering, 
 but it won't make you think. You develop malaria, and you're trying to kill your main target. Why? 
 Try the game and see how it plays out.
  
  
  Overall: 37.5/50
  37.5 (divided by) 50 = 0.75 (multiply by) 10 = 7.5
  
  Gamespot: 8.5
  My rating: 7.5
  
 
  "Good but it can get better." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eugen-male
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Altought its not very similar to far cry 1, this attempt was a huge success, im playing this game 
 after 3 days and i still find it very enjoyable, astonish content on just 3.5gb space, plenty of 
 features, missions, bonus objectives, secret cases and freedom in far cry 2 world.
  You have plenty of freedom finishing missions, the world is very well designed and the Enemy Script 
 is very realistic and "logical" for example if u drive with a car and try to run out of an outpost 
 2 of the enemies will run to their jeeps to not loose ur track while the rest tries to shoot u 
 down. If you shoot them in the leg with a rifle they will not die instantly, some of them will 
 bleed to death, other will seek for cover by crawling behind a house or any object that servers 
 them as shelter. Their talking is quite realistic too, for example some that are afraid of you 
 will keep mambling about the current situation, others with a medic role will try helping the wounded 
 between other actions.
  The Story is quite interesting, some parts of it are simple, others makes you do difficult choices 
 while others are full of misteries.
  The map is very big, its not level based, theres 1 huge map that will be the world ull play, similar 
 to the oblivion or world of warcraft world system.
  You have plenty of weapons to unlock, safe houses upgrades, skill upgrades, ammo, accuracy and 
 reliability of weapons manuals that "teaches" u to use them better.
  You also can have buddy system, some will help u with easyer ways to finish missions while others 
 will save your life when ure in a very bad situation with the health at minimum for example.
  The graphics are not the same as crysis, but then again graphics are not the only aspect of what 
 makes a game good. The trees and grass waves naturally depending of the wind strength, and you 
 can also burn down vegetation like in real life, for example u throw a molotov cocktail bottle 
 on a tree or grass and the fire will spread to a big area.
  All that in just 3.5gb i find it quite unbealiavable, the performance of this game is quite good 
 too, my asus m51va laptop 2.4ghz ati hd 3650 4gb ram with vista, runs it at 1280*800 with all settings 
 set at high apart from shadows which are medium. the result is constant 30fps or more.
  That all said i think its not fair how ppl treated this game, it deserves much better score than 
 just 8.5, this is a masterpiece not just a regular game.
  
  Thank you for Reading this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight113
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  If you are a console gamer, then this game deserves 10/10. If however you own a PC and you can 
 write your own name without making a spelling mistake, then give this game a 1/10.
  
  Overall the game feels like it was written for console gaming. Don't use your brain, get mission, 
 shoot a-holes in run-and-gun style, get reward, repeat... 
  
  Other letdowns include encounters that are located in static locations with an infinite number 
 of spawning enemies. A totally unrealistic physics and combat model better suited to low budget 
 quake ripoffs. Why not just put Unreal tournament's weapons in there. It would be an improvement, 
 trust me. Maybe those high-tech weapons wouldn't degrade within hours, becoming jam prone rusty 
 relics that look like they've been buried in mud for 10 years. 
  
  The AI is way beyond stupid. It seems everyone in Far Cry 2 was smoking waaaaaaay too much crack, 
 which might explain the reason why it takes numerous high powered rounds to bring down an enemy. 
 Apparently smoking crack gives you super powers such as bulletproof skin, x-ray vision and the 
 patented long-range sharpshooter with a shotgun skill. I so wish I could smoke crack in Far Cry 
 2, instead of chugging down those freaking malaria pills. Which leads me to another point, why 
 do you have to play a malaria ridden cripple? Why not just give the main character aids as well? 
 Maybe that would bring some depth to the paperthin 1 dimensional plot... Now where did I put those 
 anti-retrovirals? 
  
  The only memorable gem that I will take away from Far Cry 2 is the hilariously funny things that 
 the stereotypical white Afrikaner mercenaries hurl at you while trying to kill you. 
  
  "Every one of these bullets has your name on them!" to which I reply, "Every one of my bullets 
 has your name on them because that's how many rounds it'll take to drop your sorry a$$!"
  
  Final comment: Monumental FAIL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broa29
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Some embrace a totally open ended world, others like me feel it deprives the world of life. In 
 a sense, the game succeeds to make you feel like you are totally alone in the middle of nowhere, 
 with no clear goal of what you have to achieve. The "lack" of story everyone mentions seemed like 
 a minute detail before I started playing, but once you are immersed into that world, you soon realize 
 that having no carrot on the stick makes for a very boring and meaningless experience.
  
  The graphics are excellent. I feel it's a bit taxing for the quality though, Crysis was just as 
 good, arguably better, and I could run Crysis full details yet I can't run FC2 at more than approx 
 50% capacity. On the other hand, the environment is much more dynamic, the wind and weather effects 
 are just amazing, better than any other game I've played.
  
  Sound is also descent, but not perfect.. I've had trucks crawl up to me without hearing them before 
 they were 2' away from me, unloading their machine guns into the back of my head. You'd think you'd 
 hear a speeding military truck coming your way... Guess not.
  
  I was disappointed by the lack of animals but I guess that's my own fault for expecting more. I've 
 seen a couple of animals, but it's nowhere near the rich fauna system I was expecting.
  
  The main problem lies with the story, or lack thereof. You pick up small missions left and right 
 that are all as boring as the next and it soon gets very repetitive and boring. I don't know if 
 the story eventually picks back up or what, I played quite a bit and I'm now totally burned, I 
 don't even want to start the game again, it's just a painful experience. I'm giving it a 6.5 for 
 the effort, but if it weren't for the world's ambitious scale and the awesome graphics, this would 
 barely scratch a 3 on my scale. Big big disappointment.. the first Far Cry is one of my favorite 
 games of all times, this is really a letdown for me. Thank god Crysis picked-up on the original 
 style! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 isn't the greatest fps to grace PC's, but it's far from the convoluted mess its detractors 
 want you to think it is.
  
  First, a word on repetition. This game isn't more repetitive than any other open-ended game out 
 there. In fact, I find that you can really mix things up in this game as compared to games like 
 Oblivion and GTA4.
  
  Whereas in Oblivion you just toss spells or hack enemies up with your broadsword, you can approach 
 enemy encampments in a variety of ways - burn the place down with molotov cocktails, go in stealthlike, 
 go in guns blazing with machine guns and mortar fire, sabotage enemy trucks with IED's and trick 
 them into giving chase, etc.
  
  The story of this game is decent. Voice-acting could use some work and your buddies don't really 
 have much of a backstory to them, but you'll definitely feel bad for them after seeing them get 
 shot to bits, at least up until the end of the game, which is disappointing and anticlimactic, 
 to be perfectly honest. Ubisoft could have definitely fleshed out the story in such an intriguing 
 and political environment as war-torn Africa, and the episodic and sporadic plot developments of 
 the game's singleplayer really undermine that huge potential.
  
  The AI in this game is passing. Enemies respond well to stealth, act as a squad, and engage you 
 from long distances. They are pretty daft in some circumstances, though, especially in vehicles. 
 You'll often see enemies teamkill each other, crash their cars into explosive barrels and off cliffs, 
 and generally be idiots. Not that surprising in a game like this.
  
  This game's graphics are, in one word, beautiful. Although Far Cry 2 isn't as technologically advanced 
 as Crysis, the open-ended map, the gorgeous African setting, and the game's great performance on 
 mid-end machines on PC makes this game look as good as Crysis in many circumstances, in my opinion. 
 I just wish the environments were fully destructible... that's a let down considering all the games 
 with destructible environments that have been released so far.
  
  Far Cry 2's multiplayer is interesting, but it was obviously designed with consoles in mind. There's 
 traditional server lists in this game, but ranked games will often have started long before you 
 try to join. You're almost forced to use matchmaking, which is buggy and often places you in laggy 
 matches with unbalanced teams. The weapons in multiplayer, which are unlocked as you rise in rank, 
 are very unbalanced, with heavy weapons like the grenade launcher far outclassing small arms rifles 
 like the AK-47. As for the modes, deathmatch and tdm are your standard fare. Capture the diamond 
 is just CTF with a different coating of paint. Uprising is the only interesting mode here, and 
 plays like conquest mode mixed with VIP mode from other shooters. Only the captain can capture 
 points, so it's obviously very team-based.
  
  The singleplayer game lasted me about 17 hours, far short of the estimates given by ign. com and 
 other reviewers (which is often the case) . That's still long for a shooter, although most of that 
 time was spent traveling from point A to point B (albeit, across awesome African terrain in interesting 
 vehicles) . Multiplayer will last you a few more, but it's mostly a diversion, unless they fix punkbuster 
 bugs that kick Vista 64 bit users from games every ten minutes and balance out the weapons.
  
  All in all, I'd say Far Cry 2 is worth the cash. Just don't go in expecting a masterpiece and 
 you'll come out of Africa with a truckload of diamonds and a whole lot of satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BimC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  I really looked forward to this game. The trailers looked so promising. The graphics looked great, 
 the open terrain, day and night cycle and the all different approaches to engage the enemy really 
 got me hooked. 
  
  Though all of the above is true, Far Cry 2 is boring and repetitive.
  
  Most of the time you will use traveling until you engage a roadblock. For each mission in the 
 game you will run across an average of 3 to 5 roadblocks with and average of 3 to 5 enemies you 
 will have to kill to get past it. 
  
  When you travel back to get another mission you will discover that the roadblock you just wiped 
 out have re-spawned as soon you left them out of sight, zzz.
  
  I can't imagine why anyone would do all the effort of putting such a beautiful game together, with 
 so much potential to it, and then leave it with a story that makes it so repetitive and boring. 
 
  
  You should go get the demo and play it fifty times. Just ad you own little imaginary story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbvader
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Farcry 2... I have never played the original farcry but I heard it was amazing, extraordinary, 
 etc. When farcry 2 was announced, it looked very cool. At least, it had the potential to be a great 
 game and now that it's out well...
  
  The action itself, although not what was described, is fun. Explosions for one, look very cool, 
 when they happen, with a large amount of fire and noise. After they happen, the result can be disappointing. 
 Sure a car is tossed in the air, but there's something quite unconvincing in the way it looks after 
 being destroyed. The "totally destructible" environment isn't totlaly destructible. Small guard 
 posts and sheds will blow up, but solid buildings wont and trees wont either. 
  
  The weapons jamming part is pretty well done, although their range and accuracy is not too great, 
 such as when your character stays absolutely still when holding a rifle, when some games such as 
 the great CoD 4 actually make you move whilst aiming. The driving is not bad, not what it could 
 have been, but ok. A VERY disappointing feature is the fact that tires will not burst. The healing 
 with syringes and having to perform operations on yourself when wounded are very nice, but its 
 too bad as soon as you're healed, all trace of you ever being hit is vanished.
  
  The setting could have made an absolutely great story. That concept was obviously put aside. The 
 story is quite bad seeing as your character doesnt seem to be implicated in any important decisions 
 whatsoever and only acts as a mercenary carrying orders for both sides. While I'm at it, driving 
 is repetitive and quickly becomes boring and predictable.
  
  All in all, the action, although it would be better with a few fixes, is a lot of fun and the story 
 is bad, especially when you take in the huge potential that the setting gave. Sound is acceptable, 
 although a bit repetitive as well. Graphics are passable, but no where near games like Crysis.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MinusOne-1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is different to most shooters with the sandbox world and attention to detail.
  However it takes a bit to get into and is sometimes highly frustrating. 
  
  Cons:
  
  -EVERYONE 
 in the game outside of the few cease fire zones is against you and has little else to do but to 
 try and gun you down on sight.
  
  -There is an excessive amount of travelling which you will by far spend most of your time doing. 
 It feels like a chore to get from A to B as you have to clear out numerous checkpoints every time 
 you go to get/do a mission, only to have the guys you took out re-spawn two minutes later.
  
  -Missions are much the same and feel very monotonous eg. kill this guy/ destroy this pile of 
 weapons.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Huge beautiful world which sometimes causes you to stop and stare in wonder (provided you have 
 the rig to run the game on high settings)
  
  -AI are smart and often manage to flank without one noticing.
  
  -Buddy system is great and 
 you can get attached to the buddies since they can die permanently (but you wont be without one 
 as there are loads to replace them if one dies)
  
  -Great variety of weapons
  
  All in all its not a bad game but it can get annoying with the few major flaws which need not have 
 been in the game if the developers made some different fundamental choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronin786
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for this game forever, even before i played Far Cry. "Dunia" engine was supposed 
 to be beautiful, and the AI was supposed to be stunning.
  So lets start from there:
  
  Dunia Engine: IS HORRIBLE i dont know what all the reviewers are talking about this game being 
 beautiful, its graphics are worse than Soldier of Fortune and other games.
  Give it credit for its huge world yes, its immersion "OK"
  But its far from beautiful the textures 
 are horrible. Guns look like toys they dont feel or look anything like a real gun should. When 
 they "AGE" all that happens is that they grow brown and start jamming a bit.
  The driving and fixing cars is bearable though repetitive.
  
  Now about the AI:
  From the 
 billions of in game footage i saw before this game was supposed to have great AI. Anyone see the 
 one where you shoot the guy in the leg and his buddy comes to help him?? Try doing it in the game, 
 the guy wont fall down.
  When a guy can take a whole clip to the chest and not die thats messed up. I would stand in front 
 of the guy and he wont notice me. I once crashed a car into their checkpoint and they didnt see 
 me till i blew their heads off.
  
  Other thoughts:
  Lack of a minimap really hurts this game, you cant tell where the guy is especially at night. The 
 voice acting is horrible. Its impossibel to follow seeing how fast they talk, good thing there 
 are subtitles.
  I really expected this game to have alot of things, however, i found almost none of them.
  
 
  Good things about the game:
  The driving system is good not jumpy and the cars respond well. As a friend told me it seems to 
 be GTA in Africa. Other than that i cant seem to think of anything that makes this game worth it. 
 The story is horrible if non-existant and the buddy system has potential but very flawed. But that 
 seems to be the theme of Far Cry 2 "Flawed with Potential"
  
  P. S. I cant believe gamespot and ign and most other big game websites gave this game a high score. 
 Or maybe the review copy is different than the one i have.
  And the difficulty mentioned in reviews, non existant. This is one of the easiest games ive ever 
 played after the first bit i havent died to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmebaby25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Like the overzealous geek I am, I picked up the game at 9:00am on release day - the earliest the 
 store would open.
  
  Let me clarify - I'm not a Far Cry 2 fanboy. I liked the original to an extent, but lost interest 
 the moment the mutant monkey men started to pop up. I didn't touch the console spin offs. I had 
 the fortunate timing of a four day weekend and was excited about the prospect of spending it in 
 the wilds of Africa. I'd heard it was free-roaming and the gameplay vids had ticked all my boxes. 
 
  
  Let it be good.
  
  Crysis was magnificent. The combination of the beautiful photorealistic enviroments and the nanosuit's 
 capabilities were a dream. Then the aliens appeared. Far Cry all over again.
  
  Far Cry 2 does not disappoint. I'm a full weekend in to it and as of yet, no mutants, no aliens, 
 not even a zebra with rabies and a bomb strapped to it's undercarage.
  
  It looks stunning too. With all the settings on Ultra High, it's comparable with Crysis. Hell, 
 bearing in mind the night and day cycle and unscripted weather, it blows Crysis out of the water.
 
  
  Whereas Crysis, even on DELTA, was a breeze with the nanosuit, Far Cry 2 requires constant thought 
 and evaluation. On one occasion I was trying to infiltrate a settlement by nightfall to assassinate 
 a target. I was lazy and didn't pick up a new weapon. I hoped that my rusty silenced pistol and 
 silenced MP-5 would see me through. I successfully sneaked through the shanty town huts to the 
 location of my target. He was having a sneaky smoke as I put a round into the back of his head. 
 On my way out of the village I stumbled into a mercenary. A couple of silenced shots later and 
 he was down. Unfortunately so was a gas cannister. With flames sprouting from it, it span down 
 the hill, setting the grass, tress and huts ablaze. My escape route was gone and my rusty guns 
 were not upto the challenge of fighting my way out.
  
  It's a beautiful immersive world. It has it's faults. The story isn't as well scripted as, for 
 example, Crysis or the magnificent Bioshock. However, that's the cost of a freeroaming experience. 
 
  
  Technically it's a marvel. I've travelled over huge distances in a visually stunning world and 
 have not seen one load screen. Not one.
  
  It's a must must must must buy.
  
  And I strongly recommend the homemade explosives for taking out Arms Shipments.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertbolivar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Simply WONDERFUL!
  
  Unlike CRYSIS, FarCry 2 plays beautifully even on one of my older PCs (Nvidia 7800 GT, 2G RAM, 
 3.4 Intel) ! I LOVE IT! I understand the need to cater to the top-of-the-line graphics cards and 
 PC's, but no game producer should do that if they are going to forget about the aging PC's that 
 are still out there. FarCry 2 covers it all! A simply stunning, beautifully created and designed 
 game that runs on any PC newer than 4 years old.
  
  Farcry 2 is MY KIND of game. An open ended, go where you want wonderland! No quantum physics involved, 
 nothing weird as we had in "S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl".
  Just plain Africa in all it's glory. I'm not sure if the map is as large as it feels, but the designers 
 have put in enough stuff to keep me busy exploring for quite some time to come. So there's no need 
 for physics altering portals... I hate those anyway!
  
  Just one small thing... I would have loved to see more wildlife. Sure there's the occasional zebra, 
 wild birds and such. But, even though it may not be like this in real life... A few more animals 
 would have given the game the perfect brooch for me to have given it a 10 and not a 9.5
  
  I'm not sure why this website gave it just an 8.5 though... Maybe they too were expecting to see 
 a few giraffes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmy_b0b
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 looks stunning, I'm running on -
  
  Geforce 8800 GTS 320mb
  AMD 6000+ x2 (3.0gz)
  4gb Ram
  
  and the game performs surprisingly well on very high settings 
 (Option below ultra with DX9) .
  
  It took me a few hours to get my head around Farcry 2 as its incredibly open-ended and not like 
 your usual FPS. However... after playing through the ingame time frame from 5:30am-12pm on a clear 
 morning You get to experience one of the most visually stunning environments yet to be seen in 
 a game.
  
  There are just a couple of things that I've been let down by so far but nothing to put the game 
 down to much.
  
  - A. I sometimes flimsy and hasn't doesn't always seem to respond apropriate to the players engagement
 
  - Sometimes so open-ended its hard to grasp what exactly you need to be doing
  
  I haven't yet completed the game (around 20% actually) so I can't add any further comments but 
 I highly recomend purchasing this game to see and hear what it has to offer for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peepa4uk
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis.
 
  
  amazing game play, realistic sound effects, beautifull graphics. A brilliant game after Crysis. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huy11324
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft kicks ASS. This game is the best fps on the market as of right now by far. You get the 
 feeling that you are IN THE GAME and get such a good feeling knowing you can do whatever you want, 
 whenever you want. Tons of weapons to unlock and lots of cool vehicles too. If you don't have this 
 game yet go get it, you will not regret it. and a note to gamespot, alot more people would review 
 games if you didnt have this retarded 100 word limit, why dont u get rid of this crap. And whats 
 with the 8.5 rating? you can give games like GTA4 a 10 rating when it deserves a 9 maybe 9.5, but 
 give far cry 2 an 8.5? nice job...
  
  This game also has a good RPG feel to it, as there is alot of guns to unlock and so many missions, 
 you really feel like you are in the jungle, and if you piss off some of the people enough they 
 will attack you. Just staring at some of the guys will cause them to curse at you and tell you 
 to stop f'in starting at them before they do somethin about it. awesome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickprovs
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 Review
  
  Campaign
  Ok I'll get straight to the point.
  
  When you first start the game for about 15 minutes you'll have to do mission after mission. Don't 
 worry it will stop (it's the tutorial but they don't tell you it.)
  
  As soon as your finished with the beggining missions your ready to roll. Unlocking and buying new 
 weapons by doing missions from gun dealers. Doing missions for diamonds (use them to buy guns) . 
 Hanging with your buddies. Exploring and just owning people for fun. Going north to the plains 
 and watch animals roam. go for rides in boats, hangliders, and cars. Plus much much more.
  
  
  
  When the developer said play the game anyway you want it. You could go into a major 
 enemy base and own them anyway you choose. Just go all out with an assault rifle or machine gun. 
 Hide in the bushes/mountains and snipe them down one by 1. Blowing most of everyone up with a rocket 
 launcher, grenade launcher, mortar, etc. and go in with a shotgun/or anything else and get the 
 survivors. There are tons of ways to play the campaign and my question to you is how will you play.
 
  
  Map Editor
  
  This thing is quite hard to master at first. But once you do there are endless possibilities. I 
 made a volcano, a nuke scarred desert, a nuke (lol) , anything you could imagine you can most likely 
 do. You can also download other peoples maps right at the main menu by most popular, highest rate, 
 etc.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer at first will seem a bit hard but don't worry. You earn diamonds by doing really 
 great in a game or by leveling/ranking up. For instance one starter class is a shotgun (not sure 
 the exact name) and a pistol. With diamonds you can upgrade your shotgun to a better shotgun. Or 
 upgrade your pistol to a better pistol or even upgrade pistols to grenade launchers. There are 
 lots of combos. My favorite is a grenade launcher with a SAW
  
  
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  This game is great I think I covered a lot hope that helped and go out and buy yourself a copy!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing easy about this game.
  It uses a newly developed engine, Dunia, which has a lot of features, including wild fires, animals, 
 advanced lightning system, and so on. But it doesn't even nearly create a graphical masterpiece 
 like CryENGINE 2. But it is still very god looking and its visuals really fit in with the unique 
 African set-up.
  Gameplay is perfect, I really didnt see anything wrong (except, it would be cool, if they'd made 
 a malaria-free character, taht coould jump higher;) . Doors open, weapons are cool, especially when 
 they jam, and you dont really know what to do and you just click the reload command. Thats really 
 tricky if youre in the middle of action.
  The enviroment is also suprisingly detailed, the object loading is a little slow and weird looking 
 at times, but, at least it runs at constant fps.
  I wont bother telling you about the vehicles, because its handling is exactly the same as in FC1. 
 They drive great, if they don't, you can repair them etc. Great.
  
  But, on big minus are controls. They realy freaked me out at first. They are a bit confusing, especially 
 with the advanced health-regen sistem, and map views, and if you like them customized, youl have 
 to take som 10 mins, to figure out what each command does. You have ONE command for entering/SECOND 
 for exiting vehicles, and THIRD for grabbing/ FOURTH for leaving machine guns. I dont get it. Maybe 
 you do. But I dont.
  
  The story is a little un-centered, hard to describe, although I like the Blood Diamonds [movie] 
 kind of setting. It is a little linear at times, missons repeat, but hey, either 3 hours of different 
 missions, or 30 hours of repeative gameplay. Im for the second.
  
  Overall, a big 9. Adventure at its best. You should get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  FARCRY 2.. its really awesome but it wasnt what i was expecting for, lets start:
  
  graphics: the graphic is really nice, i was expecting for more but its not bad.. even great i have 
 to say everything looks beautiful, AFRICA never been that awesome in the world of the games.
  
  sounds: also great sounds, shooting, voice, every thing is just awesome, africa sounds really 
 live.
  
  gameplay: one word: realistic !! the game is so realistic you can believe it, the gun can be broken, 
 you can fix car engine and lots of thing its really awesome one of the greatest things in this 
 great game, also a great thing in this game is that: very long it can take you about a week to 
 finish this game 100%
  (including side missions and buddy missions)
  
  problems: the story, first, the story is opening to fast you dont know whats going on, the story 
 is broken i gotta say, and another problem is the HUGE map.. the problem is not the map, its the 
 driving in this huge map it can be aweful, drive across africa for live 10 minutes for 1 mission, 
 in some points in the game after finish the driving insted starting the mission i just saved game 
 and exit its aweful
  
  finish: good graphics perfect sounds the most realistic game ever made, simply perfect you gotta 
 try this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeithGrima
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna repeat what Other players said about AI and being boring and all the sh*t but have 
 u noticed that almost every game is trying to be GTA? Do you think all this free roaming I mean 
 running a round like a jack ass to get to a location is far cry?
  
  Step1. Get your mission
  Step2. Get transport head to direction
  Step3. Kill everything in 
 your path over and over again
  Step4. Complete Objective ovoiusly (Mission Complete) 
  Step5. Go Back to Step 1
  Step6. Oooh Fuu****k I got malaria 
  
  this repeats its self over 
 and over so many repetition 
  you get your mission your friend calls go there do that do that ur done it always in involves the 
 same thing never different. And common u dont call this free roaming right all u get to do is drive 
 through roads your 4x4 OFFROADER cant even go OVER a fckn SLOPE amazing lol. 
  
  Compared to other games that have been out for 6months+ its crap and compared to FAR CRY 1 that 
 for its time it was amazing FC2 gets a 0
  
  If you're a fan of far cry you can say its worth playing it but if you're not dont bother it sucks 
 was very disapionted.
  
  So many small things left out made a big pile of sh**
  
  Car weakness (go Empty an AK on your dads car lol and it wont explode then just open the trunk and 
 fix it with your winc)
  
  AI? 
  
  Health (lol do you even expect us to die? The player is always high on heroin and morphine lol)
 
  
  Ohh and btw were can i get that heat seaking pistol bullet that can hit me from 5miles away and 
 those amazing xray vision contact lenses that those zombies have. (Zombies = A person that needs 
 more than 4 bullets in the chest at point blank range from a Deagle which in therory should exit 
 from the back and leave a big whole to see the view from, our ancestors only needed to take an 
 arrow to die lol)
  
  1 Last thing to point out. Arent there lions in africa lol? Or they extinct and they havent told 
 us on CNN xD 
  
  Sorry for my english but i think u got meeh =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jts1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is one of thee best first person shooters i have played to date. Better than bioshock, cod4, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 It is basically the most intensely addictive games I have played in a long time. This is by no 
 means a port, it was clearly designed for the pc gaming world. WOO HOOO. It runs flawlessly on 
 my pc which wasn't all that expensive. I can run the game at 1280x1024 (CRT monitor FTL) all settings 
 very high and average 50 fps. Pentium D 3.0ghz. 3gb ram. 8800gs SC. Windows Xp Pro 32bit. The day 
 and night cycle is pretty cool. Being able to choose when to do your missions is also a very cool 
 feature. If you get this game you should check out the map editor for sure. Its so much fun! I 
 still have yet to finish the game but I think it will have a good ending. It sure would be a let 
 down if it didnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RVS4950
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Well I started hating it for all the driving around but after hours and hours playing liked the 
 reprieve. It does get old going from one side of the map to another thank you for the bus system 
 or I would be crazy . The overall game had its ups and downs.
  Ups: 1. Graphics were amazing not up to Crysis but exceptional anyway. Yea Yea. 2. Not a bad story 
 considering what we were given fighting oppression in Africa. Good Job. 3. AI with enemies were 
 good how they kept ducking around trees and such. 4. Enjoyed game thanks for your efforts.
  
  Downs: 1. Driving around from quest to quest, Wore me out again thanks for the bus. 2. Malaria, 
 What for! Side quest? 3. I buy the upgrades and the weapons still jam at critical times, what the 
 heck. I guess since I swam in the lake it made a difference, if it did please tell me so I wouldnot 
 do it or I get new weapons from stock. 
  
  Good Job Look foeward to Far Cry 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: progolfer25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game was one that I was unsure about but in the end happy I spent the money on it. The first 
 player is fun with multiple missions that give you a creative spin and you can kill as you please. 
 I love playing with the fire which makes you think your plans out. There is a lot of traveling 
 time between places but it give you time to enjoy the landscape. Then there is the multi-player 
 which is your usual except for the wonderful map editor. This allows you to make an map, with nearly 
 anything and adds hours of time to the game. If you want to make a truly good map it takes time 
 and with the great graphics can add fun to the multiplayer. Only mistake is the ability to join 
 certain groups online and the look of some of the humans in the single player mode. Over all, the 
 game is great with few annoyances but tons of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigsworth
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  This is a bountiful time for action gamers. Within the last month or so we have had Stalker: Clear 
 Sky, Crysis: Warhead, Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway and now, Far Cry 2. All good games, but 
 each with their problems, and, unfortunately for them, all easily compared to one another. Thus 
 Far Cry 2 comes off not looking as good as it otherwise might. For example, the ballistics are 
 arcade-like. Point and shoot at its worst. Clear Sky is the winner here. The move and cover is 
 sadly sub-par. There is no "lean" capability, nor is there the ability to go prone. Both of which 
 existed in Far Cry, IIRC. BIA wins this one. The "wide open" game play is a bit of a misnomer. 
 The nature of the terrain forces you into corridors, all of which are blocked in one way or another 
 by enemy units that will always try to kill you, and which cannot be eliminated. They can also 
 see you and shoot you through cover. And you can't outrun them. As another reviewer pointed out, 
 the designers seem to have made a lot of decisions in order to balance game play. One of the oddest 
 things is the way weapons purchase and storage works. I can see no reason why it needs to be so 
 complex, and totally unrealistic. Why not just have an economy where things can be bought and sold? 
 
  On the positive side, the game is definitely fun to play. Assaults on enemy strongholds can be 
 reminiscent of scenes from a number of action movies. Driving the roads is actually a lot of fun, 
 too, despite the unrealism, and the fact that you can only go so far before being attacked. The 
 plot is pretty thin, but at least it is free of annoying cutscenes. The voice acting is excellent, 
 too. Every once in a while you get the feeling you really are a mercenary in a backwater African 
 civil war. Unfortunately the unexpected lack of realism takes away far too much from this highly 
 anticipated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorraid
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  ok befor i start the review id say.... people who want a game just like farcry 1 or crysis... should 
 not bother buying this game.... i am still surprised y farcry 2 didnt get score equal to crysis....
 
  
  lets face it crysis was just graphics and nothing else... and as usual gamespot guys dont know 
 wot they r playing and they just reviewd the game cuz of its graphics... crysis had just 5 to 7 
 wepons in total... huge lvl design which made u follow through a designated path..... ok enough 
 about crysis
  
  Farcry 2 is acctually a combination of Boiling point and stalker.... like boiling point u get to 
 free roam, take missions... and like stalker u buy/ upgrade your gear.... but besides this fc2 has 
 so much else to it... its just the sheer amount of detail it throws at you... u get to chose ur 
 missions... than do them accourding to your play style.... for me i do all missions at night... and 
 thats by usually sneaking up on enemies and killing em with melee..... besides this the huge open 
 ended world gives u tons of replay value..... and to top it all we got a huge amout on wepons... 
 and long story (though not that good) but still the rest of FC2 says all....
  
  if u r tried of playing old traditional Shooters and want to try something a bit different.... and 
 dont want mindless killing and jumping around in a speical suit with just 5 wepons and a awfully 
 straight lvl design (crysis) ... go get farcry 2... ull not be disappointed..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ram_wolverene
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  It; s one of a kind game.. totally addictive, immersive, intensive and what not... try survivng the 
 africa people its awesome.. its got some AI issues and missions might get a little repetitive... bu 
 the action n intensiveness makes up for it.. never miss this game.. Liv e the africa!!
  
  Weapons are rock solid... enemies are hard 2 spot bt its nt the same for them... keep running keep 
 firing..!!! I jus cant stop gaming!! totally addictive... jus cant wait to kick the jackals ass!!
 
  
  Graphics looked a bit weird in the beginning btr actually it grows on you and u will find that 
 the grafix is actually aweome... beautifully potrayed africa... reallistic storm n rain sequences... explosion 
 sequences are awesome.... dynamic fire another exceptional stuff... the trees the leaves n soil all 
 react whenever therss a explosion thats jus so reallistic.. u have to paly toexperience it...
  and finally the engine is pretty scalable on mid end pC's and also stable.. have played for more 
 than 8 hrs.. havent experienced a crash or memory leak.. and on my 8800gt the game runs pretty solid 
 with a average of 32fps on 1280X1024/Ultra high setting/2xAA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsykoSyke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  The basis of Far Cry 2's story telling: Characters and situations are swapped via a software author, 
 its responding to choices made by you the player. Its something that's been on the cards for some 
 time - mostly in research projects - but this is the first high-profile game to use it.
  Its nothing less than a revelation. What makes this procedural storytelling cool isn't that you 
 get to play the game lots of times, and see new things happen, or do things in new ways, Its not 
 even that it gives you stories to share, situations to compare with your friends. Its that the 
 game just works and responds to your successes, failures and screwups If you don't like what a 
 guy is asking you to do, then don't do it... If you really like one of your buddies, you stick 
 with him. When the situations force choices on you... By God, its incredible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  I was first hooked by the graphic and many new features introduced in this game, such as degradable 
 weapons, critical wound healing, buddies system, fire tactics, and many candies. However, many 
 game designs and mechanics forced me to have a mixed feeling on this much anticipated game of 2008.
 
  
  First, the graphic of this game is awesome. Although Crysis still has the upper hand, FC2 sure 
 raises your
  eyebrows when you are cruising across the plain field (without anyone shooting from behind) . The 
 dev. put much effort to the terrain to ensure it looks as convicing as possible. 
  
  Second, the sandbox game play is quite well implemented, it allows player to choose however they 
 want to enter the conflict (with certain limitation) . They can choose a more focus approach (only 
 run the main mission) or a more balance approach (help buddies and other sidequests) .
  
  But there are a list of downfalls need to consider. 
  
  The story line is paper thin. Jackal, 
 this alias is old, they should put a better name for this game. Despite the outdated name, the 
 story itself is frustrating because you doesn't have much control (e. g. moral choices) over much 
 of it, which means whatever you do will arrive to the same conclusion. This is a punishment rather 
 than excitement, isn't?
  
  The AI and enemies design are flawed and skewed. The dev. likes to make anything perfectly balance 
 to both you and your enemies which make the game looks silly and unrealistic. For example, to balance 
 out darkness, which is your advantage, your enemies have "night vision"; to balance out your 100% 
 accurate sniper rifle, your enemies can injure you from any distance with any firearms, yes including 
 shotgun and mortar; to balance out your supreme fire power, your enemies is super tough to kill, 
 with or without any armor on. This list can go on much longer, but these are the most annoying.
 
  
  I hope the developer or ubisoft can put more thought on their future games, because they are making 
 a lot of game just like AC, which looks fantastic but extremely boring and fragile once you touch 
 it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvr2fst
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Let me try this again. They didnt like my first one. I was so looking forward to this game having 
 had the first Farcry and loved it. This is not farcry! Not in the least. Gameplay is attrocious. 
 Dont beleive me... buy it. It is Very boring. Dont beleive me, buy it. Graphics are extremely dated. 
 Dont beleive me, Buy it. AI is about the worse I have ever seen. Repetitve. To grab an object you 
 have a hand come up on the screen just like puzzle games. Dont get me started with the Malaria 
 animations! Over and Over and Over. Even if it were a good idea, the animation was horrible. Wait 
 till you see the animation of your character pulling the bullet out of his arm.... not even laughable. 
 The weapons... ahh the weapons. Do I dare go there. Just buy it. I dont know what else to say. You 
 like traveling in GTA 2 vehicles constantly in a "Modern" fps. Buy it. The detail of the vehicles 
 is just insulting. I truly wish I could say something good about this game, really I do, but I 
 honestly cannot. Did I finish the game... absolutely not! I only went so far. So if that means anything 
 to you.... buy it. But I am quite sure the whole game doesnt all of the sudden turn "modern". If 
 you are a high end gamer, I am quite sure you will beg for your money back. If you dont know a 
 good game or have a reasonable computer... buy it. I wish I had waited to read reviews from gamers 
 before buying it but hey it is Farcry years later, new hardware, much better graphics and so on. 
 Not here. The first one came out when? The graphics in the first one were awesome for the time. 
 Why call it farcry 2? Your guess is good as mine. They are entirely different. Could it be the 
 only viable way to sell it? Hey it worked on me. Now I am out $50. This isnt the first time. I 
 have wasted a lot of money on games over the years. Times were good though. Things right now are 
 getting a bit tighter so if you need your game fix and want your money well spent, wait for something 
 else. The same time I bought Farcry 2 I also picked up Flatout Ultimate Carnage for $20 and it 
 is absolutely Beautifull. They polished that game like you wouldnt beleive. So if you like the 
 Flatout series this is a MUST have! And for just $20 it is making up for the Farcry 2 loss I suffered. 
 When you read these reviews take note of the bad ones too. They are not lying. I cant understand 
 any legitimate review saying this game is good. Dont believe me... buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drealoth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  STALKER is one of my favourite games. It requires a lot of love to deal with all of the bugs (including 
 save-game deleting ones) , but at its heart it has a ton of spirit. I was expecting Far Cry 2 to 
 be a less deep, more polished STALKER. I was sorely disappointed.
  
  One of the things that STALKER got right was their AI. The world does not just interact with the 
 player, but it also interacts with itself. You'll see people fighting packs of wild dogs, only 
 to be killed and dragged off by the dogs to be eaten (entirely unscripted) . In contrast, the world 
 of Far Cry 2 is a cold dead place. There are very few animals in the game, and the ones that do 
 exist are just the occasional zebra. No giraffe, no hippopotamus, just the occasional horse like 
 creature running around.
  
  Ubi pitches the Dunia engine saying that "It delivers the most realistic destructible environments, 
 amazing special effects such as dynamic fire propagation and storm effects, real-time night-and-day 
 cycle, dynamic music system, non-scripted enemy A. I. and so much more"
  
  The graphics are good - no Crysis, but nothing that the designers should be ashamed of. Some of 
 the side-by-side shots are quite remarkable.
  
  Claiming the most realistic destructible environments is an outright lie. Occasionally there will 
 be a physics enabled box or barrel. If you were expecting to be able to knock down houses like 
 in Crysis, you'll be disappointed. Even Half-Life 2 had more advanced physics.
  
  The special effects are quite good. Every transition in the game (entering a vehicle, healing your 
 wounds, etc.) is animated, which adds incredibly to the immersion factor. I think that the explosions 
 are some of the best in a video game yet. And the fire is incredible - the animation on it is kind 
 of poor, but the way it moves is very well done. Unfortunately, since it's arbitrary which objects 
 burn - some wood does, some doesn't - the great fire system is often beaten out by the crappy physics 
 system.
  
  As for the enemies, Far Cry 2's enemies are as dumb as they come. Unscripted? No way! The typical 
 encounter on the road has a lone guy ram a jeep into the back of your car, then jumping onto the 
 roof of his car and starting to shooting at you. At the numerous checkpoints people hide behind 
 buildings and try to shoot at you through them. When enemies do get into a vehicle, their strategy 
 is always to ram into you - even if you're in a vehicle or a house. Enemy AI vehicles can't navigate 
 bridges, which is perhaps the biggest testament to the sloppiness of the AI.
  
  Most of the problems in the game come down to the devs never actually playing their game. Almost 
 every review out there points to how annoying the respawning checkpoints are - yet the developers 
 didn't catch this apparently. Weapons breaking after firing 5 clips is annoying. Having to drive 
 10 minutes between points is annoying (why can't we warp between safe houses? Is there even any 
 point to safe houses?) . Why are there save 'boxes' everywhere when the player can just save whenever 
 they want? You can't play this game in a widescreen resolution without everything looking zoomed 
 in (a la Bioshock) , and there's no independent control for speech volume, so you constantly have 
 to change your speaker volume if you want to hear what people are saying.
  
  In short, the game is tedious and unfinished. Given six more months of development, it could have 
 been revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 616e6f6e
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 12:57 am PT
Review:  Undeserved hype is something we've all had to learn to live with, but you'd be hard pushed to find 
 a term more fitting of Far Cry 2.
  
  The developers of Far Cry 2 seemingly like the word "challenge", in that they have introduced every 
 bothersome element of gameplay you can imagine into the fray, not realising that "challenging" 
 isn't a synonym for "fun".
  
  For instance, weapon degradation. You'll be lucky if you get through 2 or 3 clips without experiencing 
 the onset of relentless weapon jamming. You'll be lucky if your brand new machine gun will last 
 long enough for you to expend 10 ammo clips before the thing blows up in your hand. A good idea 
 on its face (although by no means new) , but its implementation here is both unrealistic and extremely 
 frustrating. On top of all this, enemy NPCs seem to be completely unaffected by weapon degradation, 
 and as far as I can tell they have an endless supply of ammunition in their pockets.
  
  Another example of this incessant need to turn the game into a chore is the almost superhuman endurance 
 of enemies, even when playing the game on the easiest setting. Unless you can get off a head shot 
 every time, you will be using at least half a clip per enemy - if you're lucky. On numerous occasions 
 I have emptied an entire clip into an enemy, turned to retreat when I saw he had hit the dirt, 
 only to hear "Oh Christ, I've been shot!". It's like a scene from Austin Powers.
  
  Vehicles are constantly on the verge of catching fire and blowing up. If you bang into anything 
 whilst driving smoke will start pouring out of the bonnet, and after a few more knocks you'll be 
 bailing out of the car lest you become mercenary-jerky, leaving you stranded. This is a huge problem. 
 Given the fact that driving is the central and most performed mechanic of this game, you will be 
 in a state of perpetual anger owing to the fact that you'll probably be walking most of the way 
 because your vehicle is unlikely to survive for more than 100 yards' worth of driving.
  
  Malaria. Yes, let's make the game more enjoyable by giving the main character a debilitating disease 
 that requires regular treatment, and a shortage of medication to boot. If only the developers of 
 GTA had thought of that: "let's force the player to find a dialysis clinic every 2 hours!" or "Hell, 
 this game's too much fun and is far too engaging, we need to interrupt the flow of the gameplay 
 by breaking the character's legs and forcing him to wheel around town in a chair! Plus he has no 
 insurance, so he has to steal the chair, fight his way out of the hospital by sliding around on 
 his belly, and gunning down a SWAT team in the process." Insufferably frustrating and obnoxious, 
 it completely ruins the game for me more than any of its other faults.
  
  Malaria pills are in short supply, but there are plenty of health-replenishing syringes for you 
 to make use of, strangely enough. There are healing animations, during which your character digs 
 out bullets with a knife, or resets broken bones. These animations are fun at first but they don't 
 really add to this mysterious "immersion" policy the developers seem to have employed. They distract 
 you from the ensuing carnage and slow down your response when dealing with enemy NPCs. They are 
 clearly a gimmick that the devs came up with during a brainstorming session, and were determined 
 to make it work, regardless of the fact that the game would not have suffered if they had opted 
 to remove it.
  
  Speaking of gore; impact-induced blood spatter is all you get. No bullet holes/wounds (except in 
 your own healing animations) , no pools of blood on the ground, no blood/brain matter spread across 
 walls. Some bullet holes do appear on enemies, but disappear 1 second later. Seriously.
  
  On the topic of death and destruction, here's something to try: when a car is hurtling towards 
 you at full speed, put a bullet between the eyes of the driver. He will suddenly appear outside 
 the car, without opening the door or damaging the side window, and will collapse to the ground 
 dead. The car will immediately halt in its tracks, and the engine will turn itself off. Very sloppy 
 work indeed. Would it have been so difficult to add a "remove corpse from car" animation?
  
  Road blocks aren't a problem in and of themselves, but what is problematic is the endless supply 
 of NPCs who man them. If you wipe out every enemy and blow up every destructible fixture (of which 
 there are very few) your next visit to that particular road block won't be any easier. Their inability 
 to die and stay dead would give Michael Myers a run for his money. Also, every NPC you encounter 
 outside of a ceasefire zone will try to kill you immediately. Why? Do you have "mercenary" tattooed 
 on your forehead?
  
  Travelling. Oh boy, the travelling! A problem with open-ended, sandboxed gameplay is that the sheer 
 vastness of the game's world can make it tricky to get from point A to point B without sucking 
 up 15 - 20 minutes of game time. S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Clear Sky and GTA IV addressed that very issue, 
 but Far Cry 2 is severely lacking in this department. The quickest mode of transportation (that 
 is, an immediate jump to the other side of the map) is by bus, despite the game's opening taking 
 place in a taxi cab - apparently the only taxi cab in the country - but getting to one of the few 
 available bus stops is itself no easy task. Also, bus rides will progress the game's time forward 
 by several hours, which is confusing because manually driving from one end of the map to the other 
 doesn't take half as long, and the result is that by the time you get to where you're going it 
 will probably be night time. Which brings me to my next point:
  
  When night falls, you may as well find a safe house and sleep until noon the next day, because 
 you'll get absolutely nothing done otherwise. You can't see more than 5 or 6 feet ahead of you 
 (but the enemies can you see you alright) . You're supposed to be a skilled mercenary, but apparently 
 there's no room in your arsenal for a flashlight.
  
  Late evenings and early mornings offer the same problem, just not quite as severely. If your vehicle's 
 headlights could be turned on at will, instead of them being disabled until the world is cast in 
 pitch black darkness, it mightn't be just as difficult to travel through areas surrounded by trees 
 and vegetation. That said, with the absence of in-car "drive by" shooting, it'd be a fairly useless 
 feature anyway. Battling silhouetted enemies in the dark is like trying to find a black blotch 
 on a black wall. My advice, sleep on it.
  
  This all ties in with the developers' incessant bleating of the word "immersion". They think that 
 games are more enjoyable if the menial tasks and difficulties are included, such as driving for 
 half the day just to get to your mission objective. Games are games because they're exempt from 
 these headache-inducing tasks; reality is reality because we have jobs and have to travel and can't 
 shoot people at will even though they clearly deserve it. The ironic thing is, the devs have missed 
 out on many features that might have genuinely added to the immersion factor - drive by shootings, 
 as mentioned, are absent. Besides your machete, there's no "hands on" murdering capability, and 
 so on.
  
  Stealth is extremely difficult to maintain in this game. In Crysis, a bush or some tall grass would 
 help keep you from the cross-hairs of your enemies, but in Far Cry 2 the baddies apparently have 
 x-ray vision and extremely sensitive hearing; they can see you even when you can't see anything 
 but leaves, and can hear a silenced weapon going off from the other side of the area (that is, 
 if they already know they're under attack) .
  
  One reason for the apparent lack of effective cover is that there is no option to "go prone". Laying 
 down flat is something Africans and mercenaries are incapable of, it seems.
  
  The AI is tired and not terribly innovative. If you fire a round from a silenced weapon at a Jeep 
 from about 500 feet away while hiding in a bush - at night - the Jeep will immediately turn around 
 and drive straight at you. If you use a silenced weapon in a back alley in a ceasefire zone, with 
 no witnesses, every NPC in the zone will immediately come straight after you. When engaged in a 
 battle with enemy NPCs, their best weapon against you (besides their perfect aim and radar-like 
 eyes and ears) is an unusually fast strafe; they can completely circle around you before you reload 
 your weapon, they're that fast. It looks bizarre, to be honest. Their cars appear to be souped 
 up with nitro boosters or something, because they have absolutely no problem catching up with you 
 even if you have a clear head start and are driving what should be a faster vehicle.
  
  The AI is, paradoxically, moronic. If you happen to escape from an NPC's line of sight they'll 
 immediately start chatting to their comrades about having lost you. They'll sometimes go for cover 
 behind a wall - the side of the wall facing you. They'll drive their cars off bridges, or park 
 their car next to yours and get out a few seconds later if you don't seem to be moving, letting 
 you run them over with ease. And on it goes.
  
  An AI gimmick that was much talked about prior to the game's release was the ability of NPCs to 
 help out their wounded comrades, with a "fireman's lift". This was boasted as something that would 
 become a useful tactic when attacking an area, but as it turns out it's not that useful after all 
 (even on the rare occasion when it actually occurs) . At best, you'd get two NPCs for the price 
 of one, but in the middle of a fire fight that's not really your concern - you're too busy changing 
 cover, shooting, dodging bullets and basically surviving. Besides, even with a sniper rifle from 
 a great distance they'll still know where you are and will immediately make their way towards you 
 in their Jeeps as soon as you start firing.
  
  An AI element that is completely missing from the game is that of civilians (other than those whom 
 are part of the story line) . This could have opened the game up so much further, but I feel the 
 devs have missed the boat on this one and the game's storyline conveniently absolves itself of 
 this laziness by having the civilian population leave during the opening scenes.
  
  The storyline itself has come under fire from critics - even the salivating, bleating sheep critics 
 who gave this game 8 or more out of 10. I'm not sure where the beef is to be honest; the storyline 
 is quite interesting. A little cheesy at times, but interesting. The fact that it's utterly predictable 
 can't really be held against it, because I've yet to play a game where the storyline surprised 
 me.
  
  Another small yet invaluable feature missing from Far Cry 2 is the weapon-specific mle attack. 
 The number of times you either run out of ammo, or your weapon jams right when you're about to 
 finish someone off before they clip you, will leave you screaming for a rifle butt or a boot to 
 clobber them with. No such luck! You can try to whip out your machete if you have time or just 
 run for cover until you compose yourself, meanwhile the NPC is waiting for you, writing in pain 
 from the 44 rounds you've already pumped into him, shooting at you with his pistol and his big 
 bag of infinite ammo, while you are punching and wiggling your AK47 to get the blasted thing to 
 play ball. Bloody hell, a swift knock on the head would both subdue your enemy and fix the jam 
 in your gun. Win win! An alternative means of finishing off a wounded NPC would be to switch to 
 your pistol, but the weapons changing mechanic is far too slow and clunky for this to be an effective 
 tactic - you'll find yourself tapping the 2 button frantically as your character reloads his/her 
 rifle. Other games, such as Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, make this tactic an important, key 
 survival mechanic. Far Cry 2's devs clearly don't agree.
  
  We were promised destructible environments, but we get a handful of sheds and a few fences. If 
 one of your complaints about Crysis was that the only destructible parts of the world were tin 
 huts and trees, you will be greatly disappointed with Far Cry 2. Wood is wood, and an explosive 
 is an explosive. Why do some wooden structures perish while others aren't even singed? Obviously 
 structures integral to the game's plot/flow can't be blown up, but everything else is fair game 
 as far as I'm concerned. Oh, and Far Cry 2's trees can't be cut down with gunfire or explosions, 
 although branches and leaves can be removed.
  
  The fire feature isn't anything to write home about. I had more fun with the tank of gas + matches 
 in Postal 2: Share the Pain. I rarely find much practical use for the fire propagation in Far Cry 
 2, and I get the feeling that it's really more of a "wow, look what we can do!" feature than a 
 practical gameplay device, in much the same way as it was for Alone in the Dark. Again, another 
 result of a brainstorming session combined with a stubbornness to never throw away anything that 
 seems like a good idea.
  
  The voice acting, and the variety of the voices, leaves a lot to be desired. The NPCs have a handful 
 of repetitive phrases which they bounce off one another, especially so when they're looking for 
 you and are "discussing" tactics. Likewise, there are only a handful of different NPC voices. The 
 quality of the acting isn't bad for a video game, but its amateurishness becomes quite noticeable 
 at times. For some reason, maybe time constraints or funding problems, the NPCs try their best 
 to get through their lines as quickly as possible. Without the subtitles switched on it's hard 
 to know where one sentence ends and the next begins.
  
  The graphics are not what I was hoping for, even though I had consulted many of the videos depicting 
 actual gameplay before buying. I was worried that my system might struggle with this game, owing 
 to the fact that it's a new, post-Crysis, open-world game. Much to my amazement I can run it with 
 Ultra High settings, full anti-aliasing and at 1600x1200 (if I tried that with Crysis I'd inadvertently 
 create some sort of black hole) . Even at this level the graphics - with the exception of the wonderful 
 looking sunrises/sunsets - did little to wow me. One thing I can praise the game's graphics for 
 is its draw distance - you can use your sniper rifle from jaw-dropping distances effectively, and 
 the quality of the graphics doesn't suffer (although some NPC animation looks a little "basic" 
 depending on how far away you are) .
  
  When I first heard that the developers decided against included predatory wildlife in the game 
 I was disappointed. However, after playing the game from start to finish - and after many hours 
 of enduring the many annoyances and frustrations on offer - I think they made the right choice. 
 The last thing you need in this game is yet another "challenge" as Ubisoft would see it. Plus I 
 doubt you'll have 4 spare clips to unleash on every lion you encounter.
  
  On the topic of "predatory wildlife", there are only a handful of token female NPCs in the game 
 (not including civilians whom you only encounter during cut-scenes) . It's quite annoying for me 
 as a woman to feel as though I've been pandered to in such an airy way; as if this tiny litter 
 of girly mercenaries will satisfy me. Not one single enemy NPC is female - only three of the characters 
 who become your buddies are women (you can't even choose to play AS them!) . Granted, mercenaries 
 aren't generally known as equal opportunity employers, and men clearly dominate the lifestyle, 
 but if that's the case why bother including women at all? Answer: so girls will play the game, 
 and so that the devs will appear as though they are P. C. Gimme a break.
  
  The biggest let down this game supplies is the complete and total arbitrary nature of the missions 
 - even the main story missions. We were promised the exact opposite, and were told that even the 
 side missions wouldn't be stupid "item fetching" escapades and similarly pointless, time-consuming 
 tasks. Liar, liar, pants on fire propagation! The side missions are all identical. For instance, 
 if you take a mission from one of the cell-phone towers, you will be heading into a ceasefire zone 
 to clip someone. If you take a mission from the arms dealer, you'll be driving half way across 
 Africa to blow up a truck. If you take a mission from the underground folks, you'll be delivering 
 passports to a building surrounded by enemy NPCs so you can get some malaria pills in return. The 
 story missions are different, but only superficially. By that I mean, the end result of these missions 
 is always more or less the same. You might have to blow up a gas tank, a kiln, a pipeline, kill 
 someone, deliver a briefcase, or whatever, but each and every one of these missions will eventually 
 end up with you fighting hoards of enemy NPCs - both on the way to mission (thanks roadblocks!) 
 and when you arrive - and then you have the long drive back to the centre of the map to take another 
 mission. It's a constant back and forth, interrupted by roadblocks, malaria and broken down vehicles.
 
  
  My main source of enjoyment with this game is when I use a trainer and cheat; I can then explore 
 the entire map, as I so often like to do with open world games, and have a good time murdering 
 anyone who gets in my way, and all the while I have an indestructible vehicle, no fatigue, everlasting 
 weapons with infinite ammo, and of course God mode. It seems a shame that a game needs to be hacked 
 and manipulated before it's worth playing.
  
  The multiplayer is probably the most overrated aspect of this game. If you strip away the repertoire 
 of irritating "Far Cry 2 gimmicks", the multiplayer suddenly becomes very, very ordinary. On a 
 similar note, the map editor is only capable of producing multiplayer maps, so if you had any hopes 
 of creating maps filled with NPCs for you to obliterate you're in for a big disappointment. That 
 said, it's a very easy to use and "newbie friendly" piece of kit, and if multiplayer mapping is 
 a hobby of yours I'm sure you'll be happy with the results.
  
  My advice, borrow or rent this game, don't buy it. It gets very old very quick. This game survives 
 on pure hype, and GameSpot's editor reviews appear to be fuelled and coerced by the promise of 
 advertising revenue rather than a genuine examination of the game. I mean, before the game is even 
 released you can have a pretty good guess of what sort of rating it will get based on the proliferation 
 of the game on the GameSpot website. Just remember the Kane & Lynch fiasco ;)
  
  Don't trust the hysterical reviews for this game, and don't let the hype sway your opinion. It's 
 ok to disagree with the crowd and say "you know what? I think this game's a bit crap, to be honest".
 
  
  And I'm spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisCa1n
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  This is a good game but.... the AI lets it down, hopefully Ubisoft are working their fingers to 
 the bone to patch this. The grapics are unreal and the world reacts how its suppost to. Truly a 
 next gen title saldly the AI is poor.
  This is a good game but.... the AI lets it down, hopefully Ubisoft are working their fingers to 
 the bone to patch this. The grapics are unreal and the world reacts how its suppost to. Truly a 
 next gen title saldly the AI is poor.
  This is a good game but.... the AI lets it down, hopefully Ubisoft are working their fingers to 
 the bone to patch this. The grapics are unreal and the world reacts how its suppost to. Truly a 
 next gen title saldly the AI is poor.
  hopefully Ubisoft are working their fingers to the bone to patch this. The grapics are unreal and 
 the world reacts how its suppost to. Truly a next gen title saldly the AI is poor.
  This is a good game but.... the AI lets it down, hopefully Ubisoft are working their fingers to 
 the bone to patch this. The grapics are unreal and the world reacts how its suppost to. Truly a 
 next gen title saldly the AI is poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebagera
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  seems that crytek took the soal of far cry with them after leaving UBI and put it all into Crysis.
 
  
  the new game engine feels like an amature FPS engine it reminds me of these FPS games that never 
 took its part in fame
  
  objects are large, lights and light effects are too glossy, materials are way ahead from feeling 
 real.
  
  environmet is so empty, trees grass volume is low with sophisticated normal/ pump maps to show 
 high level of details.
  
  the game play is empty silly and annoying interaction with objects feels terrible.
  
  wepons 
 looks ugly, aiming disturbing, objects ratios are not quite real, you cant easly deeply get into 
 the game, game so disturbing like you cant forget your self while playing like in other proffesional 
 FPS games
  
  AI is Silly, yesterdays AI
  
  don't know what to say more UBI games were allways better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crucifix401
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  I left work early on Friday to play this one. I'd ordered the steelbook edition from Play. com and 
 I'll admit it's a pretty casing, but at the end of the day it's the contents that matters.
  
  The game installed fine and in I went, I gave the graphics a try at full and was very happy 
 that it worked without issue. I run 2 8800GT cards in SLi and even tho they're 18 months old now 
 FC2 had no trouble at 1920x1200.
  
  The first thing that struck me is the atmosphere, I'm from South Africa and I've seen a bit of 
 my home continent and right from the start it felt like home. The ambient sound is almost perfect 
 and it all made me a little homesick.
  
  Gameplay itself is pretty straightforward, there are some great ideas in this title and it offers 
 a lot to someone who likes to play as a completionist. It shows that a truly open environment can 
 work in an FPS and makes Crysis look feel like a slow walk down a dark passage.
  
  Gripes? Well a couple of little ones. I started on Hardcore mode and it's not particularly tough, 
 I would have liked more of a challenge in combat. Also, african doves don't make noise at night. 
 (If that's a gripe then it shows how little fault I could find.)
  
  Wishlist: Co-op. This game would be an amazing co-op experience. To co-ordinate with another player 
 to ambush convoys and take out strong points would be fantastic. I'm a GRAW co-op fan and this 
 would be brilliant.
  
  All in all this title is well worth picking up. Go out and buy a copy. DO NOT go and download a 
 cracked version. Show your support for UBI and keep them in the PC market and developing titles 
 like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blubadox
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  This is a kind of game where you get hyped easily and get disappointed in the end. The problem 
 is gamers get hyped easily by looking at the videos- what they should do is think logically instead, 
 I'll be very fair.. here goes
  
  Cons:
  
  First of all, this is a Ubisoft game - which means there will be bugs and it also happens to be 
 a console port
  
  It has got an extremely dull story line
  
  No destructible environment (like they promised)
  
  Adds nothing new and exciting- except buddies 
 who are as good as nothing
  
  Poor gameplay mechanics and graphics- Should it be compared to Crysis? YES.... because Crysis is 
 one year old so it is wise to expect cool graphics and gameplay.
  
  Some of the features are more annoying than exciting- like malaria fuzziness, rusty weapons, re-spawning 
 enemies and so on
  
  Pros:
  
  Open World game play
  
  Variety of weapons
  
  Collectors Edition: You get a nice wooden box, t-shirt and other junk.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltmi1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I liked Far Cry very much. It was beautiful, new and very intensive. Far Cry 2's graphics is OK, 
 but the gameplay is so-o-o-o boring. It's slow and repetitive. Same missions, same enemies, same 
 vehicles etc. I think maybe it would be better if I'd get this game before Stalker Clear Sky. SCS 
 has bugs and it's not so polished but it just takes you away into the Chernobyl ruins. Far Cry 
 2 doesn't take you anywhere. You are still in front of your PC waiting for something better to 
 do. Just spending time.
  I have to say that Ubisoft made a techically high-quality game but without any imagination. It's 
 more console then PC-game.
  If you are bored and just want to spend time than why not? But other way buy SCS and enjoy the 
 ride. Or wait for the next Call of Duty. Far Cry 2 is irritating game - when you play it feels 
 like a some kind mind swamp. The best moment in this game is when you return to you desktop and 
 start thinking again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scerbina
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  After reading many reviews here and almost finishing the game I can say that people are generally 
 right about this game being overhyped and overrated. But at the same time there is no other game 
 like Far Cry 2 I believe. Only Stalker maybe comes close, but not quite. Now, as many others, I 
 was dissapointed a bit in the campaign - the game does resemble the Assassin's Creed in that you 
 get mission after mission that are basically the same. Which sucks! At first it seems to get very 
 reppetative and maked me feel a bit like I was working. This I believe is huge drawback of this 
 game, but in my opinion that is where the negative aspects of the game end. The rest is simply 
 GREAT! And I will list here what I really liked about this game:
  - Nice shader 4 graphics. and quite well optimised as opposed to Crytech 2 engine (Crysis Warhead) .
 
  - Great, very realistic sounds. Weapons sound amaizing. REally adds to the atmosphere.
  - Fire! you will have a lot of fun setting things on fire and whatch it spread, forcing the enemy 
 to relocate, sometimes killing them.
  - Quite unique and interesting AI involving conversations between the enemies in the combat. Sometimes 
 you know there are more than one enemy soldiers, even if you only see one, because you hear them 
 talk to each other. Wounding the enemy sometimes results in their mates coming to them and helping 
 them out. Sometimes the enemy does not see things happaning, but I thing it is more of a bug than 
 bad AI design. In general the enemy is quite smart and will flank you pretty fast. 
  - And finally - Unbelievably fun/satisfying combat. As opposed to stalker for example - I loved 
 it in the Far Cry 2. Espesially as you get better weapons, you will have a blast. I personally 
 love the explosive weapons. I thing UBsoft got it right!
  
  Also when the charecter runs, it feels so realistic.
  I found the game picks up the pace and 
 becomes more diverse in the second half. I am having much more fun playing it now, then I did at 
 the beggining.
  
  By the way you get to make some decisions in the game that may affect the course of campaign, or 
 at least that's what it feels like.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I rarely run out and purchase a game. I have about 30 games in my collection and out of all of 
 them. The only two I haven't and won't finish playing are Oblivion and this one. It's simply too 
 much **** This game will make every other game you own look better and better.
  
  The Good:
  -Varying Environment Keeps The Battles Interesting
  -Large Choice of Weapons (It's 
 cool that you have to earn them)
  -Several Animations are Cool
  -Large Map
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Large Map Covered by 70% impassable terrain forcing you into Road Blocks. 50km 
 with about 10km that you can actually walk on. 
  
  -Respawn time is way too low. You eliminate a Road Block, turn your back for a second and they're 
 there again. No way to permanently remove road blocks. 
  
  -Piss-Poor AI. (I'm going to break this one up) .
  -X-ray vision. They can See you through walls, 
 trees, shrubs, and other vegetation. 
  -Can Spot and Shoot you with pin-point accuracy up to half a kilometer away. (Through everything 
 I listed above) 
  -Sometimes won't help teammates 
  -Always attack you on-sight.
  -If you shoot one in a ceasefire zone, they chase you out, but you walk a foot out then walk back 
 in and it's like they completely forgot about you.
  -AI can't climb ladders.
  
  -Hitboxes/Damage/Weapons 
  -Assualt Rifle bullets deal about as much damage as a water gun. Pistols 
 deal less damage and have less ammo. If you kill someone with a pistol, my hats off to ya. 
  -Shotguns are accurate from ridiculous distance. AI will hit you with a shotgun while you are sniping 
 them. 
  -Hitboxes suck. Shoot an enemy in the leg (try to wound them) they walk it off as if nothing happened. 
 Shoot them again in the same spot, they die... sigh. -Weapons jam every other shot. There's no 
 way that this won't piss you off. 
  -Enemies wearing no armor what-so-ever will take an entire clip from your pistol and still be standing. 
 It takes 2-3 head shots to kill someone.
  
  -Vehicles 
  -Textures look like they took a picture of baby vomit and uploaded it into the game. 
  -The slightest 
 bump in the road will bring your car going 100mph to 0mph in an instant. You can mow down dear, 
 but if you hit a shrub, it's like hitting a boulder. 
  -No weak spots. Shoot the gas tank- Nothing. Shoot the wheels -  nothing. Complete crap. 
  -Takes 
 10-15 minutes to get to objectives even with a vehicle.
  
  -Missions are EXTREMELY repetitive. Reminds me of Assassin's Creed without the ability to instantly 
 travel to various cities. The only unique missions are the story driven ones. All the others are 
 identical, every time, except on the other side of the map.
  
  -Graphics for fire really aren't that impressive. The best graphics I've seen are when it comes 
 to ground textures. The sand textures are pretty impressive, but everything else is so-so. 
  
  -Environments are nearly 100% indestructible. The only things you can do are 1. Burn Grass 
 or 2. Blow up part of a shack (it won't collapse like in Crysis, some parts fall off though. Not 
 impressive at all.)
  
  -Floating Head and Arms
  
  -Health system makes this game too easy. If you happen to die, you have a buddy to save you. You 
 have nearly infinite health because pulling a bullet out of your body magically gives you more 
 health than you had before. Even if you run out a stims, it's nearly impossible to die unless you 
 are sitting out in the open. I take that back. You actually can die. Fall off a two foot cliff 
 and you instantly die.
  
  
  
  Conclusion. Worst retail FPS I've ever played and I'm a huge fan of FPS. It's nothing like they 
 promised. It's not 'immersive' nor is it 'realistic.' Please don't let Ubisoft get away with making 
 products like this by NOT buying this game until they patch all this crap (which would be a really, 
 really large patch) or the game is like $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe what those reviews which claim it to be "broken storyline" or "boring gameplay" which 
 give it around 7-8.5 scores. They are definitly wrong.
  I just finished the game the "hardcore" difficulties and I'll say I LOVE this game. I enjoyed the 
 gameplay from the start to end and NEVER have a chance to get bored because the graphical beauty 
 and wonderful game world always truly impress me.
  I had only around 25.6 hours of gameplay when finished, which is far lesser claimed by ubisoft 
 of "100 hours" and review of "30-50" hours
  But it really doesn't matter.. I'd rather perfer 20 hours of total amazing gameplay than 100 hours 
 of dull ones.
  And I disagree with some reviews who say you'll alaways go on the same way like driving and mount 
 up MG and repair and drive.. it's just they are idiotic and can't think of others ways to reach 
 the location.
  You can use the water ways, or drive on lands (MOST dangerous) , or shealth past the guards to reach 
 the locations.. and I almost NEVER use the mounted car MG at all and try every kind of ways to enjoy 
 the game..
  It's very realistic, you can choose all kinds of weapons to complete the missions..
  It has even 
 better graphics than and more realistic and engaging than COD4 or crysis (extreme open world and 
 great variaties of weaponary, realistic gun jamming)
  And I think the storyline is amazing, although it's a bit bad at the end..
  Generally it run 
 very smooth but on occasions there's a little bit bugs and AI, although aggressive, are not very 
 smart..
  It has the graphic of crysis, gameplay of COD4, and the open world of GTA, what else would you 
 expect?
  A truly masterpiece to me and it deserve at last a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarSkream
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I played the game on a Dell XPS M1730 laptop with a t9500 2.6Ghz Dual core, 4GB RAM, 2 x 8800MGTX 
 in Sli, 2 x 200GB 7200Rpm HDD, XP sp3, I used a Sony KF55e 55 inch rear projection television as 
 the display.
  
  I played the game at 1920 x 1080 with all settings on high, except for physics, trees and fire 
 which were on very high. The difficulty level used was infamous (the highest) .
  
  The game runs at between 25  60 fps averaging 45 fps and very rarely runs at below 30 fps.
  
 
  Far Cry 2 is set in a fictional country in Africa and the plot revolves around tracking down an 
 arms dealer while avoiding or killing members of 2 warring factions.
  
  The graphics in Far Cry 2 are in a word breathtaking. The only game I can really compare Far Cry 
 2 to is STALKER Clear Sky. I make this comparison because this is the only recent FPS game that 
 has a similar open world feel to it.
  
  Environments represented in the game range from lush jungles to arid deserts and include plains, 
 rivers, lakes, mountains and shanty towns. All of the above are realistically depicted and complemented 
 by one of the most innovative and well thought out lighting systems ever. When you move indoors 
 from outside your eyes will take a few seconds to adjust, sun rays will come through foliage realistically 
 and you can spot distant snipers by the flash of their weapons.
  
  The game include a realistic day/night cycle and weather effects, depending on the time of day 
 shadows will be cast at different angles. It is possible to see a cold front coming through with 
 wind blowing trees around and the sky slowly growing dark and finally rain falling.
  
  The scenery is also highly interactive with the ability to explode buildings and trees shoot through 
 walls and burn stuff.
  
  The entire game occurs in first person perspective with HUD elements only appearing when you reload 
 or inject yourself to heal. Coupled with the great environments this leads to an incredibly immersive 
 experience.
  
  The game starts off with a short introduction sequence, and you are soon given a basic rifle, RPG 
 and machete. Firing the weapons in this game feels great, with the heavier LMGs training up if 
 you fire on full auto and sniper rifles offering great accuracy and firepower. Weapons salvaged 
 from bad guys jam a lot but can but you can purchase new ones that are more accurate and don't 
 jam from friendly arms dealers.
  
  To get around the 50km2 of African terrain you can either run take a car or travel by boat. I alternated 
 between walking and vehicles because while in a vehicle you are very likely to be spotted by patrolling 
 enemy vehicles or checkpoints. On foot you can sneak almost right by the guards as long as you 
 stay in shadows and move slowly.
  
  In Far Cry 2 you will be fighting mercenaries from the two rival factions as well as bandits, these 
 guys are well armed, ruthless and crack shots. On infamous difficulty if you get spotted by two 
 or more guys and your out in the open its good night. They will use intelligent tactics too scampering 
 behind cover if you wound but not kill one and systematically trying to locate you if you are shooting 
 at them from cover. They will also exhibit cool realistic behaviours such as shooting into the 
 wall of a tin shed because they think you are in there allowing you to sneak up and shoot them.
 
  
  You can also wound enemies and they will lie on the ground and take shots at you with a pistol 
 COD 4 style. The intelligence and difficulty of the enemies makes for a tense exciting game where 
 one foot in the wrong direction will get you dead. 
  
  I haven't mentioned the, buddy system, diamond hunting or the mission structure much but suffice 
 to say you will have plenty to do. Whether its working for one of the shady characters in the game 
 or one of the factions you will be taking down numerous dangerous mercs and other a holes e in 
 all manner of cool an imaginative ways.
  
  This is in my opinion the pinnacle of PC gaming and critics of the open world, missions, story 
 or game play obviously either don't understand that this game is a fps or are not playing it on 
 good enough hardware.
  
  ps Crysis is nothing compared to this. Crysis runs 200% worse on all computer hardware, has worse 
 gameplay and IMO can get F*%#d
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hvypetals
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that their is a speech bug thats been well documented. 
  
  Alot of people are complaining about the checkpoint spawning. Its not so annoying for me yet. maybe 
 i jsut dont play as much
  
  Other than that i think the gameplay is immersive and i admrie the devs guts for choosing this 
 as a theatre. They really bring africa to the player, its pretty intense atmosphere.
  
  The shooting is probably one of the best porttrayls imo and right up there with rb6. that feel 
 of shooting. nailed
  
  the thing i liked about the original fc was the entry and exit wounds. sick i know but in a game 
 pretty cool. imo its pretty wierd that a game simulating killing is shy on holes now. 
  
  ratings yeh i know. whoopie .. now wheres the holes! only SOF did holes the best but fc was right 
 up there
  
  overall a very thrilling experiance visually and atmosphere wise, just liek the original fc was. 
 the bongo drums are back i see too. haha
  
  pulling out bullets and being rescued by your pal is really cool and innovative.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa4lyfe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The review is in 4 awesome parts plz continue reading :)
  
  As you begin in the world of Far Cry 2 you notice one big thing......
  
  THE GRAPHICS!-The 
 game looks phenomonal and is absolutely breath taking! Every thing looks in place and it just will 
 blow you away at the amount of detail in cars and others!
  
  9.4/10
  
  Gameplay: The game has very nice mechanics and the guns control very different. There are varieties 
 of guns and vehicles and other such things. The only bad thing thing that really was confusing 
 was that EVERY gun you pick up off the floor was rusty and meaning it jammed. Also the vehicles 
 sometimes dont handle that well and they get easily damaged! The create your on map gives it some 
 extra points and so does the pretty much average mp. The very very big enviroment will get on you 
 but you can go use the bus which is a much quicker way to travel.
  
  9.1/10
  
  Story: When you start you think that its really gonna have nice ass story but guess what... its DOESNT! 
 You are supposed to be hunting the "JACKAL" but you wont even notice if it wasnt in the loading 
 screens or in the menu. The game gets REALLY REPETITIVE but sometimes is very cool. One thing you 
 will notice is that you can work for both sides of the battle which makes it kind of confusing.
 
  
  8.3/10
  
  Overall: A really solid shooter and somethings pulling it back it tries to be a "Crysis" but only 
 achives a little less....
  
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintanger730
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good parts:
  The world is awesome and very realistic you feel like you are actually in the middle of Africa. 
 There are a long list of guns to choose from, and explosives and fire based weapons are very realistic. 
 The fire physics are impressive and fun to use and watch. 
  
  The Bad:
  The game gets repetitive after the first few hours. Moving around in the world is very time consuming 
 and frustrating. Choke points on roads make traveling annoying because your cars are so frail that 
 a few shots will have them smoking, and often if an enemy at a camp so much as glances at you trying 
 to pass by they all jump in their cars and speed over trying to run you off the road for god knows 
 what reason. So basically every time you come up on a choke point you need to get out of your car, 
 kill everyone and continue, and the enemies respawn so you often will be clearing out the same 
 camps over and over again and it gets really annoying. There are only 5 fast travel locations located 
 at the extreme corners of the map not really near where anything is going on. The vehicles are 
 as boring as they are weak. They consist of a jeep with a mounted machine gun, a crappy car, a 
 crappy dune buggy, and a crappy SUV. There's also a crappy boat and another crappy boat. 
  
  I expected the game to be more RPG-like, but the only place everyone is not an enemy is in 
 the middle town. All the enemies look the same, even though there are supposedly 2 different major 
 factions, the lazy developers get around this by claiming you work in secret so the members don't 
 recognize you and therefore kill you. 
  The main plot of the game is that you are supposedly hunting down the 'Jackal' but, you would hardly 
 know this if it wasn't drilled into your head by the loading screens. You don't feel like your 
 looking for anyone, just doing odd jobs for different people. 
  The whole buddy thing is over rated. They don't really do much for you except a rescue here and 
 there. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I have been reading all of the reviews here and most people have hit the mark. I was surprised 
 to see the mix reactions by gamers... a 9 or 8 here and a 3 or 4 here... What is the deal? Gamespot 
 did well with an 8.5. I have been reading mostly the 3-5 score game reviews and have to say that 
 just about all you them are just a bunch of BS... Most are dumb to associate FarCry 2 with Cryteck 
 when they had nothing to do with it. Others complain about driving... how else do you get around 
 Africa... walk??? Even one I read complaining about the graphics... these are the best I have seen 
 in a long while on par with the crysis game... also I feel it like it runs a lot better than the 
 Crysis games... at least on my system. You have to have at least an 8 series to enjoy the beauty 
 in the game. I love watching the sunrise and sunset... brilliant. I feel though that it shouldn't 
 be called FarCry 2. It confuses the dumb people in the world who think that it is from Cryteck 
 as FarCry 1 was. This is one game you should buy and it is one that will be remembered for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgmike570
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  you know you can talk trash about this game all you want but really its one of the best games that 
 I have played in a long time. I mean where else can you shoot a zebra just for the fun of it. so 
 how long must I make this thing. I feel like I am back in school. The game is good why must I carry 
 on about it. I am not one of your writers! This must be at least 100 words well how long is that. 
 Who is the grand wizard that makes that call. Nope not yet so I must ramble on so that they feel 
 that I have put enough thought into this damn thing. kf'as; lk f; sadlk fsd; lksd; l fksdf; lksd'l; kf 
 sd'; lkf s'; sdlfk'; flsk'f s; l'; k s'; lkfs '; lk  'l'; 
 s'; k s'; lksd'l; ksdf'; lkfsd '; sd k;'sd '; sd k'; lfs '; lsd '; lsk'; s k' '; '; '; s k'sdkskf slksk sdflksl 
 ksdf 'lkfsd'; sfd '; lsdf 'l; ksd'l; ksdf'l; ksd 'lf 'l; k s'; lks'; ks'l; ks'l; k's; k'; l k'l k'; f k'; sdk 
 '; sdfk '; sk'; sk '; sl k'; l klk 'lks'l; k sd'l; ks'l; k'f; lksdf'; lsdf'; lksd f'l; ks'k'l k'sl k' 
 ;sf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mijau
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  1. The Game has no game-play: if you are not on a mission it becomes boring after 10 min of playing. 
 I personally don't like playing the game which is nothing more than hicking in the forest with 
 annoying block-posts. I can hike in a real forest instead. I think the graphics are better.
  
  2. Missions: When you are ona a mission you go blow things up or kill somebody then another 
 mission you go blow things up or kill somebody and the again. What the hell people don't you have 
 any imagination left???
  
  3. The block-posts: i liked killing those idiots first 200 times but then i suddenly realized that 
 it is so repetitive and annoying that i broke my mouse and hurt my hand. 
  
  4. Story: The whole story was so disconnected and boring or maybe dry that i lost my track of it. 
 Missions dont make sense
  
  5. The map is too big: yeah I didnt think that it were possible to ruin a game with it but now 
 iam not sure. It just makes missions which should take 2 min to finish extremely prolonged
  
  6. The game is too short: Divide those 30 hours by 10 and you will get a real number of hours 
 that should take you to finish the game if all the getting to the mission is not taken into account
 
  
  7. Designers made cheap kick in the nuts: I am taking about all the weapons that you unlock. This 
 is the only thing that makes this game not only playable but also addictive. And in my eyes its 
 not a good thing.
  
  Well in the end i think that this game is overrated. It is because of graphics it gets such a high 
 scores. But you know what i remember myself playing Mario on snes when I was a child and It gave 
 me 1000 times more pleasure than this peace of crap.
  The game is addictive but doesn't entertain you.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fw190a8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is without doubt one of the most beautiful games I have ever played. The chronically 
 under-represented setting of Africa is portrayed in all its arid beauty, with incredible attention 
 to detail and a very believable day and night cycle. Unfortunately the gameplay does not quite 
 live up to the game's stupefying visuals, but offers hours of solid, if repetitive, entertainment 
 nonetheless.
  
  Far Cry 2 is less of a sequel to the original Far Cry as was Crysis. Both Crysis and the original 
 Far cry were made by relative newcomers Crytek, whereas Far Cry 2 has been developed by Ubisoft, 
 of Assassin's Creed fame.
  
  The game begins with a taxi ride of sorts across a portion of the map, doubling as a gentle introduction 
 to your surroundings and a storyline-opening trip to your hotel. This picturesque introduction 
 is perfect to introduce the game, and pretty soon you notice that at no time have you left the 
 first-person perpective, seeing everything through the eyes of your character. The entire game 
 is portrayed in this matter, and it does 
  wonders for the sense of immersion. Sure, we've seen it before with games like Half-life, but it's 
 astounding how infrequently games use this simple technique.
  
  After the excellent and often jaw-dropping introduction, the first taste of action arrives. This 
 is both pressive and disappointing, in two different areas. Notable is the lack of crosshair (although 
 there is an option to turn it on) ; aiming is provided by looking down the sight of the gun itself. 
 The problem is that the gun occupies a large area on the screen, and your field of vision is obscured 
 most of the time, sometimes making it 
  difficult to see what you're aiming at. The guns are simply not satisfying enough to fire in the 
 main, feeling more like pea-shooters than high-powered firearms.
  
  That said, the healing system is very novel: when you want to restore your health, you see the 
 syringe being injected (a shame there's no real-life equivalent of this) and when you stabilise 
 your health to prevent death, you see yourself pulling the bullet out with a pair of pliers, or 
 searing the wound with fire.
  
  Malaria plays a major role in the game. You are required to keep a supply of pills to treat your 
 condition, otherwise you collapse and die. What concerns me is the trivialisation of what is a 
 very serious condition. When 
  you "get" malaria, a sound effect plays and your vision goes blurry immediately. When you pop a 
 malaria pill, the noise goes away and you are instantly restored to normal. Whilst I wouldn't expect 
 a fully accurate portrayal of malaria in a game like this, because going to this length would no 
 doubt hinder the enjoyment of the game, a more sensitive approach would have gone down well, rather 
 than what is provided with the "insta-heal" mechanism.
  
  Weapons are well represented, with a large array, but as I mentioned before, a number of these 
 don't feel rewarding to use. This is a great shame, because I found the three-weapon system to 
 be rather refreshing. In addition to your machete, you can only carry one weapon each from three 
 different classes, meaning that you have to make some strategic choices ahead of time. If you will 
 be engaging the enemy at close range in tight quarters like a village or abandoned rail yard, take 
 a shotgun and a machine gun. If you can engage them from a distance, how about a sniper rifle? 
 What about an RPG for taking out enemy vehicles? Ammo is limited and while it's not tight, careless 
 management will leave you in a bind, from which there really is no recovery beyond swapping out 
 your weapon for one of the enemy's.
  
  The weapon reliability system is solid and another incredibly well-designed touch. Buy a weapon 
 from an arms dealer and it will be in brand new condition. Kill an enemy and he will drop whatever 
 he was shooting you with, but it will probably be in a poor condition, represented visually by 
 a rusty look, making the weapon more likely to jam, requiring a lengthy unjam process and probably 
 resulting in your death if this occurs during a fire fight.
  
  There are annoyances associated with the interface, unfortunately. When collecting weapons, nothing 
 tells you what the weapon is called. You can see a list of weapons and their various statistics, 
 but unless you can 
  memorize the shape of the weapon and associate it with the proper name, there is no way to know 
 what weapon you've actually picked up when in the field. Also, the diamond-hunting mini game relies 
 on using a flashing tracking device. The closer you get to the diamond, the quicker the light flashes. 
 Unfortunately, the only way to see the tracking device is to bring up the map, which covers a large 
 area of the middle of the screen, meaning 
  that it's very hard to see where you're going. Hiding the map so you can see means that you can't 
 see the flashing light, so you don't know if you're getting further away or closer. It wouldn't 
 have been that hard to "pin" the flashing light to the screen without the map, so that it's possible 
 to see where you're going and to track down the diamonds simultaneously. It's hard to justify basic 
 interface errors like this.
  
  The game is packed with vehicles, but the variety is generally poor. For example, there is only 
 one type of car, called "car". When you're surrounded by a beautiful world of arid dusty landscapes 
 and long dry grasses, punctuated with wild animals and rickety shanty towns, nothing jars you from 
 reality more than seeing the exact same car everywhere you go (albeit with different paint jobs) . 
 Would it have been that difficult to put more than one type of car in the game? That said, there 
 are a number of four wheel drive vehicles, and some vehicles provided by Jeep, in one of the most 
 obvious cases of product placement I have ever seen. Driving is a thoroughly unconvincing experience, 
 and again, with the highly realistic object physics, it's disappointing that the driving physics 
 is so poor. 
  
  Cars brake incredibly quickly and corner perfectly without sliding, despite the rough gravel and 
 dirt roads. Yes, I recognise this is not a driving game, but with such vast distances to travel 
 between missions, a vehicle is essential, and driving is just not fun.
  
  Next we come to the plot, which is both unconvincing and unclear. The game centres around a hunt 
 for a notorious arms dealer named "The Jackal", who you have been sent to eliminate. Missions come 
 from a variety of sources, but are almost all given out with incredibly brief descriptions. There 
 are two factions fighting one another, plus the underground, but no explanation is offered as to 
 the nature of the relationship between these sides, or why we should care. While this will be no 
 problem for some people who simply want to get stuck in with the action, it's a problem for people 
 who need a reason to care, or who want to be treated as an intelligent being. The game even goes 
 as far as to hint at a deeper storyline in some situations where one character begins to give you 
 further information, before being rudely cut short by another character who informs you that you 
 don't need to know! 
  
  It's almost like there was a conflict in the script-writing department between those who wanted 
 to keep it short and sweet and those who opted for providing more detail, and the conflict spilled 
 over into the dialogue itself! Whether this is the case or not, the short and sweet camp definitely 
 won the day, leaving me wondering why I am bothering to complete the missions at all, but feeling 
 compelled to do so anyway.
  
  Another criticism of the design of the game itself stems from the guard posts that are dotted around 
 the map. While the game claims to be free form, it actually funnels the action down a number of 
 preset routes by means of very high rocky outcrops. These choke points normally contain guard posts 
 with at least a few enemies to kill. This would be fine supposing they could be cleared and stay 
 cleared. Unfortunately, after working hard to kill everyone and secure the area, you move on, then 
 return ten minutes later, only to find that everyone has magically come back to life and is shooting 
 you once again. Game developers like Ubisoft should have learned this lesson by now: doing something 
 for the first time or repeating it once can be fun. Doing something ten times is almost always 
 going to be monotonous. The excitement of acquiring a new mission is often spoiled by the thought 
 of the six guards posts you will have to clear out for the tenth time before you can get to the 
 mission itself. Why can't they just stay empty? Patch, anyone?
  
  From the tone of the review so far, it would be easy to think that my opinion of the game is pretty 
 low, but this is not the case at all. The action is compelling, often fast-paced, and often rewarding. 
 There is plenty to do: the thirty-odd main missions are complimented by many dozens of side missions 
 and other activities, and there are plenty of weapons and a heap of equipment to unlock and buy.
 
  
  The game perpetuates many successful FPS staples while introducing a good few more, some of which 
 I truly hope to see in games of the future. Throwing a molotov into an area of dry grass will start 
 a fire that spreads to engulf a wider area. This makes sense to me, and is a really nice touch. 
 There is something quite magical in watching the sun come up over the horizon, illuminating the 
 wide open grasslands and corrugated iron buildings in a warming glow. The problem appears to be 
 that the game design itself falls somewhere short of the artwork, which is nothing short of genius.
 
  
  This is a solid shooter and by no means a short undertaking, but one that will often frustrate, 
 especially because its many minor errors could all have been avoided, but one thing is for sure: 
 it will never let you down visually. Africa has never looked so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isosann
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  first graphics, it runs great on very high settings on my mid level pc. graphics r really stunning 
 exceps some trees and some character modelings. plant textures r really super detailed. plants and 
 trees hawe flexibility as crysis and they can burn like everything in the game. burning stuff is 
 super fun. dunia engine has everything that cry engine has plus burable stuff and wind effects. and 
 objects arnt blurry like in crysis. crysis is a great looking game but this is better in some places. shading 
 effects and light beams doesnt make ur pc cry. the things i dont like is some trees looks cheap. and 
 fire fights arnt that good (isnt entertaining and great looking like cod 4) .
  
  gameplay; biggest map ever. i dont know is there only 1 map but its bigger than all sum of crysis 
 maps. thats a lots of freedom. fixing wheicles and guns r cool. rusty gun texture is vell tought. it 
 has the best car chasing moments. better than driver series. very fun to drive cars.
  
  story is very original ur a mercanary in afrika savanah ur not a solider like all good games today. budy 
 idea is very clever too.
  
  musics and sound ; sounds satisfying gun sounds r very realistic and fun. i cant make review about 
 music becouse theres almost no music. at least i didnt noticed.
  
  soo its a very devaloped big and beautiful game for me. becouse it isnt lineer u can play a lot 
 of hours. isnt short like cod4 or crysis. great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillbar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  far cry 2 is far from what far cry was and thats a good thing. Its still the same shot em' up blow 
 em' op and then slice em' down games but fells way different.
  the storymode is okay, it tryes to suck you in but fails at it due to poor voice over. you dont 
 really know what you main objective is and you end up just running around doing random objectives 
 untill you stumble upon what might be the storyline.
  the AI looks like its done in a rush sometimes the run right up to you turn there back on you and 
 shoot and still hit you. its easy to "knife" someone even if they are in a car. if they chase you 
 in a car with a mounted gun (one driving the car one shooting the gun) then i dossent matter who 
 you shoot first if you shoot the gunner the guy driving will try and run you down and you shoot 
 the driver the gunner will then stop shooting go down and try and start the car to run you down 
 that gives you more then 10sec to act witch is way to mutch.
  there is a lot of bad things to say about far cry 2 but theres allso a lot of good things like
 
  
  weapons can start to rust or get dirty so that they jam break opon reload or even in a shot. the 
 enemys weapons are allways rusty so its not allways a good idea to take there weapon since you 
 have a greater chance of missfire.
  the new way of getting weapons are buying then from the shop wich gives acces to a infinitive amount 
 of that weapons so you allway can replace em' with a new at the nearest armory they are on the 
 walls in eatch "class" so you dont get confused and it looks great when you got a lot.
  
  the buddy system is there but dont really do mutch other then incase you die they can come and 
 bring you back to life and then help you at the given spot.
  
  so basicly the game is okay the storymode is somewhat confusing and pointless, unless your just 
 looking for a fun game to where you shot and blow up stuff and acationaly hunt down a zebra with 
 you suv
  
  the games is worth checking out but not a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I'd like to point out is that Far Cry 2 is a sequel to the first Far Cry, and its 
 many console iterations, only by name. Ubisoft has developed Far Cry 2 this time, as opposed to 
 publishing its Crytek-developed predecessor. The two games bare no resemblances, with the obvious 
 exception of showcasing each others' proprietary game engines. While Far Cry 2 manages to establish 
 its storyline and gameplay early on to get the player really interested, it doesn't take long for 
 the repetitive mission structure, tedious combat and traveling, and forgettable "story" to set 
 in and make the game feel like a meaningless grind with no focus in mind.
  
  In the beginning you get to choose one of nine different male characters, but this has literally 
 no effect on the game at all. Your character never speaks, your choice makes no differences to 
 the storyline, and none of them have any special traits or abilities. The only appreciable difference 
 between each character is what their arms look like, so it all comes down to aesthetic preferences. 
 Anyway, you're a mercenary who's been sent to Africa to hunt down a notorious arms dealer called 
 the Jackal who's privately selling arms there to fuel the fires of dispute between two warring 
 factions, the APR and the UFLL. It isn't 5 minutes after you get off your plane before you suddenly 
 contract malaria, crippling your state and sending you to the nearest hotel bed. While you're asleep, 
 just to spite you, the Jackal appears and gives you a speech that would convince any sane person 
 to give up trying to kill him. Before you can do anything a firefight breaks out in town, making 
 him flee. Unfortunately, as you try to escape either your malaria kicks in or you succumb to too 
 many bullet wounds and you faint. One of the two factions (it seems to be random) decides to take 
 you to one of their hideouts, patch you up, and put you to work for them.
  
  After a explanatory tutorial and a trial by fire you're free to do what you will. It's after this 
 that all the game's problems start to appear, almost immediately wearing the experience thin. Starting 
 with story, you have to do main missions for the two factions in order to continue your hunt for 
 the Jackal. It quickly becomes apparent that not a single mission you do for anyone will have anything 
 to do with the Jackal at all, meaning that by the time you've done two or three missions you've 
 totally forgot why you're here in the first place. Your main objective, the great plot setup that 
 held so much promise, just loses your interest so abruptly, and all you're left with are a bunch 
 of unrelated and uninteresting mission briefings delivered in this strangely rushed manner that 
 keeps you wondering if you'll ever get to kill the Jackal. You do encounter him a handful of times 
 in the game during certain scripted sequences, and boy are they a breath of fresh air. They're 
 all as close as the game comes to being cinematic and tense.
  
  Aside from the main missions you can also do simple assassination jobs for more diamonds, the currency 
 in the game. You can even do missions for your buddies, but ironically these have no benefits whatsoever. 
 You increase your "relationship" with them, but this has no effect on gameplay or story progression 
 at all. During most of the main story missions you'll actually be contacted by your best buddy 
 via cellphone and asked to do optional objectives (as well rescue their sorry butt at the very 
 end of the mission) . Thankfully you'll be rewarded for the extra effort: you get upgrades to all 
 your safe houses around the world, making them more than just a place to sleep. Lastly, after doing 
 a certain number of story missions you'll have to do missions for the "underground" resistance 
 organization in exchange for more malaria pills. When you don't take on these missions when they 
 appear you'll run out of medication next time you try to treat yourself, so they're a necessary 
 part of the game's flow.
  
  Since the manner in which the "story" is progressed is about as deep as a spoon, the characters 
 seem to have followed suit. With the exception of your buddies that you must sometimes work with, 
 you never encounter anybody outside of buildings with doors that no AI can access, making all the 
 characters you ever meet feel sterile. This doesn't just pretain to mission givers or important 
 characters, it's also the deal with targets you have to kill or threaten, making each job where 
 you have to kill someone feel too personal, because you have to walk into the room with them just 
 to kill them.
  
  So, if all the characters that matter are only communicated with inside locked buildings, what 
 kind of people do you see in the open world? Absolutely nothing but heavily armed foreign mercenaries 
 who attack you on site. There's no civilians, only handfuls of animal groups out in the remote 
 wilderness, there's no affiliation to be had with the factions... In fact, there aren't any differences 
 between faction members. Everyone is the exact same, and other than the sequence in the beginning 
 of the game and one half-way in there's never any combat between the two. Even during those two 
 events everyone just shoots at you as soon as you poke your head out. All this just hammers in 
 my point about the game world and everything in it feeling completely sterile and robotic, killing 
 any sense of immersion because nothing you do has any meaningful effect on it or its inhabitants.
 
  
  The game world itself is really expansive and about as diverse as you can get with the African 
 setting, but it's divided into two halves, signaling the move from the first to the second half 
 of the game. This isn't really a big deal, but it caught me completely off guard. You can travel 
 back and forth between them, though, which I was thankful for. There's also 221 briefcases hidden 
 everywhere that contain small numbers diamonds. They're a derivative, but beneficial collecting 
 side job you can do whenever you want.
  
  The world is littered with guard posts, checkpoints on all of the roads where enemies always are. 
 When you're in a hurry and just want to reach a certain location as soon as possible you'd probably 
 just plow through the guard posts and hope to get through before anyone notices you. Unfortunately 
 for you that 114% never works for two reasons. 1: Vehicles can only take about five bullets before 
 it starts sputtering gray smoke, cutting its speed down by at least two-thirds. 2: No matter what 
 the circumstances are, enemies always drive twice as fast as you can. This has nothing to do with 
 how you travel, the AI are just given the ability to never let the player have a single moment 
 of peace.
  
  Avoiding the guard posts on foot is more effective, but its extremely slow and doesn't always ensure 
 you'll get by undetected. You would think you could clear out the guard posts, and you can in a 
 sense. You can kill everyone in it, drive literally a hundred feet down the road, turn around and 
 go back, and they'll have respawned already. It doesn't take any amount of time at all for a guard 
 post to respawn, you just have to move a short distance away from it. So, the end result is that 
 you're in constant unavoidable combat that's extremely tiresome, tedious, and unnecessary. There 
 are also various important locations marked on your map, and they too function just like guard 
 posts, except that they're always the target area for mission objectives and aren't usually located 
 in the middle of the road. There are buses you can ride to and from 5 different locations on the 
 map, and you'll be using these every time just to avoid fighting the same exact mercs over and 
 over again. It's a real shame too, because driving through the African countryside in this game 
 is very peaceful and enjoyable.
  
  I'm sorry, I know I've dwelled much too long on the subjects that make this game so disappointing, 
 but these really are recurring issues that mar the whole experience. They can make or break it 
 for some people, depending on how much patience you have for mundane storytelling and poor pacing. 
 Looking past these glaringly bad design flaws there's a very solid shooter hidden in the rough, 
 if not deceivingly simple in its mechanics; so much so that it left me wondering if Ubisoft just 
 completely forgot something important in the development process.
  
  The first thing that left me wanting more from the gameplay was the lack of any survival mechanics, 
 something that I was lead to believe would be a hugely important part of Far Cry 2. You never have 
 to eat or sleep (sleeping is only used to pass in-game time) and there's no inventory management 
 to speak of, so it really just all just boils down to a very straightforward open-world game. Although, 
 it's worth mentioning that weapons quickly degrade over time and become more prone to jamming, 
 so grabbing new guns whenever you get the chance is important. Vehicles obviously break down after 
 being damaged enough, so you're given the ability to quickly repair them and be on your way without 
 too much hassle. You also have to stop and take medication on the odd occasion to counteract your 
 malaria symptoms, adding even more gravity to a combat situation.
  
  Being a linear, story-driven open-world shooter you're given the freedom to tackle objectives however 
 you please, a growing trend that when done right rewards the player with immense satisfaction at 
 his ingenuity (a perfect example would be Assassin's Creed) , and when done wrong leaves the player 
 questioning why all those gimmicky gameplay components were even included in the first place as 
 a sad attempt at variety. Unfortunately, Far Cry 2 leans closer to the latter, but doesn't lean 
 so far that it falls over the railing into the dark, endless pit of monotony.
  
  First of all, it's painfully easy to prepare yourself for combat. You go to weapon traders to purchase 
 weapons and upgrades with your diamonds, and every weapon you buy will become an infinitely respawning, 
 permanent fixture at every armory. This really kills the sense that you're struggling to survive 
 in a harsh environment, because you never have to rely on the roughed-up weapons your enemies drop. 
 Ammo and health is also very abundant, so you're never ever short on supplies. There's also a few 
 unique weapons that, although work well in context, you'll have a hard time finding a place to 
 use them effectively. Other than pistols, sub-machine guns, assault rifles, shotguns, sniper rifles, 
 light machine guns, and rocket propelled grenade launchers, there's a flamethrower, mortar, tranquilizer 
 rifle, grenade launchers, flare pistol, and even an improvised explosive device.
  
  There's a very serious lack of mission variety (yes, I know I've been using "lack of variety" way 
 too much in this review, but that seems to describe this game perfectly) . You either have to kill 
 a guy or threaten him, destroy and object or vehicle, or steal an item and bring it to someone, 
 with the only appreciable difference between any of them being the locations where they take place. 
 Even then you'll go to all of the major areas at least twice for missions, so if you can't stand 
 repetition you'd best stay away from Far Cry 2. I can look past overly redundant gameplay if there's 
 something like an extremely motivating story (again, like Assassin's Creed) , but since Far Cry 
 2 doesn't have that it's yet another particularly big, sour pill to swallow.
  
  You can scout out an area before you attack it if you wish, but it's a case of, "Why would you 
 want to?" You can look through a monocular and mark supply caches, vehicles, and mounted weapon 
 positions on your map to help plan out your assault, but there's virtually no need to do so. No 
 matter what you do a battle is going to pan out exactly the same every time. You go in, everyone 
 finds out you're there, and you kill everyone with whatever you have at your disposal. You can 
 collect ammo and stuff from caches, but you can also blow them up to cause more mayhem, lending 
 a sense of freestyle guerrilla warfare to the combat. Unfortunately doing so almost never works 
 in your favor, not only because you're destroying a perfectly good supply of ammo and explosives, 
 but because you're much more likely to hurt yourself than anyone else. So all this scouting nonsense 
 feels like an idea that wasn't necessarily poorly implemented, but that it doesn't work with the 
 rest of the game's design.
  
  Attacking all-out and owning the living Hell out of always defending enemy forces is satisfying, 
 with weapons that feel great thanks to realistic, but forgiving firearm ballistics. Explosives 
 are equally potent, but it's a real shame that you can't cook grenades, almost always giving your 
 opponents time to run away. The propagating fire is a brilliant site to see, but it's hardly a 
 useful combat tool, rendering some weapons like molotov cocktails and the flare gun inherently 
 useless. Stealth actually works pretty well, making the sleep mechanic relatively useful. At least, 
 that's the case until you make a wrong move and get spotted, in which case everyone suddenly knows 
 exactly where you are and always will be, defeating the purpose of ever being stealthy in the first 
 place. It's also strange that your machete is useless as a stealth weapon, because killing anyone 
 with it automatically alerts everyone to your presence.
  
  Your health bar (a ridiculous choice for a game that's trying to be immersive) can make you feel 
 like Rambo one minute, and a sack full of broken glass the next. It's divided into 5 segments, 
 and you carry a large number of syringes that can be used in a pinch to restore it entirely. It's 
 only if you get worn down to the last bar that things get ugly. You'll only be given about 30 seconds 
 or so to perform a particularly gruesome healing action to stop the bleed-out so that you can heal 
 the rest of the way with a syringe, all while being assaulted by very aggressive and opportunistic 
 enemies. You become a sitting duck whenever this happens, and you should consider yourself extremely 
 lucky if you survive through one of these frustratingly tense moments. It's a functional health 
 system, but it still feels unbalanced.
  
  The AI is rather dim, but it's a sacrifice for an open-world game of this scale. Being that it's 
 so slow and complex it has a harder time of keeping track of the player's actions, making it appear 
 stupider than what you see in linear, scripted games with hard-wired AI. It's certainly dynamic 
 and is constantly on the move, chatting away orders and status updates to each other, but it rarely 
 uses cover to their advantage, let alone any simple combat maneuvers like suppressing fire or flanking. 
 At least they're smart enough to use weapon emplacements and run away from rapidly spreading fire. 
 It also has the very common tendency to stand out in the open to reload their weapon, which is 
 laughable. Ultimately this all comes together to make the combat feel beefy and enjoyable, and 
 is easily the game's strongest and most addicting asset, despite the bumps along the way.
  
  Ubisoft's new proprietary DUNIA engine looks great, especially for the consoles, and is one 
 of the better running games I've seen in a long time. Lighting and shadows are nice, textures are 
 crisp and detailed, and the fire effects couldn't possibly be any better. Unfortunately, character 
 animations are very stiff and the water is rather unimpressive, but it's definitely realistic looking. 
 The sound design is solid throughout with good voice acting (even if the characters are so boring) , 
 unprecedented ambiance, and excellent gunfire and explosions. Overall, Far Cry 2 presents itself 
 really well, and while the DUNIA engine isn't a monumental leap in gaming technology like idTech 
 5 promises to be, it gets the job done.
  
  The other major point of Far Cry 2's presentation is that the entire game, cinematics and complex 
 gameplay actions included, remains in the first-person perspective. It may not seem like much at 
 first, but seeing some of the moments that can and do occur while playing will simply amaze you 
 that they were able to keep all it in first-person, and actually do it well at the same time. This 
 can range from something simple like chucking a malaria pill down your throat or removing a piece 
 of shrapnel from out of your leg, to something amazingly well executed like constantly injecting 
 your best friend with morphine in a desperate attempt to keep him alive as he slowly dies in your 
 hands. It's a novel attempt to try and immerse you into the experience, but it still fails to suck 
 you in because everything else just works against that feeling (arcade-y gameplay, lifeless game 
 world, etc.)
  
  So, to finally wrap this all up because I ran out of adjectives a long time ago, I'll end it with 
 saying that Far Cry 2 is a mixed bag, but is somehow really addicting. It's certainly a disappointment 
 because it doesn't come anywhere close to meeting its true potential that was originally promised, 
 but overall its still an above average first-person-shooter with good production values. I may 
 have come off sounding really negative about the game, but it's far from bad. It's just that for 
 every step this game takes to be extremely realistic and immersive, it takes two steps back because 
 of simply obnoxious gameplay design choices that turn it into a tiresome grind with no real payout. 
 In the end I'm just left with questions about Ubisoft's validity as a game developer, not the satisfaction 
 that I imagined I would have from surviving for 30 agonizing hours out in the uncivilized and unforgiving 
 African desert. I recommend it, albeit reluctantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  far cry 2 is a interesting game that does of lots of cool things but some may find issues. The 
 story goes like this, this arms dealer is selling guns to two factions and its up to you to stop 
 him. the story is not the best but its ok. the main show of the game is the giant open world of 
 africa which is cool, there are lots of savannah grassland and jungles and the graphics make the 
 game look realistic. Speaking of realistic, this game is so real, when you are switching seats 
 in a vehicle it doesnt change the camera, but has a good animation. Another thing that is cool 
 is the buddies and the day and night cycle. The buddies give you missions and help you if you die. 
 also the buddies if they die their gone forever there never coming back it sucks to be them. the 
 day and night cycle is cool you can go any of the 60 safe houses and be stealthy at night and be 
 a madman during the day. there are two problems that make the game not perfect. 1: the enemys are 
 as dumb as anything sometime they stand there and look anyway the wildlife is smarter then the 
 enemys. 2: most of the time you will be driving long ways to one locations to another which takes 
 the fun out then travel back to the location where you got the misson. the gameplay is awesome 
 you have lots of guns and all are fun to fire and all are cool. the graphicas are awesome, it has 
 a nice engine that runs well and the graphics add lots of depths. My thought if you have a good 
 computer and like shooters go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakaroti4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  After I finished playing Crysis I took it upon myself to try Far Cry 2, I had high expectations 
 for this title, and I wasn't disappointed.
  
  Let's make i clear, Far Cry 2 looks absolutely amazing when all the settings are set up to the 
 max in DX10, and I have found it to run smooth as silk in 1280X1024 which is my max resolution. 
 The game looks similar as Crysis but I think that Crysis has a TINY advantage, still the African 
 setting is marvelous! Which makes this title stand out.
  
  The free roaming concept is taken to its fullest potential. You can do whatever you want to, this 
 is much more satisfying than Crysis where you can't roam freely but must be on target. I was also 
 surprised to se more playable characters which also gives variety, so you're not stuck with one 
 character but can freely choose who you want to be.
  
  The repair and self healing mechanics are superb to say the least, and add depth and realism.
 
  
  The setting is magnificent and the day night cycles with awesome weather effects is a delight to 
 watch.
  
  
  Far Cry 2 should have gotten 9.0 by GameSpot, because I don't think that the game's storyline is 
 weak, in fact if you look at the storyline of Crysis you won't find a bestselling novel either, 
 and really games like this don't need any complex nor original storyline at all, because they are 
 so immersive that you can forget about the story and just venture out and explore.
  
  I would recommend this game to everyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: make82
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I saw previews of this game quite some time ago,
  I Loved Far Cry 1, except that it was WAY too difficult for my playing style... Crysis, on the 
 other hand... a good game, looks awesome, it's just unoptimized as hell, and also a MAH story... 
 Now Ubisoft comes along, with the name Far Cry in their pocket, but use it for a (originally PC) 
 "console port" type thing... Yeah, the graphics are not that incredible, unless you really take 
 a close look at the small stuff littered everywhere on the maps... Details like fires gone out, 
 still smoldering, tyres with readable text on the sides... Quite nice looking bark on the trees, 
 just they don't quite act as naturally as I'd hope... The burning is cool, fire spreads like it 
 should, but goes out too soon... Gameplay-wise it's a real blast! I personally don't mind the driving 
 around from one end of the map to the other, 'cuz you can try finding the diamonds on the way, 
 which gives you good reason to take different paths to the same places! As for the story, it's 
 believable! In fact, my Dad works in South Africa, so I've seen quite a bit of pics from there, 
 and heard a lot about the environment, nature, flora and fauna, and what "little" Ubisoft have 
 put in this game, they sure as heck did VERY well indeed! The savannah, jungle, swamp, desert, 
 it looks like it should feel! Also, I like walking around instead of driving when I need to go 
 a shorter distance, 'cuz then there's a much bigger chance of seeing the animals and stuff... All 
 in all it's worth getting!
  
  Graphics: 8 1/2 of 10
  Sound: 9 of 10
  Feeling: 10 of 10
  Gameplay: 9 1/2 of 10
  Total: 9 1/4 of 10
  Great!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoY_FooD2
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  100% console 0% hardcore fps 0% stealth 0% immersion
  100% bad accent's en terrible voice work.
  
  just a total scru u to the pc farcry fans.
  
 en a shallow mercenary's clone.
  
  not that u cant enjoy it, its just not made fore the people ho liked the first farcry or even crysis.
 
  
  the graphics are good but boring, just a big brown blur.
  the total map is not as big a u mite think en is in no way topographically realistic.
  
  i 
 ges that is it its never trying to be realistic or involving.
  u are constently remind that u are playing a game en not a role.
  thow u are holding a paper 
 map in yor hand it has blinking icons en moving arrows
  gards every whare but never nore the an inconvinece.
  just 1 jusebel waepon most of the time.
 
  non existen difeculty.
  reactif ai that has no tactiks or groop beaifer.
  i can go on en on but they shud just rename it to africa shooter: the casuwel game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  How can you take one of the most successful FPS franchises and flip it upside down on purpose? 
 What the hell Ubisoft?! 
  
  Okay so I was fine with the open world gameplay, enamored with a plethora of weapons, thrilled 
 at the amazing graphics and 24-hour clock. I've played about half way through the game, attempting 
 to do all of the missions available be them side or story but I think I'm done now. I've been ambushed 
 hundreds of times at the same checkpoints that I've reconoitered and killed everyone at. This easter-egg 
 hunt for diamonds is just repetitive and boring. I'm plain sick and tired of being mortared ON 
 MY WAY to a mission start (not even there yet) . Being ambushed by a two-man .50 cal turreted vehicle 
 is survivable and repetitive so it makes perfect sense that to make it less repetitive Ubisoft 
 gave those same trucks 40mm grenade launchers and rocket launchers! Less painful when you die faster 
 I guess. And don't get me started on repairing my vehicle and having some road raged !@#$!%$ come 
 tearing down the countryside in his beat up car and ramming me thus killing me. I've had it. All 
 of this on Easy setting! Even a quick save option doesn't make up for these flaws!
  
  I play the PC version and by god it's ground-breakingly beautiful but that's about it. The guns 
 are fun to look at but the gunplay in the game was overpolished. It feels like you're playing a 
 cartoon. Hard to believe that Ubisofts QA department didn't catch that. I remember the original 
 Far Cry, one of my all time favorites, the gunplay was polished but still felt rugged enough to 
 be a realistic shooting experience. And why in the world did the ability to shoot limbs and disable 
 enemies go? We were advertised to by one of the trailers before the game came out so why can't 
 I disable enemies? What a gip!
  
  You know, the original story to Far Cry, as Island of Dr. Moreau as it was... was still interesting 
 and funny all at the same time. The relative humor that was the Mercenary taunts were a nice addition. 
 And the game still played for at least twenty hours! The original (PC 1.0 release) was such a success! 
 What happened to caring about the storyline? This story is flat! It's got near to no substance 
 and is further damaged by the micro-machine speed talk that each of the other players use when 
 talking to you. 
  
  And why does nearly every crappy old vehicle do 0-60 in 2.2 seconds? Something else out of place 
 I guess. It seems as if Ubisoft had to completely redesign the driving controls from the other 
 Crytek games. It feels clunky and overresponsive. It just doesn't fit.
  
  Do yourself a favor, get Dead Space instead, or just wait for Fallout 3 in a few days. Far Cry 
 2 is a perfect example of a development studio focusing on graphics instead of gameplay. What a 
 loss! I'm suprised Gamespot gave it above a seven. Well, on to the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexandrevitch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  First, let me tell you i have played hundreds of games, and have my favorites of all times in the 
 desk, read to go. well, this is one of them, it's incredible the work that ubisoft and all the 
 guys behind the game have done with this far cry 2. And you can see, here in the critics reviews, 
 the bad things are not important. The 3 things i think are amazing, are, first, the concept of 
 reality, i mean, the healing of your wounds, the distance between places, the weather and the hours 
 and you dont have too many fantasy items, you know what i mean. You can take a mission either day 
 or night, that's incredible, and think on the work to make this happen in terms of sets and displays. 
 The second is a game that you buy and you can spend a lot of time playing him, that's far cry 2, 
 between main missions and side missions, helping your friends it never ends. The third is the dynamic 
 of the game is great, and if you think that reveling between places can be tedious, just take the 
 bus.
  Buy it, because its worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillin157
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Driving for 10 minutes to get to a repetitive mission of killing a camp and then driving back gets 
 old FAST. If i wanted to spend the majority of my time driving while playing a game, I'd be playing 
 Need For Speed or Gran Turismo, not a first person shooter like Farcry 2.
  
  There's no story to speak of and the voice acting is horrid. The AI is average at best; they have 
 the same quirks as half the other first person shooters. Malaria is lame and annoying. The weapon 
 damage and accuracy doesn't feel right to me. Oh yeah, did I mention the game is really repetitive? 
 ;) The graphics are barely on par with other games and aren't even comparable to Crysis, so this 
 isn't a game to get just to awe at the graphics.
  
  Yeah, the game is repetitive also ;) Repetitive repetitive repetitive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndreasNilsson
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Could have been a fairly decent game under its own name, but releasing it as a sequel to Far Cry 
 really makes it suck.
  Expectations were high, but I have already uninstalled it.
  It is a waste of money as far as Im concerned.
  
  It is hard to say where it really goes wrong, 
 I just dont like it. The graphics and sound are great though, but that is about it... The story 
 lacks, and gameplay feels, well, ported... And really, respawns?? What were they thinking? Having 
 sidekicks giving you missions really feels wrong. You are a mercenary in a war, make your own fortune.....
 
  
  The enemy AI is good though, too bad your sidekicks belong in an asylum. The characters in general 
 lacks credibility, they seem lifeless and the conversations really are boring.
  
  And the way you make money? I mean, briefcases with diamonds scattered all over the jungle?? A 
 mercenary earns his pay by doing dirty work, or stealing and selling loot, not by finding "dropped" 
 jewels.
  
  And how come fully functional cars just appear in various places?
  
  No, save your money for something else, I wish I had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warp10ck
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Oki Far Cry 2 been waiting in anticipation for this game but this game becomes boring quite fast.
 
  You are a mercenary you complete jobs for different factions in a unnamed afrikan country. 
  
  And here is how I would sum up this game : accept a mission, drive for miles, get annoyed by 
 your socalled buddies and then drive for hours to get back to accept another mission any of this 
 sounds familiar ?? I know I played this before.
  
  The one thing that the developers was talking about with pride was the buddy system but everytime 
 you accept a mission they (the buddys not the developers) will call you to suggest another way 
 of completing the mission, wich is good but then you will often have to drive along way from your 
 objective and then complete some bullsh@t task. Its easier just to ignore them.
  
  And thats it thats how the game works and thats all there is to it and it becomes to repetetive 
 to fast.
  And its a huge area that requires you to drive forever unless you find a bus station wich always 
 seems to be several miles away. 
  
  And the ending is gonna p@ss you off no this game is good enough for a rent but thats basicly it.
 
  And frankly after beating I had the WTF feeling. 
  
  And on a final note the graphics are good but the DUNIA engine does not even come close to being 
 as good as the CRY TEK 2 engine.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adi_colegu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  How in the blue flying f.. k can some people rate 1 or 2 on this title? I also expected, judging 
 by the title, something close to Far Cry 1. But when i saw how better and complex this was, compared 
 to FC1, i was truly amazed and surprised in a very pleasant way. 
  
  Can't you see that this is an exceptional game, how can you compare this to far cry 1 where all 
 you had to do is grab a weapon and kill everything that moves on that island. I played FC1 4 times 
 for the intensity and gfx but other than that, that game was ordinary. 
  
  First of all i want to congratulate the Ubisoft team which did a breath-taking job in reproducing 
 the jungle/savannah surroundings of Africa, making you feel like you're right there. The atmosphere 
 is gorgeous... all the flora and fauna, accuratly reproduced, combined with the climate ( windy, 
 shiny, foggy, dusty etc ) and the soundtrack create an astonishing world for everyone to explore. 
 The first hours of the game all i did was explore this beautiful huge world, it was so catching 
 i couldn't stick to the missions. 
  
  After waking up from roaming through the dreamland, I started playing actually, and found the gameplay 
 to to be very good, i found myself working for both sides, doing captivating missions, and the 
 side-missions as well were nice cause they unlocked weapons , upgrades or increased the reputation 
 etc. I admit that sometimes bumping into crossroads patrols over and over again might get a little 
 frustrating, but then i discovered that by avoiding them i was triggering intense chasings and 
 so the gameplay remained intense. 
  
  Another thing that surprised me was the beautifully rendered night-day cycle and the attention 
 to details. I like that they used a lower color saturation which combined with the moment of the 
 day give the sky, air and objects a natural fine color, not an exaggerated one. FC1 and Crysis 
 are also amazing but they use complex high-saturated colors, this one is using simplified elements 
 which gave the FC2 experience a true, natural feeling. Another nice detail is the weapons deteriorating 
 as you use them and jamming after a long usage time, making you visit the weapons shop and buy 
 new ones, also the combat is amazing, the AI is very skilled and trying to flank or hide for cover, 
 sometimes talking funny and the fact that you can choose how to engage the enemy (stealth, rambo 
 style etc) is again an outstanding accomplishment. 
  
  I read some reviews saying that there's too much driving involved and they got bored... but what 
 about mafia or GTA ? There was also a lot of driving in smaller areas with worse graphics ( due 
 to the time of the game release -mafia the best game ever- is a 2001 gfx level product) . I can't 
 get enough of driving through the FC2 world doing missions or just for fun, especially in the second 
 part of the game, after 50 % completion, where the game expands into another territory and becomes 
 truly intense and amazing... i try to quit after 6-7 hours of playing but i can't brake loose cause 
 it is so addictive. 
  
  Also many bad reviewers said that if you have a high-end computer you will be disappointed with 
 this game's gfx. What the hell is wrong with you people, where did all this negativism come from 
 ? I played Crysis for 9 times and Warhead 4 times on a very high-end computer and I like the gfx 
 very much on this one. Are you somehow blind, it's just different from FC1 and crysis, it is not 
 bad. They lowered the color saturation to make it more nature-like, and if you realize that, you 
 will see that the weapons shines, water reflects, ray/shadow tracing effects, volumetric lights, 
 hdr, physx - breakable objects ( what a blast can do to the surroundings is amazing ) and everything 
 is there. 
  
  Anyway... to much said... if you just let this game enter your minds and souls you will find that 
 this is without any doubt an excellent piece of art. Don't rate this after 2 hours of playing cause 
 you drove too much and got bored and it doesn't resembles with FC1... most people who gave bad ratings 
 didn't even saw the second half of the game which I consider to be mind-blowing. 
  
  I don't understand how can people rate 1 or 2 on a masterpiece like this... if this deserves 1 than 
 how about those real crappy no-name developer games , how much would you rate those ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristian_esza
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  I'll try not to compare this game to Crysis, which is what everyone is doing around here...
  
  Far Cry 2 introduced revolutionary and interesting ideas, which were put together very well 
 in a solid way (24hs cycle, fire, weapons jamming, malaria, etc) .
  
  I really admire how real it feels to explore the map, interact with people and the environment, 
 this game was built with a lot of potential and scalability. But it seems they focused so much 
 on these extras, that they made some serious mistakes about the gaming basics:
  
  -Movement controls feel weird: moving the character and aiming it's like controlling a robot rather 
 than a person. Maybe this is a consequence from a bad adaptation from a console game.
  -you can't go prone.
  -you can't lean right or left.
  -AI act in an incredibly stupid way sometimes: 
 they shoot at you from 200mts with a shotgun, or drive their cars towards you, and park it in front 
 of you waiting for you to kill them.
  
  -And the serious issue: THE MAP IS NOT OPEN WORLD!
  They built a fantastic African landscape 
 with animals, deserts, towns, rivers, etc. which Ubisoft claims to be an open world map... but 
 you can only move from one point to another by using the roads, and you have no other choice than 
 to bump into the same crossroads, and repeat the same fights against the stupid bots (I can't complain 
 for the fact that they respawn, it was a necessary evil) . 
  
  -Picking a mission only consists in driving a car for 10 minutes across the map stopping at each 
 crossroad to kill the bots, getting the papers, only to find out that you must drive another 10 
 minutes, and destroy/kill your objective. After the third or fourth mission you eventually get 
 bored of it. In some way this reminded me of Assassins Creed (an incredibly well-looking game with 
 the most boring gameplay ever made) .
  
  I wouldn't care if they took 3 or 4 more months of development if they would use that time to build 
 the game more carefully:
  -adding better movement components
  -fixing AI
  -building the map in a way that you could move freely through it and (really) have freedom to approach 
 the objectives from different directions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titan14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Okay, i read a lot of posts on the forums before buying this game and i was kinda going into uncharted 
 waters as i've never played the original farcry or games like Crysis or Stalker.
  
  I found the game to be fun and immersive, i love the massive environment and the combat can get 
 intense. The graphics really good also. 
  
  Despite a few gripes, nothing major though, with the AI, traveling distances and rediculous respawning 
 times at enemy checkpoints, all of which you'll either get over or find a way around. Farcry 2 
 makes up for them with the immersive living breathing environment, intense combat and fun gameplay 
 experience. When playing this game, you'll definitely experience some 'Holy crap!' moments, like 
 when your weapon jams in the middle of firefight with the enemy flanking you on both sides and 
 a sniper keeping you pinned behind a rock!
  
  I reckon Farcry 2 is a great game and worth the 8.5 gamespot score. I swear you'll feel like Di 
 Caprio in Blood Diamond in certain moment in this game. T. I. A dudes... T. I. A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightworks
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure how to put this game. It's definitely NOT a Far Cry game in my opinion.
  
  It reminded me quite a bit about Boiling Point: Road To Hell, with may be some more up-to-date 
 graphics. While I should be honest and say that I enjoyed the older game more at the time than 
 this one now, it's sad to see that this game could rate even a 8.5 from my favorite games website.
 
  
  I personally think that the title 'Far Cry' doesn't come to right here, especially being such a 
 big fan of the original 'Far Cry' game. A different title would be A LOT better at place here.
 
  
  It does feel like it's designed more with consoles in mind; the way it looks like, the way its 
 controls are, etc. Also the gun sounds are off I think and do not impress at all.
  
  All in all, I enjoy the game, but cannot play it for more than one hour at a time before I get 
 bored of it. I can see myself getting back every now and then though, though still... Honestly, 
 it could have been so much better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarantyno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this for a couple of days now, and at the moment i completed 50% of it.
  Far Cry 2 is an entirely different game then Crysis or the first Far Cry, so I dont get it why so 
 many make such a fuss by saying this is a rip-off. Other then its a shooter, its really unique, in 
 many ways.
  I'm not saying this is the best shooter so far, because i havent played all of them, but you have 
 to admit that even though this game is a let-down to many, it will be remembered as one of 2008's 
 best shooters or Pc games.
  Yes, you can find Far Cry 2 repetetive: you shoot, get diamonds, get a contract, shoot, and start over. Some 
 say that it gets boring. But they fail to realise all the small innovative stuff: the unpredictable 
 AI (some of it is dumb and some will make you run-it reflects the variety of people) , the explosions, 
 the fire, the variety of cannisters and the way the do mayhem when you shoot'em, the wildlife, and 
 THE SUN! i think the movement of the sun and its appearance on the scenery is sometimes breath-taking.
 
  Just dont whine that its repetative: even if each mission is alike, you can complete them way differently.
 
  
  Oh, and a funny "detail": on my low-end pc this runns way more smoothly then the first FarCry
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magumbeejr
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  its a decent game but there is a lot that could be improved,
  
  especially the missions, iv been playing for about 10 hours in total up to now and every mission 
 i have been given is go there kill someone, which can get boring very quick, i hope this changes 
 in later missions but so far i dont see this happening
  
  the guns degrade far to often, its annoying having to constantly go back to the armory to replace 
 one of your guns and you wont want to pick up the enemies guns since they jam to often, for you 
 anyway, the enemies themselves dont seem to have a problem
  
  the map is big and the graphics are pretty good, if not a little on the dark side, but having a 
 map this big is pointless if your not going to fill it with interesting things like GTA, theres 
 no real point of exploring because theres nothing out in the wild except a few diamonds, and exploration 
 is made quite annoying since guards get respawned and the checkpoints are everywhere, its boring 
 to have to keep getting out of your car, get back in then stop and repeat 2 mins later
  
  overall, ubisoft had a good idea but its a shame they spoilt the game, if they had spent more time 
 on the creating interesting missions and sorted out some of its problems it would of been a fantastic 
 game but as it is i wouldnt buy it but would suggest you rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is the second installment of the Far Cry series. 
  In this sequel, you are a mercenary working for a client who wants you to kill an arms dealer.
 
  
  So, you are sent in Africa to do the job. There, you will find two organizations wich will assign 
 you with various bloody tasks. You may also find friends to help you, just because they have other 
 bussiness to do en-route. Nonetheless, the story mode is not too good and hard.
  
  However, you still have the ability to explore a wide map, kill and destroy, earn both reputation 
 and money. There are also many secondary missions, which you can take on. The rewards are diamonds, 
 medicine or new weapons.
  
  But the game is really good, when it comes to the variety of missions. The way you must act to 
 suceed also varies. Which means, that you could just destroy an oil barell and see the enemy camp 
 destroyed, instead of just shooting with your guns.
  
  You can have a great variety of weapons, bought from the gun shops nearby. The thing is that every 
 weapon is ideally-suited to some certain missions. Nevertheless, after some missions, the game 
 becomes a bit easier and forgiving your mistakes. But not to a point of dissapointment at all.
 
  
  The graphics of the game are really stunning. There is a variety of battlefronts in the jungle, 
 from a savana desert, to a tropical rainforest. You will also see trees falling or being burned, 
 while some wild animals are roaming the jungle. The voice of the game is also very good, especially 
 in combat.
  
  The multiplayer of the game can support up to 16 players , while the multiplayer modes are not 
 something special, just like most of fps games.
  
  Now, like the first game, this one has a map editor which is used very easily, but making great 
 maps.
  
  In general, Far Cry 2 is a game in where you will be lost in the jungle of its gameplay. But the 
 exploration of the jungle, along with all the features of the game, which make it interesting, 
 is a combination not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have a copy of FarCry and a copy of Crysis. Let me tell you, Far Cry 2 is much 
 more fun then both of them. Actually they are not same games, FarCry and Far Cry 2. 
  
  I don't know others but if I should compare this game to another one it will be GTA IV. Because 
 Far Cry 2 is an open world with lots of quest and side quests, lots of cars, people, little towns, 
 cities (!) , forests (!!!) , deserts, cool weapons and much more. I should tell you, this game plays 
 better than both FarCry and Crysis. I know, although, both FarCry and Crysis were game engine promotion 
 games, they were still very good games, but not quite complete games. Now, this IS a complete game. 
 It runs smooth, controls are smooth, gameplay is smooth, scenario is smooth. Driving cars is easy 
 and fun, environments are so nice looking, but still realistic (I know what you think) . 
  
  On the other hand, other thing is should tell you about is Far Cry 2 Editor. Description: Fast, 
 Easy, COOL. If you are a mod lover, do not hesitate. That's the game. 
  
  Enough said.
  
  Horror... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nacho7600
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  LOVER:
  If any of Far Cry 2's developers run into this, let me thank you for making such an open map, with 
 so many options to do a mission. Outstanding graphics, and sound effects. As well as AI (I love 
 when they chat and I'm near) , weapons, and characters.
  
  
  HATER:
  50 SQ KM is huge, considering there are the free rides (with no enemy contact) here and there. 
 Also it annoys me how I take out an outpost, secure it, then go 1 KM any direction, come back and 
 everyone is back. Most of the time I avoid conflict in order to conserve my ammo. Most of the time 
 in the game you'll be, A. In a car B. By foot C. swimming D. In a boat. Obviously that is the only 
 way to get around, but seriously that's all your gonna do, especially A, and B. Most of the time 
 when I avoid conflict at outposts, I go by foot trying to avoid them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckard2323
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has really caught me by surprise, in a good way, of course. 
  
  Far Cry 2 is a thinking man's shooter. It takes concepts introduced in STALKER to a higher level. 
 This is not Doom 3 with its dark, claustrophobic, and linear maps. Nor it is not Half-life 2 with 
 a masterful albeit heavily-scripted story. 
  
  Much like in other "sandbox" games, the story progresses based on how you choose to play the game. 
 It's open... very open. Imagine Oblivion with guns (and without RP elements) . 
  
  To progress in the game you take on missions offered by various individuals within the world of 
 Far Cry 2. A gun salesman will ask you to intercept a rival shipment. A communication tower will 
 trigger a phone call which will ask you to assassinate someone. And so on. For each mission you 
 get paid in rough diamonds. You use those diamonds to purchase weapons and upgrades. There are 
 story missions which are designed to give you clues that will help you get closer to your final 
 goal - to kill the elusive weapons merchant. 
  
  The level of immersion in this game is amazing. There are no load times!! You enter buildings and 
 you travel miles around the country and it's all in real time. Only load time I encountered was 
 when I was taking a bus that takes you from one end of the map to the other (and obviously it was 
 done so I don't have to watch myself ride in it) . There is day and night cycle, weather patterns, 
 animals that populate the savanna... Weapons jam, fire spreads like it should, cars break down 
 if they take damage (and you can fix them) ....
  
  This is not a game for everyone. It can be slow a times and you will spend considerable time traveling 
 between objectives - either by foot (though that can be a real drag) , by a car (and there are lots 
 of cars everywhere) , by a boat, and I even got to use a hang glider. 
  
  So far I haven't encountered any bugs. Game looks really good (especially blood!) . Only thing that 
 separates it from Crisis are facial animations. Music, if you can call the action beat that repeats 
 when triggered by various events 'music,' reminds me of "Predator" - and I actually like it. It's 
 not loud, but it lets you know that something's happening.
  
  I not even close to beating Far Cry 2, but I'm already hoping for many expansion packs! Way to 
 go Ubisoft Montreal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 9
  
  You've seen the screenshots and the gameplay footage. If it weren't for Crysis coming out last 
 year, I'd have to say this is the best looking FPS out right now. Of course, it's not just that. 
 You have to compensate the scoring because of the open landscape. At times, other games look just 
 as good if not better, but when you take into consideration how open the game is... you really 
 sort of start to appreciate it. Of course... when I say open, I don't mean lots of space to explore 
 - I'll get back to this.
  
  Gameplay - 6
  
  So, the openess is more like... no loading times. It is definitely not as open as STALKER, but 
 it isn't level linear based like CoD4 or even Crysis. Which, comes with some problems.
  
  Basically, the map revolves around winding path of the roads and/or rivers. So, basically, what 
 you have are these smaller hubs that make up the bulk of the map that are seamlessly joined together 
 by the narrow roadways. It's good enough I suppose, but it's sort of misleading as to where you 
 can actually go. There is no mountain scaling, or alternate routes to avoid fighting.
  
  Each hub of points of interest are surrounded by small encampments of badguys. This wouldn't be 
 a problem except everyone attacks you on sight. It helps a bit for the nonstop action, but it shows 
 how there is no depth to this game at all.
  
  Gunplay is good enough, about as good as you could get from an FPS, but aside from being a decently 
 action packed shooter, don't beleive the "Real Freedom" hype. If you're going on a mission... chances 
 are you'll be involved in at least 3-4 gunfights along the way. Normally, this wouldn't be a problem, 
 but again, they can become repetitious and annoying, especially when you don't have the proper 
 gun choices on hand. Which brings me to another point...
  
  You have a lot of options as far as what guns to carry with you. This is gravy! And it would be 
 truely awesome, except for some idiotic reason, the people who designed the game decided to make 
 Assault Rifles, Sniper Rifles, and Shotguns all part of the same class - Primary Weapon. This severely 
 limits your ability to engage in the gunfights and be versitile. If you have a Sniper Rifle, and 
 don't have some sort of Short-Medium Range gun besides a pistol - you're screwed.
  
  *Sigh* I could talk a lot more about this... but for every really great thing going on in the gameplay, 
 there is something not too far behind it that really urks you under the skin.
  
  At the end of the day, this is a decent shooter that probably would have been better off without 
 making some of the stuff more complicated than it needed to be. Don't get me wrong - the direction 
 they were headed in was a great idea, and it would work. But they just sort of gave up on thinking 
 things through all the way. Basically, the game has the polish it should have... but it just feels.... 
 unfinished and not thouroughly fleshed out.
  
  Sound - 10
  
  This is absolutely the best part about the game. Guns are good and loud, the music is cool, and 
 all the stuff that goes BOOM! is appropriate.
  
  Value - 7
  
  Sometimes I wonder why this game even has the Far Cry name on it. I mean, it really resembles nothing 
 about the original game... well kind of it does. But it sort of does it in a "light" manner. Far 
 Cry was a nice unexpected game when it came out, because though it was level based... you had quite 
 a bit of stuff going on in the levels, by the mere fact they were so big.
  
  This game attempts to capture that essense by making the whole game one huge map without levels 
 (which is good) but falls short on the stuff that made Far Cry work in the first place. It's not 
 "bad", but it's not... "great".
  
  It is... well... it's decently good, but seriously frustrating to see this game be so openly free 
 to explore, but be so restricting to the player.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 8
  
  I normally give games the benefit of the doubt here, because I can appreciate that maybe they did 
 all they could do. But this game has the feeling of "rushed" all over it. Don't get me wrong, it's 
 stable and runs smooth... but it feels rushed in the sense that they stopped designing the depth 
 of the game at some point and just put the polish and QA on the game as is to meet a deadline that 
 should have been pushed back.
  
  If this is Ubisoft's "Crysis Killer"... they are a mile short of it's excellence.
  
  OVERALL 
 (AVG) - 8
  OVERALL (Reviewer's Opinion) - 7
  
  NOTE:: By the way, about the difficulty - I put Hard on this review, but I'm not 100% supportive 
 of that. I would have put Just Right, but I'm not 100% supportive of that either.
  
  You have 4 Difficulties in the game, and I've played on Normal and Hard. Normal is maybe a little 
 too easy in the fact that the game is quite forgiving int he field of taking damage. Med Packs 
 are all over the place, and you can carry a good number of them at the start of the game.
  
  On Hard, it's clear where things start to get messy. You can't see a damn thing, but dudes 
 will be shooting at you with shotguns with sniper accuracy from across a field. This was very annoying. 
 So annoying, it felt cheap and unfun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willissz19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  After completing Far Cry 2, I was not impressed. The detail of visuals and combat are amazing and 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who loves FPS for mindless pew pew and pow. I would not recommend 
 this to anyone who cares about character development, story, variety, and saneness. After you complete 
 the first mission you're assigned, realize, that is the whole game over and over.
  
  The character played as does not say a single word throughout the game, which disgusts me. After 
 Half-Life's success many FPS think the secret to a great games is a silent main character. It is 
 not; Half-Life is an exception. Anyway, nothing is known about the main character other than the 
 sentence included with the "character" chosen in the beginning (I'm serious... a sentence) . The 
 only difference in game play your character selection offers is the color of the arm holding the 
 gun. You're Arnold Schwarzenegger the Terminator warped into Africa for mission completion with 
 any pick. In some cases, Arnold will be black (if you pick the black guy) .
  
  The little dialogue that does take place in the game is spoken very fast. Turn the subtitles on, 
 you will need them. These people talk so fast the dialogue might as well have been in Spanish and 
 no one would notice. It seems everyone speaks fast so you can just get back out there and bang 
 bang away.
  
  Every mission is about the same anyway; get mission from dude, drive to target blowing up any checkpoints 
 on the way (this can be a pain) , shoot target and baddies around him, drive back to dude, get next 
 mission. OK, maybe I'm being unfair, sometimes the target will be a vehicle, or picking up a box. 
 Some missions might require to help a "buddy" out of danger because he was "ambushed" by a couple 
 militia... a couple; "You're telling me I will be sent on a distant urgent mission to save a 'buddy' 
 from two militia?" Yes, it happens and it will happen again.
  
  The map is very big and open, but it will become a curse for some. When you receive a mission far 
 away, you do not look at your map repeatedly because you forgot how to get to the target, you're 
 looking at the map to see the best way to avoid all the checkpoints on the way, which you have 
 already killed a million times (respawn rate is very quick, no more than 10 minutes) . You will 
 find yourself doing some crazy **** trying to avoid checkpoints on your way to a mission. If someone 
 walks in the room while you are trying to get to a target, you will be embarrassed. Your best option 
 is to minimize until they leave the room and then continue figuring out how to get around the rock 
 and tree.
  
  Anyway, I can go on, but I think those are the main issues most people will bump into as they all 
 happen often and they are the meat of the game play. This game should have offered variety in missions, 
 better dialogue, and some character development. Even after this negative review, I did think the 
 game was ok and many will like it, however, it really is a simple and redundant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdog11297
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised at how user ratings and reviews have been all over the board for this game. Either 
 players hate it, love it, or can't really decide and give it a crap rating because it isn't as 
 good as they thought it would be. Aside from any technical problems people are having, I'll address 
 some remarks I've read about the game so far.
  
  "You have to walk or drive everywhere, and it's BORING"
  Boring is a matter of opinion. Yes, 
 you have to walk and drive everywhere... surprised? They didn't create 50 sq. km of landscape for 
 nothing; plus, I doubt you've taken notice of the bus stops that will do that for you anyway.
 
  
  "The AI is entirely unrealistic"
  Umm... video game? AI will never be exactly what players want, period. There will always be someone 
 complaining. As for me, I'm pretty happy with some inept guards who can't hear me sneaking up to 
 impale them with a machete, or others to take chase in their jeep when I run one of their friends 
 over. Keep in mind, we're fighting shoddy, ill-equipped, low-trained local fighters (and some well 
 equipped Mercenaries along the way) most of the time, so don't expect to be defending yourself 
 against a S. W. A. T. team with superior tactics all day.
  
  "The story sucks"
  Well, I agree, but disagree as well. Far Cry itself had a pretty crappy story, but it had a huge 
 fan base and was a blast. Even if you followed the story, the cast and voice acting was hilarious 
 if you took the time to listen in on some conversations, just like a bad action flick. FC2 improves 
 on this idea, I believe.
  
  "The weapons break!!!"
  Holy crap, are you serious!!! Have you ever fired a real gun that has been exposed to the environment? 
 Take care of your weapons and they'll take care of you. I'm so happy this was put in, as it really 
 makes you think before you run in guns blazing (or guns jamming) .
  
  "It's not as good as Crysis!!!!!!"
  Seriously, if your sole purpose was to rely on this game 
 to outdo Crysis, you need to rethink how you look into buying a new game. In no way was FC2 intended 
 to replace, outdo, or blow away Crysis. It is a completely different game using a completely different 
 engine, story, and gameplay. If you like Crysis so much better, go play it then and stop complaining 
 :P
  
  Now that that's over with, I must say, the visuals are impressive. The atmosphere is very believable, 
 to ambient noises, time lapse and world shadows, and the fire... haha. Never have I had so much 
 fun with a flame thrower and flare gun. The immersion factor is definitely through the roof. Although 
 I would have liked to see more interaction with objects and destructible environments (they are 
 to a point, but launching an RPG into a box labeled 'explosives' and watching the explosion clip 
 through the sheet metal roof is pretty disappointing. I then find myself launching rockets into 
 an enemy jeep in Crysis Warhead and I once again feel smug) . 
  
  Anyway, if you like shooters, and are looking for more than just a shooting-gallery type game, 
 FC2 is definitely something to get your hands on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbygr
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  I have a screamer Falcon NW computer. The games will not reload. The only way out of the game is 
 hard boot.
  
  They reload SOMETIMES (every 4th boot or so) but hang on loading all other times.
  
  Can somebody 
 help me with this? Is this happening to anyone else?
  
  What a waste of 50 bucks.
  
  This is criminal. Criminal. Please if anyone can tell me how to get around this reload problem, 
 please help.
  
  I can't figure it out. I'm beat, tired, sick, and wish I could get my 50 bucks back.
  
  Can 
 ANYBODY HELP ME? PLease! I'll PAY FOR HELP! My email is bobbygr @ hotmail. com
  
  I have a screamer Falcon NW computer. The games will not reload. The only way out of the game is 
 hard boot.
  
  They reload SOMETIMES (every 4th boot or so) but hang on loading all other times.
  
  Can somebody 
 help me with this? Is this happening to anyone else?
  
  What a waste of 50 bucks.
  
  This is criminal. Criminal. Please if anyone can tell me how to get around this reload problem, 
 please help.
  
  I can't figure it out. I'm beat, tired, sick, and wish I could get my 50 bucks back.
  
  Can 
 ANYBODY HELP ME? PLease! I'll PAY FOR HELP! My email is bobbygr @ hotmail. com
  
  I have a screamer Falcon NW computer. The games will not reload. The only way out of the game is 
 hard boot.
  
  They reload SOMETIMES (every 4th boot or so) but hang on loading all other times.
  
  Can somebody 
 help me with this? Is this happening to anyone else?
  
  What a waste of 50 bucks.
  
  This is criminal. Criminal. Please if anyone can tell me how to get around this reload problem, 
 please help.
  
  I can't figure it out. I'm beat, tired, sick, and wish I could get my 50 bucks back.
  
  Can 
 ANYBODY HELP ME? PLease! I'll PAY FOR HELP! My email is bobbygr @ hotmail. com
  
  
  I have a screamer Falcon NW computer. The games will not reload. The only way out of the game is 
 hard boot.
  
  They reload SOMETIMES (every 4th boot or so) but hang on loading all other times.
  
  Can somebody 
 help me with this? Is this happening to anyone else?
  
  What a waste of 50 bucks.
  
  This is criminal. Criminal. Please if anyone can tell me how to get around this reload problem, 
 please help.
  
  I can't figure it out. I'm beat, tired, sick, and wish I could get my 50 bucks back.
  
  Can 
 ANYBODY HELP ME? PLease! I'll PAY FOR HELP! My email is bobbygr @ hotmail. com
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster64
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 in my eyes a great and solid game. However, you need to get into it to enjoy it. If you 
 do, you will REALLY like it. Otherwise, you probably won't like it at all. 
  
  The world is immersive. Driving around really feels like you are driving across Africa. A variety 
 of vehicles keeps the game interesting, although more vehicles wouldn't hurt. The variety of missions 
 is also superior to most other games. One of my favorite aspects is how each mission can be executed 
 in a different way. Take this example:
  
  Say you are assigned to ambush a convoy. You have a few choices. You can plant an IED and explode 
 it when the convoy passes over it. You can hide in a house and then use an RPG to blow up the vehicles 
 as they pass by. You can also use your own vehicle to drive the convoy off the road and then engage 
 in a firefight. Lastly, you can find a good vantage point and snipe the driver out of the car, 
 and then kill the rest of the crew. This kind of variety makes every mission a unique experience, 
 even if the mission seems similar to one you have done previously.
  
  The game is beautiful and framerates are excellent. However, if your PC is dated, the game will 
 not look as great. Part of the reason I love this game is views and scenery. Without those, the 
 game just isn't the same.
  
  Once you get the hang of it, the game becomes extremely addictive. Firefights are exciting, and 
 while you will occasionally have to drive for five to ten minutes, the scenery will keep you occupied 
 until you reach your destination.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who enjoyed the first Far Cry, and those who like a good looking 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoxicado
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Why why why why why! someone tell me, why this game have so terrible AI... exelent graphics... exelent 
 Framerates, but it cost the AI and the physics.
  
  When I start i say.. ohhh my god... look that trees, then the malaria, well its nice... but when 
 the tutorial ends and you get one car and take a ride... in the "5 km of square meters to explore..." 
 and everybody shoots you. its a really letdown... i tried to make fun but its impossible... the 
 AI shoots through grass, where is the fun...? you cant hide in the shadows you cant try to be quiet, 
 etc... has a 50% realism and the 50% realism its to bad... want to be real, but its best like an 
 arcade.. anyway the game is what I expect like a old gamer.
  
  The good:
  
  - EXELENT GRAPHICS
  - VARIETY OF WEAPONS
  - GOOD AMBIENT
  - THE FIRE EFFECTS RULES
  
 
  The Bad
  
  - THE IA IS SIMPLY "UNREAL"
  - WEAPONS DONT HAVE MODS OR FIREMODES
  - PHYSICS ARE NOT ENOUGH
  - THE WAY OF HEAL
  
  If obly have other ia like... crysis... the 
 game may be 100% better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djball
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  I tried to keep an open mind here, but this one deserves a brief comment. Basically Far Cry 2 falls 
 FAR behind it's predecessor. In fact it falls flat on it's face! This is a shameful Ubisoft attempt 
 to carry on what was, a very good title. There are no connections between the two, and there are 
 very few similarities. Seems they forgot to put in everything that made FC1 so enjoyable, specifically.... 
 going prone, leaning, mini map, binocular targeting/zoom, scope zoom, lush environments, interesting 
 missions. FC2 opens with a terrible 'driving' copy cat intro (COD4) , followed by incredibly repetitive, 
 flat, boring missions that each require 10 minutes of driving. This really becomes a nasty chore, 
 and was quickly the deal breaker for me... And what's up with the suicide drivers every time we 
 round a corner anyways?
  Sure it looks good, but where are the meat and potatoes? No story. No content. Fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walking_STD
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a great game you can't ignore it. While some issues let it down they aren't very bad 
 and shouldn't be a distraction. First up graphics, the graphics for this game are amazing with 
 realistic lighting and awsome fire effects this game is a beauty to look at. Next on the list AI, 
 the AI for this game are the best i've seen in a game since the first far cry while there are some 
 annoying issues like the fact that they can hit you from long range with a shotgun and almost always 
 hit and the fact that they can shoot you down if your in a para glider with 1 shot they dont don't 
 dissapoint. Next up gameplay & weapons. THe gameplay in this game wont dissapoint with multiple 
 ways to approach a misson and the 50k2 open world you wont be left with nothing to do. Another 
 awsome thing is the fire not only does it look great but it isn't just a pretty effect you can 
 use it to your advantage by lighting huge wildfires with the flamethrower or molotovs and watch 
 it burn towards the enemy. The weapons in this game also deserve a mention, you have your standard 
 assault rifles ak's ect. But you also have special weapons like a silenced dart rifle that scares 
 the pants of enemys when they dont know were there being shot from. Ands IED's (Improvised Explosive 
 device) a grenade launcher and a few others. Then theres the buddy system. The buddy system consists 
 of 12 buddys that you unlock by helping them out of messy situations and doing missons for them 
 in reward they will help you if you take too many bullets by coming to your rescue and healing 
 you. All in all Far Cry 2 is a great game that shouldn't be missed by anyone.
  
  Happy Gaming :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-5
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Soon as you start changing the graphics/sound options to work for your machine, you will notice 
 this game is strictly a console game. Very little computer familure options you would normaly see.
 
  I loved Far Cry and Crysis... the graphics were just plain awesome! But in this game... it just 
 seems... old. all the objects in the world are stif unless you shoot them. Unlike Crysis and Far 
 Cry, where if you bumb into them, they move like they should. Example, a little wooden chair on 
 the floor stops you like a brick wall in this game were as in the other games they move.
  I set every setting to "very high"... completely maxed out and it looked like an old ps3/XB 360 
 game, and I do mean old.
  But yes, the story is cool, the fire effects are very sweet, but the game looks just to backdated.... 
 at least for the PC. Every time I play it, I stop with in 20 mins cause I just get too bored. But 
 hey, all this is just my opinon. You may love it. I sure didn't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilbert3k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is a great looking and sounding game. I love the feel of the weapons 
 and the fact that small encounters feel dangerous.
  
  Its been a long time sense a game could make me careful when attacking 3 people.
  
  However 
 that's about where the good ends.
  
  Pros
  
  1. Great looking game.
  
  2. Weapons feel good, even the low amounts of ammo feel good.
  
  3. Great Enemy AI. (Too bad 
 your allies have MUCH worse AI, I watched a buddy trying to kill a sniper with a shot gun at several 
 hundred feet)
  
  Cons
  
  1. Respawns... respawns... respawns... Clear out a gaurd post thats blocking your way and 5min 
 later its full of troops again.
  
  2. Once the AI knows your in the area they can see you as if you were in a open field. While you 
 can't see them because of all the plants.
  
  3. The malaria thing gets old FAST. Bad gimmick and I will be looking for a patch to remove it.
 
  
  4. Mounted weapons hit about 1/4th as hard as a SMG, unless they are aimed at you.
  
  5. Travel time. You spend half your time running or driving from point to point.
  
  6. The 
 open world is really a bunch of closed tracks.
  
  Save your money for something better.
  
  Another thing, I just noticed how many negative reviews there are here for FarCry2 yet Gamespot 
 says we the users are reviewing it as 8.4.
  
  Average up the 5 pages of reviews and you will get 7.24 Meaning players who do not write reviews 
 like it a whole lot more then ones who don't. (That or the game developer is using fake accounts 
 to boost the score) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analgrin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Hi, Ive been looking forward to this game for a long time. Now i own it for my pc and i think it 
 was well worth the wait. I also loved this games sister/cousin.... or some kind of relative 'Crysis' 
 soo i will be comparing it to that game through out this review
  
  The graphics are very good, technically on par with crysis, sometimes maybe not looking quite as 
 good but then other times looking just that bit better.
  Overall i think i prefer the way this looks as everything looks cleaner, Also the contrast is handled 
 well so even at night time you can still see around you well
  
  Id say this has just a fraction lower pc requirements to crysis, on my Pentium Q6600 @ 3.2Ghz, 
 Nvidia 8800GTX, with 2Gb RAM under Win XP this runs super smooth with everything set to very high, 
 a few of the Gfx options can be set to ultra high but i found it pretty much impossible to tell 
 the difference and noticed ever so slight mouse lag so left just landscapes on ultra high and put 
 everything else back to very high.
  
  I have also noticed this game isn't quite as forgiving in the lower frame rates. Crysis was still 
 playable even when the FPS dropped to 20-25 fps. Ive found FC2 starts to get a bit laggy if it 
 drops below 35-40 fps
  
  Now for the action itself, well what can i say. I've not had this much fun in a !st person shooter 
 since. . . . Erm, Maybe the original DOOM . .lol, now showing my age. I love the way fire spreads 
 charring everything in its path, and as you're nearly always surrounded by fields of lond dry grass 
 theres often opportunity for the pyromaniac inside you to go crazy. Shoot a gas canister and its'll 
 fly around like a deflating balloon setting fire to anything it gets close to. If its windy the 
 fire will travel in its direction.
  
  This is great for flushing enemy out from hiding, or if your taking too many hits you can set fire 
 to the fields around you and make a hasty retreat knowing the enemy cant follow.
  
  Also this has better AI than crysis. Enemy try to out flank you much like in crysis but now they 
 seem to react with one another better. I like sniping from a distance making sure my shot wont 
 be fatal, The target will drop down and either try to drag himself to cover or lay there in agony, 
 either way he's mates will often come over and try to carry or drag him to safety supplying great 
 opportunity for me to tkae them all out :)
  
  Vehicles are great and handle well even on keyboard/mouse most come with a machine gun turret which 
 can be manned by pushing 'c', You cant drive and gun at the same time however.
  
  The world is a much much more open place than in crysis. You could almost say this is GTA set in 
 africa. You have a large map with points marked where you can obtain the next mission. You have 
 a mobile phone which will occasionally ring with one of your buddies offering advice usually involving 
 some side mission
  
  Im going to stop but i could go on all day theres so much good stuff to say. wildlife, waterfalls, 
 pulling bullets out and snapping your broken bones back into place. . .oh yeah!! 
  
  If you liked either Crysis or the original far cry then you will not be disappointed
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchies
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the first Far Cry, nor have I ever been impressed by Ubisoft, so I didn't know 
 what to expect. I was looking forward to the release as much as anyone due to the great looking 
 trailers. The African landscape, the ability to set fields on fire, weapon jams, and the way you 
 heal yourself all looked innovative. But... that's it.
  
  The character animations are horrible, with every setting as high as it goes they still look like 
 PS2 characters. Not only do they look bad the dialogue is even more distracting. The actors sound 
 like they are reading text without punctuation. Sorta like when you are in middle school and you 
 read in front of the class and you read quickly just to get it done. 
  
  After the first scene the game should have been over... you are immobile lying down while the Jackyl 
 goes through your things and discovers you are there to kill him... He gives you a machete and a 
 gun and walks away... ARE YOU KIDDING ME! 
  
  There are a lot of great titles coming out soon... I'd skip this one and wait for something better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dugless
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I was really ready for a new game so I bought into the hype surronding this game.
  
  As many others have stated this game has pretty graphics and so far for me has ran pretty decent.
 
  
  I did have to update my display drivers.
  
  I thought the game was going to be more of a FPS than an RPG.
  
  I like both styles of game 
 play but am somewhat let down by the missions.
  
  You have to drive, walk or boat to a specific point to get a mission only to be sent half way across 
 the 20 sq mile map to fight more retarded bots.
  
  All the fire fights to date are all the same... the bots are stupid.
  
  The exploring open tundra 
 aspect of the game is cool and a nice change but after a while gets old so I go to the bus station 
 and jump to another portion of the map
  
  By doing this you miss out on the chance to find Zelda ruby, s.
  
  The changing of day to night 
 is very neat and there are some awesome graphics.
  
  I like how you have to hunt for ammo and health and administor them.
  
  I dont like how my 
 gun jams but the the bots never do
  
  The gun physics are not that great to me after playing cod4 on HC mode and being able to shoot 
 players half way across the map with precision has spoiled me.
  
  The vehicles are a nice change of pace and i enjoy the playing around in them.
  
  So in ending 
 if you are looking for a 20 sq mile map to explorer and dont care to fight mentally challenged 
 bots at every cross road then this may be the game for you.
  
  It is a huge game with lots of missions that could you could spend a lot of time playing but after 
 a few days of playing I cant get really excited to drive half way across Africa only to be sent 
 somewhere else to get closer to killing the Jackel that at this point Im could really care less 
 if I ever get to kill him because if he fights like the mentally challened bots I just walk up 
 to him with my 30 inch knife and chop at him with some un realistic knifing action.
  
  It has some neat aspects that Im sure someone will expand on but as a whole I feel it falls short 
 of what it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigyabliss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  As many people have stated, the first hour of Far Cry 2 is fantastic. The shooter element, though 
 obviously designed for consoles, is solid and there are tons of guns to play around with. On the 
 other hand, the guns really aren't that different from one another, and the illusion of customization 
 quickly fades when you realize an accuracy and reliability upgrade is all there is. There are a 
 handful of vehicles in the game as well, though you will often find yourself sticking to the assault 
 truck since it is the only one of much use.
  
  That said, the story, as many others have stated as well, is very lacking. It is not necessarily 
 that the premise is bad as much as there is absolutely no direction. The developers have given 
 you the freedom to play as you want, but no matter how that is, you have no drive to do so. You 
 can choose to fight for the UFLL, APR, underground, or any combination, but aside from a few side 
 comments, the game does not change whatsoever in doing so. 
  
  After the initial awe has worn off, all that is left is driving aimlessly around the beautiful 
 yet empty landscape looking for briefcases that afford you a paltry 1, 2 and maybe 3 diamonds. 
 In comparison, even early missions grant you 10 diamonds and searching for 5-10 briefcases is enough 
 time to complete several of these missions. It doesn't help that outside of the central town, nearly 
 every single character you come into contact with is hostile. To add insult to injury, the guard 
 shacks quickly respawn making even a quick trip to Mike's Bar a tedious game of stop, shoot, drive, 
 stop, shoot, rinse and repeat. In fact, the only reason I have so many hours clocked in this game 
 is because of my policy not to review before finishing the game.
  
  All of this is on top of the fact that the game has seemingly no connection whatsoever with the 
 original, aside from the gorgeous scenery. After that first hour it is apparent that Ubisoft Montreal 
 made a very pretty sandbox game with no direction and slapped one of their owned licenses on it 
 to move copies.
  
  Pros:
  + Solid combat
  + Lots of guns
  + Fun and easy level editor
  + Fantastic graphics and lighting
  
  Cons:
  - Weak story, 
 no direction
  - Enemies too abundant for comfortable exploration
  - No consequences for helping or hurting any faction
  - Illusion of weapon customizing
  - Most 
 vehicles rendered useless to unbalanced assault truck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatihu44
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Mat landscape (for me too mat) but really carefully designed and realistic. Too high scores maybe 
 due to this landscape and for the sake of former Far Cry. There are also some new ideas but not 
 enough to save this game (malaria and need for its pills make me sick, like corrosion of guns, 
 for health serum must be ok, playing with an ill character annoys me) . I have to admit map editor 
 in this game is impressive (multiplayer mode of this game has only chance with such a map editor) . 
 Gameplay is disappointing (bad camera angle so i feel someone else playing not me, AI is not so 
 good-sometimes absurd, unhandy map, unpractical vehicle driving, enemies see/feel you easily nearly 
 no sneaking) so overall point must not be so high. I think former Far Cry is a myth and still better 
 than most of the games and its sequel. I think Ubisoft must reach an agreement with Crytek for 
 Far Cry 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banbuzino
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  bought this game, played very boring, AI takes about 5 to 10 shots to kill them. widescreen fake, 
 playing/viewing game is just eye tearing. just bothers the eyes. GPS well lets just say bull C****. 
 If you have tried to look for a diamonds its so far off you will be going in circles. Took the 
 game and put it into my shredder it's gone. I could not even take it back to the store, just straight 
 into the trash. Don't waste your money like i did. ajklfjs jkaljfkl akwjfalkwfj akfjlakw af fakwjff 
 a wjkfalkw f fkj wafwaf ff wifjf ajkfw a kwjjfwa f fpwaijfw ff0iwfj wa fwjpwa fw fjaww fpfw f fwpf 
 wfawfp pj [fpwajf w fjawp fjwaj fap [wpf awjpd [pw fajwp [waep fapwwpa fwa pfwpaw fpwapodfj a fpowaw 
 wp fpaw fp [wfgsdfg sgefgefg efg se ges gfsesef esg es geg esg e gefg s eg egesgtry5y 566 dytjhdf 
 j hdresg hreghh4 hnf fdh h rhr hr dhr rj rdjdj drjry jrdj jdr jdr jdj drj ryjdrjh jdj rj drj djrjdfjdrj 
 rj dhrjr y6tjhrffntk ytfkuk tuk ftuk ftktjdrjdryjrj rdjryjrdy jrj rdjd rjryjrj57u75jdhjj j ydy 
 jdj djdryjdyjtdyj yj ryj rdyj djrjj4rjyfj r jdrj drj jdj j ddrj dj ry jrdy jdrj jr ddrj rry jrjryj 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Review Deck
  
  Intel E8400 1333FSB
  4GB DDR2 RAM
  Vista 64bit Ultimate
  Nvidia 8800 GTS
  
  
  First of all this game should never have been called Far Cry 2 as it 
 bears absolutely no resemblance or continuation to Far Cry and I suspect the title is just Ubisoft's 
 way of cashing in on a good brand to get the many Far Cry fans to buy this game.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  FC2 is not really a traditional first person shooter, but is really more of an 
 adventure game - one that you will either love or hate, and to be honest I don't really like this 
 style of game. 
  
  The story is you are a mercenary who has just arrived in Africa and your mission is to kill an 
 arms dealer called The Jackal. This takes you on a journey across Africa stopping at various safe 
 houses on the way to get side missions and buy/upgrade your weapons. Gameplay wise this is very 
 much along similar lines to Grand Theft Auto rather than a run and gun FPS, and anyone who likes 
 GTA will love this game. It's interesting that this has been rushed out before the xmas market 
 period in advance of GTA IV and Saints Row 2 being released for PC in a months's time.
  
  As you start the game, for the first couple of hours, you will think its amazing (hence the number 
 of 10 scores on the review boards) however as the game unfolds it quickly becomes apparent that 
 it is linear, travel is channelled and the game is very repetitive. Really, the game is nothing 
 more than driving from shanty town to shanty town and killing 6-8 or so NPCs. It gets boring very 
 quickly.
  
  Weapons handle really well and feel realistic. However this is another one of those games where 
 you have to shoot the enemy 10 times to kill them. That said, there are some pretty intense fire 
 fights.
  
  Driving vehicles is also fairly good and cars etc handle very well on the winding roads.
  
 
  There are some nice touches, like the way you heal yourself, how the map works - you will certainly 
 need to practise your map reading skills, and how you fix vehicles and weapons.
  
  There are options to quick save the game or GTA style wall mounted save points at various locations.
 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphics are very good indeed and the game plays flawlessly on max settings with good frame rates 
 - much better than Crysis. Some parts of the game are really beautiful and sometinmes the realism 
 is so good you be forgiven for forgetting that you are not in Africa (except there are no animals 
 !)
  
  
  Audio
  
  Sound is also pretty good, the only let down being the NPC's voice acting who have a tendency to 
 talk to fast.
  
  
  Stability
  
  Stability is also good and thus far I haven't come across any problems.
  
  
  Value for money
 
  
  This looks like being a pretty long game so I suspect value for money being quite high. Unfortunately 
 I'm not a fan of adventure style games and like many I was duped into getting this game assuming 
 it was a bog standard FPS and I strongly suspect I will get bored of this game before I finish 
 it. That said the game is worthplaying, and is one that you will either love or hate, and its likely 
 that many true FPS Far Cry / Crysis fans will hate this game.
  
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 9
  Gampelay 5
  Stability 90
  Value for money 9
  
  Overall 7 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R4ptor_
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  The game looks great, sounds great, plays great, takes your breath away at times with many 'wow!' 
 moments. 
  However, wtf is with the checkpoints respawning within 20 seconds or less of you killing everyone 
 in it. And the gameplay forces you to drive past the same checkpoints many times, and every time 
 you have to once again take care of 3 or so dudes trying to get to their truck and ramming you. 
 It gets old and frustrating very quickly.
  
  I think they were afraid people were gonna say the game is too quick to complete so they included 
 this to waste your time.
  
  Also, you drive around from one spot to the next all the time! C'mon, if I want an off-road driving 
 game I'll go buy one!
  
  Anyway, it could have been the game of the year but a few idiotic gameplay mechanic decisions kills 
 it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackeagle84
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Far Cry had set the milestone for FPS a few years ago. But today's Far Cry 2 is merely trying to 
 catch up the trend. 
  
  May be it's because of Crysis, every FPS games that came after Crysis seemed like the developers 
 have lost their confidence in making FPS games. 
  
  This game, looks like wash down crysis, with much less graphic details (i can understand they try 
 to boost up the frame rates) , and the game itself doesn't feel as good neither. 
  
  May be it will receive a higher rating if it was released before Crysis.
  
  Far Cry had set 
 the milestone for FPS a few years ago. But today's Far Cry 2 is merely trying to catch up the trend. 
 
  
  May be it's because of Crysis, every FPS games that came after Crysis seemed like the developers 
 have lost their confidence in making FPS games. 
  
  This game, looks like wash down crysis, with much less graphic details (i can understand they try 
 to boost up the frame rates) , and the game itself doesn't feel as good neither. 
  
  May be it will receive a higher rating if it was released before Crysis.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurboCostcoGTR
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Since when does a fps not have look left or right anymore? its only aswd, no Q, E controls. Then 
 the mouse controls are just bad, i have done the smoothing, and iron sight smoothing =0, which 
 made it better, but still... how is it that you can screw up a mouse control? 
  
  the plot is weird, everyone talks too quick, swears too much-randomly (i don't care about swearing, 
 but it doesn't even feel like the sentence calls for it) , feels like its trying to be more real 
 and hardcore, but its just.. not. the upgrades are great, but its not enough to make you want to 
 drive for years, to do 1 stupid mission.
  
  The shooting is not engaging, get too close and you get hurt too fast, shoot from far away and 
 you miss. I loved cod4, crysis, crysis warhead, and ut3 was ok, but this one just annoys me so 
 much. Try it out at a friends place before you buy it, i wouldn't say its horrible, but its not 
 going to be for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfantin
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  I was really expecting this game, but the first time i've played it i was thinking with myself: 
 WHAT THE HECK IS THAT??
  
  I've read a lot about its graphics but for me they are not that great. They seem too artificial. 
 You can't see life on it.
  
  The NPC's are just plain. The lipsync is awfull.
  
  The story side of the game is just a way to get you driving around the so called giant map. Talking 
 about story don't even get me started on it.
  
  What is up with the Malaria stuff? Why on earth a guy that is supposed to be a mercenary travels 
 to Africa and does not take all the necessary procedures to prevent those things to happen. Come 
 on!!! You are able to take bullets off your body but you are not smart enough to take a simple 
 yet effective anti-malaria shot.
  
  That is what i call offending our intelligence.
  
  All in all just another uninspired game that tries its best to do nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlayerz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  I had to choose between buying Crysis: Warhead and Far Cry 2. I'm glad I chose Far Cry. You don't 
 see many games nowadays with an African surrounding. It's always shooting in the city, in snow 
 or on a battlefield. That's what makes Far Cry 2 unique from other FPS games. And, its more than 
 just a FPS. You drive (boats and cars) , swim and many other cool stuff. At the start of the game, 
 you actually contract the virus, malaria. And it actually affects you at random points in the game 
 making it exciting. The weapons are also very fun to play with. From Mp5's to flamethrowers and 
 mortars, Far Cry 2 has got a huge arsenal of weapons at your disposal. One point of improvement 
 to be made is the mounted machine guns. They are all the same. It would be better if they varied.
 
  
  Moving on to the surroundings,, I would say Far Cry 2 is one of the most realistic games yet. Just 
 throw a molotov cocktail on grass and see what I mean. Fire spreads all around making it very realistic. 
 The graphics are generally very good: sunlight seeps through cracks in building, realistic deaths 
 and other things. 
  
  Overall, this is a really good game and is highly recommended. Go and buy your copy NOW!
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomal_rocks
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Reasons why this game sucks:
  
  1. The whole game is about driving. In fact you will spend more hours driving in this game than 
 you will in Need for Speed.
  
  2. In every driving sequence, there has to be some militias who will attack you. This happens all 
 the time and it will really begin to piss you.
  
  3. The campaign lacks a good story. Far cry should look into Half Life series, Call of Duty 4 or 
 even Crysis and learn to make a decent plot. I mean you should have a purpose of playing a game 
 for 40 hours or so instead of shooting mindlessly without any story.
  
  4. What the hell is malaria doing here? I mean what relevance does it have with the character?
 
  
  5. Why does Jackal leaves you alive at the first end of the game? He is a sucker and more stupid 
 than a play group child!
  
  I mean this game genuinely sucks and i m pissed coz i had high hopes for it. Just making a crap 
 game to ruin Far Cry brand name is unacceptable.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregeepoo
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  First Hour impressions:
  WOW! Look at these pretty graphics.
  WOW! Look at this, it is open-ended instead of a rail shooter, this should be really cool!
  WOW! 
 I can upgrade my weapons. This is really going to be some cool stuff! I am going to play this game 
 for a LONG time!
  Second Hour:
  WOW! You can drive cars and boats!
  WOW! This Island is really big! I'm glad I have a car!
  WOW! I found some more diamonds and bought 
 upgrades.
  WOW! EVERYONE is my enemy that I see out on the roads!
  WOW! They sure drive fast and catch up quick! 
  
  Third Hour:
  Got another mission!
  WOW! 
 It is on the other side of the map.
  WOW! That's a LOT of driving to get their.
  WOW! This map feature is really neat!
  
  Fourth Hour:
  WOW! EVERY mission takes you to the 
 opposite side of the map that you are on!
  WOW! I spend almost all my time driving! The only time I actually have to leave the vehicle is 
 to get a diamond or a mission! 
  
  Fifth Hour: 
  WOW! My eight year old nephew will probably like this game! 
  WOW! The AI is pretty much not 
 there!
  WOW! This is more GTA in slow vehicles on dirt roads than FarCry!
  WOW! What happened to the AI from FarCry?
  Forget the jungles and the nifty "I can light a fire" 
 stuff. I don't need strategy! There is no need to since I can drive into a village with bad guys 
 and pretty much kill them all without breaking a sweat. No worries about them flanking me since 
 they won't. No worries about them avoiding my bullets since they will just stand right there be 
 good bullet sponges! 
  And the AI is just plain stupid when driving too. 
  Here is their apparent driving programming. 
  They see you. 
  They come barreling right at 
 you.
  You shoot them.
  They die.
  Even when a driver has no mounted gun on the vehicle he pulls right up to you and you machine gun 
 him down.
  
  I have played Multiplayer for a few minutes and it was mediocre. 
  
  I REALLY wanted to love this game.
  Great concept.
  Badly executed.
  
  Conclusion:
  WOW! 
 This game is a FAR CRY from FarCry.
  WOW! I miss FarCry. I think I'll load it up and play it again. I bet it runs like a dream on a 
 Core Duo Processor!
  
  Recommendation: Buy FarCry for $9.99 and play it if you never have. But play FarCry 2 first so 
 that when you play FarCry you can act like IT is the next and better version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eezzy-peezy-101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Yeah, I didn't really want to talk about Far Cry 2. I wanted to talk about how I got in deep s**t 
 for saying this on the comments for Fable 2: 'monkies, monkies, monkies, monkies' or something 
 like that, but even though it was my brother who had done this (that little s**t) when I got the 
 message and saw that I had been advertising or SPAMING! Well, even though I had given him a piece 
 of my mind after I found what he had done, I still could'nt help thinking what the hell was up 
 with the moron that had got me in trouble. Anyway, thanks a lot you stupid muppet, I just got in 
 trouble for saying 'monkies' a bunch of times. Great. Oh yeah and, Gamespot asdmins? Why? Do you 
 seriously think I was advertising 'monkies'? Jesus, are you really that dumb. Anyway, I just hope 
 that everyone knows now that you cannot say 'The Forrbiden Words' up there at the top of the page 
 :) haha! Oh yeah, Far Cry 2 is amazing aswell... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tane666
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  I have played only about 3 hours now. So, I'm just talking about first impression. And I really 
 have to say, it was big disappointing. Oh yeah, I like that big area and freedom to do almost what 
 ever I want. 
  
  My score for this game is 7,0. I would like to give maybe even 6 or lower, but maybe that's just 
 because I excepted so much. I was looking forward to get game kind of crysis, which is more realistic, 
 only shooting humans and without super suit. Game which is easier to get "into" it.
  
  What bothers me most: Even in deepest and darkest jungle, it feels like you are all open in enemy 
 fire. You can crouch, no problem, but why you can't lay down and get even closer to get better 
 shot, even surprise few enemies and get all killed by same time. What is more, you can't LEAN left 
 or right which really brings you "in" for game. You have to get your full body behind the tree 
 and try to shoot enemies before get shot. Also I didn't notice any big difference in day or night 
 (Not that I really though about it while played) . Enemies see you pretty easily anyway.
  
  That was biggest problem in my mind. Yet, there is big area which is full of enemy points. There's 
 always someone shooting at you. You can't even join other side, of course not, so there is every 
 AI shooting at you.
  All guns also feels like same, not really matters what weapons you are carrying (Again, I've played 
 only few hours so far.)
  
  The environment is looking cool and I really like explosions and seeing trees swinging for my bullets. 
 A lot of my scores came from look, it's so cool. But after you have played while, shoot & travel, 
 whole game feels so clumsy.
  
  I knew this is not made by Crytek anymore, still I waited something which get close Crysis, or 
 even goes further. In hands of Crytek, I would prefer this game a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VisMajorX
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Shame that this game, which thankfully touched on multiple subject material that has been completely 
 ignored not only by games but the world in general; war profiteering, strife in Africa and warlord 
 driven conflict is just so hollow of any real interesting gameplay. 50km square (50km2) of the 
 least that they could do. I'd like to believe that there may have been an effort at some point 
 to create an epic in here at some point (there are hints of making that attempt) but either they 
 had to deal with non-game playing management that said "This is good enough, lets get it to market." 
 or programers who knew better but figured that they had done enough and could ride on the coat 
 tail of the games title. I can't get in to every specific detail, and I won't nitpick about certain 
 objects not catching fire or anything like that. But I can compare what we expect from previous 
 releases with what we got from a title that should have delievered much more. 
  
  On the top layer, there should have been an ebb and flow of the war going on which you could assist 
 with by placing your own favored side (political reasons, or financial reasons perhaps with a bonus 
 for using the type of character roll you chose to play for example) in to the check points you 
 clear out at least for awhile, so you know that in some particular regions your only risk of attack 
 is by encountering a push from the other side. Being attacked by everyone everywhere is not only 
 annoying but senseless. Partial success in the game should be based on how much of an effect you 
 are having by being there in the war. Either doing or undoing charity work, and your gun play, 
 and it does not have to be static as of course other mercs are doing the opposite you are. So a 
 command post you may have held for the last couple of days, might have suddenly been lost to you 
 and too bad you didn't scout it before driving on in (or getting an update somehow for your GPS) 
 because driving through an enemy checkpoint should ALWAYS equal death. So instead of constantly 
 respawning checkpoints we could have had interesting strategy and a GOOD REASON to attack a certain 
 position. 50km2 and no strategy for moving through it - for shame. 
  
  Starting small, I understand that this can not be Crysis and for that matter I'm not a big fan 
 of Crysis (although I admit, its well done) but the lack of customisation of anything in this game 
 (the "manuals" are a very weak and uninspiring idea) and for that matter not really having any 
 idea about the difference between similar weapons is just so 1999. Why can I not have different 
 rocket warheads for the RPG-7 for different targets? Because of a well established game like Stalker 
 or Crysis, we expect to be able to get our firearms in different calibers, or ammo types, hell 
 even firing modes, my god a lack of single fire on the AR-16 who decided this wasn't important 
 enough to include? Mount or unmount scopes, add lasers for accuracy bonuses, and flashlights to 
 blind night enemies or just to see because there is no nightvision on anything in this game (besides 
 car headlights) and I know its "Africa" but I was sure it was modern day Africa and the lack of 
 tech (how about standard merc body armor instead of the silly health system) in this game is stunningly 
 ignorant. This game could easily have had an interesting firearm system similar to perhaps Stalker 
 but not nearly as detailed. Just a few variations per weapons and a few more weapons (specially 
 rifle types) would have gone a long way to giving this game what I call "depth". So we have yet 
 another aspect of the gameplay left completely devoid of extra effort compared to what we expect 
 these days from a title like this. 
  
  Could SOME of the roads in this "country" be paved? At least two major highways allowing some speedier 
 travel to some areas, not every road has to be a dirt and pot hole filled death trap, and while 
 I'm on that point the 'downtown' could have been a little bit more built up. Otherwise there is 
 no believability for a reason to fight over this "country". You can go on and on about the "giant 
 space to roam around in", except I see it the same way I see every aspect of this game and that 
 is that every small region inside the 50km is largely devoid of interesting terrain. I don't care 
 about what the vegitation looks like, I already said that I know that this can not be Crysis and 
 I don't care if its a little repetative, its the actual layout of the regions. If every 5km2 in 
 this game was an individual map from a game 6 years old or so I would almost applaud it. Remember 
 Vietcong, it was not completely linear like many games of its time, yet not a Sandbox (though nearly) 
 but yet it had far more variation in the structure of the landscape not only for its time, but 
 compared to this very similar game? So why is it so many are so excited about this vast and largely 
 empty and unimaginative total area? Again, even Stalker had more detail when it came to the majority 
 of its 'maps' and if you are not going to make a FPS with AT LEAST the depth of geography that 
 Stalker had, then please do not tell me to get excited about your empty 50km2 that I will be repeatedly 
 attacked inside with very little to hide me from the enemy. 
  
  Which brings me to cover and suppression. Medal of Honor, Rainbow Vegas, Brothers in Arms, Ghost 
 Recon.. and yet in THIS "GAME" you CAN NOT even LEAN LEFT OR RIGHT, never mind go in to an actual 
 'cover mode' and keep your head down until you have a chance to shoot back and kill. No, instead 
 this game leaves you mostly wide open and simply gives you a ton of health and multiple health 
 refils providing you can run away and duck from battle for a moment to use one (far too easy to 
 stay alive) not to mention your magic friend showing up to save you if you do die. What was the 
 last game you saw like this that did not allow you to lay down a smoke screen? After an AI takes 
 half my clip to his head, should he not perhaps put something between him and my line of fire so 
 as to survive and rethink his angle of attack? Can they not also carry two weapons as the player 
 does and use the best tool for the job, and not shoot randomly in my general direction when I have 
 found 'cover' (a ditch or a wall) and do not know where that sniper fire is coming from.. YET. 
 AI in Stalker didn't do that, and the AI in Crysis would swarm you if they knew where you were. 
 I can't quite remember the last time I saw AI that was this bad ("I heard something over here, 
 I shall predicably walk over to it!") and just looking to get killed ("I guess it was someone setting 
 a mine because I know I'm in pieces now." - not that the game contains claymores) . Again, not only 
 are the strategic elements this game should have contained missing, but the most simplistic tactical 
 elements are completely lacking as well yet on the other hand not really all that necessary because 
 the AI can't fight its way out of a wet paper bag. 
  
  The entire malaria thing should have been scrapped after a mission or two, it could have been an 
 interesting detail for SOME of the games length but either you get over it or decide that maybe 
 the Jackle will still be around after you've gotten some R&R. One of my 'buddies' (who always seem 
 to want something yet I haven't had much pay off yet) for a mission told me "These two are about 
 to ship serious drugs in to this country to get rich quick, but I WON'T LET THAT HAPPEN... could 
 you go kill the two for me? One at the north side of the 50km map other at the south." (people 
 in war torn evacuation swarmed by mercs and revolutionaries... CAN NOT AFFORD SERIOUS DRUGS) . 
 
  
  Never mind that many of the mission concepts are stupid in general or have you driving from one 
 part of the map to the other .. like there was nothing near by that could use some bullets. 
  
  For a VERY SERIOUS and LAUGHABLE example: You're at times running missions for the gun dealers 
 by attacking other supplier shipments.. yet, your main target in the game is a weapons dealer selling 
 arms to both sides, has it dawned on your character that the people you keep ambushing to 'unlock 
 weapons' for the local gun dealer MIGHT be able to get you close to the guy you came out to kill 
 in the first place? In fact, I bet that after I've killed everyone except the driver of that convoy 
 who I could question "Where did you pick up this shipment from?" that the guns and ammo in the 
 convoy MIGHT just come in handy, and I don't have to hand over diamonds for them either. I wiped 
 out the entire meat contingent of one of those convoys and yet my mission was not over until I 
 tossed a grenade at the supply truck itself... my jaw hit the floor. The level of any lack of attempt 
 at polish or game plot sense had finally struck me. 
  
  I haven't begun to nitpick and I said I wouldn't BUT (one thing) Automatic weapons do jam, but 
 this is NOT a well thought out system for portraying that aspect of combat. Weapons tend to last 
 for many more rounds than they do in this game; I should not have to pick up a new main battle 
 rifle every single day from my unlimited supply in the many available ammo depots because its become 
 worn out (even after getting the "upgrades" and a day only lasting 4 hours) . HOW does that make 
 ANY sense at all? 
  
  Here is a rethink of that entire concept, its simple; After a day or two of heavy fighting you 
 must go to the safe house and spend one hour (ish) for each weapon cleaning them to decrease the 
 chance of them jamming on you in combat. See? Time is spent having to clean your gear, kinda like 
 sleeping but a manditory passage of time.. interesting? I think so. And different weapons should 
 jam for reasons that weapons jam (prolonged firing - so you must not 'pray and spray' or risk a 
 jam when you finally need a clean shot) . They shouldn't jam up during basic use like controlled 
 burst firing of the G3. In fact, the G3 is very reliable.
  
  And if you really want to ANGER a PC game player, disallow them from binding an action to certain 
 keys (try kp_enter and see what happens) and bind to ONLY ONE SET of keys (every game should allow, 
 two binds for each action in addition to accepting gamepad inputs - period - not doing it is just 
 lazy) . Oh also, I found a hang-glider on a mountain and couldn't control it because its controls 
 (like the watch) were set to the default WSAD and not my own keypad layout as I discovered about 
 20 feet to my surprise (luck) from the opposite cliff face (it came to me because of the watch 
 controls) . 
  
  Its all these things which demonstrate a lack of even minor consern about the actual product and 
 I believe goes to prove that they has planned to ride on the name of the previous title and a few 
 gimicks in order to produce revenue (in fact I wouldn't be surprised if this was an existing work 
 in progress that just had the Far Cry name slapped on it to produce larger sales volume than if 
 it had been released under its origionally intended title) . I won't nit pick any further because 
 I've proven 3 major strikes against this game as it is (4 if you want to include the large amount 
 of obvious and deserved 'nitpicks') and they are all basic and important aspects of a game that 
 these days should mean death for the titles sales if found wanting. I suspect that after the additional 
 reviews about the reguarding the even more serious lack of any effort at multiplayer origionality 
 are released it will start to have a negitive effect on their income from this one. We can only 
 hope, or else they will continue to do this to gamers, (and soon we'll have to "just say no" to 
 one of their hopeful releases to protest the string of products which reveal a lack of respect 
 for the intellegence of their customers - just wait until that happens) . But unfortunetly its still 
 possible that this product could ride its title and single and seriously misrepresented gimick 
 (50km2 of nothing new at all) to another sequel of the same poor level of planning, design and 
 development in the areas of strategy, tactics, plot holes and flaws, and general interaction level 
 of many games you've already long forgotten about. In fact all this is, is a game with 10 year 
 old concepts and development thrown on to a pretty (barely as the visuals are a bit over hyped 
 as well) and vast empty landscape. And as I said thats a shame because this had much more potential 
 to 'revolutionize' gaming once again (in more ways than one) and just as it failed to deliver, 
 I believe I'm going to fail in my mission to kill the jackel (finishing the game) because I just 
 can not allow myself to be insulted by an obvious lack of effort on the part of the development 
 team and misrepresentation by the marketing division who I'm sure is putting in more work on this 
 product than the dev team ever did.
  
  I'm going to play a long game of Gears of War... been awhile.
  
  -VMX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Credit card in hand I waited with much eagerness to pay for my copy of FarCry 2 and be on my way 
 home to my powerful gaming computer and its SLI set up EVGA 8800GT cards. 
  
  After installing the game I sat back, maxed out my settings, and launched into the game. 
  
 
  After about two hours of game play I realized, much to my horror, that the game reminded me of 
 something. It reminded me of a game that was hyped to the max, had great looking graphics, but 
 really boring game play. Ring any bells? Well if your older than 12 you should recall Unreal. No 
 not Unreal Tournament, but Unreal the game. (The last game to actually have co-op game play, a 
 form of game play that aloud you and your friends to work together to play through the game.)
 
  
  FarCry 2 is a stunningly good looking game with a an incredible amount of frustration thrown in. 
 A game that benefits for many ideas but lacks substance. Where's the beef is a valid question with 
 this game. 
  
  I have fallen for hype before, to many times, and while this time I knew it wouldn't be, I was 
 wrong, it was the same. All hype, no substance.
  
  At least the map editor is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I was extremely excited when i bought this game, but after a couple hours of playing it, I quickly 
 lost interest.
  
  The good things about the game, are that it has great graphics, good physics, and very real wild 
 fire effects, huge map, lots of people to kill, and a very long story mode.
  
  However, while the game does offer extremely great visuals, lots of freedom, and a good selection 
 of weapons; the game lacks any kind of story/character development. The story is pretty flat, and 
 all you ever seem to do is go kill someone or blow something up. You waste most of your time driving 
 around to your next objective, and while your doing that you are constantly being ambushed, chased, 
 and shot at by local milita. It gets old and annoying really quick.
  
  Combat is also a real pain. Weapon accuracy is extremely crappy, unless you are aiming down your 
 sights, and even then it is still tricky. The bad guys can shoot like they are special forces snipers, 
 and they can also take like 5-10 shots to the chest and still be able to fight. I don't know about 
 you, but I've never heard of a person taking that many hits and is still able to keep running around, 
 let alone shoot a gun. 
  
  Vehicles in the game are also disappointing. There are only like 5 different cars, and 2 boats. 
 Also when being chased your enemies car is always faster than yours, even if your driving the same 
 car. They will speed up to like they are driving a Ferrari.
  
  While I hate to say this many bad things about the game, they are all true. For those of you who 
 haven't played the first far cry then you might find this game more pleasurable than i did. The 
 first game brought tons of variety in both gameplay sequences and combat styles. This game did 
 not live up to it's predecessor! Nonetheless it should provide some good entertainment for a while.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Eater
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Many might disagree with this review, and I must admit that I spent very little time playing this 
 game. But that is just it- the game fails to deliver what has been promising for so long, and I'm 
 unable to make myself continue playing. 
  
  My first surprise (and it is totally my fault for not keeping up with the news) was that this game 
 was published by Ubisoft! UBISOFT?!?! Wasn't the first game the flagship of Crytek? It was pretty 
 witty of Crytek of naming their games with CRY prefixes or suffixes (Far CRY, CRYsis - because 
 tey're CRYtek's babies) , so when Far CRY 2 was to come out I naturally expected it to be Crytek's 
 sequel. Where the heck does UBISOFT fit into this formula? Why didn't they give it some other name? 
 ANY other name!
  
  Anyway, when the initial shock passed, I sat down in my chair, set the graphics setting to maximum, 
 laid back, and expected my nVidia 280GTX do do it's magic. The opening sequence started, and a 
 nagging sensation creeped up. The graphics, while on the first glance look modern and nice, have 
 an incredibly cheap underlining feel. The opening is also so cliche that it should offend anyone 
 with half a brain, and age of 10 or more. And what's the deal with lightning out-of-the-blue blitzkrieg 
 malaria collapse? I thought it was a poison that someone slipped into the character's drink on 
 the plane, or something. But a malaria attack? -Weak.
  After that it just gets worse. The guy you were supposed to whack is standing over your helpless 
 body, he reads the papers (you are actually dumb enough to carry papers saying kill "this & this" 
 dude?!) that order you to eliminate him, and he just leaves you there. But wait! It gets better! 
 He even hands you a machete and a gun to start you off!!! What is he, an Idiot? If I was a bad-ass, 
 war profiteering scum, and someone had papers calling for my execution- I'd kill the bast**d on 
 the spot, and keep the papers for an easy cross-reference for whom I should eliminate next! GOD!!!
 
  
  Also, the first-person camera feels incredibly awkward. I constantly had a feeling that I needed 
 to lean back, in order to get a more natural perspective. Interaction with objects is also screwed-up. 
 It feels like you have to pick the object up with your mouth instead with your hands.
  
  This game is mediocre at best. It doesn't live up to the hype that was created around it. I doesn't 
 eve get close. So a generous 5 out of 10, from me, for this piece of junk game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwatchitall
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I have a few complaints about Far Cry 2, and to put this review into context, I just finished Crysis 
 Warhead, so I'm a little bored with Far Cry 2 all around from the get go, as nothing really compares 
 to Crysis. Far Cry 2 has no immediate exciting or intriguing hook to stay with it for an extended 
 period of time, and as such the overall experience becomes monotonous!
  
  Now to begin, my first beef is that you can't change the camera view of your character in a vehicle, 
 and that is very annoying, my suggestion would be to have 3rd person view made available. Getting 
 out of a vehicle is also very slow as they show your character moving in or out of a vehicle. Immediate 
 would be better. Once you go through an area and kill everyone off, if you have to back track through 
 that area there will be guys there again. There isn't enough customization of the controls overall. 
 Upgrading weapons is tedious and takes way too long. Being sick with malaria is very sporadic and 
 annoying and slows the game play down. Although the environment at the beginning is absolutely 
 immense and very beautiful, that in itself is a hang up for me, as there's very little diversity, 
 and everything eventually just feels the same after playing for hours on end. As well, the map 
 is weird, these random huts and houses all over the place, which don't make any logical sense for 
 being there. I haven't finished it, in fact I've only found about 10 diamonds so far, but being 
 an attention deficit adrenaline junkie, this game has already taken a back seat to many first person 
 shooter games I would consider outstanding, like Halo, Bioshock, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, 
 and everything Crysis. Maybe I need to put more hours in, but so far I'm completely frustrated 
 and constantly picking apart the weakeness asking why it isn't more like this game or that game, 
 which have given more attention to the overall gameplay to create a more fluid and exciting experience, 
 which Far Cry 2, simply does not measure up against.
  
  If you like the random, do it yourself missions, on a huge monotonous map with limited controls 
 for what will inevitably be hours on end, by all means play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tahir_Ahmad
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to ask a simple question from all those guys out there who say "Not the 
 one I expected !" about FarCry 2, please explain what you guys were expecting from this game ?
 
  
  Did UBISOFT not clearly mentioned what they are making ? Did they not released lots of trailers 
 for you ? so that you can see what actually they are making, and all those who say "No monster, 
 no fun". Did UBISOFT not clearly mentioned that their game is based on realistic approach and not 
 the monster shooting crap.
  
  I mean what happened to you guys ? where is your sense of judgement. All of you just start from 
 Crysis and end on Crysis, I think FarCry 2 is way better than Crysis and UBISOFT kept its promise 
 and developed a total unique FPS.
  
  And all those gamespot reviewers what happened to you ? Can you justify that 8.5 rating for this 
 game ? Is a little bit weak story such a big flaw that it dropped the rating of a great game from 
 10.0 to 8.5, come on its totally unacceptable.
  
  Okay, lets compare the story of Crysis with FarCry 2 in general, I think i don't need to tell you 
 about the story of Crysis, it brought the same old linear story of some high tech aliens invading 
 earth and mankind is fighting for survival, its so brief and easy to explain.
  
  Whereas FarCry 2 brings a new kind of non-linear story with twisting elements, decisions etc... 
 Where you are stuck between two rival factions and have to decide which side to choose and eventually 
 reach your goal of killing a person who is cause havok between these two factions, the story may 
 sound a little bit weak or empty because the scope of game itself is very big, but still I say 
 the story is good, realistic and acceptable.
  
  Lets discuss about Crysis: Warhead and its story, Crytek stressed that its a standalone title and 
 not an expansion pack of original Crysis, but if you see the single player campaign it is too short 
 that you cannot accept that its a standalone title, its a big letdown and gamespot still rated 
 it 9.0. One thing always kept me wondering in Crysis: Warhead, that Sergent Sykes a. k. a Phycho 
 was a total coward in original Crysis (Always throwing dirty work on Nomad) and in Warhead he became 
 such a brave heart, how so ? Did you not noticed this ?
  
  I agree that Crysis is no doubt a visual stunner but FarCry 2 has its edges over Crysis which I 
 will mention below:
  
  1) A new environment (Africa) . No more tropical islands Thanks to GOD.
  
  2) Realistic approach. 
 No high tech suit or other gadgets which makes you almost invincible and your enemies total idiots.
 
  
  3) Huge map, hence more options. 50 square kilometers of African landscape offering tons of different 
 environments.
  
  4) Lots of weapons and equipment (All real, no dream weapons) .
  
  5) Lots of missions and side quests (Like an RPG, but still action oriented like an FPS) .
  
 
  6) Real time day and night cycle (Both original crysis and warhead as well does not have this 
 great feature) .
  
  7) Perhaps the biggest plus point of FarCry 2 is even with such great graphics and large scale 
 map, it runs like beauty, even on mid-range gfx cards.
  
  8) Non-linear story.
  
  9) Dynamic weather and fire propagation.
  
  10) A totally new healing mechanism.
  
  These 
 are just few great features FarCry 2 has to offer, I am sure there are many other features as well 
 which you will notice when you play this wonderful game.
  
  Gamespot also mentioned that sometimes it becomes tedious to travel from one place to another in 
 FarCry 2, well I say its not a negative point, its a genuine problem with open ended or large scale 
 games. They cannot give you vehicle on every step.
  
  In the end I personally believe that UBISOFT did a commendable job by developing such a great FPS. 
 Crytek only brought a breakthrough in graphics but UBISOFT brought a breakthrough in FPS genre 
 itself. 
  
  Next time please judge the game properly before rating and reviewing it. I still cannot believe 
 a rating of 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GokuLive
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  FC1 was one of my all-time favorite FPSs. So, I could not wait for this game. After now playing 
 FC2 for several hours, I now know what made FC1 so much fun. I also realize why I am enormously 
 disappointed in FC2. 
  
  First, the good: The graphics and sound are as impressive as in FC1. You will find yourself wanting 
 to stop and look around for a while based on the visual beauty. The guns I've experienced so far 
 are also fun. And that's about all I think are really fun in the game. The nighttime thing is OK 
 and the flamethrower is cool, but not for long.
  
  The gameplay and lackluster story have me pretty disinterested in the game so far. There is no 
 "Jack Carver" in this game. The characters are somewhat boring to me and the story line is not 
 as engaging as FC1. That's what's bugging me. This game absolutely is not "Far Cry 2". That is 
 a total misnomer. It's really a TOTALLY different game altogether. Different gameplay. A different 
 style of combat. A totally different storyline, that frankly I find boring. In short, they did 
 a bait and switch on me, and I'm ticked off.
  
  It's like going to see Terminator 2 only to get the storyline of Minority Report. The two have 
 little in common other than they are both sci-fi movies with lots of action. Of course, T2 was 
 much better and more legendary IMO ... and so was FC1.
  
  DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS ONE. Save it for another game. It really, really pains me to say 
 this. But, I have to be honest. This game is a yawn so far. Rent it for XBOX or wait for the demo 
 first before you decide to buy it. You will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpfish
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Yes the game is broken, and on top of that it's not really all that special. The FOV/Widescreen 
 implementation is wrong. Don't even dare to question me on this, I'm a 3D programmer and I can 
 talk ALL day about why it's wrong and how it's a matter of 2 lines of code to 'correct it' so everyone 
 is happy. Basically it comes down to the projection matrices, the happy numbers that decide a camera's 
 field of view based on an aspect ratio.
  
  This isn't about who get's 'more', don't be so childish if that's what you think. This is about 
 ergonomics and physics. The effect of NOT changing the FOV to suit the aspect ratio of widescreen 
 monitors is that, in simple terms, you are playing the entire game as if you've half zoomed in 
 with a sniper rifle? no big deal you say? Ok well if you walked around in real life with your head 
 (eyes) aprox 1 foot in front of your body you'd start to feel sick pretty soon.
  
  On top of that it removes immersion as you are too aware of the uncomfy feeling and the closed 
 in view, you see less (yes even than normal monitors) but remeber in 4:3 your head is ON YOUR BODY 
 not a foot in front - that is the issue, not the more/less - that has always been like that for 
 WS users (more) and is completely correct as it suits the physical properties of the monitor.
 
  
  This is a technical review of the FOV of this game rather than the game itself, there are plenty 
 of other reviews for that kind of thing. This cheap hack/laziness/oversight for WS users simply 
 must stop. 
  
  Oh and as for the game, it's not even CLOSE to the awesomeness of Crysis, that does it well and 
 looks far better. More importantly it feels better and is free-er.
  
  This is a hybrid game which brings a shame to the far cry name (first game was great!)
  
  *** 
 Edit (Nov 08) having got an email telling me the obvious (that Crytek didn't make this game) I 
 felt compelled to add that I already know this fact into the end of my review. I know Crytek did 
 NOT make FC2 (which is obvious from how bad it is for one thing!) . I can EASILY compare #2 in a 
 game series to it's predecessor however (regardless of who made it) and hopefully, more intelligent 
 readers can see that as my reason for mentioning 'the first game'. I also use Crysis as an example 
 of a game that does do widescreen correctly out of the box (as do ALL modern valve games for example) . 
 And yeah I compare Crysis as it's been known for some time that these 2 games had a kind of tech 
 'rivalry' in their engines and ambitions (due in no small part to the previous history of FC being 
 a Crytek game) .
  
  The point is, FC2 is only a far cry game in name. It is NOT as good as the original either gameplay 
 wise or ergonomics wise. The fact that FC1 (developed by CRYTEK) got Widescreen support bang on 
 out of the box many years ago, and FC2 (NOT made by Crytek) got it so so wrong, just shows how 
 corners were cut on FC2 in other areas.
  
  Lastly for those who STILL insist that many PC games do not have 'widescreen problems' please take 
 some time to visit and research all you can on widescreengamingforum (dot com) and join those clever 
 folks like me who learned MANY years ago the difference the correct aspect ratio, projection matrices 
 and other small technical details can make to VERY important things like FOV (field of view) , in 
 turn, Immersion, ergonomics, pleasure and comfort can all suffer. If you don't 'get it' or see 
 the big deal then feel free to continue in ignorance, but please don't try and stop those of us 
 who keep banging on the developers doors trying to get this stuff fixed for the good of ALL game 
 players on ALL systems now and in the future. You are just slowing the process down and allowing 
 the devs and easy 'short cut' to mediocrity with your ignorance and uneducated acceptance of this 
 constant breaking of the 'laws of nature' concerning vision.
  
  LASTLY: As of time of writing, UBI themselves have acknowledged the problem (And unlike 2k and 
 Bioshock) do not seem to be trying to excuse it with fancy words like 'artistic vision') and are 
 already working on a patch.
  
  Also see this thread here for those who can't understand simple maths or what their own eyes are 
 telling them:
  
  http://forums. ubi. com/eve/forums? a=tpc&f=1521068375&m=6911036696&r=4421036696#4421036696
  
 
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Every time I start this game, and every hour I spend in it I keep thinking "This beats Crysis' 
 ass". Is only logical that I compare both of them, Crysis being the spiritual successor of Far 
 Cry and Far Cry 2 being it's direct sequel.
  
  So, let's see what makes Far Cry 2 so superior.
  
  If you read my review on Crysis, you'll 
 start seeing my main point on this one. While Crysis boasted "free form play", it was an incredibly 
 linear experience, with invisible walls, tunnel-like jungles and one or two objectives.
  
  Far Cry 2, however simply gives you 30 square miles of African territory. Period. No weird level 
 transitions (if you decide to drive around without using bus stops, everything is seamless) , no 
 funky obstacles, no sergeant to receive orders from. You are simply a mercenary with the mission 
 to kill "The Jackal". When you do it or how you do it is up to you.
  
  Given the sandbox style of this game (and the constant cell phone use) it could be called as a 
 First Person Grand Theft Auto 4. You drive a wide variety of vehicles, you go where you wanna go, 
 you do the missions you wanna do, and kill the people you want to kill. The buddy system will work 
 as a safety net if you die (like the hospitals on GTA) and they will provide with alternative takes 
 on the plot moving missions.
  
  Technically, I find this game superior to Crysis. Shadows are sharper and better defined, and the 
 lighting effects hand Crysis' toonish shaders ass in a plate. But the real winning point over Crysis 
 is how profficient they are. I can play Far Cry 2 on Ultra with DX10 on 1280x1024 without any hiccups 
 with a GeForce 8800GT and 2GB RAM DDR2. Try that with Crysis in the ice levels: good luck soldier.
 
  
  While the plot is terribly weak (kill Jackal) , is the gameplay mechanics and the utter freedom 
 you experience which will drag you and never let go. A must-buy for those who were disappointed 
 with Crysis (like me) and for those who enjoyed it (like most of you) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Please forgive the re-write, but I've been playing the game for a little longer since finishing 
 Fallout 3 and was hoping I could find a better perspective.
  
  I had great hopes for this game. I loved, loved the original Far Cry, even without a quick save 
 option and how brutally difficult the game could be in places, I found it to be both fun and immersive. 
 It was even quite long for a FPS, and even though it's a little long in the tooth so far as graphics 
 technology is concerned; it still looks pretty spectacular. I'd even play it again. As a matter 
 of fact, I'd rather play that 4 to 5 year old game over this supposed sequel.
  
  At first I was only slightly disappointed. I knew that the game was far from a sequel going in. 
 I haven't subscribed to Gamespot for nothing. I've been reading every article and watching many 
 game play videos since the game was announced. So I knew there was no Jack Carver, no Trigens, 
 or tropical island setting. But to have the only similarity to the original game being that the 
 melee weapon is the same does not make a game a true extention of a franchise. However, as I said, 
 I knew that going in, and from what I was reading and seeing prior to the game's launch, I couldn't 
 wait to play.
  
  So knowing what to expect, I am still very disappointed. I can't understand the critical reviews 
 for this title. MetaCritic average is at 86 as of this writing, with the lowest score being a 70. 
 This is what actually inspired this re-examination of the game. I put Far Cry 2 on the back burner 
 while I played Fallout 3. I purposely separated myself from the game so I could comeback with a 
 new outlook. I figured that, I must be letting my bias from the original game to cloud my judgement. 
 After giving this another 4 hours of mindless driving and shooting the same bad guys (who run out 
 of the middle of no where, and are pissed at you because ????) , I'm finished. I have no desire 
 to finish this game at all.
  
  The weapons always seem to feel like I'm moving them through water when I'm getting them to line 
 up on target. I'm not talking about poor graphical performance (the one place where the game actually 
 shines) , but just the aiming.
  
  The voice acting is so bad, I can't understand how any game company could release a game with such 
 sub-par vocals.
  
  The driving forever to get a quest / assignment is bad enough, but having to traverse that distance, 
 and fend off wave after wave of bad guys is intolerable. By the time you reach your destination 
 you don't want to play anymore.
  
  Even if this game wasn't called Far Cry 2 and was launched as a new title, it would have been a 
 disappointment, if it received the same pre-release publicity.
  
  So disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeymantjg
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun but the DRM and punk buster frustrate and twist my patients in companys that 
 put this garbage in an otherwise good title. 
  
  DRM first for me was spore DRM now farcry 2 this kinda garbage is turning me to have to crack my 
 own game which I payed money for. Front lines fuel of war was another ... games for windows yet 
 It game me errors saying you need to put original DVD in and I bought it from EBgames and returned 
 it got new DVD and still the same thing. now it is a coaster on my pile of game I buy every year. 
 it is this kinda garbage that is gonna ask these question ahead of time what kinda copy protection 
 is on this? Does the game have what is advertised on the box? is this broken for windows and not 
 games for windows and maybe next time I am not gonna buy that franchise who chooses to use this 
 DRM or copy intrusion software. UBI was talking about canceling some franchises I think it is gonna 
 be this one because no one intentionally frustrates player base as much as Garbage DRM and over 
 the top useless copy protection punk buster has problem but I see how it is needed yet it too is 
 driving me up the wall with vista 64 bit ultimate. 
  
  DRM, BuGs , and bad multiplayer browser make a good looking game look like trash. A beautiful hot 
 super model smoking crack on the runway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typoteus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Really mixed feelings... Jungle and nature graphics are amazing and game seems to be nicely optimized 
 for "older" machines too (C2Q6600/8800GTS640/2GB DDR2-800) but story seems kind of empty and total 
 lack of realistic gunfights (with some nice hit indications on people ... even source engine has 
 this!) dont impress.
  
  Though I really enjoy playing this arcade shooter, because theres so many great guns and routes 
 how you can approach every mission you are given.
  
  Diamond hunting is also fun.
  
  But I dont like to run/drive/boat so much...
  
  And why is there no visible bottom on those 
 mudpits when you are swimming under water?
  
  I really love those animations when dude takes a knife and takes bullets of from his skin! Thats 
 innovation and realism, though I would prefer them to stop bleeding and not give more health or 
 something more intelligent system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vesko37vesko
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  the game is incredible but something is wrong i have pretty good pc intel core 2 duo 2x3 ghz 3,5 
 gb ram and nvidia 8800 512 mb (i can run every game on max) but this one to play it with normal 
 frame rate i must put it on antialiasing 2x and resolution 800x640 and everything else on max ("ultra 
 high") , it still has awesome graphics.
  The graphics like i said are great, the gameplay also, sound and everything else also. I love that 
 i can choose the way to approach missions (i like both rambo and dragunov stiles) i love the vehicle 
 gameplay ,and the map creator, and pretty much everything else except that it's a bit frustrating 
 to have to cross the entire map for just a briefing (i know about the bus stops but still even with 
 them there are really long distances to be traveled, and maybe the story (the medicine missions 
 are all the same through the whole game) 
  Far cry 2 is a great game that i would recommend to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veteran_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  You start off as a passenger in the cab of a surprisingly optimistic cab driver. During the ride 
 to your hotel, he explains the situation in his country & you realize everything is deteriorating 
 in this chaotic environment. One more little detail, you've caught Malaria. Bahah.
  
  Let's start with the graphics since many compare this game to Crysis visually. Don't. While it 
 isn't as stunning visually, the game-play balances the difference between both games by a mile. 
 The sunsets look very nice, and the world textures are nothing to cough at. From the sand, rocky 
 mountain-sides, muddy surfaces & stretched out rivers with floating foliage debris here & there, 
 the graphics do the job of convincing you that you're (somewhere) in Africa. The particle, shader 
 & HDR effects could have been improved. From the Smoke, Rain... to the Desert Dunes (didn't notice 
 "heat waves" in the distance) , or swimming underwater... while believable, there is certainly no 
 -WOW- effect. Again, it doesn't affect game-play really, just a turn-off for eye-candy junkies. 
 The time of day is truly effective, while in other games such as Crysis (un-modded) , the time of 
 day was triggered by scripted events or mission objectives, in FC2 time just keeps on ticking freely 
 changing the weather & switching from day to night nicely. The bump maps for world and character 
 textures look good, without getting "blurry" when you get up close. The lighting in the game is 
 also very well done, interiors and exterior alike. 
  
  The single player campaign has 10 times the replay value of Crysis (A reminder NOT to compare these 
 games to each-other) . You won't beat FC2 in a day, unless you choose to starve yourself & purposely 
 stay awake, only taking breaks to use the bathroom or eat I suppose. The point is, it's a loooong 
 campaign, I cannot estimate how long it can take to beat, but I can assure you it's at LEAST 15 
 hours, possibly twice that amount if not played in a rush. The exploration & travel has a lot to 
 do with the time it takes though, that's a fact.
  
  The developers didn't really focus on character development or many other story details for the 
 handful of characters you can choose to be, which is everything from nationalized U. S. citizens, 
 to other foreign (to the U. S.) nationals. So other than different looking first-person hands, you 
 won't feel much of a difference except for alternate buddy (mercenary friends) dialogues & perhaps 
 slightly different approaches to mission objectives.
  
  The NPC's seem to talk rather quickly as well, which leads me to believe either MERCs speak extremely 
 fast taking slight breaths of air between sentences, or perhaps they wanted to save hard-disk space 
 for the full-installation by cutting dialogue short. The voice acting isn't bad, but it also isn't 
 top quality. You feel very rushed in conversations which makes you feel detached or isolated from 
 any kind of human interaction.
  
  The weapon sound effects are pretty solid, they sound good, and feel on-point, from UZI's to Sniper 
 Rifles, AK's & silenced pistols to the SPAS shotgun, you probably won't feel the need to search 
 for sound fx replacement mods.
  
  The NPC death sounds (arr.. arrrrgggghhgaaaa) can be a bit repetitive, I think they should have 
 included at least 10 different variables for death events, sometimes every other kill will trigger 
 the (arrr.... arrrggghaaaa) same death sound.
  
  The music isn't bad at all, but again, not much variety. When in combat, you get the tribal drum 
 styles, or tense violin score (reminds me of Tales from the Hood movie with the Dolls) , and during 
 exploration, you have occasional "Yeeeh yeeeeh aayaaaa" African singing style stingers similar 
 to the Main Menu music, but more intense. Again, they could throw in a few more tracks.
  
  Exploration can be a swift blow to the testicles at times, even with the fast travel, you tend 
 to lose motivation for a particular mission that require long journeys. It can become a chore after 
 hours of playing. Sometimes you just end up exploring for a while rather that heading straight 
 to the next mission briefing.
  
  The AI isn't very challenging, you will notice the easiest combat situations to get out of are 
 vehicle chases. You can either slide up to the vehicles Heavy MG, cutting the driver & his gunner 
 in half instantly, or you can jump out of your car and do the same. When you see a vehicle, it's 
 safe to say "that's 2 down" without much of a worry. Sometimes the ground troops are also clumsybut 
 don't get too comfortable, there's been quite a few times where I got surrounded, couldn't heal 
 myself & was forced to resort to spraying & praying before getting shot to death. There is also 
 wild-life running around in certain areas, which is very fun to run over in vehicles. I laughed 
 out loud (to myself) when a Zebra cross the road I was speeding on, running INTO my vehicle. Hahah.
 
  
  Something else I thought was really cool, was how second-hand weapons can jam on you, I found this 
 very very cool. Also, I love the fire system this engine uses. Although I found myself rarely using 
 Molotovs as a weapon (grenades are far more effective, mainly for vehicle fragging) , I love throwing 
 a Cock-tail into a grassy area. and watching it spread for pretty long distance, setting everything 
 in its way ablaze... from bushes to trees (or NPCS heh) .
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to anyone who is looking for some time to kill. While I 
 don't see myself playing this after I beat it the first time, it definitely can shave off quite 
 a few hours of your day, particularly useful if you're sick at home, bored out of your mind, or 
 avoiding friends or relatives. Haha, you know what I mean don'tcha? If you can relate to most of 
 what I've been saying, and find yourself agreeing with my review most of the Read, it's safe to 
 say while we won't really care for this title in a few months, it's one hell of a ride & definitely 
 worth playing.
  
  Thank you for reading, I hope you found this useful.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOJECT
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  My expectations for this game before it was released is as follows:
  
  One large sandbox environment filled with plenty of interesting characters and people to see, nonlinear 
 gameplay, entertaining story, interesting AI from the combat we've come to expect in FPS's to shooting 
 people in the leg and using them as enemy bate, destructable environments, and fun waepons.
  
  Some of what I just mentioned is in the game, but plenty is not. One of the biggest disappointers 
 was the lack of destructible environments. I was expecting Crysis level of destruction with the 
 addition of fire propagation for added fun. Instead the things you can destroy seem almost random. 
 All buildings are static fixtures with the exception of an occasional breakable boarded up window. 
 There appears to only be specific set pieces that cause the destruction of buildings which is far 
 from the level of destruction capable in Crysis.
  
  All that supposed impressive AI is actually nothing special if not worse than Crysis or other current 
 games. All that crap in the trailers showing the player shooting people in the foot and leaving 
 them bate is practically nonexistant.
  
  Furthermore the AI is mostly retarded. I've seen enemy get in a vehicle, drive it 20 feet into 
 a wall, make a few more attemps at the wall, and then give up and exit the vehicle.
  
  On top of these huge disappointments, there are a couple of other gameplay decisions that hurt 
 this game in many ways. Fortunately most of these can probably be fixed with a good fan-made mod.
 
  
  There is an awkward weapons system where you are allowed to hold one handgun, one assault rifle, 
 one heavy caliber rifle, one special rifle, and a special item. This sounds good right? Well for 
 some reason, sniper rifles and assault rifles are catagorized in the same spot so you may often 
 come into difficult situations where you have a handgun and a sniper rifle, but no decent mid or 
 close range weapon because you can't have an AK and a sniper rifle at the same time. But hey you 
 can have an RPG and Sniper Rifle at the same time! Makes a lot of sense right?
  
  Another problem that can easily be fixed with a mod is the map and scope. In order to use the scope, 
 you need to open your map and right click. The scope is terrible though because it only has one 
 zoom and its focus is extremely small because you are literally using a sniper rifle scope as a 
 makeshift scouting device.
  
  
  Finally my last complaint is about the lack of villagers in the game. The world of Farcry 2 feels 
 dead. The weather effects help a lot in emmersion and dynamic day/night, but aside from the random 
 Africa milia dude, there are no villagers whatsoever. There are literally decent-sized towns with 
 only a handful of bad guys, but no villagers.
  
  Farcry 2 is not the sequal to Farcry, but a halfbaked game that fails to deliver on its promises. 
 I recommend renting this if you really think it may be good. Don't be the unfortunate soul such 
 as myself who was tricked into buying this game only to discover it's crap!
  
  This is just my personal opinion, but I sort of pre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmtec
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Since i haven't played it that much , i only got to get a small glimpse of the action , of the 
 tremendous visual effects and gorgeous elements of the game ; i can say that this is not a disaster 
 as many thought it will be , considering the pressure of the release and all the fuss about it 
 being the best of the best.
  
  To be frank , This is not a masterpiece , i wouldn't say that. But on the other hand it tends to 
 show that not all sequels (though it hardly resembles a sequel) are disaster.
  
  To focus on what i started , this is Good Game , As i classified it It does grow on you , you are 
 stunned by the graphics and the visual agenda and i think i speak on behalf of the average FPS 
 player. Lots of possibilities and interactions.
  
  Another Thrilling experience provided by Ubisoft. Keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungiehalo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  My butt hurts? No, that is not a metaphor for this game sucking so bad it was if I was butt-raped 
 by it, but it is so GOOD that my butt hurts from sitting for so damn long! I have logged about 
 6 hours into it and am only 16% the way through. So in no way will I be done soon and my soar butt 
 will continue...
  
  I would first like to note that this is not your average FPS, like Halo or Half Life. It is not 
 always high intensity, linear action. It is instead slightly slower pace and with nearly no direct 
 way to do the many objectives that are given to you.
  
  You are given a huge environment to play in with tons of missions that never get old. Many different 
 aspects of the game keep the action unique and fun. My favorite part is the way you are free to 
 carry out your missions how ever you wish. You can either storm the post or snipe out enemies from 
 afar then troop in to finish off the stragglers. The latter of which I love.
  
  You have many different weapons to choose from and a very fair inventory set up. One thing I do 
 really like about this game is the amount of ammo you have. Lately games have usually had too much 
 ammo or too little. I find this game to be just right, like the third bowl of porridge.
  
  As for the technical (non-game play) side, it is gorgeous. The lighting, texturing, animation are 
 all superb. I have the graphics set at a medium-high range and it looks spectacular. Most notably 
 is the textures and lighting, despite the high-quality of the graphics, it still runs at a great 
 frame rate unlike some games... cough, Crysis, cough.
  
  This would have been an easy 10, but I only found one fault with it and that is the AI. While the 
 AI can be really, really good (supressing you, flanking you... all that good stuff) there are moments 
 where the AI really falls. But certainly not enough to ruin the game, just a few hicups here and 
 there.
  
  It was so hard to force myself to stop playing this game, but its 3am and I got classes tomorrow. 
 :)
  
  Once again, Ubisoft Montreal creates another classic. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_joseph93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Dude.... This Game Is Great! the only thing left is to the modders to mod it and the BAAAAAM!!! 
 it will be againt a Stalker SoC with Oblivion Lost... BAAAAAM! then that will rock our Socks Of 
 :D But it is sometimes to repetetive.... the creators could of add more varaity of Missions! and 
  ITS FREAKING AFRICA!!!!!!!..... and it could of ROCKED everything 
 but Atleast is complete this is just for the modders to save.
  
  ::D: D: D yeahhhhh FAR CRY 2 ROCKS!!! i love it bu sometimes it gets on my NERVES! :D
  
  Dude.... This 
 Game Is Great! the only thing left is to the modders to mod it and the BAAAAAM!!! it will be againt 
 a Stalker SoC with Oblivion Lost... BAAAAAM! then that will rock our Socks Of :D
  
  Dude.... This Game Is Great! the only thing left is to the modders to mod it and the BAAAAAM!!! 
 it will be againt a Stalker SoC with Oblivion Lost... BAAAAAM! then that will rock our Socks Of 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I started playing far cry expecting a crysis with more rpg elements, and that is about what Farcry 
 is. If you hate walking over the same areas, and schlepping about while traveling to missions- then 
 this game is not for you. Farcry 2 is more of a Stalker, less aim+shoot=win, and more about planning 
 your moves and observing your surroundings. The malaria really isnt a big part of the game, but 
 weapon age is. It is a nice touch having weapons that jam, and having them jam less often than 
 other games- it adds to the atmosphere. 
  The AI is great compared to crysis, and really awsome for sneaking up on encampments and planning 
 your attack; they are not stupid and can really hold their own- especially when you are dueling 
 snipers. The touted "forest fire" system is kind of sad until you really learn how to make the 
 fires- everything will go out almost instantly unless the material is explosive or the light dry 
 grass, and the fires never rage more than about 50x50 feet.
  
  sound: could use a little tuning with the volume and voice acting, but not bad.
  graphics: not 
 really revolutionary when I can play crysis on high, but they are nice enough to get me immersed 
 into the game. My game stuttered on my 2900XT every few seconds, but it turns out my hard drive 
 needed a defrag.
  
  
  Two features that I thought were mandatory in shooters these days: prone and leaning, are not in 
 the game.... why not?
  This is the only big problem I have with the game: why would you not have leaning and prone?!?! 
 prone makes everything better, and leaning is nice. Maybe they can patch it in or something....
 
  
  another thing I hate so far is night. Night in Farcry is ugly and no fun at all. Maybe it is just 
 me, but I expect out of games at night (seriously... play stalker)
  And the fact that all people I see out in the wild will shoot at me instead of attempting to charge 
 money for crossing is kind of sad, seeing that it could have added more to the game, another decision.
 
  
  
  On the whole, if you like games to lead your hand along and dont much care about the atmosphere, 
 this game is not for you. But, if you liked Bioshock, and thought it needed a better combat system (man 
 combat ruined that game for me) - then you should look into far cry.
  
  I have not played multiplayer, but I dont expect much from a 8v8 maximum teams-this is primarily 
 a one player game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dev-null
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  FarCry 2 as a game in its own right is reasonably fun, but it should not have had "FarCry" in the 
 title, because it is setting people up for disappointment. 
  
  FarCry (to start with) was exclusively a PC title at first, and it showed. FarCry 2 appears to 
 have focussed on the console market, and it also shows.
  
  While this game certainly has some of the nice features that FarCry did -- like dense foliage in 
 places, large gameplay areas, and a reasonably open world, it's also lacking things that FarCry 
 had.
  
  The first thing that's lacking is the game engine. The engine in use in FarCry 2 was not written 
 by CryTek (the developers of the original FarCry, and CrySis) . Some of the original code may have 
 been used, but it's mostly been rewritte -- and it shows. The graphics in this game are reasonably 
 good, but they lack the polish, the depth, and the obviously advanced technology that is so evident 
 in the CryTek engines. It makes it appear that the engine was written by developers attempting 
 to imitate what the CryTek engines do, but not quite succeeding.
  
  There are other differences as well. You can crouch, but there is no way to go prone. You cannot 
 lean left/right, so you cannot shoot around objects form behind cover. The weapons also do not 
 have multiple fire modes, so you're stuck with whatever the default fire mode (auto, single shot, 
 burst fire) is hard coded into the weapons. 
  
  Remapping the controls for the game is also a problem. For example if you remap the "Reload" key 
 to something -- for example backspace -- the in-game tutorials cannot detect it, and you end up 
 with a message on the screen saying something like "Press the key to change the scale of the map." 
 Or you can remap the "use" key from "e" to something else, but you end up getting stuck in things 
 like mounted machine guns (in vehicles or on the ground) until you press the "e" key, rather than 
 what you've mapped it to.
  
  There also feels like a distinct lack of available actions that you can customise the controls 
 for. The controls in this game seem more like the controls in RainBow 6: Vegas than the original 
 FarCry, or CrySis, and they're very obviously geared toward console gamepads.
  
  One final difference is that FarCry 2 appears to have unlimited quicksave capability, which significantly 
 reduces the difficulty level. On the original, you were forced to rely on auto-saves and a limited 
 number of quick-saves, and this added to the intensity of the game. Allowing unlimited quicksaves 
 at any time simply removes the element of risk and takes a lot of the tension out of the game.
 
  
  There are good points in this game, however. 
  
  The gameplay is fun, and can be quite action packed. 
  
  An enormous map allows you plenty 
 of room to move around and explore.
  
  While the graphics in the game are not up to the standard of those in games produced by CryTek, 
 they are quite good.
  
  On high to medium range hardware, the game runs fairly well at "High" level graphics settings and 
 generally averages between 30 - 35 FPS.
  
  The part of the game involving making contacts or acquiring "buddies" adds some interesting features 
 to the play.
  
  Armouries allow you unlimited replacements, once you've paid for particular type of weapon (depending 
 on personal preferences, this can be good or bad) . 
  
  Finally, the terrain is varied and interesting, and makes for a lot of fun to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The original Far Cry is perhaps my number one favorite FPS of all times. It came as lightning from 
 a blue sky, and made everyone shut up about labeling it a Doom clone, which was the trend back 
 then.
  
  What made Far Cry amazing was the huge open landscape, which allowed you complete your missions 
 in a variety of ways, with an AI smart enough to to cope with anything you threw at it. The beautiful 
 graphics was also extraordinary at the time, allowing you to enjoy the open world scenics as never 
 before.
  
  The graphics is indeed top of the line also in the successor, although even my 9800GX2 card struggled 
 at times despite the fact I adjusted the resolution down quite a lot from what I normally use in 
 games. You will certainly almost feel the intense heat from the African nature, and the artists 
 did a top notch job.
  
  But top of the line graphics is where the similarity ends for the most part, Far Cry 2 is much 
 more similar to Mercenaries than Far Cry when it comes to gameplay. Which should have been a good 
 thing, since Mercenaries is a great game (not talking about the sequel of course, which was quite 
 poor) . You choose missions as you wish, and are free to do anything in any order as you want. It 
 sounds good on paper.
  
  But, for some reason I cannot really put my finger on, I just cannot get myself to like Far Cry 
 2. I want to, but it just did not click.
  
  I'm not very sensitive about violence in games, but having to do surgery on yourself to heal up 
 just made me feel a bit sick. The AI is also very disappointing. From a range you can massacre 
 a bunch of guys, fill the rest with bullets, then seconds after see them return to their old positions 
 like nothing happened at all. And surely, there is a lot of traveling in the game. And even though 
 the game is advertised as you can play it any way you want, there are in fact a lot of natural 
 obstacles that keeps you from going certain places. You cannot climb over mountains for example, 
 which makes the game a bit closed down as this fact is used to control how you can attack an enemy.
 
  
  Some things are too realistic, like you starting out being seriously ill with malaria, having trouble 
 even running far without needing a rest. While others are just totally wrong, like the horrible 
 AI. It aims at being extremely realistic, yet falls a bit between two chairs. Trying too hard, 
 succeeding only at some of the things.
  
  Maybe it is just me. I think I am getting a bit tired of FPS games. Each one tries so hard to be 
 different, but in fact, the market is so so overcrowded now. I wish the big game companies could 
 start making something fresh, not just desperately try for new angles on old and used up formulas.
 
  
  I guess the game is not bad, but its not great. Bottom line is I felt bored after playing it for 
 a while. I think I would enjoy just walking around looking at the scenery just as much as actually 
 playing it, because the graphics is the part that is most unique and memorable. The rest is more 
 or less the same old routine, with no good story to drag you in and keep you playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelous211
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the graphics since it's the visuals that get your attention. For what its worth 
 it's not a bad looking game nor does it shine for a modern PC game aka console port. People try 
 to compare this to Crysis because first Far Cry was made by Crytek while this was not. No way does 
 the graphics compare to Crysis. It's not even in the same league. There are some performance issues 
 if you want to play this game in max detail with some kind of AA with a middle end gpu like 8800gt 
 but doable if you turn the AA down to 2x or lower resolution. Performs worse than COD4 while not 
 looking as good.
  
  Now to the game... I've played about 10 hours or so and I don't think I want to even finish the 
 game. You run around or drive to collect diamonds to buy guns. Take over safe houses to save games. 
 Kind of useless because you can F5 for quick save any part of the game you want. I guess that is 
 a console element. It's one huge map like GTA and you explore it but Ubisoft doesn't even imitate 
 it right. The game is very repetitive. Feels like I've already done this before with Mafia. 
  
  The plot and the acting is sub-par. You don't really feel like you are part of Far Cry 2 gaming 
 world. I really can't recommend this game considering there are many blockbuster titles coming 
 out very soon including GTA 4, Command and Conquer, NFS series, Fallout, etc.. I think you should 
 save your money and get one of the other titles and skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treesong
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Dunno what they were thinking when they made this and called it Far Cry 2.
  
  Far Cry was one of my all time favorite games, played it 3 times through which is unique for me.
 
  
  However, they seem to have taken all the cool stuff out of Far Cry for some reason. 
  
  Far Cry was all about the suspense of sneaking up on a camp or monster, and it had several 
 features that helped that suspense. Many of those features are gone now. 
  
  My gripes:
  
  1) No Binoculars with tiered 1-5x Superzoom; this was great for actually scouting the area. 
 a single 1 zoom-setting is lame and awkward for getting a good overview.
  
  2) No eavesdropping function of Binoculars; so cool to home in on the conversation of two enemy 
 soldiers.
  
  3) No registering of monsters and soldiers by Binoculars and thus
  
  4) No minimap where you can see the enemy homing in on you: this was both helpful and so very suspensefull.
 
  
  5) Rocketlauncher has just the single, weak zoom-setting: I sure hope the Snipergun has more then 
 1 setting and a lot stronger.... 
  
  6) Takes too many bullets to kill someone: boring and unsatisfactory.
  
  7) No prone function!!! Prone 
 was absolutely great for really sneaking up unto something. You went slow but it worked: you were 
 hard to spot and took much less damage. You could choose between crouch and prone and the balance 
 was great. 
  
  8) The colorpalette is boring: too many greys and browns (I know, its Africa and not a tropical island, 
 sigh) .
  
  9) The looking for Diamonds feature is just plain silly. I play FPS's to be engulfed in Action, 
 if I want to Collect stuff I start up one of my MMO's. 
  
  10) Re-spawning enemies. Umm, one of the things that a Single Player game has over your average 
 MMO is that you can actually impact the world. If I want to clear a camp of enemies, I want it 
 to stay cleared of enemies. Way to completely nullify any feeling of accomplishment! Very, very 
 unrewarding. 
  
  11) The enemy AI seems a lot worse then Far Cry1. I shoot someone and take cover in a building. 
 In Far Cry 1 you could be assured that they would find you, no matter if you were hiding on the 
 second floor. In Far Cry 2 they sure talk a lot but they have absolutely no clue where you are. 
 
  
  12) The "Malaria" story-angle: simply hating it. I felt like a shivering weakling 10 seconds into 
 the game. And now I have to take my pills on time. I guess I can take them together with my prostrate 
 medication. Really cool to be a "sick" hero. Whoever thought of this?
  
  13) I really miss the mutated monsters. I know this is a preference, but I have never been a true 
 fan of WW2 or other "realistic" shooters where you just fight soldiers and more soldiers and then 
 some harder soldiers, but still soldiers. Aaaah, that one level in Far Cry with the walkways in 
 the air and the monsters trying to run up that maze and get to you: so scary. 
  
  If you expect Far Cry 1 gameplay, you will be disappointed. Do not buy this game then! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  As a huge Far Cry and Crysis fan, i was looking forward to this. I watched some gameplay vids, 
 checked out a bunch of reviews and figured what the heck. Dont make the same mistake i made. While 
 this is by no means a terrible game, its just not all that fun. 
  
  Far Cry 1 and Crysis are better. Now that thats out of the way, heres my thoughts on this game.
 
  
  It does some good things, but some gimmicks and decent ideas cant hide the mediocrity here. I like 
 the bandaging stuff, pulling out bullets etc, but if this game was going for immersion/realism, 
 what happens to the bullet hole on my arm after i take out the bullet? It disappears. Not a big 
 deal, but its just one example.
  
  One of the major problems, as was stated in the reviews, i thought i could look past but wow, it 
 really sucks having to drive or, god forbid, run across miles of terrain just to get to a mission. 
 All along the way, you will either fight in pointless battles, enemies just respawn when you come 
 back anyway, or try to drive around them. If they shoot your car, you will now be driving slower, 
 unless you get out and repair it. This is all very time consuming and does nothing to advance the 
 game, but most importantly, its just not fun. I felt like i was at work playing this game today. 
 Searching for diamonds using the horrendous map is NOT FUN AT ALL.
  
  My biggest complaint with the game is, of course, the gameplay itself. The way you move, the way 
 you bring up your iron sights, it all just feels unpolished. The shooting is just meh. It takes 
 way too many bullets to kill someone, and your gun is going to jam, a lot, perhaps too much. Unless 
 you waste more of your life looking for diamonds and buy new ones (UGH, i want to blow **** up, 
 not treasure hunt) Muzzle flashes are very large and the lighting in the game makes it even harder 
 to see if you are actually putting the 10+ bullets into the enemy, unless you get a headshot.
 
  
  I did not finish this game because i know that theres not much thats going to change, and i can 
 get paid to do work at a job rather than sit behind a keyboard looking for diamonds and driving 
 around all day.
  
  Graphics are great, but outdone by Crysis (get a better computer if you disagree) .
  
  Sound 
 is excellent though, the music aint bad and the shotgun/grenades have great sound effects.
  
  In the end, Far Cry 2 delivers some cool new ideas like an open world, fire spreading the way 
 it does, bandaging etc, but it just goes so far with certain things that it becomes a 30 hour chore 
 to play this game ad it fails in executing. Crysis Warhead is a far more enjoyable experience, 
 regardless of its length. Short and sweet is better than long and monotonous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaburan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 9/10 - Superb Art Development
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - Addictive and Fun Mechanics 
  
  Design 9/10 - The maps and missions are on par.
  
  Sound 6/10 - Only because of the voice 
 acting. Marks would be higher if there were EAX and Stronger Audio support.
  
  Multiplayer 7/10 - Although not innovative as modern shooters, the MP aspect is still engaging 
 and fun.
  
  The main reason I loved the original FarCry was due to the freedom of movement. The ability to 
 take your take, on your own pace, and make the FPS experience more than just running and gunnin'. 
 Face it, i'm a competitive FPS player but I really love immersion, and content more than anything.
 
  
  FarCry 2 does exactly that with its large end open world system. The area of operations is anything 
 but small, and immense adventure lays in between your mission objectives, providing you with plenty 
 of hours of intense immersion and surrealistic gaming that slaps STALKER to a whole new dimension. 
 If you love to EXPLORE, TRAVEL, TAKE THE LONG ROUTE, FIND HIDDEN EASTER EGGS, and Combine those 
 into an action shooter with thrilling features, then you're sure to love FarCry 2. 
  
  The game is beautiful in terms of graphics. There are a few points however, I REALLY hope that 
 may be patched in or worked on.
  
  #1) Voice Acting - the voice acting is very subpar. Definitely needs work but it is a very nice 
 effect to be able to hear "muffled" discussions when you are inside a building and 'said' discussion 
 is outside. Sound is very important in the game, in order to aware the player of actions and events. 
 All other sounds are outstanding however, the music, the weapon sounds, Nature, Weather etc.)
 
  
  #2) No Civilians - If you come across anybody, have him in your sights because more than likely, 
 he's going to try and bloody kill you. Some civilians to immerse the player and identify friend 
 or foe would be excellent, such as in the Bus Stops or in Town. Or even random cars once in a while 
 with some civilians. 
  
  Those are my two major gripes, everything else overall more than makes up the experience and i'm 
 writing this in between my game time just to share my experience thus far to those who need that 
 "edge" to buy the game if they've considered. DRM Securom is an issue and problem that everyone 
 is moping about, but fact of the matter is... the game is good, and is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clayforHim648
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  In the first half hour/hour of play, I would probably have rated this game a 9.0 - 9.5. I was very 
 happy with the graphics, the opening cinematics grabbed my attention and I was excited to get into 
 the single player, multiplayer and map editor. The immersive quality seemed to be everything Ubisoft 
 said it was. I couldn't understand why people were so critical of the game.
  
  But after about 5-10 hours of play, I'm beginning to understand. As other reviewers have noted, 
 I think the biggest problem with this game is the fact that its cross-platform. For any seasoned 
 PC Gamer who has played good FPS's before, the controls in this game are going to feel sub-par. 
 One person correctly described it as "clunky" and that it feels like a console game. Sure, you 
 can tweek the controls for help, but its a long way from the solid controls in Half Life 2/CS: S, 
 Crysis or even the Call of Duty series. It really shows in the multiplayer when fast reactions 
 are a must. This is by far the biggest disappointment of the game. Bottom line:
  
  The GOOD: Solid graphics, great immersive qualities and innovative environmental features, vast 
 map to explore, plenty of things to blow up, extensive map editor
  
  The UGLY: Anticlimactic storyline, repetitive gameplay after a few hours, lackluster PC controls, 
 poor multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Before we start, Far Cry 2 has absolutely nothing to do with Far Cry for the PC, the Far Cry Instincts 
 series for the Xbox, or Far Cry Vengeance for the Wii. It is an entirely different gaming experience 
 with no connection in any way with the other titles except for the title itself.
  
  Rather than continue the adventures of Jack Carver in Pacific jungle islands filled with bizarre 
 monkey experiments, Ubisoft took the origins from Crytek and moved the franchise to an unnamed 
 African country torn by civil war, where you play as an unnamed mercenary.
  
  Your objective: to kill an arms dealer known as The Jackal. The one who sells weapons to both the 
 allies and enemies.
  
  To complete your objective, you must make friends and work your way to the top. You do this by 
 completing missions for other characters, which increase your reputation as well as enable you 
 to upgrade your weapons, abilities, etc. But while you make friends this way, you also make enemies 
 with opposing factions.
  
  Far Cry 2 is an open-ended game that doesn't force you to complete objectives on a clock, you can 
 complete them any time you wish, just as you can choose missions anytime you wish. In the meantime, 
 you are able to explore a lush African environment filled with savannas and jungles which really 
 feel alive.
  
  Populated within these environments are trees and plants that react to the player's touch. You 
 can throw grenades at plants and their explosions will accurately and realistically cause the plants 
 to deform. You can set trees on fire and watch the fire grow and catch onto the leaves, which will 
 incinerate to nothingness.
  
  And this extends to the man made environments, as well. You can blow up explosive barrels and watch 
 every object fly from the blow radius. The physics in this game are just amazing and fun to play 
 with. Even if you don't care about the story or the missions, the game is well worth getting for 
 playing with the physics alone.
  
  The environments are also very detailed, maybe not as detailed or realistic as Crysis, but still 
 quite amazing. Watch as the wind blows against the tall blades of grass and watch as they sway 
 back and forth. With the occasional sightings of grazing zebras, wildebeests, gazelles, and other 
 herbivores, and you have a sense of being alive in this world.
  
  The combat system of this game is also very complex, as are the tasks that you must do to stay 
 alive.
  
  For starters, the character you play as is diagnosed with malaria, and you must periodically pop 
 in pills to suppress the effects. When you run out, you need to go to the doctor or a priest. If 
 you are injured during a firefight, watch as your player actually pries out the bullets from his 
 wounds, wraps a bandage around them, and inject himself with a needle.
  
  And for the first time that I can recall in a first-person shooter, the guns that you fire can 
 jam and break -- something that you need to manually fix or even discard and replace. The vehicles 
 you drive are also subject to the same imperfections. Cars will break down, and the player must 
 actually pop open the hood and tighten up loose bolts on the engine with a socket wrench.
  
  Indeed, Far Cry 2 is a first-person shooter with a sense of reality that also manages not to 
 be frustrating. Far Cry 2 truly steps up a level in the first-person shooter genre.
  
  There is no sci-fi element to Far Cry 2 like its predecessors. No connection to its predecessors 
 whatsoever. Having said that, this is the game's biggest weakness.
  
  Despite innovative gameplay and stunning environments, Far Cry 2 should not be considered a Far 
 Cry game, but should be a different game entirely. I would have rather had Far Cry 2 continue the 
 adventures of protagonist Jack Carver in another campy sci-fi survival setting, maybe or maybe 
 not in the African savanna.
  
  There is so much beauty and amazement to behold in Far Cry 2, but the fact that it's even considered 
 in the Far Cry cannon is its biggest weakness. It should be a different game altogether. But regardless, 
 Far Cry 2 is a wonderful game on its own and worth the price as a standalone game franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timu080
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of far cry 2 back in middle 2008 was mixed reactions. one side of me sad that 
 with new story, new characters and new engine the same atmosphere that pulled me to the first game 
 will be gone.
  I'm glad to say that I was wrong the beautiful African scenery just took me by surprise. But I 
 have to say though the game looks really good is has some misfits for example a couple of times 
 I found myself In a gun battle when I shot the enemy he falls and starts to jumping and disappearing 
 all of a sudden (weird) but beside other minor problems like frame jumping or something else Far 
 cry 2 looks and sound fantastic 
  and unlike the GS review I disagree with the state that the story is thin the chase after the Jackal 
 is Thrilling stuff.
  
  In conclusion Far cry 2 Revolutionary aspects make him
  a FPS lovers a must buy game for this year
  
  Peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaran
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've played this game now for hours and all I can say is, I'm utterly disappointed.
  First I have to admit, I'm not the biggest of FPS fans out there and I mostly just play the big 
 names as Halo, Crysis, Call of Duty.
  Having played Far Cry years ago I was quite happy to see the real sequel finally hitting the stores.
 
  But the happiness faded fast, way too fast.
  In all games the single first thing happening is that you are introduced into the story.
  After 
 watching the intro my first thought was "Was that it?".
  Ah well, I thought that you probably just have to take a few steps on your own in the world and 
 the story introduction would continue, and so it did, but not at all how I expected it to.
  The story of this game is by far one of the most boring and uninteresting story's I've ever come 
 across in my gaming career (and believe me it's long) .
  And the story in a game is so VERY important, it's one the biggest things that really makes you 
 play through it all, even in the bad and most frustrating moments.
  Having a good, no a great story is a must have for every game that wants to appeal for people. 
 And sadly Far Cry 2 simply don't cut it, by a long way.
  
  Leaving the bad story behind me I went to discover some of the new elements of this game, like 
 the open environment and the fact that you can choose what to do next (Finally this is introduced 
 into a FPS) .
  The open environment isn't really that open though, after playing some hours you quickly discover 
 that all roads just leads to a small passing between mountains which forces you to take on a guard 
 post, EVERY time you want to pass it. The respawn time of those soldiers at the guard posts are 
 ridiculous, after going through the trouble of wiping a guard post you turn around and almost instantly 
 they respawn again, well maybe not instantly but still waaaay to fast.
  
  And then I come to the worst part of the game, the voice acting! I really don't know what the developers 
 thought when they put those voices into the game. First of all the voice actors are terrible, I've 
 come across maybe one or two voices I don't have any problem with but the rest of them is simply 
 awful. And usually I don't really care about the voice acting that much, I mean it's a game, it's 
 not the biggest deal if a few voices isn't great. But Far Cry 2 shows us how to NOT spend money 
 on voice actors. The manuscript is also really terrible, the sentences don't fit together and just 
 sounds misplaced, badly.
  
  BUT! Far Cry 2 does have some nice elements too, the idea of an open environment is really good, 
 though they didn't quite accomplish it. And the fact that you can choose your own next move is 
 really good/fun. But, making a game with such a freedom in what to do next, you have to think about 
 the quests not being repetitive. In Far Cry 2 you feel like you are doing the same thing again 
 and again, and then start over from the beginning. "Go to A and kill B, then return. And watch 
 out for the guard posts you HAVE to drive through."
  Therefore if you introduce a open quest system into a game you really should consider to put down 
 a lot of time into making the quests feel unique, and sadly that's not the case with Far Cry 2.
 
  
  The weapon system in the game is good though, with the the weapons jam and they break, adding a 
 feeling of reality that most games fail to deliver. (Thinking back at my time in the military when 
 you quite often had jamming weapons) .
  And there's a lot of weapons in the game which adds greatly to the feeling of having the ability 
 to choose your own way of killing and your own way of doing things. Not finding a new weapon every 
 two level and on the last level you find the biggest weapon of awesomeness and destruction! Which 
 is the case in most FPS games.
  
  The game feels unfinished and unpolished, if you consider buying the game my advice is, please 
 do try it for a few hours first at a friend or someone you know.
  The name and the hype of this game is quite fooling and the game does not the deliver what I thought 
 it would, by a long shot.
  Still it shines in some elements and I applaud for that but overall it's a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IS-F
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that has confirmed the hype and much more. This game has almost everything 
 you want from a FPS it has a big map that is waiting to be explored, a great variety of weapons 
 and it's fully loaded with action at every step. Al tough it lacks at some points like the nameles 
 and non talking character and the weak story it makes up for those things trough the great AI of 
 the enemyes that call for help the moment they hear gun shots and the variety of vehicles it offers 
 even if not very big those are the right cars for the location of the game, there even are licensed 
 cars like JEEP's that shows that the producer really wanted the game to be good. The graphics and 
 the great african setting in which the game takes place are another positive point of the game. 
 Maybe it's not perfect but it's worth more than 8.5. I say a 9/9.5 is the mark that this game should 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisher0065
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game with small flaws, but those small flaws really start to add up. First off, 
 im dont care much about a games graphics, but I must say Far Cry's are great. I also like the weapon 
 system and how the guns work and wear. I get a good feeling when I finally upgraded my weapons, 
 which has been a highlight of the game. Generally the game is good. But there are so many small 
 flaws, they really start to bug me and detract from the game. 
  
  For instance, why cant you interact with everything like in Crysis? Also, why are some things destructible 
 and others not, when both should clearly go sky high if hit by a rocket. The ability to jump in 
 the game would be cool if the guy could jump more than 6 inches. I tried to jump onto a rock ledge 
 LOWER THAN MY GUN BARREL, and couldnt make it. For a world class mercenary, he sure must have weak 
 legs! There was a diamond case behind a boarded up room, and the logical thing to do would be blow 
 it with a grenade. Did that, and it left 2 boards in place! After that, no matter how many grenades 
 I threw or how much I hacked at it with my machete, the boards wouldnt fall. I had to leave the 
 area and have the boards reload and try again. Thats another thing, how can I clear out an outpost, 
 leave, and two minutes later have it teeming with guards? The respawn time is absolutely rediculous. 
 And why oh why are all the sniper rifles in the primary weapon slot? I would think they should 
 be in the specials area. Maybe thats just my preference, but it probably annoys more ppl than just 
 me. As everyone else has said, the story so far has been very dry, but I haven't gotten very far 
 in the main plot.
  
  I am playing the PC version, using an Xbox360 controller. The game picked it up right away and 
 worked flawlessly, which is nice. BUT there is no way to change the controller layout in the PC 
 version, or to increase the joystick sensitivity! (I tried upping the mouse sensitivity, but that 
 change doesnt transfer to the controller) .
  
  I haven't gotten to trying multiplayer or the map editor, but Im sure they are fine. Overall the 
 game is moderately fun, but all the small hiccups that just seem wrong really take me out of the 
 game, and ruin their goal of total "immersion". I tried not to compare this game to Crysis, as 
 they are different games. But in most cases I would rather play Crysis than this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saitek1419
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  To sum up FarCry2 as simple as I can:
  
  Feels very much like a cheap console version of STALKER. It's fun don't get me wrong, but not what 
 I expected. STALKER has a brillant story, Farcry2 has a story?, STALKER has real gun model damage, 
 FarCry2 has well, 3 clips and your AK is rusting apart???. STALKER has hunger system, FarCry2 has 
 the FLU? huh?. STALKER has weapon upgrades and ones that make since. Again it's fun but just seems 
 like a very non atmospheric console version of STALKER. Play it but don't expect all that you have 
 heard over the past months, and if you have played SOC, or ClearSky well, sorry. You will be disappointed. 
 Just play and have fun with what we were given. This game has nothing to do with FarCry1 and should 
 not be named as such. Crytek should make the next installment after this butching of the IP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopchris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 takes gaming back to when there was more substance and less flash, yet they keep the 
 flash! Great game.
  
  This game is nothing like the all to familiar played out stories of Far Cry 1 and Crysis. This 
 game takes you into an open end world where you can practically do what you like. I find myself 
 running around taking out side missions more then playing the actual missions. This game kind of 
 reminds me of the approach that GTA takes, where you can do pretty much what you like. Yet, it 
 is set in Africa instead of a major metropolis. 
  
  Crysis was a lot of flash and little substance. The story is similar to any other modern game that 
 you would see out there. Far Cry 2 takes on a more realistic approach and I like the story much 
 better then Crysis. This game runs max settings flawlessly on my tri-fire 3870's, where Crysis 
 ran like crap. Therefore, I would give Far Cry 2 a 9.5 and Crysis a 5! I have never had more problems 
 with a game then with Crysis, yet Far Cry 2 takes a great looking game and makes it highly playable.
 
  
  Do yourself a favor and stop buying Cysis games and buy Far Cry 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quakedance
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Graphics: - 10
  
  Gotta say the graphics aren't just fantastic looking, the engine has been optimized really well 
 and runs smooth as butter on most medium to high end rigs...
  
  Sound: - 10
  
  From the realistic weopon sounds to the voice acting and creatures, it's similar to Bioshock's 
 amazing sound with an added punch...
  
  Gameplay: - 10
  
  It's actually kinda eerie and exciting at the same time. Really sets itself apart from average 
 fps here, it's got a style all of it's own...
  
  Value: - 10
  
  I can see how the maps and endless exploration facilities in Far Cry 2 could really leave even 
 the most critical linear critics speechless...
  Some of the maps are really immersive!!!
  Overall: - 10
  
  Just stunning!!! A game that won't dissapoint and leaves the gamer wanting 
 more. If you liked FC1, FC2 makes the cut :-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I just got this, played about 6-7 hours and just felt the urge to write a review. I can't believe 
 this is what you get after watching amazing trailers and hyped up screenshots.
  
  First of all, the game really does have that sandbox kind of feel. The very unpolished, rough around 
 the edges feel that really is not worth your money in the first place. I mean, the dialogue, the 
 map, the mouse movements, the story, everything is so terribly... BLAND that you'll keep thinking 
 you downloaded the demo instead of the real game. What on earth happened to this?
  
  The map is nothing but one big boring maze of dirt roads, guardposts and one pathetic little town 
 right in the middle. Its so boring I really dont get the point of driving all the way from one 
 corner to the other, especially when guardposts that you JUST cleared out are full of enemies once 
 again.
  
  The story is practically non existant. Somewhere in Africa you show up, mad as hell because you 
 can't stand the fact that this so called "Jackal" is selling weapons and causing wars. Oooooh so 
 exciting! so now lets just do a bunch of non related missions to find him!
  
  The graphics are honestly... not that great, they are nice and all don't get me wrong, but if you 
 can't design a proper landscape for those graphics to show off and make you go "ahhh" there really 
 is not point in them. But I've said a million times that I'm not a big fan of graphics so this 
 really is only the least of the flaws.
  
  Its cool that they wanted to put realism as the main aspect of the game, I mean, I'm all for guns 
 jamming in fps games, it just adds to the excitement, but when you have everything else thats just 
 so boring it really doesnt deliver that experience you would expect.
  
  So all in all, the game is average. The intent was great and its really a hit and miss game for 
 me. There are SOME things that they did incredibly well in this and different in a few ways, but 
 unfortunetly the bad and boring stuff outweighs the good. In the end, its you're call.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake_1222
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  so... what should I say about Far Cry 2...
  We all must admit that this is the best game that ever came out from Ubisoft.
  But that doesn't 
 mean that it hasn't got any cons.
  The campaign is good, although it's very hard...
  The story is... well there isn't any story at all... I mean the main objective in the game is to 
 kill an arms dealer called "The Jackal". You'll be working for a lot of factions that will pay 
 you in rough diamonds whitch you can use to buy weapons , upgrades etc.
  OK so let's talk about the realism in the game... First of all the weapons are unrealistic... All 
 weapons have the cartridge ejector/extractor on the left side which is really dull... oh and the 
 weapon ballistics are wrong also... I just can't understand the fact that the developers didn't 
 do a lot of research about the weapons nor the ballistics.
  If you're making a FPS the first thing you should do is to make realistic guns, and the textures 
 on the weapons are pretty bad and don't have anything to do with the weapons in real life (ex. 
 the MP5 doesn't have any markings on the firing mode selector, the AK-47 doesn't have realistic 
 wood grips and stock. The wood textures in general are nothing like in real live) I fired a lot 
 of guns in my life so i know what I'm talking about... The other thing that is unrealistic is when 
 the weapons start to rust and eventually explode... yeah go figure... I just hope that there will 
 be a mod that will make the guns more realistic.
  Now the game isn't bad when it comes to atmosphere... The developers built a very good world with 
 a lot of wild animals and a realistic vegetation.
  There's a lot of vehicles in the game: from jeeps, buggys, trucks to boats.
  Overall the game 
 is pretty good, but the weapons, and the storyline are the only things that are keeping the game 
 for reaching it's full potential...
  
  Pros: Awesome atmosphere, graphics and gameplay in general
  Cons: Unrealistic weapon models, ballistics 
 and textures, vegetation regeneration , AI
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtg246x
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  So far, I have only played about 4 hours total into the game, however the free form aspect of the 
 game combined with the intelligence of the AI. Make one amazing game so far. With almost zero loading 
 screens, this game take GTAIV to Africa. Performing a variety of tasks, cleaning out hostile guard 
 houses, to finding those diamonds hiding under the bridge. This game is not what anyone expected 
 at all. My ONLY complaint, is driving makes me a bit sick.
  
  The scenery is expansive and breath taking. The vehicles are great, but a bit flimsy and very purposeful. 
 The size of the playing
  
  This game should be game of the year, however it won't be, mainly because people were expecting 
 what the original Far Cry was. I really don't understand the complaints about the plot are, but 
 maybe I haven't played far enough in yet. But I'll update when I can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smogano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Game:
  
  Ok story, nice graphics, nice world. Feels like a mix between Stalker, GTA IV and Crysis. The driving 
 really feels good compared to games like half life 2. The game is so good that I will leave the 
 praising to other reviewers and complain a little... I don't like the fact that you can buy new 
 weapons that never jams but can never find them on dead enemies. You will never find an enemy with 
 one. So they use crappy guns yet when they attack you their guns never jams, have infinite ammo 
 and aims perfectly. Once you take the gun, there is only 15 ammo left and the gun can barely shoot 
 them without jamming.... I hate these kind of ultra fake situations, even if it's only a game!
 
  
  System requirements:
  
  I wonder what rig or graphic card is needed to run the game all maxed out... 1900*1200 Very nice 
 graphics even on very high. Really worth trying, running on very high on q9550 3gh quad core 1333 
 fsb 9800 gx2 4gb ddr3 1333 raid 0 2x raptor 150gb. I can't imagine the rig you need to play it 
 at the fullest... sad, like crysis, a game I will play again in 2 years to see what it really looked 
 like with the right rig ;) The game runs sluggish on ultra settings and above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scruto
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Wow, IMHO this game fails so hard.... Ok, good graphic (even if all is exaggeratedly and abnormally 
 shiny, from the leaf to the face and the clothings of the npcs) , good effects good animations, 
 but...... it seems to me to play "no one lives forever" with just a better graphic compartment. The 
 sad thing is that "no one lives forever" is a 2000 game, and it was (8 years ago) more and more 
 funny than this. I found FC2 gameplay pretty boring, flat, poor and too arcadeish. You can't change 
 the visuals on the vehicles, and without a 3rd person view is quite annoying to drive in the savana. Ok, 
 I can customize weapons, and then? The substance remain the same. Nothing to do with the amazing 
 first episode. I think that the only good thing is the map editor.
  Dear Ubisoft, if you plan to expand you console market, do it, but please, don't bore us PC users 
 with this kind of useless and flat games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassbomber20
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  [EDITED AFTER 20 hours of gameplay.]
  
  FarCry 2 takes place in war-torn African in a recently failed state that has just gone to pieces. 
 You play a Merc that's been hired to find an arms dealer named the Jackal. The game opens with 
 you just arriving in the country and you're on your way to your hotel. You get a little back-story 
 from the driver as you go and more-or-less a mini tour of one of the places you can go later in 
 the game. Once you arrive in town you have a brush in with Malaria and are bed ridden, and minutes 
 later see your target in your room examining your files then leaving you for dead after giving 
 you a stern warning to stay out of his way.
  
  From there the game eases you into some small tutorial missions, giving you an idea of the basics 
 of the controls and how things work in the game, like safe houses and buddy interaction etc., before 
 they truely kick you to the curb. After that, the entire world is unlocked for you to explore and 
 do as you wish.
  
  The buddy system is interesting, at first... I have never gotten to attatched to an in-game character 
 over the course of a few missions like I have in FC2. However it turns into a typical mission grind 
 with them and they don't actually "help you", they just say "hey try it this way, then ill have 
 to be bailed out by you at the end of it, cuz I'm worthless."
  
  The sound in FC2 is TOP NOTCH! No gun-shot-in-a-beer-can sounds here! Every single weapon actually 
 feels like it has power and kick to it, the addition of the punchy and loud reports add to the 
 experience. The Jam animations are amazingly well done! Your character will not merely tap their 
 gun to clear the jam, they'll wail away on it with their fist, shake it, give it a "wtf" look and 
 continue to try to force the shell clear (just remember to hit reload to speed the process up) . 
 The explosions are booming and reverberate through the valley and the enviromental audio is just 
 the icing on the cake. Driving your Jeep through the forest while in the opening of a storm is 
 just nuts, with the sound of the wind rushing through the trees, the leaves blowing in the wind 
 across the road and the haze that rolls in with the storm just really put you "there" and it sounds 
 un-godly wounderful on a nice 5.1 surround system! I am a bit disappointed with the lack of sound 
 options, only being able to adjust the master volume and turn music on/off is kinda lame. No options 
 to select speaker setups or any EAX effects etc.
  
  The graphics are nice to say the least. But where are the destructable enviroments that we were 
 promised??? Christ you cannot even destroy a metal shack with an RPG!
  
  
  I have no complaints about the controls. They are responsive (maybe overly responsive for a mouse 
 with 2000dpi) and can easily be re-bound to your liking. 
  
  While I'm now 20 hours into the game, I've found the title to be rather weak. They just cut-n-paste 
 the buddy grind for the second half, they still don't actually help you in any way or form other 
 to get your reputation up.
  
  For those of you that like to snipe, it is extremely satisfying to do, although I was a little 
 saddened that there is no bullet-drop or wind drift or gravity.
  
  Overall, I'm not all that impressed anymore with what UBI did with this title. I don't have any 
 bug complaints except that one bugged mission that I had to abandon my buddy on because it wouldnt 
 trigger.
  
  The multiplayer, can be fun at times... it mainly turns into a sniper-fest as the maps are rather 
 large. Vehicles are just a means to spawn-camp and some of the classes are rather useless.
  
  Overall, I'd rent it, but I'm really let down after playing half-way through the game. Whoever 
 said they'd have 50 hours of content was off their rocker, I've found over half of the diamond 
 cases and am into the second Act in the game and I'm already just shy of 50%... and those review 
 sites that said "100 hours" were clearly smoking crack.
  
  I was better off replaying Crysis... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  far cry 2 had massive hype, massive endorsment, and massive everything, it had the lot, some say 
 it might even have more hype then the australian election. you never know. far cry 2, as the title 
 says, is hard to say wat is bad, cause its so good an smooth.
  
  Good: well it is one hell of a good looker. the graphics when turned up to the max is great. It 
 looks like crysis, but not nearly. the tree distruction and everything is basically like crysis 
 but its still missing something from crysis. maybe the blowing up, i cant really put my finger 
 on it. when talking bout free form gamimg, now its going to be far cry 2 instead of stalker. this 
 game slaps stalker in the face and farts in its general direction. far cry is very very free form. 
 All guns feel very relistic, from the Ak-47 to the SCAR. Did i metion the graphics? The map editor 
 is extremly robust and you cant make almost endless things. Its not GTA but the range of vehicals 
 is huge, this is including the glider. The stealh system acctually works now, unlike crysis where 
 even if it was dark, AI could still see you a mile away. There are Jeep cars... WOW!!!
  
  Bad: Well the glider is basically usless in the day cause you will basically get shot down by the 
 time you get into the air. AI can see you through the grass after you start shooting??? after a 
 while, you start to wonder why there are so many patrols in the middle of the road. by the time 
 you bout half way through the game, you will be driving though at least 3 outposts on your way. 
 which gets very very piss annoying. Your car gets shot up quick cause of the stupid AI.
  
  All in all, far cry is a must buy for anyone who likes shooters in generel. but though get ready 
 to spend about 1/3 of the time driving around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brattis61
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  OK so taking a sick day from work so i could play a agem just because i got it a day before release 
 is probably not a good thing.... but it was well worth the pay i won't get for the days work, its 
 a very deep game... and unlike the last 20 odd games i've played, this one is hard... and i'm playing 
 it on easy! but its not hard in a bad way, its really very fun and not at all annoying if you die, 
 assuming you've saved recently, and the buddy system works well, although i was supprised the first 
 time i was being dragged into the bushes by a strange man while i was only semi concious and ON 
 FIRE! asside from that it is COMPLETELY addictive, i'm not sure but i think it would run well on 
 slow machines... then again, it may not, but if there was one game worth upgrading your system for 
 just so you could play it... it would be fallout 3... and this would fill the time between now and 
 when it comes out:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Right, i'll keep it short and simple, i'm one who thought FarCry 1 was the best FPS ever made when 
 everyone else was screaming Crysis (which was good anyway) .
  
  i'm running the game @ 1680x1050 with everything on Very High, DX10 and Vista64, pc is Q6600 and 
 4870 X2 2GB card with 8.10 + hotfix drivers.
  
  performance average is 55fps, lowest so far was 38fps during big explosions or some specific parts.
 
  
  1) Game looks beautiful, the slightly cartoonish feel to it is a welcome thing from all the ultra 
 realistic crap these days, also it's highly customizable and looks ace even @ Medium compared to 
 other games.
  
  2) Great meaty weapons and sound
  
  3) AI can be quite sad and crappy sometimes.
  
  4) Throwing a molotov and burning forests at 
 will and watching the fire spread is absolutely insane and one of FarCry2 best features, it's awesome.
 
  
  5) Animations are a bit mediocre compared to Crysis or F. E. A. R
  
  6) Vehicles are really nice and easy to drive, good feel to them too.
  
  7) Healing system 
 is epic!
  
  8) open ended game, i miss the Crysis Nanosuit. lol :-D
  
  Far Cry 2 is a blast to play, i won't compare it to Crysis cause Crysis was also a great game, 
 a few annoyances here and there but nothing major really.
  
  A MUST BUY :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OriginsOfRuin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say that I've been waiting for this game for a looong time. As a big fan of the first 
 Far Cry and of most good shooters in general (HL2 Episodes, CoD series, Crysis series, etc.) , this 
 type of game comes natural to me. So, to summarize, this game pushes the definition of a first-person 
 shooter, moving into unknown territory with most of it working and some of it not. It's still very 
 much worth your time, but be ready to give a LOT of it for the single-player.
  
  First, the good. The graphics are obviously stunning and the Ubisoft team did a great job of creating 
 an engine from scratch built specifically for this game. Explosions look amazing and watching the 
 rays of sunlight sift through the foliage creates a fragile beauty amongst bullets and chaos. It's 
 stunning that you can literally drive around the whole map (all 50 km2 or 31 m2) and not have a 
 load screen (though there is one if you take a bus from one location to four other options, five 
 total bus stops) . That alone helps create the feeling of immersion all the more. Also, the initial 
 load screen when you start the game up isn't that long either, maybe 20 seconds or so. The AI, 
 if you ask me, is pretty good. They do a decent job taking cover and they talk to each other a 
 lot about what's going on ("Where is he?", "Cover me, I'm reloading", "What the f*** do I do now?") . 
 It's difficult in an open world setting to have truly intelligent AI, but I'd have to say they're 
 much better than the Crysis AI. There seems to be more of a teamwork semblance to them. They can 
 also be quite aggressive, such as hopping into vehicles and chasing you down if you try and drive 
 past a check point. You also have the ability to actually sneak around a little bit. For example, 
 if you take cover behind something and somehow manage to sneak away, they'll still think you're 
 there, giving you the ability to flank them.
  
  The sound design is absolutely incredible. I've been waiting for a game where all of the guns actually 
 sound metallic and punchy (with realistic silencer sounds) and Far Cry 2 does all of it excellently. 
 The silenced MP5 actually sounds like a real silenced MP5 instead of the ever-so-common (and wimpy) 
 "pew" sound of a silenced gun (Crysis, Counter-Strike both failed in that regard) . In Far Cry 2, 
 it's more like a sharp "pfft". Sniper rifles also give off a satisfying CRACK when fired, made 
 even better by the headshot it creates. There's also a HUGE array of weapons in the game, though 
 the enemies generally stick to just a few (G3, shotgun, occasional sniper, AK47, and rarely, an 
 RPG) . However, that doesn't stop you from going to the gun store and helping the owner out by taking 
 out his competitor's shipment of new weapons.
  
  The level design and overall look and feel of the game is one of the best parts about it. You really 
 feel in the jungle playing it, right in the middle of a heated guerrilla conflict.
  
  Now, to the bad. Keep in mind, these aren't necessarily negatives as they are annoyances. First, 
 the voice-acting. For whatever reason, as most reviews have stated, the characters all talk extremely 
 fast, asking questions and immediately answering them or moving on. You just know Ubisoft could've 
 done better, but it almost feels purposeful, as though they didn't want to waste any time with 
 dialogue and keep you in the action. Also, the characters you come in contact with ONLY talk business 
 (or have so far, at least) , so it doesn't even seem as though they're a person, but rather, a plot 
 device or someone to give you an alternative way to complete a mission. Finally, traveling generally 
 takes a long time and you'll come across the same checkpoints over and over, each time with new 
 bad guys waiting to shoot you in the face. Even 1/5 of the way through, I'm getting tired of it, 
 though I'm also getting better at killing them more efficiently. Oh, and the bad guys also have 
 a LOT of health. It often takes 10+ bullets from your main automatic weapon to kill a guy, or one 
 well placed bullet to the skull. However, this does make it a bit more challenging, and I'd rather 
 have it be harder than easier.
  
  Missions can seem repetitive, since it's either an assassination, an intelligence find, or something 
 similar (forcing someone to do something they don't want to) . A cohesive story, at this point, 
 seems non-existent, since I have yet to receive any information about The Jackal other than two 
 cassette tapes I found. Hopefully the story will move along later on.
  
  I've also only met three buddies. I picked Warren as my character and my best buddy ended up being 
 Josip. He's been solid so far and we seem to make a good team. Marty's my lifesaver, occasionally 
 saving me from death. I also met Paul Ferenc, whom I've done one mission for so far. Keep in mind, 
 though, that I'm still only 1/5 of the way through, making the total game length (for me) 50 hours 
 or so. As anyway who's played an FPS before, that is INCREDIBLY long!
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is definitely a different kind of game. Because of both length and the ability 
 to upgrade weapons, how much ammo you carry, and repair skill, it has a lot of RPG elements to 
 it. However, it is definitely a shooter and a game based on giving you as many options as possible 
 to off someone. There were a lot of risks that Ubisoft took with this game and I feel it's truly 
 one of the first to embrace the "open world FPS". Crysis was said to do that, but honestly, I don't 
 think it did, especially in its 2nd half. While the missions often feel repetitive, it's only giving 
 you as many chances as possible to let you play the game as you choose and kill some more bad guys. 
 While I'm holding off on my judgment of the story, I will say that it hasn't gone anywhere so far. 
 However, in reading the reviews, it should pick up near the end, obviously, which I'm looking forward 
 to.
  
  Since gamers are so used to linear shooters, a game like Far Cry 2 seems out of place. However, 
 we need games like this by developers who aren't afraid to experiment and just see what works. 
 The good thing is, they have more than enough content to satisfy most gamers and they definitely 
 have an excellent foundation to build off of. But, anyone looking for a story that moves quickly 
 along and doesn't let you go will be sorely disappointed.
  
  In the end, Far Cry 2 will be remembered for both its engine and its balls. In the future, this 
 could be regarded as the game that started it all in the open world FPS genre. For now, though, 
 it'll have to be relegated to the 8.5-9 score range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrohazard39
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot going for it. Great graphics, best immersion in a FPS, real time fire effects, 
 and more. Some of the only things that could make this better is if it had all the buildings like 
 in crysis. Some of the buildings break apart but not the way crysis did it. you can often find 
 yourself ramming into a thin fence with a truck and coming to a dead stop. something i really like 
 about the game is that the weapons can jam during fire fights and you needing to dive for cover 
 while you unjam it. But my favorite thing that far cry brings to the table is the way you heal. 
 You get these great gore shots of you pushing a piece of shrapnel through the other side of your 
 arm. The only problem with healing is that it takes a while to do and if you get shot while doing 
 it you stop completely and need to start over again. The default keyboard set up is a little odd 
 but you can easily change that. this is not nearly as much of a system hog as crysis is so you 
 don't need a God Rig to run it on high. The only replay value is that you can play as different 
 avatars but other than that I didn't notice any. The map editor is great and with it you can make 
 any type of map you want and even make your version of maps from other games like halo and COD4. 
 I would give this game a BUY because it is so addictive and the multilayer is fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blade55555
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  So you start off in a jeep with a guy. He's driving and he talks and all that fun stuff. So then 
 you end up getting maleria and black out (or white out when you see white when your out of it :P) . 
 It turns out the Jackal now has you and can do whatever he wishes. As to not spoil to much he lets 
 you go obviosily. Then combat starts and you have to get out. I died and ended up starting in this 
 place and taking on a mission.
  
  So After you do all the tutorial stuff your pretty much free to do whatever. You can explore whatever 
 you want and pretty much do what you wish. I personally like doing quests so I'v been doing that. 
 Graphics are good (no not as good as crysis but still good non the less) . Its fun to use your flamethrower 
 and burn stuff. The AI is actually not to bad they know what their doing it seems. 
  
  Sometimes I can't find out where their shooting me but thats all fine :P. Its cool the way you 
 heal yourself sometimes taking crap out of you or all that its really sweet if you ask me.
  
  Vehicles are pretty fun its nice to know the AI will actually chase you rather then let you 
 run away and thats a cool thing so may want to be sneaky.
  
  Its really easy to get the controls down the only thing I found annoying was how when you right 
 click to aim you have to hold it to keep it there. So I ended up changing the key to V makes it 
 easiar so I can shoot.
  
  Overall the campaign will last you at least 30 hours from what i'v heard and its great fun to burn 
 things, blow things up, and shoot people. There is of course the few stupid AI but thats all fine.
 
  
  1 cool feature I like is when you buy guns it goes into a storage and you can get it whenever you 
 want you have unlimited of that kind of gun you buy and all kinds of guns you buy. Doesn't jam 
 for awhile either as its brand new I'd try to keep your new gun as long as possible before switching 
 out otherwize they always jam fast.
  
  Another cool feature is when your buddies save you thats really cool to me. Great fun when you 
 die and then you realize your buddies are there makes me happy!
  
  Overall I give this a 9.3 out of 10 (won't let me put 9.3 only 9 or 9.5) . I'd recommend it if you 
 like singleplayer if you only want it for multiplayer I recommend avoiding it as its not that great 
 in my opinoin. Hope this review helped you in your Decision in buying this game or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainerj2006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for about 9 hours now. I must say that I really like it. Its a bit 
 of a hassle to be driving for 10-20 minutes at a time to get to where a mission is taking place. 
 Strangely enough one mission disappeared when I chose another one at the same time. The Graphics 
 are amazing. Much better than Crysis, which I also played and finished (+ Warhead) . Its FAST / 
 has very little errors and really makes you feel like being part of a real world. I hope that the 
 multiplayer is just as great. I wish that the camps would have been thought of better, and not 
 the same old same old, when one takes over a place. The Diamond as money idea is great, but sometimes 
 a little bit tooooooo hard to find. I hope that there will be more fun as I get more and more involved 
 in the game. I really wish that one could call on the buddies easier, and maybe have more than 
 just one at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sloppyrob
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game as well, Although not as solid as crysis, it has some new interesting 
 features like being able to see the player reaching for things and healing himself. The graphics 
 are also pretty with a lot of detail. At first I was worried that I would have to run all over 
 the place (which would have been lame and I probably would have stopped playing) . The vehicles 
 are a nice touch. I'm not a fan of the map though.. it gets in the way of your view if you are 
 standing still. Overall, its seems fairly enjoyable.
  
  I've only played through the first section of the game so my opinion might change then. But I think 
 I'll have some fun playing this game for sure.
  
  
  -Sloppy
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackB835
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, I think this game is in need of some kind of patch (can be said of all games when first 
 released) but this game reminds me of a cross between Vampire Masquerade: Bloodlines, Elder Scrolls 
 Oblivion, and Fear.
  
  I think the main thing wrong with this game is that it was so severely over-hyped in almost every 
 way possible. I waited months for this game, and was kind of disappointed. I quit playing for tonight 
 after 3 hours, and left feeling apathetic instead of wanting to keep playing.
  
  Perhaps it was the lousy story or the even worse voice acting or the bland graphics (the game really 
 does look like a cross between oblivion and bloodlines than a game like crysis or even armed assault) .
 
  
  Controls are clunky at best, do yourself a favor and search the forums early on how to fix it. 
 Ai isn't nearly what it was hyped to be (and that's even on the hard setting) . Again, patches are 
 needed and then i believe this game will be better received.
  
  All in all, there is something missing from this game and i cannot quite explain what it is, just 
 that there is 'something'. I would expect this game to be around 30 bucks by January it is just 
 that mediocre. 
  
  Maybe its the fact that you're a silent character, i do miss the smart-assed remarks that made 
 far cry more immersing than others of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcvax2003
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review to warn prospective buyers from purchasing this game. Of course this is 
 just my opinion, but I know there are plenty of people with similar expectations as my own who 
 should be warned against playing this game. 
  
  Simply put, PC gamers who have played Crysis will be disappointed as this is a console game with 
 many flaws. Specifically, the controls are clunky, the graphics are mediocre considering the hype, 
 and last and most importantly, the multiplayer consists of the asinine, console-like matchmaking 
 system. If you were expecting an upgrade over Crysis in terms of storyline, gameplay, and multiplayer, 
 again, you will certainly be disappointed. 
  
  Pros:
  -Open-ended design is an excellent idea and more games should expand on this potential.
  -Weapon 
 variety and sound effects are top notch.
  -AI seems well done compared to most games.
  
  Cons:
  -Graphics on the highest settings are still bland compared to the hype and expectations. 
 (ex: The incredible fire effects I've heard about don't look nearly as good or realistic as I expected. 
 The fire effects are also completely arbitrary. The grass will burn, but the wooden crate next 
 to it won't?)
  -------------
  -The story is practically non-existent and the voice acting is monotonic and bland. Further, the 
 missions are not innovative and the game relies on the "go there and kill things" type the entire 
 game.
  -------------
  -The gameplay is simply not fun. As mentioned before, the controls are jerky and appear to be designed 
 for console play. This is, however, a minor issue that I'm sure most people would become accustomed 
 to. 
  
  There are some major problems though. For example, there is no way to go prone in the game. I'm 
 not sure how a realistic shooter can forgo putting in this option. Another issue with the gameplay 
 is map system and travel. Considering the amount of traveling one must do in incredibly unrealistic 
 toy vehicles, they really should have given us a simple map system rather than the convoluted updating 
 "paper" map pretending to provide a realistic experience. Third, the weapon damage is way too low. 
 It is similar to Crysis in that it can sometimes take 15 bullets to take someone out. How realistic. 
 Further, the amount of jamming in the game is mindblowing. I need to unjam a weapon at least one 
 time per clip.
  
  Finally (although I'm sure if I spent more time with this review I could come up with other negatives) , 
 whoever created the running ability in this game should never be allowed to design games ever again. 
 Yes, I get it, I have malaria, but I really don't think everything should be going fuzzy after 
 running every 3 seconds. A little variety and unpredictability with the symptoms would have been 
 nice.
  ---------------
  -The biggest problem with the game in my opinion is in the multiplayer design. No PC game should 
 have a console like matchmaking system. Pathetic. You also cannot join a match midgame, so it can 
 take 20 minutes to get into a game.
  
  To conclude, this game will be frustrating and boring to anyone expecting a game on par or an upgrade 
 from Crysis. If you were also expecting a great multiplayer experience, you will be sadly disappointed. 
 I give the game a 5.5. (In comparison, I would have given Crysis an 8.5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ME_BOT
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow, it's hard to believe .. this game really sucks ... too bad though, oh well, gaming does go on. 
 It's a poor mans Crysis at best. I guess that's why it will get a high score on the console side 
 because a lot of them couldn't play Crysis and Warhead. Hunting for the diamonds is a real joke 
 and the map in front of your face is a truly announcing feature as well. You will spend more time 
 traveling around than doing anything else and relying on that stupid map. Why is there no mini 
 map .that one is beyond me. Like, who writes this Sh*t anyway?? This is a bit of a sleeper after 
 awhile and a lot of repetitive play outs happen in this land. The fire and explosions don't really 
 look that good and the way the guns jam up is such a bad idea who thought that one up in the board 
 room???? The vegetation seems to be really weak as well but the rocks are all right.
  
  What a total let down.
  
  Oh ya One last thing that malaria idea was pretty bad as well. 
 Taking pills thought the game give me a break man.
  
  Cloak engaged !!! now back to a real shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapman86
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  
  
  PROS:
  
  Decent graphic, Nice fire burning, and physics.
  
  
  CONS:
  
  Very repetitive. I spent 30 minutes killing the guys at the APR camp, and they all respawned 3 
 minutes later...
  
  Stupid AI, AI hides behind the wall and shoot at the wall. 
  
  Dull voice acting... especially the one who does the african woman (your first buddy) .
  
  No 
 minimap, well, you have to take out the "magical" map which comes out with the diamond detector.
 
  Unfortunately, you cannot take each at a time, searching diamond box is a hassel becuase of this 
 stupid map covering 3/4 of your screen.
  
  Ubisoft advertised 100 hours of gameplay!
  They didnt lie. It takes 5-10 minutes being in a vehicle to move from one location from another.
 
  
  There are some graphical technical issues. and I get screen mimized at random.
  
  
  
  I only got to play multiplayer for about 15 minutes, but there arent many players at the moment.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grynnan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  
  As I said, as a sequel, seems far fetched. Everything is new, why did they even name it FarCry2?
 
  Oh, yes, there might be a character from FarCry around..
  But that's it. No "Neckless mutated ber monkey with rocketlauncher-implants" in FarCry2.
  And 
 seriously, I don't really miss that guy so much.
  
  This game is more like Just Cause than FarCry.
  -With one hell of a graphic! Well, everything 
 is better than Just Cause, but some times, it feels like Ubisoft used Edios old script.... What 
 will Just Cause2 feel like.. FarCry?
  
  None the less, this is an extremely good game! I do love it!
  
  The rig I used:
  Motherboard: 
 MSI P7N Sli Platinum
  Memory: Corsair XMS2 800MHz @ 4-4-4-12
  Processor: Intel C2D E8500 @ Stock
  Graphic: Asus 8800 GTS 512MB
  HDD: Samsung F1 500GB
  
 OS: Win XP SP3
  Latest whql drivers. (aod)
  
  Full setting @ 1280x1024
  ~42fps
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPGAssault
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I was really dying to get a hold of this game seeing all those awesome trailers. So i went to best 
 buy the day it came out and bought it. When i got home i was eager to fire it up and play this 
 'ground-breaking' game. the graphics were everything i had hoped for since i have a powerful rig, 
 but the gameplay does not feel satisfying at all. the enemy ai a lot of the times seem stupid and 
 forget about me. The game is also pretty easy, theres not many times where you'll actually get 
 killed by enemy gunfire unless you walk right into the camp and ramboing it. the flamethrower seems 
 kind of weird... stuff doesnt burn that much and it doesnt feel satisfying... there are also a 
 lot of other minor annoyances. at first i sorta shrugged them off like "oh its pretty minor this 
 game still owns!" but these things start to pile up and become hard to ignore. The "immersive" 
 animations end up being kind of stupid. its trying to be realistic by making you actually fix up 
 your wounds as opposed to "eating" a medic kit... but... since when do you just pull a bullet and 
 leave the hole... then the hole just dissapears right after you switch a weapon? (i think someone 
 has mentioned this before) This reminds me of those cartoons i used to watch as a kid where a guy 
 gets blown up and hes all black from the blast then a frame later hes good as new... its kinda 
 funny and sad at the same time.... Also, the guns jam too much. Guns aren't THAT unreliable. The 
 game also gets repetitive after a while. It doesn't give you too much initiative to explore the 
 beautiful landscape in the game after youve tried out all the weapons. This game really feels like 
 a sandbox kind of game. Although crysis may be a bit boring, but at least it's graphics are revolutionary. 
 Far cry 2's aren't though. Don't get me wrong, theyre still great, but it dosent really impress 
 me after i've played crysis on max. Far cry 2 has a lot of good ideas, but fails to deliver. Still 
 worth a try though. Overall, a letdown. At least RA3 and Fallout 3 are coming out soon and it can 
 ease my dissapointment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  This is the best war game i have ever played, cinematic story of this game is superb. Every gamer 
 should try this game... I am sure you will not uninstall this game without completing it..
  
  Graphics is also great. It runs fine on my x1950 .
  Intro of the game is like a Hollywood 
 movie.
  
  Each level has some thing different that u will enjoy. The enjoyed the level where we attach from 
 the flight.
  
  The climax of the game will be in ur mind for a long time.
  
  I think even COD: World of War will not be up to this.
  
  Just Rocks, A must play game. Each 
 level has some thing different that u will enjoy.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is developed by Infinity Ward. i am waiting for the next Call of 
 Duty series (i think COD 6) developed by the same Infinity Ward. There are many new weapons that 
 u can try. As a final say if u haven't tried it yet try it today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecno13
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  So I fire up This game expecting it to be a single player experience that I shall never forget... 
 Sadly the game falls on its face. As far as mechanic go the game works just fine. the visuals are 
 pretty good nothing mind blowing though. Considering I just got done playing warhead and liked 
 it. This game can't compare visually..... 
  
  But the overall need to succeed is absent. I have no desire to look for the jackal, no desire to 
 upgrade my guns or to Drive through a massive level of repeating models (trees rocks and houses 
 use the same 10 or so models) . No desire to hunt for diamonds as if I am playing Zelda looking 
 for rupees or something. 
  
  Most of the games revolutionary "lets stay in the player" animations are boring and don't make 
 sense..... I need health so I inject my self? I have a bullet in my arm so I just pull it out and 
 leave the hole. Only to have the hole gone as soon as I change my weapon. My gun breaks down after 
 only 100 rounds or so? Things like this make it seem... well.... tedious and not fun. And since 
 when can I not shoot a tire on a car to flatten it? or since when does a wooden house not catch 
 fire? but the grass around it does... or the tree right next to the grass..... 
  
  If you are going to make a realism rpg style game... then make a realism rpg style game... instead 
 of half a**ing the concept as shown here..... And where the heck is jack from fc 1? No aliens? 
 Boring.
  
  Conclusion.
  Look, I understand how the game shines. But from what I should expect from this game I feel I am 
 not getting. So 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShortCutToHell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Realism is the main feature of this game. This game is something like Boiling 
 Point - road to HELL or the up comming title WhiteGold. Weapons: There are lots of weapons in this 
 game. But no customizable weapons like in Crysis. You have the right weapon for the right job. 
 AI: One of the best AI that I ever seen. I like especially when you injure an enemy and another 
 one comes to save him and takes him to cover. Vehicles: Lots of vehicles. Anyway I like FarCry2 
 more than Crysis. Landscape: Reality. You can go wherever you want when you want withount restrictions. 
 You can destroy whatever you want. It's cool, cool, cool. I say one of the best games of the 2008. 
 9.5 from me for this game. The battle between Ubi and EA begins: We have Crysis 0 - FarCry 1 in 
 my opinion. Reality, revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neomatrix248
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  Simply a must have for any fps'er. The game looks and feels just like that "perfect fps" you all 
 have invisioned in your head. It's almost completely cinematic, with as little HUD interaction 
 as possible. The environments are realistic, and at no point scream out "this is a video game". 
 The story line is great, but somewhat small-scale (you wont be saving the world, but that's not 
 necessarily a bad thing) . Runs great for the visuals that you get in return. I highly recommend 
 this to anyone who remotely likes blowing stuff up. The only thing I would have to say that is 
 bad about it is that it doesn't have anything to do with Far Cry, so calling it Far Cry 2 doesn't 
 really make sense. This game will entertain you for many hours. Even after you beat it, you can 
 play it again with a different play style (stealth, rambo style, or a mix of the two) and get a 
 completely different experience from it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
