-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Far Cry
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/farcry/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.9, 77 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 14,872 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Crytek
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Mar 23, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Far Cry isn't just a stunning technical accomplishment. It's quite possibly the best single-player 
 first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life. 

  For almost a year now, the gaming world has eagerly anticipated the arrival of the next-generation 
 wave of first-person shooters. These new games would finally begin to take advantage of the powerful 
 graphical features that hardware companies have been incorporating into their video cards to deliver 
 unprecedented visuals. But while we're still waiting to see the fruits of the labors of storied 
 developers like id Software and Valve, Crytek, a relatively obscure German developer, has managed 
 to beat everyone to the punch with Far Cry. In fact, Crytek almost delivers a knockout blow. Far 
 Cry isn't just a stunning technical accomplishment. It's quite possibly the best single-player 
 first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life.  

          Welcome to the jungle.     

  In Far Cry, you play as Jack Carver, a guy who's been 
 hired to sail a mysterious woman around the Pacific. However, Jack's ship suddenly comes under 
 attack. After washing ashore on a tropical island, sans the mysterious woman, Carver must investigate 
 his surroundings so that he can find her and eventually rescue her from an army of heavily armed 
 mercenaries. From this point, you'll delve into a story that combines the epic adventure of Half-Life 
 with the bizarreness of  The Island of Dr. Moreau , along with a good, healthy mix of  Jurassic 
 Park -style tropical island creepiness. You'll explore facilities worthy of Half-Life's Black Mesa, 
 battle it out with brutally tough opponents, and assault a volcano stronghold in a James Bond-inspired 
 finale that also offers a nightmarish vision of hell.  

  Without a doubt, Far Cry has the most advanced graphics seen in any PC game to date. Everything 
 in this game looks amazing, and the level of verisimilitude is unprecedented. Jungles actually 
 feature dense foliage that consists of trees, plants, and tall grasses, and this foliage is filled 
 with birds and insects. Beaches have blinding-white sand, and the surf slowly laps ashore. The 
 character models are some of the best we've ever seen in such a game, and they're richly detailed 
 and animated. The game also incorporates real-time lighting and shading effects to a degree rarely 
 seen before, so when you walk in the jungle, you actually see the shadows of overhead leaves flickering 
 on your rifle. In some of the larger indoor levels, the shadows of oncoming opponents are projected 
 in larger-than-life form onto walls. Intense heat blur from lava streams distort the atmosphere. 
 And a near miss from an enemy rocket will black out your vision -- as if you got the wind knocked 
 out of you. You can't help but be pulled in by the sheer  immersiveness  of the game.  

  During the many firefights in Far Cry, you'll go up against cunning opponents, such as mercenaries 
 who know how to use cover. They'll run between cover while shooting at you along the way. The lushness 
 of the jungle usually means that these engagements turn into cat-and-mouse affairs, where you slowly 
 stalk your prey. The jungle is so dense, however, that you often can't see your enemies until you're 
 practically right on top of them. Sound plays an important part in the game at these moments, because 
 you can track opponents by their sounds, and they can track you by yours. You can throw a rock 
 to create a distraction, and you can crawl around the jungle to make as little noise as possible. 
 Stealth can play a critical role in the game at times, and one of the few complaints we have about 
 it is that the enemy artificial intelligence seems to have a very low detection threshold. If you 
 make the slightest noise, all the bad guys in the vicinity go to full alert, rather than investigating 
 further.  

          Black Hawks will be the bane of your existence.     

  The sound effects in the game contribute heavily to the creepy atmosphere. For instance, you'll 
 be working your way through a dark indoor level and you'll hear disturbing noises up ahead. Then 
 someone you didn't realize was there will suddenly say something, and you'll jump out of your seat. 
 In the jungle, birds will chirp overhead, and insects will buzz in your ear. When a helicopter 
 approaches, you'll hear the thrum of the rotors getting closer and closer. You can eavesdrop on 
 conversations by using the combination binocular-sound microphone featured in the game. These conversations 
 tend to be enlightening because you can find out what the mercenaries are worried about or what's 
 up ahead. The voice acting is corny in a way that fits in with the over-the-top action movie feel 
 of the game.  

  You can also use a variety of vehicles, including jeeps, hang gliders, and boats. However, these 
 aren't as tightly integrated into the game as they could have been. For instance, jeeps are pretty 
 much restricted to moving along on roads, because there's very little open country on the islands. 
 You can get into some wild chase scenes, but driving around exposes you to detection, so it's usually 
 better to go on foot, if you can. And it's certainly unnerving to see mercenaries using vehicles 
 against you. In particular, Black Hawk helicopters will swoop over the jungle to hunt for you, 
 and there are plenty of wild moments where you'll have to try to fight them off. And in homage 
 to Half-Life, an Osprey can fly over, and mercenaries will rappel to the ground. At night, you 
 can see the headlights of approaching vehicles, which gives you time to either hide or set up a 
 hasty ambush.     

  The game limits you to four weapons at a time, so like in Halo, there's a tactical element present 
 that makes you weigh the positives and negatives of each weapon. All the weapons are taken from 
 the real world, including the M4 carbine and the G36 assault rifle. It takes a bit of time to familiarize 
 yourself with each weapon, especially since each has different characteristics, such as recoil. 
 The G36 is hard to aim while firing, and the P90 submachine gun has a high rate of fire but does 
 less damage. Hit location is also important. Headshots usually result in kills, while mercenaries 
 have body armor that makes them resistant to hits to the torso. There is a rudimentary physics 
 engine in the game that lets you knock over objects and hurls bodies in the air, but it's not as 
 fleshed-out as it could be. For instance, a wooden crate will float in the water, but it won't 
 shatter, even if you fire a minigun at it.  

          You can drive vehicles from a third-person perspective, which is easier.     

  Far 
 Cry features a loading technique that's similar to the one used in Half-Life and Halo. There's 
 generally one long load at the beginning of each chapter. Then the entire level, no matter how 
 large, plays seamlessly after that. The game only pauses for a fraction of a second every now and 
 then to autosave your progress. Otherwise, there's nothing that takes you out of your suspension 
 of disbelief, so you always feel as though you're actually exploring a tropical archipelago. The 
 game uses a checkpoint-style save system, so you can't manually save your progress. If you die, 
 you'll start back at the last checkpoint, which only takes a few moments to load. The inability 
 to quick save the game isn't as annoying as it seems, since the checkpoints are generally spaced 
 within reason. However, there are a few moments where it feels like the checkpoints are few and 
 far between, which can be frustrating when you die and have to restart. At any rate, publisher 
 Ubisoft reports that a quick-save feature will be added in a downloadable patch for the game.  
 

  The single-player campaign packs more than 20 hours worth of gameplay, which is an impressive amount 
 in this day and age -- when most first-person shooters feature campaigns that are half this length. 
 And the developers manage to do this without making it feel like they're recycling themselves through 
 the campaign. As you slowly uncover the plot, there's always something that will awe you, stun 
 you, or scare you. Just when you think you've seen it all or you've gotten to the point where most 
 games would end, the designers keep on going and up the ante even more.  

  The multiplayer portion of Far Cry is competent but not nearly as spectacular as the single-player 
 game. There are only three game modes -- free-for-all, team deathmatch, and assault -- as well as a 
 limited number of maps for each mode. Moreover, all the maps are quite large in size, which means 
 that if you only have a handful of players, then you'll spend a lot of time looking for someone 
 to kill. You'll also spend a lot of time just moving around the map because sandy surfaces restrict 
 your movement speed. Additionally, movement speed is reduced by the specific weapon you're carrying. 
 There are a few vehicles in multiplay, but they're not too useful during combat. The jeep, for 
 example, has an open-air driver's compartment, which means there's no protection at all from bullets. 
 And there are not a lot of places to drive because the thick foliage and rough terrain limit vehicle 
 usage mainly to roads. Some of the weapons also feel horribly unbalanced. For instance, the rocket 
 launcher does a tremendous amount of splash damage, and the sniper rifle can dominate a match over 
 long ranges. There are also a handful of other oddities in multiplay. Most notably, if you pick 
 up a weapon of a certain class that you already possess, the new weapon disappears as though you 
 picked it up, but you won't actually have it in your inventory.  

          The lighting and shadow effects in the game are incredibly impressive.     

  As expected, 
 you're going to need to have some serious hardware to run Far Cry as it's meant to be played. While 
 the game will run on lower-end machines, you'll have to tone down detail settings. And with older 
 video cards, you won't get much of the graphical eye candy in the game. From our experience, we 
 recommend a 2GHz machine with a DirectX 8.1 or 9.0-compliant video card. However, Far Cry could 
 very well be the killer app people have been looking for to justify upgrading, because it looks 
 that good. And, frankly, running the game with a lower detail level means you lose a lot of the 
 jungle foliage, which reduces your level of immersion in the game. It should be noted that Crytek's 
 execution is superb. Aside from the multiplayer quirks, we experienced no stability issues and 
 no bugs. This is an impressive accomplishment considering the complexity and ambitious scale of 
 the game. The potential for this technology is exciting. Not only do we expect third-party developers 
 to license Crytek's engine to power their own games, but Crytek also includes editing tools with 
 Far Cry, so modmakers will get to develop their own ideas.  

  Far Cry is a stunning game in so many ways. It certainly raises the bar for graphics to new heights. 
 And yet, it's not just a technology demonstration. In Far Cry, the graphics are just one of the 
 ingredients that submerge you into the experience. The developers exhibit a growing sense of maturity 
 throughout the game. It's as if they themselves were learning how to use the graphics engine in 
 conjunction with the AI, sound, and level design to create a superior gameplay experience -- one 
 that starts out impressively and, for the most part, just keeps getting better. The result is an 
 awesome thing to behold, and it's an even better thing to experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (642 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AvatarBlue
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I first played this title when it originally came out and was disappointed by the gameplay. Stopped 
 playing at level 12. I became bored as others have mentioned, when the action became fairly repetative, 
 that was playing the game on medium setting. 
  
  But that was a mistake, because I recently returned to it and played it right through on Veteran 
 difficultly level. On this setting, the game becomes a very different kettle of fish. The AI becomes 
 much better at co-ordinating its attacks. While tougher enemies means more planning is required, 
 to overcome the enemies between you and your objective. As such, mistakes are not so easily forgiven. 
 Equipment availability becomes much less. All this combines to provide much more of a challenge. 
 The variety of missions changes as you meet up with Val the heroine of the game. Keeping her alive, 
 giving her time to activate equipment, are just some of the different challenges in the latter 
 part of the game. Level maps too, become more cleverly designed adding to the challenge. Especially, 
 the boat riding ones. 
  
  Graphics may be a littled dated, but the forest and foilage effects are still more than convincing 
 as you move through them. However, interiors are bland, only serving minimal purpose. The thermal 
 imaging camera view in later levels is top notch though and also provides another level of tactical 
 planning, to now when to use them and when to save the battery. Weapons are nothing amazing, but 
 all add to the game experience and there are enough loadout configurations to choose from, and 
 make everyone happy. I dont usually like sniper rifles as I like to get my hands dirty, but you 
 will definitely need it to remove some difficult adversaries and I found it required equipment 
 in the latter third of the game. And it has a satisfying clunk to it.
  
  Cutscene narration adds some sense of story, but for most of the time these can be ignored until 
 you meet up with Val when the mission types start to get more narrow, promising to unravel more 
 of the background story. Which isn't anything spectacular, but still very good.
  
  Overall, while I was disappointed with the first 1/2 of the game, 
  twice playing to around level 
 10-12...., I at last managed to get past the repeitive gameplay and onto the latter stages. It 
 is these later levels that provide a real challenge to your tactical awareness, planning, reactions 
 and ammunition conservation. Especially towards the end.... with some really hellish levels. :)
 
  
  A thouroughly enjoyable experience, with a very capable AI, excellent level design for the most 
 part and a decent story with a hint of SF. All combined with a great sound and snappy soundtrack 
 and a still very good graphics engine.
  
  
  
  Review difficulty based on VETERAN level. 1 below max (REALISTIC) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  Ive read all the reviews, watched all the movies and game footages, but I wasnt prepared for 
 this game. Its dificulty is enormous, comparing to other fps, but once you begin you cant stop 
 playing.
  The main story : You have to lead Jack Carver through small islands, wwII ruined japanese bases 
 (including a carrier) and ancient temples until he can find a missing agent he brought to the islands. 
 During the story you realize that there is a mercenary group developing a virus capable to create 
 super soldiers, and your mission is to defeat the head cientist of the group and kill all the modified 
 creatures.
  To do that you can use several well looking weapons, but carrying only four at a time. You have 
 grenades, sniper rifles, missile launchers and a heavy machinegun. You can use vehicles to help 
 you move around the scenary, such as buggys, trucks, boats and even a glider. 
  The great about Far Cry is the AI of the enemies. If you attack by one of the sides of a container, 
 for example, the soldier will try to take you by the other side. If you kill a soldier with a sniper 
 rifle, the group will start to hunt you, searching every square milimeter of the jungle. By the 
 way, talking about the jungle, the details are fantastic and all the leaves, trees and branches 
 are there. The sound contributes to put you inside the jungle.
  There are some flaws, for example if you kill an enemy over the hill, hena d his guns will slip 
 to the bottom of the hill, no matter if its plain or not.
  Far Cry is one of the best FPS I ever played, and one of the best ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadDevotion
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  When you first take a look at the gorgeously detailed world of Far Cry, your jaws will drop in 
 amazement. An incredible view distance, accompanied by highly detailed textures and a beautiful 
 looking environment, make Far Cry the great-looking shooter it has came to be. Although one could 
 assume that Far Cry's graphics are the only thing it has going for it, they would be very mistaken, 
 for its graphics are only one of the many things that make this game so memorable.
  
  In Far Cry, you venture into the island as Jack Carver, who is hired to sail a woman across the 
 Pacific. However, your ship becomes attacked, and you end up stranded on an Island. Jack's main 
 goal in the game is to adapt to his surroundings and rescue the woman by any means possible. Soon 
 you find communication with a man named Doyle, who tells you where to go to survive throughout 
 the islands. Throughout your adventure, you frequently encounter enemies, and with their intelligent 
 AI and unexpected challenges you encounter, Far Cry is by no means an easy game.
  
  The story in Far Cry isn't all too compelling, and defnitely isn't one of the game's strong points, 
 however, towards the end of the game you will probably find yourself more into it. For instance, 
 a few hours into the game you will find many mutant encounters, which is one thing that goes into 
 the storyline. Due to their power, the mutants can be very difficult to kill. However, they are 
 less intelligent than the mercenaries you will be fighting, so you can often find some rather simple 
 ways of avoiding them. Many of these mutants are equipped with heavy weaponry, one of which being 
 rocket launchers, and into a certain point in the game, you will come across lots of these monsters.
 
  
  Often you will find yourself in points of frustration, so you will sometimes resort to more strategic 
 methods than simply going out and shooting everyone you can find. Fortunately, Far Cry's environment 
 is completely open, so you can explore wherever you'd like. This is one factor that sets this game 
 apart from other's of its kind. Aside from that, its open environment can also provide you with 
 new ways of getting to certain places, which is absolutely neccessary for many situations you will 
 encounter. Although a lot of missions in Far Cry are pretty straight forward, such as get from 
 point A to point B, there are a few that change things up a little bit. For instance, there are 
 quite a few missions that require you to drive vehicles. However, during that time, there will 
 still be enemies trying to shoot at you. This will leave you forced to simultaneously shoot and 
 drive, and with ten rockets coming at you at one, this is a rather difficult thing to get past. 
 You play alone through nearly all of the game, except for one part, where the woman you were trying 
 to save helps you by getting through certain missions that are vital to completing the game.
  
  The weapons array that this game has to offer is rather expansive, so choosing the right weapons 
 at the right time is another thing that will sometimes help you get through certain missions much 
 easier. Due to the fact that you can only carry up to four weapons at once, you must choose carefully. 
 Alternatively, as you will find out in the beginning of the game, you can throw rocks at people... 
 But obviously, this becomes basically useless very quick. Aside from weapons, there are gadgets 
 you will come across that will help you through your journey. One of which is Night-Vision goggles 
 (or in this game, CryVision) which are very useful, even at certain times of the day, because with 
 the intense amount of robust foliage on the island, it will often be difficult to find some of 
 your enemies.
  
  Another thing that really sets Far Cry apart, is how immersive it is. As stated before, its open 
 environment leaves players freely being able to choose which routes would be most suitable for 
 certain situations. And thoughout the enviroment, the sound really can make you feel like you are 
 in the game. For example, when a rocket fires a foot above your head, your character will black 
 out for a second or two, and lose his ability to hear. As you're running through the jungle, its 
 ambience will be very convincing. You will hear insects making noises, water rippling through the 
 river, and of course, your enemies running to find a safe spot for cover. As I have said in the 
 beginning of my review, this game is absolutely gorgeous. The incredibly detailed environments 
 and characters will have you questioning whether or not this game was really made over 3 years 
 ago, assuming you're still not drooling over it. However, the great-looking graphics do come at 
 a price. If you have older hardware, you may have difficulties even running this game with stable 
 framerates. Though if you have newer hardware, you will undoubtly have no problems running this 
 game very smoothly with its maximum detail in perspective. One odd, but interesting this about 
 Far Cry, is it can render in four different modes: Default, Paradise, Cold, and Cartoon. Paradise 
 adds new levels of brightness, and makes it feel as though you're more on a vacation; Cold makes 
 it seem as more of a Silent Hill game on a tropical Island; and Cartoon makes everthing look... 
 Well, cartoony. 
  
  The most disappointing thing about Far Cry is saying good bye to it. You'll get a great feeling 
 knowing that you have beaten such a difficult game, but after the campaign, there's really nothing 
 left. The campaign fortunately lasts a while, about 17-20 hours for the average player. After you 
 beat it , you will probably take a break and find something a bit calmer, but chances are you will 
 eventually find yourself running back to Far Cry and playing it a second or maybe even third time. 
 The multiplayer is very lacking, and it is nothing in comparison to single player. It has a few 
 bugs here and there, and is highly underpopulated, and considering you are playing on big maps, 
 a high population is something that is absolutely neccessary. In conclusion, Far Cry is an amazing 
 game that shouldn't be missed by any fan of shooting games. If you haven't played it yet, give 
 it a try. For $10, it's well worth the money, and you will see what makes this game such must-have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finsie
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry was praised for it's flashy graphics and it's "Blend of Gunplay and Stealth". To be honest, 
 it's totally a joke. 
  
  For starters, it's nice graphics still hold up today, but even though BOTH of my computers surpass 
 the recommended system requirements, the game can only play on low detail, otherwise, the graphics 
 go blue (Enven though I have patched the game!!!) . 
  
  Then we come to the story. Jack Carver in the cutscenes is a tough talking one-liner action hero, 
 but in the gameplay, you have to use stealth.
  
  Then theres the gameplay itself. The idea is to use stealth and shooting, but the moment you shoot 
 at someone, automatically everyone is locked onto you, guns ablazing and everything, and sometimes 
 when you are trying to sneak around, someone will spot you (someone who would need super nocturnal 
 vision that can see through matter itself) and then everyone will be locked on to you guns ablazing.
 
  
  Then there is the controls. The controls are so unresponsive. The sprint button makes you go .0003kmph 
 faster, you can jump 30cm in the air, and the aiming sight is so poorly designed. In most shooters 
 that use the right mouse button for aiming brings the weapon right up to your eye so your shots 
 go where the little red dot is, but in Far Cry, the weapon is brought 3 inches to the left, and 
 you walk slower, plus, the sight doesn't go red until you hit someone, and since most of the weapons 
 are one shot weapons or machine guns that get less accurate the more you hold down the shoot button, 
 aiming is poorly implimented.
  
  then theres Vehicles , which are put there so look gay. For starters, they are impractical since 
 using them isn't stealthy, which is supposedly a big part of the game. Also, they are hard to drive, 
 and even harder to drive and shoot with.
  
  In the end, Far Cry is a joke that contradicts it's strengths leaving it to collect dust in my 
 games draw. Don't bother with this game, just go straight to Far Cry 2, which has much more depth, 
 and keeps to it's strengths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john670
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  Most probably my favourite game of all-time. Being a huge follower of FPS as long as I can remember, 
 I haven't played a game that has absorbed and enthralled me as intensely as Far Cry.
  
  From the very start, there is certainly no messing around as you are hurled straight into the fast-paced 
 shoot-outs that keeps its intensity throughout the game admist the lush, tropical-looking paradise 
 which you can never fail to be amazed by. Another remarkable quality is the sheer variety of gamplay. 
 You'll be confronted with taking down enemy mercenaries to destroying rather creepy alien-like 
 monsters and from driving and shooting in 4x4s to hand-gliding, there is certainly more than enough 
 for any FPS fan to keep going back for more.
  
  With these gorgeous visuals, addictive, varied gameplay with hugely satisfying combat, the spectacular 
 open-world and so much more, it is not hard to see why Far Cry was so far ahead of its time and 
 is still consistently named one of the greatest and most thrilling FPS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  Far Cry was one of the first games to feature such stunning graphics. It came out even before the 
 Doom 3 and already featured pretty much everything Doom graphics engine has to offer, and then 
 some more. Basically, in my opinion, CryEngine runs circles around Doom engine.
  
  I've played this game a couple of times over, and many years after it's been released, felt a bit 
 nostalgic and decided to play it a bit again. And right away I remembered exactly WHY I've never 
 liked playing on the PC: besides the fact that it's rather weird controlling your character with 
 keyboard (I could go with the mouse, though, but the fact that there's very limited speed range 
 with which you can move your character from the keyboard ruins everything - I wish there was some 
 sort of joystick kind of like what Wii has, where you move your character with it, and use mouse 
 for aiming/turning) , there's also a flurry of updates you need to install. There isn't a single 
 update you can install to make your game up to date. Instead, you download patch 1.4, which says 
 "oh, I need 1.33 installed first!", so you download 1.33 and try to install it - just to be greeted 
 again by "Oh, I need 1.31 installed first", which, in turn, wants 1.3... Ugh!!! Why can't people 
 make two versions of their patches??? One - incremental, another - combined, from the very first 
 version up to the current one... Like Apple does with its Mac OS X updates.
  
  Anyway, Far Cry, even many years after its release, still feels fresh and a pure joy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dana_H
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  A worthwhile FPS, 9.2 about sums it up. Needed just a little work during gameplay but I found that 
 I was just good enough to get through it. Pros include the realism, scene beauty, variety of realistic 
 weapons and assortment of difficulty levels. I also liked the fact that the game allows players 
 to be creative, conservative, aggressive or any combo of these. Cons, I can readily only think 
 of one -- movement snags. Low crawling, of which I've done some of in my military days, was never 
 so tedious and downright impossible in some situations (on stairs) , as it was in this game. A con 
 for me, because I'm not a master FPSer like many of you, was the sometimes lengthy time between 
 save points. I learned and used the manual savegame trick just to be able to get up from the game 
 and walk away once in a while, without a grimace on my face. Refer to the cheats section if you 
 have kicked your household furniture more than once because you thought the segment was too troublesome 
 not having an earlier save point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antoine_Joie
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Hi everyone, it's the first time I write something about a game, usually I prefer reading reviews 
 than writing them. But I can't believe everybody is all sweet and sugar about this game, damn it's 
 so far from being excellent!
  
  Anyway, I'm a hardcore fan of video games and what I love most is a good, strong storyline which 
 gives all its substance to the gameplay. In FarCry, the story is so cheesy and predictable you'll 
 want to bang your head on a wall. 
  
  "Oh, the mercenaries took Val. Where is she ?" 
  "She's in a place called... the bunker, Jack." 
  "Oooh, the bunker... Let's go to the bunker, 
 then."
  
  What the hell is this? Come on, how can you call this "the best shooter experience since Half-Life" 
 !?
  And bugs, bugs, bugs... so many bugs... Glitches, character getting stuck, weapons and bodies just 
 floating in the air. It just breaks the fun and destroys whatever quality was left here. 
  
  Yeah, graphics are good. But a good game is sooooo much more than graphics! But I think cheesy 
 games with nice make-up are the trademarks of Ubisoft: Splinter Cell serie, Far Cry, Prince of 
 Persia Warrior Within.... all good-looking games with nice paint jobs and no substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is an amazing FPS game, and you wiould like to play it more and more while it progresses.
 
  
  In Far Cry, you will find yourself fighting for your life as Jack, a boat-rider who is blown by 
 enemies near an island full of genetically altered beasts and enemy mercenaries you must get rid 
 of.
  
  The gameplay is very good. Fast pace and tactical view are the deeper substance of Far Cry, while 
 you will find many good weapons which will guide you till the end.
  
  However, you may experience some crashes due to many bugs and several glitches in the game. It 
 is a fact that Far Cry is made to play only in great PCs.
  
  The graphics are very good, but only when you have a good graphics card and a smoothly-running 
 processor to support it. The sounds and music are also good and realistic.
  
  And the best feature, the map design. Using a sandbox editor, you can design your own levels to 
 play in or customize the main environment of the game.
  
  Far Cry is a game you must try at all costs. Luckily, nowadays it is fully free to download and 
 experience one of the best FPS games up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haegint
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  I've never played any FPS game in my life before Far Cry. And I must say I really liked it! I suffered 
 many deaths and found it really hard even on normal settings. But I'm no expert, so I guess this 
 is to be expected. I learned though...
  
  Now the missions are really nicely laid out. I don't think there was one that I did not like. They 
 play inside and outside. The weapons are cool and since you are limited to 4 weapons at a time, 
 it is hard to decide which one to take along because all have their advantages and drawbacks. The 
 setting and graphics, especially the lighting are still good but obviously a bit dated by now. 
 The story is a bit cheesy and B-movie like but this is totally OK and fitting I'd say. Sometimes 
 I had to laugh at the silly comments from the NPC's.
  
  The enemies are overall pretty clever. They swarm out and will try to encircle you. They do spot 
 you very easily though, too easily I'd say even. Sneaking up to one and stabbing him in the back 
 is outright impossible. Game controls are very good and simple. The total game time is actually 
 quite long, some missions (especially outside) do take really a good while to finish, not the least 
 because the maps are big. You usually have several ways to approach the target or fnd your way 
 around, so there is some limited amount of freedom which is nice.
  
  The only letdown is the very VERY finish to the game when the main bad character is revealed. I 
 would have hoped for more explanation and background on what was going on, why it all happenend. 
 So it ended rather too abruptly for my taste. But nevertheless, this I found a highly enjoyable 
 game that gave me quite many moments of King Kong like feelings and totally frustrating moments 
 (because of my ineptitude) . So I'd say it's a good mix and definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentJay76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are of course pretty darn nice, especially for 2004. But having said that, it all 
 looks a little... artificial. Everything is technically brilliant, but it just doesn't quite work 
 as a whole. Add to that some sub-par character/facial animation, and you'll never get "lost" in 
 this world. I played 'Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic' (which was released before 'Far Cry') 
 just prior to this, and the facial animation in that one was infinitely better. The game world (s) 
 also looked far more natural, allowing you to feel a lot more like you're really there.
  
  Other problems: 
  
  The characters are as artificial as the graphics - or even more so. You 
 just don't give a crap about them, or what happens to them. There's no emotion. 
  
  The voice acting is barely acceptable. (Luckily there isn't all that much of it.) 
  
  Vehicles 
 are fun, but seem to handle inconsistently. It's also sometimes very hard to see out of them, which 
 makes driving more of a chore than it should be.
  
  There is no quick save! You stealthily sneak through the jungle, trying to find an advantage, and 
 after 15 minutes some mutant you can neither see nor hear, takes one swipe at you from behind and 
 you can do it all again. Needless to say, that is incredibly frustrating! Luckily you can find 
 a quick save cheat on the net.
  
  This game is also absolutely incredibly hard! I played through it on "easy", and there is NO WAY 
 you can complete it without using cheats, unless you're some sort of FPS ber-God (and even then 
 I doubt it.) There are of course cheats to help you out. But if you do use them, there's no challenge. 
 When there's no challenge, it gets boring. When it's boring, it sux. 
  
  The story feels like it was thrown together in about 5 minutes. It's OK, and there is a bit of 
 a plot. But certainly nothing that sucks you in. The game also gets a little repetitive after the 
 first few levels.
  
  OK, wow... sorry for the long review. (But that's a lot of problems.) Anyway, in the end I think 
 it deserves about a 7.5. It's good... it's a bit of fun... but it's a far cry (pun fully intended) 
 from the brilliant masterpiece it was hyped to be. Worth a play from a "historic milestone" point 
 of view. But if you haven't played it, you're not really missing out on all that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64316431
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Crytek, some unknown developer had a very ambitious task on their hands when they were developing 
 Far Cry. Apparently they were creating a brand new graphic engine call the Cryengine that was supposed 
 to support immense environments even larger than those featured in Battlefield 1942. The thing 
 that caught me on was that the game would be set in paradise.
  
  Yes, and paradise it is. The Cryengine rivals that of the recent Doom 3 engine, but excels in outdoor 
 environments, which most FPS engines do not. The entire game takes place on a series of islands 
 set in the Pacific (I think) .
  
  Did I say FPS? That's right; Far Cry is a First Person Shooter. I know it's another one, but right 
 from the beginning I compared it with these two upcoming PC games: Doom 3 and Half-Life 2. To feed 
 my hunger for those two I purchased this truly magnificent FPS as soon as it arrived on the Aust 
 shores. The local EB guy's first question was: 'is your comp baddass enough to handle this?' My 
 answer was: 'maybe,' for I had a pretty ordinary comp at home  Celeron 2 Ghz 384 Mb Ram and Geforce 
 4 MX 440 Video Card. I took it home, installed it (5 CDS!) and began to play.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  --------
  
  Every FPS has to somehow innovate to impress these days  Halo did 
 it, Half-Life did it, Half-Life 2 will do it, Doom 3 probably won't, but it has visuals to make 
 up for it.
  
  The case with Far Cry is that it is Battlefield dressed up in pretty pink paper with a bow on top. 
 If you know what I am ranting on about, this game is HUGE, FUN and really, really IMMERSIVE.
  
  You play as Jack Carver, a real mean sort of guy who is your normal superhero in a game. His 
 yacht is destroyed and he is tossed overboard where he swims ashore. From then on, he is hunted 
 down by a band of merciless mercenaries. Anyway, Far Cry opens with an awesome FMV sequence that 
 demonstrates the entire situation. After that, you begin the first level.
  
  As soon as you get outside and your PC starts to overheat and make funny noises like mine did, 
 you just really understand how big the levels really are. And this makes for some great strategies. 
 Far Cry is in no way linear  take the first level for instance. After locating a pair of technologically 
 advanced binoculars, you're next objective is to head across the small channel in front of you 
 and steal a car from the encampment there.
  
  One scan from the binoculars reveals that the encampment is crowded with guards. From there, you 
 can plan you're attack. For instance, you can do a rambo style front on assault but that nearly 
 never works, as a few shots can kill you in Far Cry. Instead, head for the overgrowth to the side 
 of the encampment and take out the guards one by one. Like Halo, you can only hold three weapons 
 at once and you can throw grenades without changing weapons. Even cooler is that you can throw 
 a stone to distract the enemies or use a Flash Grenade to blind them (or yourself if really unlucky) .
 
  
  While we're on the AI topic, the AI in Far Cry is quite good, yet suffers from annoying flaws. 
 Most of the time they don't value their lives at all and sometimes they will charge you. They comment 
 too, but their comments are REALLY corny, such as 'your ass is grass' or 'I'm going to open a can 
 of whoopass on you.' Those things just make you think WTF? But, when alerted, you're alert meter 
 goes red and they will group you to take you down. Even more annoying are rocket guys in lookout 
 towers. They don't say a word, so you may be caught by an unsuspecting surprise. For example: I 
 spend a careful 20 minutes taking out an enemy encampment and that includes a chopper thankyou 
 very much. I was feeling very proud of myself when all the enemies had been disposed of. I climb 
 a nearby scout tower to look at the wondrous surroundings of Far Cry I finish climbing the ladder 
 and suddenly I hear a massive blast and I fall to the ground, dead, while I see a rocket launcher 
 fall onto my body and another man flying through the sky to rest in peace somewhere two kilometres 
 away! The rocket AI is really dumb and will blow their own skins off even if you are a meter away 
 from them. This is really frustrating.
  
  The game utilizes the checkpoint save system like Halo, but it saves more infrequent than you'd 
 like it to. Especially on realistic difficulty, you'll be cruising around searching for a place 
 where the game will save before you die, because in Far Cry you are very, very vulnerable, even 
 on Easy mode.
  
  One of the coolest parts in Far Cry is the awesome physics engine. When enemies die, they flop 
 over railings, fall of edges of cliffs and when they fall into the water blood will seep through 
 the water realistically. Simply put  the death animations are the most realistic and entertaining 
 in any game I've ever played. Yes, better than Halo.
  
  The game loses its charm in the interior sections. There are many of these and they are linear, 
 however more frustrating than you'd want them to be. It's just a simple slugfest from the start 
 to the finish of interior sections. Just think recent Doom 3 gameplay wise, yet not as perfected.
 
  
  10 / 10
  
  VISUALS
  -------
  
  Until the recent release of Doom 3, Far Cry held the title of best graphics I've ever seen. And 
 mind you, I own a PC, Xbox, GCN and PS2. Far Cry is pretty, beautiful, realistic  you name it 
 its in Far Cry. The engine is pretty awesome as I can run it on my own comp without lag at all 
 (specs in the intro) even on medium mode. I ran it on my dad's ultimate machine on Highest mode. 
 After playing for a few hours, I reverted to Unreal 2K4 on my comp. I couldn't play it. It looked 
 so bland compared to Far Cry!
  
  I mean come on, the sun shines so real and lights everything up, there is a draw distance of something 
 like 2 kilometres, (something like 1.6 miles) , load times that take half the time of BF 1942 or 
 Vietnam, natural formations everywhere you go, water effects that will make you freak  there is 
 a hell of a lot of eye candy in this game. The only minus is the characters on low resolutions, 
 they look strange, especially the weird FMVs. The characters look like clay models, with uneven 
 muscles and facial expressions.
  
  10 / 10
  
  SOUND
  -----
  
  The voice acting is terribly corny yet at a high quality. The way it is played back in the game 
 sounds strange, for instance the main character will talk to himself every now and then on objectives 
 reached. But he will say it aloud in his 'cool' voice that will only appeal to the ladies. The 
 AI is even worse. Their frequent outbursts are very, very corny and unrealistic, yet funny at the 
 same time. Funny because they are so damn random! Where did 'your ass is grass' come from?
  
  Sound effects are on par with the weapons sounding normal, yet slight problems with the rocket 
 launcher effects  it takes a while for the shock to happen. For instance I was hit by a rocket 
 man in the tower. I died, but there is a moment where all sound is supposed to be drowned out because 
 of the shock. Well, this happens like two seconds later. It all seems strange.
  
  8 / 10
  
  MUSIC
  -----
  
  Meh. Modern day FPS don't have the catchy tunes like the old days (Perfect 
 Dark anyone?) , but Far Cry has the usually ambient music that goes very well with the surroundings. 
 The music changes when you are spotted, but the music's just there. Not annoying, not appealing, 
 but it is better for Far Cry to have such music, because it would spoil the real experience, but 
 Crytek need to take heed with the scripting of this game over the music.
  
  7 / 10
  
  LASTING APPEAL
  --------------
  
  There are twenty gargantuan levels, but each are actually 
 shorter than you'd think they are. I haven't beat the game as of yet  I'm up to level 14. However, 
 you may be put off by the annoying set up. For instance, the outdoor levels are absolutely brilliant 
 and are a pleasure to play. However, indoor levels are frequent and a pain in the behind. And when 
 it is night time (levels 8  13) the experience didn't really appeal to me that much. But the first 
 seven levels are awesome and so is level 11 and 14 so far. If you're a Halo enthusiast you should 
 check out the three way battles in level 11  Rebellion. That level has to be the biggest and most 
 open level I've ever played. Anyway overall you'll be playing for around twenty hours the first 
 time, as levels take usually an hour to get through, while you will play again on hard mode (realistic 
 anyone?) .
  
  10 / 10
  
  Pros / Cons
  
  + Trigens, three way battles!
  + Graphics to die for
  + Best. Death. Animations. Ever
  + Open ended
  
  - Corny voice acting, 
 script
  - Worst. Story. Ever
  - Indoor sections
  - Weird AI
  
  If you like Battlefield 1942 I advise you do get Far Cry right away! The single player is, as Gamespot 
 said: 'it may well be the best single player experience since Half-Life.' And although different, 
 to some aspects you can agree. Far Cry is an awesome game that deserves high recognition.
  
  OVERALL
  
  45 / 50 (10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerrob22334
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the best computer games I own. In respect to a wide open environments on certain 
 maps this game is amazing. Unfortunately my graphics card cannot play Farcry 2. I loved the cut 
 scenes too. kind of late to rate it but better late than never. It's pretty close to perfect.
 
  
  On the plus side you have good sound effects, the enemy AI does take cover and respond accordingly 
 to your actions. You also get to pilot vehicles, and that's why I enjoyed Halo 1 so much.
  
  on the down side, I couldn't play it online because some technical error... too bad.
  
 
  If you liked this game I would also recommend F. E. A. R. or Call of Duty 4. You'll probably get 
 the latter because F. E. A. R. is quite 
  
  
 
  
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radrick10000
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  The graphics are good for there time. The monsters look and act pretty good. The game did seam 
 just a little plastic. It has a fairly good arsenal. The boats are fun.
  
  Bad:
  I get tired of redoing large areas because of one mistake. Very repetitive to do the same section 
 over, and sometimes over and over, in order to play it on the hard levels.
  
  If you try to use one of the mounted auto-cannons you will get cut up fast by anyone shooting at 
 you. they put most of them out without any cover.
  
  Sometimes the dead bodies are in the air. That looks stupid.
  
  Checkpoint saves are STUPID!!!!!!
 
  
  The game makers think they are being original, but they are just being STUPID!!!!
  
  I got killed more than once by my own rocket exploding in my face from a blade of grass in the 
 way. Stupid crap like that makes Checkpoint saves a nightmare. Automatic weapons will shoot straight 
 through grass as will an RPG.
  
  The vehicles were hard to see out of. If I was going to steal a rig I would clean the window if 
 I could not see well. Pretty unrealistic.
  
  The bads outweigh the goods on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragos185
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  a total new experience, great graphics and a perfect controll over the game. interresting story, well 
 implemented elements and a variety of methods to play it. an artistic game. What do you get when 
 you take a bunch of guns and put them in the hands of a double-crossed riverboat captain? You get 
 trouble in paradise, or as Crytek and Ubisoft call it, "Far Cry," a very impressive-looking first-person 
 shooter. The game will pit you against squads of very tough enemy soldiers (as well as other, less-human 
 enemies) as you try to get revenge, get the girl, get the money, and get off of a tropical island 
 alive. Far Cry will have a comprehensive single-player game with plenty of different missions taking 
 place in colorful outdoor environments and sinister indoor areas, as well as full-on multiplayer 
 that will let you blast your buddies to kingdom come.
  
  But what good would all that blasting be without some serious hardware in hand? Far Cry will feature 
 a sizable arsenal of conventional and slightly futuristic weapons that will come in handy while 
 taking on all comers in single-player and multiplayer. With a few exceptions, just about all of 
 Far Cry's weapons have both a primary and a secondary attack mode, and many firearms also have 
 a "zoom" mode that lets you get a closer look at your targets or use a scope to draw a bead on 
 faraway enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoneoka
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  far cry has some great game play and most certainly som fun to shoot rag dolls... but 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of those games that I label to be 'not too bad', but then I see the banners of 'This 
 game is the most awesome.." etc. etc.
  
  Don't get me wrong, FarCry succeeds on many levels. It has great graphics, a reasonable story, 
 and a nice sandbox approach. In fact, It's really not that bad at all.
  
  But FarCry suffers from a feeling of 'injustice' in that it's WAY too hyped. I honestly could not 
 believe it when I saw its score so high. Yes it is a game that does not deserve to be bashed, but 
 it doesn't deserve to be praised.
  
  This game gets so insane it borders on annoyance. The enemy AI is frighteningly overpowered. Able 
 to spot you from 50,000 miles away just at a simple glance makes stealth nearly impossible. A lot 
 of the game becomes tedious long distance fire.
  
  And by the way, I do not consider myself a 'bad fps player'. In fact quite the opposite, I played 
 hours and hours of counterstrike, half-life, etc. etc. Far Cry is HARD. And I mean SO HARD that 
 anyone who HASN'T gone to my level of fps-ness will never be able to beat the game unless its on 
 easy mode. Even then... my friend who came over once couldn't seem to understand why the game was 
 so unforgiving, and struggled to the point of annoyance on easy mode.
  
  And unforgiving is Far Cry's biggest weakness because there's a fine line between 'satisfying-hard' 
 and 'annoying'. Far Cry tends to go to the latter most of the time. The enemy AI. The ambiguous 
 save spots (ex: gotta reach a save point.. gotta reach a save point.. oh MY GOD I DIED) kind of 
 feel..
  
  In short, fear not. Crysis and Far Cry 2 look like they will be excellent games. And Even Far Cry 
 isn't that bad. It's just that it really.. honestly... doesn't deserve a 9.0 rating. 7-8 seems more 
 appropriate, and I liked Far Cry generally more than most games so I deem it 8. But to ignore its 
 problems is not something I'm accustomed to doing, and Far Cry has way too many problems. To deny 
 them is to become an instant 'fanboy', and fanboy I am not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halcyon670
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry has been all over the place since it came out in 2004. It came out on the X-box (a few 
 times) and even made its way to the Wii. But there is nothing that can compare with the original. 
 
  
  The story follows Jack Carver, who ends up on an island dominated by violent mercenaries. Under 
 further investigation, he discovers that these mercenaries and scientists have been running biological 
 experiments on apes and humans. The story does involve more than this, but Im going to leave that 
 to the player to find out. Just rest assured that the story is very long and satisfying.
  
  As for the gameplay, it is a somewhat realistic shooter that involves a different way of thinking. 
 The enemies are smart, and wont let you kill them without a fight. Being as you cant take much 
 more damage than they can, the player is forced to be creative. The jungle combat is incredibly 
 satisfying with guerilla-style combat; the indoor combat isnt quite as fun, but is still well worth 
 it. Far Cry is quite difficult, and will thoroughly challenge most experienced FPS gamers. On top 
 of everything else, it is about 20 hours long and (almost) never overstays its welcome.
  
  There are a few small flaws. Some of it is kind of nitpicking, but I have to mention them.
  
 
  Once you start fighting mutants later on in the game, the game gets a bit frustrating. The first 
 mutants you fight simply chase you down so that they can kill you in two or three hits. Be patient, 
 though, as the later mutants are smarter, and actually use guns.
  
  From what I hear, the multiplayer is a bit underwhelming. I wouldnt know, since the servers are 
 pretty empty, and the few that are left are too far away for me to have a good ping in them. I 
 was only able to play for a few minutes before being kicked for a high ping.
  
  There are a few glitches with the AI that never seemed to be resolved. This doesnt make the enemies 
 idiots and easy to kill. Instead, it makes them smarter. The mercenaries are able to see right 
 through tents, and will be able to shoot you through them. And sometimes snipers and mercs with 
 rocket launchers will be able to see you from the second that youre visible from 100 yards away. 
 But these are relatively minor and rarely affect the gameplay.
  
  In conclusion, Far Cry is a long and challenging first person shooter that can easily stand up 
 to most modern day shooters. If you are a PC gamer, buy this game. 
  
  PS: No. You dont get any mutant powers in this game. That is only in the console versions of the 
 game. This is still a very fun game, regardless.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Joe_Griffe
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Far Cry, in my option, is the best FPS there is. Why? I'll tell you why.
  
  Far Cry's graphics are excellent for a 2004 year game. Monsters and mercenaries both look very 
 real, plus the nature; forests, swamps, waterways and indoors are all very beautiful to watch. 
 The sound effects are outstanding, especially the weapon sounds.
  
  Far Cry's storyline isn't the best there is, but it isn't the main thing in this game. The game 
 starts out in daylight jungles while hunting mercenaries and then turns into a nightmare with monstrous 
 mutants. 
  
  The difficulty is actually a bit too high, and there are a few levels where you'd like to smash 
 your keyboard. Far Cry offers a whole lot of 20 levels to play through, each of them being very 
 long and offering different environments, weapons and enemies.
  
  It's always a pleasure to play Far Cry due to ingenious maps, beautiful environments and very good 
 artificial intelligence. The game is also very addictive, as once you clear a level you might end 
 up clearing 3 more levels. When you've played through the game for the first time, you'll just 
 like to start your second playthrough with a higher difficulty right away. That's the sign of a 
 good game.
  
  Far Cry is recommended for anyone who likes sci-fi FPS games. If you don't have it yet, you better 
 buy it. Although it's a 2004 game, Far Cry is a game that never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Before crytek brought us crysis they brought as far cry so its not a crysis rip off!
  
  Lets start first far cry was revolutionary the jungle ares are so exotic while crysis relies in 
 realism, far cry has better levels than crysis some got more freedom outher less the water and 
 the whole exotic areas are amazing the inside areas are pretty good in dynamic lighting, they are 
 getting very scary too while facing monsters!
  The story is simple an ex special forces takes a job to cruise a female reported in some exotic 
 islands filled with mercs and soon enough the big bad scientist turns the place into a monster 
 making facility and the jungle survival goes on, not an amazing story ir characters but hey its 
 not used in any outher game it was needed to be used!
  
  Far cry got an impressive combat back then not evey game aimed with weapon sight but i got to say 
 that the zoomed aimed view WAS pretty reallistic the game worked pefectly with no bugs the whole 
 idea is to get to the next objective either thats outside or inside on foot on sea or take different 
 paths some levels are inside like oldschool games outhers are outside soem are paths outher allow 
 you to go form the front of the island or behind the island by choosing different routes, back 
 then it was using amazing physics like the way the corpes move while hit and the blood marks on 
 corpses or in the water how the blood flows, while crysi didnt use any blood, the game takes realism 
 the main idea is that if you sprint you get tired sou you move normalll you get to an ares, thats 
 better than the ones in crysis and spot enemies with the binoculars mark them in radar and take 
 them out with sniper rilfe or get close, yiu cant actuallly sneak but the enemy spot system doesnt 
 go up right away so step away for a while and the vision matter will go down, in combat you just 
 duck zoom and repedatly shoot and wih 2 bursts you take out enemies there are alite enemies with 
 blue armor and scary monsters 2 hits and you are dead one armor one health few hits are enough 
 to kill you BUT unlike crysis you dont shoot every enemy 1000 times and ai doesnt shoot you that 
 fast so you aim each one and take him out more reallistic than crysis id say! the inside areas 
 feel real too in combat you can take out enemies as you spot them but in crysis... well i think 
 you get the point, so why is far cry better than crysis? mainly combat is better and levels FEEL 
 like a vocation to an island eg in a level you are at a small boat and 3 islands with objectives 
 get from island to island get on top and take the enemies to the bridge or one river level that 
 you go down that river well amazing levels just check my screenshots in profile, far cy doesnt 
 give you many ways too do it it just says practice a bit to get use of the game and you just simply 
 play it, it doesnt need many ways too go, also in far cry the exotic islands feel more real, countless 
 og time you ll need to cross the river all i got to say levels are A+ 20 levels while cryis has 
 11, minus the flying VTOL and core level thats 9 and the short level you find prophet 8 so get 
 far cry its the real deal, bad points? well pretty difficult at many times but so does crysis is 
 unfair another bad point the monsters with rocketlaucher, i wouldnt say crysis give you that much 
 freedom so far cry got a little less unless you wanna cloak all the time... also no tanks and such 
 but you got a 4 rocket, launcher in and the rocket laucnher monters but it needs some chalange, 
 there is no need to defend the game crysis has more options this one got more variety 20 levels 
 you love at least 17 of them, besides taking out koreans in assault level of crysis and in rebellion 
 of far cry, hmmm far cry combat situation and game play feels better, believe me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  so... in 2004 there was a game... a good game... a game that hold a great visual effects (like 
 the water effect) im talking about FAR CRY
  
  so here is the good and the bad things in FAR CRY PC game (worth reading)
  
  the good: a good 
 single player game, a lot of shooting, great visual effects of water and more, very fun to shoot 
 at the enemys and if i can say something about the enemys is that they are really smart they will 
 know when they need to attack you or run away and the love to call you in names like: "come here 
 fu**er" and they will attack you at any chance they will have...
  
  the bad: until half 2 of the game, the game is really good but then you came to half 2 of the game 
 when you need to fight monsters they game start to be really not so fun like a lot of games that 
 i played like.. crysis lets take crysis you have to kill people give them puches shoot them but 
 when you need to kill aliens the game starts to be not fun at all again i say: like FAR CRY so 
 thats the bad...
  
  FAR CRY is a good game that worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kscott_nine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  First off, wanna thank those who took the time to make after market Maps!
  
  I bought this game on whim. Adversment said Game of the Year! I questioned the $9.95 purchase price. 
 I mean, if game of year why only asking for two gal's of gas?" I was just brousing for a cheap 
 game, this was one of hits. Got my money's worth and more. 
  
  Ran game on Nvidia 7950GT RAID. With all advanced setting to very high. The water was real. Crank 
 the pixel quality up to "Paradice" I mean it looks, sounds like real tropical ocean water. 
  
  The Bots, [ A. I ] had some of the better comeback, really cracked me up. 
  
  Con: Guy talking 
 to you threw out the game gets on one's nerves, least for me, I got tired of him, talked to much.... 
 Sometimes, for no reason, game crashes (reason for 10 bucks price?) Mircorsoft answer to crash 
 was turn the clock speed of graphic cards down. 
  
  All & All, great game, sound effects, A. I. .. its all Good@! Can not go wrong getting this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pereira19
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a computer game, shot in 1st person created by the German company Crytek Studios and 
 published by French Ubisoft in March 23, 2004. Far Cry sold over 730,000 units in just four months 
 of release. The history of the game goes into a small and mysterious islands in Micronesia, where 
 Jack Carver, the former special forces soldier looks for a writer lost in the archipelago. 
  
  On April 8, 2004 by Ubisoft announced the launch of Far Cry Instincts for the Xbox console, 
 GameCube and PlayStation 2. The graphics were similar to the game released for PC with adjustments 
 to console. The versions of Playstation 2 and Gamecube consoles were soon cancelled by the lack 
 of graphic power enough for the game. Far Cry Instincts was launched on September 27, 2005 and 
 turned a game exclusive to Xbox. On March 28, 2006 at Ubisoft launched a sequence for the Xbox, 
 Far Cry Instincts: Evolution, which had its launch and sales with a lower expectation that the 
 previous version. 
  
  On December 12 launched a new version for the seventh generation of console Nintendo Wii, name 
 of Far Cry: Vengeance. The game uses the nunchuck control features of the console.
  
  I recommend buy it, of course! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry was one game i wanted to play after reading all the rave reviews it drew, well... it was 
 pretty disappointing for me to quite an extent, Among the best things the game featured were the 
 graphics, definitely the best of its kind ull get to see from a game of 2004, the environments, 
 the draw distance, the mesmerizing vistas, the water, to sum it up the environment quite literally 
 breathes to life, and Far Cry leaves no stone unturned to puke detail when it comes to graphics, 
 the sound was ok, there were no separate volume controls for voice n effects which made the effects 
 sound real loud and the dialogues more or less muted, music is HIGHLY repetitive n has a very cheesy 
 property of showing up when enemies get notified of ur position or u get identified or during gunbattles, 
 the levels, awe inspiring graphically, are pretty monotonous considering every level u r in features 
 acres and acres of bushes, scrubs, trees, grass, the clear blue sky n lots of water, this pleases 
 the eye initially but later on becomes more of a drag and u'd wish there was something more to 
 it than just tropical islands n water.. gameplay is pretty linear except for the fact the u'll 
 have a wide area at ur disposal most of the time n u can attack ur enemy from any direction 
 u want, whenever u r fighting outdoors that is. Weapons are pretty standard, nothing out of this 
 world, vehicles are present but still having played a lot of post-far cry games i couldnt help 
 but feel the gameplay to be all too stereotypical, the games's longer than most first person shooters 
 n all that time fighting enemies in lots n lots of foliage gets heavily redundant half way through, 
 the story isnt very original, cheesy rather n pretty easy to decipher, it does feature a twist 
 at the end which will remind of one too many twists u might have come across earlier in other games, 
 the cutscenes are extremely sub standard and no where close to being engrossing or dramatic at 
 all, some cutscenes are rendered in real time n some are just pre rendered videos but they really 
 feel very shallow, voice acting albeit is good, u'll fight humans n mutants, the latter being devastatingly 
 fatal n bearing the capability to kill u n a swipe or two, the game doesnt feature a quick save 
 system but relies on a checkpoint based save system quite like halo n coupled with some intense 
 firefights n close encounters with the 'non human' kind, the game provides a great deal of challenge, 
 vehicle controls are very half life 2 - esque. Slowly as u progress theres a high probability that 
 u will start sulking, for one who hasnt played a lotta games released in the post far cry period 
 may really enjoy the game and others will too but i personally felt it wasnt all that others had 
 pointed it out to be, other than that the game accomplishes a lot in graphics department which 
 can give quite a no. games a run for their money.
  A disappointing storyline, pretty repetitive gameplay n environments and some very ordinary cutscenes 
 dampened the experience that was wanting, the graphics kept me holding on but today theres not 
 much bout far cry that could be attributed to being revolutionary, maybe back in 2004 but there 
 were titles back then offering real 'revolutionary' gameplay.. 
  Might as well play it, u might njoy it, a lotta people still do, but i didnt as much... have played 
 games with a far better overall experience... 
  Probably if i had played far cry before some other games i would have liked it better but now....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Graphically this game is attractive. The colours however are DISGUSTING, it is so gaudy it almost 
 makes Drake's Fortune look anaemic. The is no realism in the colouring of ANYTHING in this game. 
 A unique look was certainly achieved but that is it.
  
  The weapons all handle exactly the same. The only difference really being range accuracy and damage. 
 But they all FEEL the same.
  
  The plot is utterly ridiculous and the acting pukeworthy.
  
  On to the gameplay. Absolutely nothing original here at all. The AI is fairly dumb, apart from 
 the unique ability of mercenaries to see through walls.
  
  All in all, I played this game very late to see what all of the fuss was about. The graphics would 
 have been sharp, if gaudy, for the time. But if it was supposed to represent a new generation of 
 FPS we were let down. Hugely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickstat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  From begining to the end, this game is flawless.
  the action involved in this game is the most realistic FPS game you can buy. From the way you fire 
 you guns, from the way you make kills on your enemy. from the amount of bullets needed to make 
 a kill and from the amount of damage you need to be killed. its all perfect.
  the environment is amazing too, the graphics are imersive and tottaly user friendly. you can take 
 cover anywhere you want and the amount of room you have to play with in this game is huge.
  the range of enemys is fantastic, the A. I. is so fun you just melt into this new world of far cry.
 
  not only the A. I of human enemy is fun but the mutants... ohhh the mutants are tottaly awsome and 
 you just go crazzy with excitment and tactical attacks.
  the game is simply breath taking in every respect, never gets boring... and i mean never!!!! its 
 made so well its inposible to get bored in any part of the game. massive enemy behaviour changes 
 and technique used depending if they are on foot in a truck or on a boat, and the mutants are just 
 crazzy with agressive A. I.
  THIS GAME ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  When almost the entire PC gaming industry is waiting for the release of Doom 3 and Half-Life 2, 
 Far Cry comes out of nowhere to compete against these giants. This game put German developers CryTek 
 on the map. 
  
  Far Cry is a first person shooter set on a tropical island. The player assumes the role of Jack 
 Craver, who is hired to sail a woman named Valarie around the pacific. The situation goes completely 
 wrong when the ship is attacked, and Valarie is kidnapped. It's now your job to rescue her and 
 get away from the island. 
  
  The first thing that comes to your mind about Far Cry is the graphics. If you have the hardware, 
 then you will be treated to some excellent visuals. The islands are beautifully created and the 
 water effects are superb. 
  
  The game offers some panoramic views over cliffs and waterfalls. I cannot count the number of times 
 I spent gazing over the horizon at the beautiful scenery. Some of the indoor levels are extremely 
 well done too. The shadows help make in making them very creepy at times; it's very immersive that 
 way. 
  
  The environment for most part is very open, and it gives you a feeling of freedom, although the 
 game is fairly linear. However, it does not restrict you to take a single route to your objective. 
 There are often multiple ways to accomplish the goals on the islands and some routes can be easier 
 than the others. 
  
  The action is very intense throughout, because even on Normal settings the game is quite hard. 
 It's not advisable to attack in the open, you are often required to take cover and move carefully. 
 The game does have a little bit of a stealth factor, but the slightest bit of a noise is enough 
 to alert everyone on the island. 
  
  I thought this could have been implemented better. Going through the forest generally provides 
 some good cover, but not for long. You only need to make a small commotion to alert everyone  
 it's almost as if there is a marker pointing right to your location. 
  
  There are a variety of enemies to deal with, both human kind and the mutated kind. The humans tend 
 to take cover and shoot through the forest. This usually means waiting for the right moment to 
 attack. Headshots become essential to conserve ammo and deliver a deadly blow. The mutants tend 
 to jump at you and can kill very easily. 
  
  You also get to drive plenty of vehicles such as boats and jeeps, and for the first time that I 
 have seen in games, you have a hand glider to use. I thought this was really well done. I enjoyed 
 jumping off a huge cliff with a hand glider and falling slowly into the water. 
  
  The audio provides a good experience for those with a good sound system. The sounds effects are 
 excellent, and the weapons sound realistic. Each scenario has its own sounds; the jungle has the 
 chirping sounds of birds, and the indoor sound effects such as hissing of steam through pipes contribute 
 heavily to the atmosphere of the game. 
  
  Although visually the game is almost perfect, there are a few gameplay glitches that keep showing 
 every now and then, such as erratic enemy behavior  they sometimes tend to get stuck into walls 
 or bounce about in water; and a certain level glitch which will prevent progress. Updating the 
 game will solve this problem. 
  
  The game is fairly long, and provides 20-30 hours of gameplay, which is quite unusual for most 
 shooters, which tend to be shorter. Given the aggressive AI and the checkpoint system, it's almost 
 certain to take as long to finish this game. 
  
  +Excellent graphics 
  + Beautiful environment 
  + Great level design 
  + Plenty of vehicles to use 
  
  - Hard! 
 
  - Checkpoint system 
  - Technical glitches 
  
  Verdict - Must Play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  One of the best First person shooters you can buy for the PC. Has awesome graphics. The water looks 
 so real. Vehicles can be hard to control at times. Difficulty is just right. Spent around 10-20 
 hours playing the game. This game just rocks. Crytek and Ubisoft did a excellent job with this 
 game. I hope Farcry 2 is way better. I recommend this gaem to all first person shooter fans. 10 
 out of 10 stars.
  
  
  
  One of the best First person shooters you can buy for the PC. Has awesome graphics. The water looks 
 so real. Vehicles can be hard to control at times. Difficulty is just right. Spent around 10-20 
 hours playing the game. This game just rocks. Crytek and Ubisoft did a excellent job with this 
 game. I hope Farcry 2 is way better. I recommend this gaem to all first person shooter fans. 10 
 out of 10 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGraveX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  When you first take a look at the gorgeously detailed world of Far Cry, your jaws will drop in 
 amazement. An incredible view distance, accompanied by highly detailed textures and a beautiful 
 looking environment, make Far Cry the great-looking shooter it has came to be. Although one could 
 assume that Far Cry's graphics are the only thing it has going for it, they would be very mistaken, 
 for its graphics are only one of the many things that make this game so memorable.
  
  In Far Cry, you venture into the island as Jack Carver, who is hired to sail a woman across the 
 Pacific. However, your ship becomes attacked, and you end up stranded on an Island. Jack's main 
 goal in the game is to adapt to his surroundings and rescue the woman by any means possible. Soon 
 you find communication with a man named Doyle, who tells you where to go to survive throughout 
 the islands. Throughout your adventure, you frequently encounter enemies, and with their intelligent 
 AI and unexpected challenges you encounter, Far Cry is by no means an easy game.
  
  The story in Far Cry isn't all too compelling, and defnitely isn't one of the game's strong points, 
 however, towards the end of the game you will probably find yourself more into it. For instance, 
 a few hours into the game you will find many mutant encounters, which is one thing that goes into 
 the storyline. Due to their power, the mutants can be very difficult to kill. However, they are 
 less intelligent than the mercenaries you will be fighting, so you can often find some rather simple 
 ways of avoiding them. Many of these mutants are equipped with heavy weaponry, one of which being 
 rocket launchers, and into a certain point in the game, you will come across lots of these monsters.
 
  
  Often you will find yourself in points of frustration, so you will sometimes resort to more strategic 
 methods than simply going out and shooting everyone you can find. Fortunately, Far Cry's environment 
 is completely open, so you can explore wherever you'd like. This is one factor that sets this game 
 apart from other's of its kind. Aside from that, its open environment can also provide you with 
 new ways of getting to certain places, which is absolutely neccessary for many situations you will 
 encounter. Although a lot of missions in Far Cry are pretty straight forward, such as get from 
 point A to point B, there are a few that change things up a little bit. For instance, there are 
 quite a few missions that require you to drive vehicles. However, during that time, there will 
 still be enemies trying to shoot at you. This will leave you forced to simultaneously shoot and 
 drive, and with ten rockets coming at you at one, this is a rather difficult thing to get past. 
 You play alone through nearly all of the game, except for one part, where the woman you were trying 
 to save helps you by getting through certain missions that are vital to completing the game.
  
  The weapons array that this game has to offer is rather expansive, so choosing the right weapons 
 at the right time is another thing that will sometimes help you get through certain missions much 
 easier. Due to the fact that you can only carry up to four weapons at once, you must choose carefully. 
 Alternatively, as you will find out in the beginning of the game, you can throw rocks at people... 
 But obviously, this becomes basically useless very quick. Aside from weapons, there are gadgets 
 you will come across that will help you through your journey. One of which is Night-Vision goggles 
 (or in this game, CryVision) which are very useful, even at certain times of the day, because with 
 the intense amount of robust foliage on the island, it will often be difficult to find some of 
 your enemies. Another thing that really sets Far Cry apart, is how immersive it is. As stated before, 
 its open environment leaves players freely being able to choose which routes would be most suitable 
 for certain situations. And thoughout the enviroment, the sound really can make you feel like you 
 are in the game. For example, when a rocket fires a foot above your head, your character will black 
 out for a second or two, and lose his ability to hear. As you're running through the jungle, its 
 ambience will be very convincing. You will hear insects making noises, water rippling through the 
 river, and of course, your enemies running to find a safe spot for cover. As I have said in the 
 beginning of my review, this game is absolutely gorgeous. The incredibly detailed environments 
 and characters will have you questioning whether or not this game was really made over 3 years 
 ago, assuming you're still not drooling over it. However, the great-looking graphics do come at 
 a price. If you have older hardware, you may have difficulties even running this game with stable 
 framerates. Though if you have newer hardware, you will undoubtly have no problems running this 
 game very smoothly with its maximum detail in perspective. One odd, but interesting this about 
 Far Cry, is it can render in four different modes: Default, Paradise, Cold, and Cartoon. Paradise 
 adds new levels of brightness, and makes it feel as though you're more on a vacation; Cold makes 
 it seem as more of a Silent Hill game on a tropical Island; and Cartoon makes everthing look... 
 Well, cartoony. The most disappointing thing about Far Cry, is saying good bye to it. You'll get 
 a great feeling knowing that you have beaten such a difficult game, but after the campaign, there's 
 really nothing left. The campaign fortunately lasts a while, about 17-20 hours for the average 
 player. After you beat it , you will probably take a break and find something a bit calmer, but 
 chances are you will eventually find yourself running back to Far Cry and playing it a second or 
 maybe even third time. The multiplayer is very lacking, and it is nothing in comparison to single 
 player. It has a few bugs here and there, and is highly underpopulated, and considering you are 
 playing on big maps, a high population is something that is absolutely neccessary. In conclusion, 
 Far Cry is an amazing game that shouldn't be missed by any fan of shooting games. If you haven't 
 played it yet, give it a try. For $10, it's well worth the money, and you will see what makes this 
 game such must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  FarCry:
  FarCry, to start off is one of the best FPS's ever ! FarCry is actually a Biological Project carried 
 out privately on a distant island. The Plot actually portrays Jack Carver taking on the mercenaries 
 and the Mutants to stop the Evil Scientist from Contaminating the world ! The gameplay is excellent 
 with a strong battle front, the difficulty and challenge keeps the adrenalin rush, while the sheer 
 madness in the jungle sometimes springs out surprises that takes a player by storm ! The Graphics 
 are Excellent with a chilling original soundtrack. the physics and AI of the opponents are perfectly 
 done with no flaws at all... There are a wide varieties of weapons to choose from. the Binoculars 
 and the scope on the sniper rifle are too cool and can maintain precision shots. The Game is huge... with 
 non repeating levels and stunning special effects.
  
  The game, as i played has no flaws to report. The AI of the mercenaries and the Mutants are just 
 perfect. I didn't experience any Graphical Faults/Corruption either..
  
  Over all, the game is one Worth Playing. I personally feel that a True FPS Gamer has to play this 
 atleast Once in his Lifetime ! Great goin Crytek... a job well done... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin1012
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  well far cry is a visually stunning game .for one its powered my the cryengine. the major problem 
 with that is the system requirements. which forced me to go out and buy a 8800 which was really 
 really expensive. well lets get to the gameplay well the maps are huge and the checkpoints are good 
 before you get into a fire fight of sorts. Next the levels vegetation is really aweinspiring especially 
 for a 4 year-old game. the level gives chanch for exploring and stealth and tactics. The firepower 
 in tghe game is like a traditional fps with the basics pistols machine guns... etc!. my major problem 
 with this game is the voice acting i guess terrible voice acting is hidden passed by the game itself 
 offering many possibilities with vegetation and vehicles like the boat, the jeep,& the terrible 
 hangglider. which i realised pigs will steal your jeep after a while leaving it there off the road. well 
 far cry is an excellent game is you can look over its voice acting, and hefty system requirements 
 to this very day. so bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  Far Cry... Crytek's first born PC game which gave life to the famous Crysis.
  
  During this game's release date, this is probably the best graphic monster in the market and can 
 still compete with today's top notch games!!
  
  Far Cry borrows a lot from Half Life & Halo, as well as several other FPS, allowing you to shoot, 
 sneak, drive, and the best of all: swim. Why swim? Check out the tropical island scene my friend. 
 The beaches are like ---wow! Virtual swimming!! You can even feel like you're really drowning when 
 you dive too deep. One more thing. Make sure you don't wander of too far cause if you do, you'll 
 have quite a trek back to your destination!!
  
  Jack Carver is your real deal here. A boat pilot and a part time special ops. After witnessing 
 his boat being obliterated to smithereens, you are manhunted by mercs armed in m4a1 rifles, rocket 
 launchers, sniper rifles. Along with their armaments are some varieties of vehicles like buggies, 
 patrol boats and humvees. Hell, you can even steal one and fight them with one too!!
  
  You also have the freedom to choose: To sneak behind your enemies and do a surprise attack, To 
 take them out one by one hitman style, or To face them head on ala Rambo mode, all these you can 
 do with the aid of your useful accessories like your nightvision goggles and enemy tracking binoculars. If 
 all fails, you can use the environment at your disposal.
  
  Later in the game, you'll have to face one mad scientist's pet experiments called trigens, making 
 you realize what the Half Life/ Doom counterpart of the game is. These ugly ape like creatures 
 can kill you with 1-2 swipes of the big meaty claws!! There's also trigen-merc fused enemies that 
 give you one heck of a fight. Some are very agile and can move at high speed, some are giant "super 
 soldiers" with a rocket launcher for an arm.
  
  Far Cry is a long game with more than 10 levels, all action packed to the max. It may not have 
 an innovative style of gameplay, but the vastly realistic island that you can explore in, plus 
 some interesting stuff to do, look at, and blow up, this one is one helluvah game!! Crytek rules!! 
 And they'll make you cry for more!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I have no hesitation in saying that is the second best shooter of all time, only surpassed by HL2. 
 But whereas HL2 was a joy to play, Far Cry is not an enjoyable experience. Technically its superb 
 - excellent graphics, great gameplay, superb AI, an intelligent, if minimal storyline. But you 
 never feel comfortable playing it - which is probably one reason why its a great game. Its brutally 
 tough. Even on the easiest setting you will die many, many times. The unforgiving checkpoint system 
 means that you will play the same bits over & over until you get them right. The enemy AI is very 
 daunting, the human foes are hard enough - they will spot you from a long way away, seek cover, 
 split up to storm you from different sides, work in pairs to flush you out. But the human enemies 
 are easy compared to the non-human ones. The ape trigens are the most daunting enemy in the game. 
 They have no ranged weapons, but can leap incredible distances and if you are foolish enough to 
 let them get close thay will rip away all your armor & 3/4 of your health with one swipe. The human 
 trigens, some of whom are massive with built in rocket launchers, others with invisibility or incredible 
 leaping powers are only slightly less formidable. In some parts of the game you will face both 
 human and non-human enemies at once. The game ends with the toughest boss fight of all time. You 
 would think it is impossible but for the fact that you know it can be done. I repeat, this is not 
 an enjoyable game, but it is immersive, addictive and totally enthralling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun one. Not the best shooter i have played, but its definiitely up there.
  
  The first thing is the graphics. now they are not amazing, but they are pretty dang good, and 
 its a cool thing to know that if there is an island in the distance, you can swim to it. The water 
 and monsters look good, and the blood is very realistic, like when you shoot a guy who falls in 
 water, you see his blood flow through the water, which is very cool. overall, good graphics that 
 will run on most pcs these days.
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from a fps, with some little touches, like cryvision, which 
 is cool because when you press T you can see any hot things, like people or mutated apes. (wtf)
 
  
  The story is kinda weak, but then again, fps's in general have pretty bad storylines anyway. youre 
 jack carvef, a dude with a chick and then she gets stolen and you have to go find her and work 
 for a inside dude who works at the science faculty. 
  
  There was one major problem i had with this game: The save system. Checkpoints in a FPS???? What 
 the hell was crytek thinking? It doesnt matter all that much though, because with cheats you can 
 save anywhere you want to.:) I also had a problem loading the save games, because every time i 
 did my pc restarted??!! I never finished the game because of this, but whatever
  
  Overall, a good game that is starting to show its age, but a fun bargain bin shooter that is better 
 than the average $10 fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  this is a game which is very fast paced. it has got all that an action shooter game needs..
  varied variety weapons, diff missions, and varied difficulty.
  also u can drive vehicles which 
 is kinda cool.
  the difficulty of this game is also just right so that u can enjoy the game..
  special thing 
 about this game is that u can choose the way u want to play this game.. for example u can either 
 go rambo style or ninja style... also u can utilize the environment very wisely...
  at somepoint i found the game very lengthy and kinda the same but at that point the game takes 
 a turn and the difficulty changes..
  also there is no big story.. its just the game of survival...
  some might also say that this 
 game is all the time same.. run run run and keep killing.
  for this i will say that thats what sets it apart and is aimed for a special kind of people who 
 dont want to care much about the game and enjoy the game for its gameplay and guns and variety....
 
  at the end u will be satisfied... 
  the graphics are cool...
  the sounds are great and the gameplay is also awesome..
  i also liked the AI of the game and 
 also the game physics... pure fun.. enjoy it
  i will give it 8.5 because i also want the game to have a good story in addition to senseless killing... 
 also i wanted the game to vary in the content like i have already said that u have to run and kill... 
 which is fine but not for the entire game.. but then again that is just my view...
  still i liked the game and finished it w/o much problem... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shape-shiffter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing the first person prospective is magical. i live in the Caribbean and trust 
 me, this game has it locked . To me playing this game is like walking on the beach in real life. 
 (In fact it's better than real life alot better) I if you haven't played this game yet do so and 
 for those who have i know that you enjoyed it i don't have to ask. If the next one is twice as 
 good i may never need to buy a game as long as i live. you guys have to try this one is the real 
 deal it has flash and substance it great i love it and so will you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The difficulty is just right, the weapons look great. The controls are just as your average shooter 
 setup (WASD) and is great. The AI is surprisingly reactive except to grenades but thats ok. This 
 game is fun and really passes time quick. The only bug i saw was the scopes did not steady in response 
 to crouching. The game play is solid though it does look like they stole the M4 rendering from 
 Counter Strike 1.6, so does some of the others come to think of it. The vesicles control easy. 
 The game play never fails to get repetitive and they mixed vehicles with game play very well. The 
 turrets are well rendered to but the sounds for the mini guns isn't correct. But if your short 
 on money and want something that still holds up well I recommend you get this, its only at most 
 20 bucks and it has solid game play with great graphics, and the sound is great, the environments 
 are stunning for the time this was created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemasta56
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that even by today's standards, Far cry has incredibly beautiful and 
 immersive graphics. You really feel like you're there, fighting off hordes of mercs&trigens alike. 
 The AI is all around amazing, flanking you and tracking you by your sound. My opinion is that they 
 are almost unreasonably difficult, and much smarter than a real human opponent. Another great thing 
 about Far Cry is it is entirely open ended, with multiple ways to accomplish your tasks. As for 
 the plot, it is acceptable, but fairly derivative (mutants, genetic engineering, blah) . If you 
 buy this game then beware that it is INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT. You will reload some checkpoints at 
 least 10 times, but hey, we've all done it. The multiplayer is just average. 
  
  All around, Far Cry is amazing and addicting, so beware of many hours lost! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-avatar
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Far cry is a good game, No that good Awesome. There are so many things about this game that make 
 you want to play it over and over agian. The story goes good with the game, It has a varity of dif 
 guns that you can use. The First time I played this game I got hooked on it. The dif enviorments 
 and the enemies that will start looking for you if you fire anywere, I cant wait till the second 
 game, Im sure it will be just as good as this one. I great story gets you hooked on the game to wear 
 you just cant stop playing it at all, Its to fun to stop, It gets better when you find these muntant 
 things that look cool. Even if you beat the entire game theres the map builder that you can create 
 maps and then test them witch is very very cool. If you have some money thats just laying around 
 I relly.. RELLY recommend getting this game becouse its awesome.. get it, Im not kidding man. Get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Far Cry arrived in 2004, stunning audiences with its amazing graphics. It also had the gameplay 
 to match.
  In Far Cry, you are Jack Carver - an ex-military boat-skipper. A confusing cutscene opens the game, 
 seeing your boat get destroyed by a rocket. While you find yourself safely ashore, on a beautiful 
 tropical island, your companion, Val, is missing. 
  The first section of the game acts as a tutorial - it'll briefly cover crouching, crawling and 
 other actions you can engage in. The mysterious "Doyle" assists you - he speaks through a transmitter 
 to you, though he is reluctant to reveal his identity. Throughout the game, he will supply you 
 with your objectives. These objectives include rescuing Val (on numerous occasions) , obtaining 
 a vaccination against a mutagen, and escorting a nuclear device through a facility. Sounds kinda 
 wacky? Well, it is. Far Cry's story is a very typical,  
 one. None of the characters are particularly memorable, least of all the main protagonist, Jack.
 
  However, this is made up for by the great action. Far Cry distinguishes itself from other shooters 
 because of the fact that you don't just rush in and slaughter everyone. The gameplay is intelligent; 
 you must sneak around and creep past some of your enemies, or the AI will recognize and kill you 
 in a matter of seconds. You have two "damage meters" - your health, and your armour. Medipacks 
 and armour will regenerate these bars, respectively. The bars will take significant reductions 
 from weapons fire, and your enemies can hit you accurately from long range.
  These enemies include mercenaries and mutants. Mercenaries are large American guys, who sound like 
 they've been watching too much wrestling, and the mutants come in a wide variety. These include 
 the most basic mutants, who are very agile and are only capable of melee attacks, to the massive 
 mutants who have rocket launchers strapped to their arms. 
  The mercenaries are incredibly intelligent, and can work together to rat you out and kill you. 
 If you alert one, he'll bring every nearby mercenary down on you. Mercenaries will be alerted either 
 by sound, such as weapons fire, or thrown rocks or grenades, by actually seeing you, or by seeing 
 the effects of your weapons or gadgets. A meter by your radar will show you if you've been detected, 
 or a mercenary is suspicious. When you have been noticed and are being engaged, the music will 
 change to signify it, and the alertness bar will be in the red. Hiding behind objects or in tall 
 grass will slowly wind down the meter. You can bypass entire contingents of enemies, if you're 
 able to avoid everyone. Sometimes, you'll be walking along, to find a sudden sniper shot in your 
 back or rocket explode at your feet.
  But when you want to rush in and kill your enemies, a variety of modern weaponry is available for 
 you to use. These include the trusty M4, which you may well carry through to the end of the game, 
 the silenced MP5, and the powerful sniper rifle. Frag, flash and smoke grenades are also available. 
 You can carry four weapons at a time, which should be balanced to allow for different tactics. 
 The mercenaries all wear armour, and some even carry shields, so headshots are important. Most 
 weapons have a secondary fire mode, such as single-shot or a grenade launcher, allowing for tactical 
 flexibility. Your binoculars allow you to "tag" and track your enemies, and even hear their conversations. 
 These chats revolve around life on the island, how they're going to be the one to kill you, and 
 even how bad the food is. You may begin to hear these conversations repeated, but there is a good 
 variety. 
  You can also use many vehicles, such as buggies, jeeps and speedboats. Some have weaponry like 
 MGs or rocket launchers. While vehicles will inevitably alert the mercenaries, who may react with 
 vehicles of their own, they allow for quick transportation. One of the great thing about Far Cry, 
 though, is that you have real freedom about how to complete objectives or get from one place to 
 another. It's very open-ended, in everything.
  The graphics were stunning back then, and still look good today. The physics are good, though you're 
 not going to be hurling stuff around anyway. The size of the maps, and non-linearity, however, 
 are amazing. Far Cry was one of the first games to have such an open-ended environment.
  The level design is great, featuring many memorable settings and missions. These include laboratories, 
 wrecked ships, and jungles. There is even a tough mission where you must use nothing but stealth 
 to win; you're stuck in a mutant-infested area, with only 10 bullets. 
  However, no game is without its bad points. There are definately glitches, although they're few 
 and far between. You can't save your game; this happens automatically at certain checkpoints. These 
 saves also make you watch most of the cutscenes when you reload your game. The voice-acting and 
 cutscenes are, quite frankly, crap. The lip-synch is awful, and the characters speak either flatly, 
 making them boring, or over-the-top, making them sound ridiculous and stupid.
  However, this list is a small price to pay for such a great game. It's a classic, and still stands 
 up to many modern shooters. It's quite comparable to Crysis. I'd reccomend this to anyone looking 
 for a challenging, fun and open-ended shooter. 
  
  And by the way - you can download the full game from many sites, such as Fileshack, for free.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothingsaid
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game was the best of its genre when it was released, and is still very playable 
 (re-playable) today. With smooth gameplay and a very immersive environment, it literally forced 
 me to play it until I had finished it. It can be quite challenging on the campaign mode, and the 
 multiplayer options are quite fun in a LAN. The campaign mode of FarCry, although somewhat linear 
 as most FPS games are, was the first to give me the very obvious feeling of freedom. Everything 
 you see in the distance, is actually there. All the islands on the horizon are real (no invisible 
 walls) , and you can swim to them if you want. You can find creative sniper spots easily, or even 
 avoid an enemy base entirely by flanking them when possible.
  
  Although I wasn't used to it, and I admit it disappointed me at first, I became accustomed to only 
 being able to carry 3 (or was it 4?) weapons on my person. After all the years of being able to 
 carry every weapon in the game in my bottomless backpack, it was a shock. It does add an interesting 
 aspect of realism however, and now I wouldn't go back. This was the first shoot-em-up game I noticed 
 this change on. A lot of games have followed this scheme now.
  
  All in all, a breakthrough of a FPS game. First Half Life knocked my socks off, then this game. 
 Huge step in first person gaming right here. If you don't have a copy, I think it's $20 or less 
 now. Very worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Paradise is not all it seems in Far Cry; a technologically ambitious title from 2004. Just like 
 the other two big hitters; Doom 3 and Half-Life 2, it displays stunning visuals and technology. 
 However, Far Cry is a step above in many respects. The German developer Crytek hit a very good 
 note with their introductory effort into the mainstream gaming biz.
  
  Throughout your quest to get off the massive, vibrant, fluidly designed levels, you're constantly 
 hit by not only impressive visuals or lifelike physics, but the Artificial Intelligence leaves 
 a mark. This may just be the game's greatest aspect. With bump and normal mapping used to render 
 the game's landscapes, bloom effects, and so on, the gamers of 2004 were treated with eye-candy 
 of the tastiest degree. The character models are very well designed, with the human ones standing 
 above the monsters in realism but the monsters standing above in creativity. 
  
  You can scan, stalk, or eliminate your enemies from vast distances. Provided your machine can handle 
 higher video settings, you'll spot enemies farther away without experiencing a fading effect (as 
 on lower settings, enemies are only shown from a limited range; higher settings should negate this) . 
 However, many computers today can handle Far Cry exceptionally well at maximum settings, but those 
 with the Nvidia GPU line benefit the most. Even by today's standards, the game holds its own simply 
 by the way the game handles such a payload without reducing your computer's memory to a crawl. 
 With patches, you can tweak the engine settings in surprising ways, which is not normally accessible 
 from the Configuration Utility nor the game's options menus. 
  
  The AI will keep you on the edge. It cannot be exaggerated that the human enemies in this game 
 can destroy the AI of many games even today with relative ease. These soldiers-for-hire will use 
 the environment to their advantage. Many a time I have been snuck upon by a mercenary who I thought 
 didn't exist or who I may have killed. When not in the indoor environments, they're absolute beasts 
 of the guerilla order. Indoor combat with them is another story, as they're typically armed to 
 the solid teeth to kill you in a millisecond. Your intelligence and problem solving skills will 
 be put to the test, but so will your frustration.
  
  You won't just encounter human enemies. The game's antagonist is a mad scientist, a geneticist 
 who had been experimenting on primates to extremely augment their physical abilities. The typical 
 enemy of this roster resorts to melee combat, and you don't want to return the fight in this fashion. 
 One to two swipes from their elongated claws will send you reeling in death. Another monster is 
 a mutated mercenary, or so it seems, which isn't afraid to wield a high-powered assault rifle while 
 leaping incredible distances to get around, and there's a sneaky variety to boot. The last of the 
 roster isn't forgiving because he's the tank of the bunch. He's called the Fat Guy for a reason; 
 he's enormous. He takes a severe beating before succumbing to your tactics and is armed with a 
 powerful weapon. Many players had complained about the rather over-powered monsters in the game, 
 which had struck an inbalance in the gameplay.
  
  Far Cry is a difficult game to master. It is indeed a shooter and it succeeds in this art, but 
 it's not a run-and-gun shooter. Doing that will get you killed. It is a stealth shooter, but due 
 to some flaws with the admirably impressive AI (despite some of its artificial shortcomings) , this 
 can change without warning. Enemies are touchy to sounds that you make, and even moving around 
 when prone gets them hot on their heels. While they can't match up to a cunning, thinking human 
 player, they seem to know where and when to attack at the exact moment, so you often have to work 
 ahead of their pace. For this reason, Far Cry will challenge you in all of its 14 to 20 hour run. 
 Yes, you'll be in a hellish paradise for that long, perhaps even longer if you let it.
  
  Because of the engine capabilities, you are fully able to explore the massive levels, provided 
 it isn't fully indoors. There will be deterrents to your map exploration, but perseverence can 
 get the best of this tactic. Such deterrents include impossibly steep cliffsides or hills, outnumbering 
 trees, or even a patrol helicopter for when you try to return to the Navy (just kidding) . Plus, 
 the maps are simply so well designed that they'll often remind you of tropical photos. 
  
  Either way, you'll enjoy this game if you haven't had the pleasure of doing so already. And if 
 you play it before Crysis, you'll appreciate the latter much more, on part of Crytek's huge effort 
 to create a robust, technologically inspiring action game. It may frustrate you, and I can assure 
 that possibility, but it'll be rewarding. Once you master the game, it can be a truly fun experience 
 because of it's replayability, thanks in part to the often dynamic AI system. So give Crytek a 
 couple thumbs up and add this game to your collection, because it needs to be there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Farcry has a simple formula but it shines in look and feel. Jack will battle Mercenaries across 
 lush jungle environments, plant explosives in military complexes and face hordes of mutants in 
 his quest to relocate Valerie (the passenger he was transporting) . The solo mission will run around 
 20 hours and is quite difficult, even on easy mode. Players praise this game in technical aspects, 
 but it's got lots of action, good weapons and fun missions. Definitely worth playing.
  
  ========== GOOD ========== 
  -- Real world weapons including handguns, assault rifles, sub-machine 
 guns, machine guns, sniper rifles, flashbangs and grenades.
  -- The weapons don't feel loose or clunky when shot.
  -- Great action: One example is the Helicopter 
 battle while standing on the sinking ship.
  -- Vehicles including jeeps and speedboats
  -- Good enemy AI
  -- Nice Ragdoll physics
  -- Weapons can shoot across long distances
  -- 
 Great Landscapes
  -- Can be purchased now for less than $10
  
  ========== BAD ========== 
  -- Jack has cheesy voice-acting
  -- The shouts and taunts from 
 mercenaries sounds silly.
  -- Lower graphic settings are good, but a high-end system is required to get the full graphical 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beastboy570
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  After recently purchasing this game I was very pleased with most of the game, though it is flawed, 
 but you can overlook them and still have an amazing experience.
  
  Pros:
  + Absolutely amazing sound; Playing the game with headphones definitely makes moments more tense 
 and suspenseful!
  + Enemy AI are worthy opponents and they are a great challenge; There the kind of AI that actually 
 keep your guard up.
  + Visuals are superb in so many ways; from the trees, to the water is all amazing.
  + Rag doll 
 physics make killing the enemies more satisfying.
  + Pretty water! Lol
  + Good amount of variety of weapons; balanced
  + The checkpoints are in good points of a level 
 so that way you don't worry about dying so much
  
  Cons:
  - Enemy AI can detect you far too easily making it a tad bit unfair in some situations
  - Driving 
 mechanics are difficult to control sometimes.
  - Overall game play seems to more towards an experienced gamers
  
  I'm not gonna lie, this 
 game takes some time to get used to but in the long run what you have is a simply amazing games 
 with eye candy and solid game mechanics that makes this game worth playing definately! You will 
 have one of those "dude grab your beer!" moments.
  
  Beastboy approved! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  One of the most powerful graphical accomplishment on its time and even today. The game's system 
 is very realistic in term of physics, draw distance, lighting, and shadow.
  
  Impressive level design and very detail on the surroundings. The jungle feels alive and filled 
 with shrubs, bushes, and trees which can be useful to keep you hidden while exchanging bullets 
 or can be useless if you loose track of your target and unload lots of shells into thin air. 
 
  
  Lush tropicals beaches, blue sky, white sand, and clear water that makes you forget that you are 
 in a killing mode and just lie down and relax. Although it would not be much of a treat if you 
 play it at low settings.
  
  Besides jungles and beaches. There are also facilities like laboratories and underground bases. 
 There is also exotic places like temples that makes the game more enjoyable.
  
  It is a very long game. Some missions are so easy and some are unbelievably hard, but fortunately 
 the game offers a dozen of weapons and gadgets that is design specially for certain situations. 
 
  
  The story is not much of an asset in this game, so don't expect an academy award winning storyline.
 
  
  Free roaming at it's best. There are many ways of getting to a location like walking or using a 
 vehicle. Taking the path which is easy to find the location but full of people that wants to kill 
 you. Or traversing the jungle which is stressful but no badguys around. 
  
  There is also many different ways completing an objective. One can go by stealth by moving to cover 
 to cover, blending on the environment, and killing badguys using a low noise weapon. Taking enemy 
 out on a distance using a sniper rifle without revealing your position, or using a rocket launcher 
 and take out vehicles or a group of people in a single shot. Or going rambo style by heading on 
 the front door and kill everything moves using the most powerful weapons available. Or maybe do 
 a mix like snipe a few badguys, move in from behind silently, grab the mounted machinegun, kill 
 everybody, and mop up the rest.
  
  Intelligent and challeging enemy AI. Coordinates their attack or runs for cover. Repetitive enemy 
 voice action makes you want to kill them quickly as possible to relieve your stress.
  
  Free roaming has it's price. If you don't know what you are doing, sometimes you find yourself 
 wandering stretches of nothing but the bushes and trees to keep you company which is very frustrating.
 
  
  This game is recommended if your looking for the best action game filled with eyecandy but no good 
 story presentable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InternetDJ
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  I have read other gamers reviews on this game, and would like to give my own. I first discovered 
 this game right here on Gamespot, while browsing the PC First person shooter demos. Downloading 
 the only demo they had at the time, and installing it, I must say I was impressed. The only bad 
 part of this game, was dealing with the Trigens. The deeper I got into the Game, the less ammo 
 and weapons I had, which made the Trigens hard to fight at times. Don't get me wrong, I realize 
 that the Trigens we're a part of the storyline, however, dealing with them was not pleasent. Also, 
 while this Game was fun, It for me, there was one bug I encountered. After picking up the Night 
 Vision Goggles, and using them, the game would be choppy at certain Points. Mind you this was before 
 Installed one of the patches for the full version. Overall, this game was quite enjoyable, and 
 if you want a game where you will be sitting at your Computer for a few hours, then this is the 
 Game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TacticalElefant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Far Cry was the first game to be developed and released by Crytek. Beginning originally as a tech 
 demo called Dino Island, CryEngine was eventually developed further and Far Cry was built from 
 it. It's thanks to CryEngine that Far Cry is what it is and manages to do what it does so well. 
 Even after being released four years ago, it holds up remarkably well and still looks quite nice. 
 While it may lack a full dynamic shadowing/lighting setting outdoors, one still gets draw into 
 the green, lush tropical island locales and the rush of getting from one place to another on foot, 
 or in a vehicle, fighting hordes of mercenaries with great AI. The game is unfortunately very difficult 
 to find boxed anymore, however Ubisoft does have the game available for free download if you have 
 a ubi. com account (which is free as well) . The game does however feature in game advertising, but 
 at least it's still free.
  
  Story - 
  This game is very B-movie on the story side of things. You're Jack Carver, a somewhat comedic bad 
 ass of an ex-US special forces member who has resorted to touring customers around various tropical 
 islands in Oceania. Off the coast of one of these islands after a customer disappears, Jack gets 
 attacked by an enemy, destroying his boat, and forcing him fight his way through the islands. Like 
 said previously, it's very B-movie in quality, and either this is contracting from the game or 
 in many ways it adds to it's charm. It doesn't take itself too seriously, and never forces the 
 player to as well, which in turn keeps it fresh and fun throughout the game. Much of the mercenary 
 dialog is very comedic to listen to. It's not a very original story, but it does the job of giving 
 you a reason to go have fun with the game. 
  
  Gameplay -
  Far Cry is built upon getting from one location to another in any way you can. Your objective is 
 too survive basically and you can complete the game without completing a single "objective" involving 
 key cards or other nonsense, as long as you get to the end actually. It's not as involving or fun, 
 but it's possible, but the saying goes that have the fun of getting somewhere is the journey, and 
 in Far Cry it's about 100% of the entertainment. Because of the nature of the open environment, 
 one must take heed to the distances between them, their objective as well as enemies. Far Cry was 
 one of the first true sniping games, where sniping from hundreds of meters is possible if one so 
 desired. However if you dare you can take on the enemies from a short distance, to which you'd 
 experience the great AI that just might kick your arse and makes the game somewhat difficult on 
 your first run through, requiring a testing method somewhat to completing certain parts of the 
 game. Much of the game also takes place inside labs that are reminiscent of Doom 3 because of the 
 detailed graphics and the lights and shadows as well. This is where the game takes a bit of a turn 
 for the negative in some aspects, but it still highly enjoyable even though it somewhat takes away 
 from that initial Far Cry experience. 
  
  Graphics -
  If there ever was a graphically revolutionary game, Far Cry is it. The staff at Crytek took on 
 many difficult tasks in order to produce this game: far draw distance, open levels (IE sandbox) , 
 water, physics, and great AI. CryEngine 1.0 is a masterpiece on all levels, and Far Cry shows it. 
 While considered lower to today's standards, the game has at least a 1 km draw distance along with 
 a vegetation system that was revolutionary, and formed the basis for games like Far Cry on the 
 consoles and Crysis. And despite being not having as high polygon counts, or textures, shaders, 
 and not all the shadowing of newer games, Far Cry still looks wonderful thanks to the art direction 
 and colors used. This game draws you in, doesn't let go, and you'll love it. At full graphical 
 settings it's still a treat to look and walk through the lush tropical forests, the brush, and 
 along the beaches that are just beckoning you to sit down and relax on the sand. What is even more 
 impressive is this game could be maxed out on hardware you wouldn't expect to push it's maximum 
 settings. 
  
  If you have an older card like a Radeon 9800 or GeForce 6600 series card, you'll have no problem 
 experiencing the game at it's full beauty. Laptop owners with GeForce 7150 and higher series graphics 
 should have no issue hitting at least medium graphics with good framerates. While Intel integrated 
 should run the game fine, I wouldn't recommend it. If you own a desktop, a cheap graphics card 
 such as a GeForce 8400/8500 or ATi Radeon 2400/34xx series card will max it out graphically on 
 desktops, along with 1 GB RAM, and a decent single core CPU or any dual core.
  
  If you can't tell yet, Far Cry holds a very special place in the hearts of PC gamers and stands 
 as a gaming classic. In it's console forms, many compromises were made to get it to run in graphics 
 and game design. Far Cry on the PC is the true Far Cry experience, the way it was meant to be. 
 There are some nice mods for the game as well thanks to the CryEngine Sandbox Editor, however I'm 
 not sure if the free downloadable version supports mods or comes with the Editor at all. Even still, 
 for free you can create a ubi. com account and download this great game for free and experience 
 this revolutionary and classic PC game for yourself! 
  
  Whether you have a top end system or older, or even a basic computer, you should be able to run 
 the game, hence I'll explain some system requirements here for those of you who might require it. 
 If you have any inquiries just send me some a question via Gamespot's e-mail system, I'll be happy 
 to help.
  
  Far Cry system requirements:
  
  CPU: 1 GHz Pentium III or Athlon equivalent. Athlon 64 2800 or higher recommended. Any dual core 
 should max the game as well, even though the game can only run on a single core, not two.
  
  RAM: 256 MB in XP, 1 GB recommended for Windows XP and personally I'd recommend 1.5-2.0 GB 
 for Vista just to guarantee proper headroom, however it should max out even on 1.25 or 1.5 GB on 
 Vista. 
  
  Video: Any computer you could buy right now should run Far Cry whether it has integrated or dedicated 
 graphics as long as it's equiped with 64 MB of VRAM.
  For dedicated Nvidia: GeForce 4, FX (5) , 6xxx, 7xxx, 8xxx card will work. I'd recommend a GeForce 
 7300GT, 7600GS, they will max it out. As for 8 series GeForce cards, the 8400 and 8500 should max 
 it out.
  For dedicated ATi: any Radeon 9xxx, Xxxx, X1xxx, X2xxx and 3xxx series card will work. For max 
 settings I'd recommend an X1300, X2400, or HD 3450.
  
  Integrated:
  Any current integrated Intel GMA that support Direct X 9.0b should work, such as Intel GMA950, 
 GMA X3000, X3100 whether on laptop or desktop. There are known issues with older GMA hardware such 
 as GMA845, the game will work barely, however there are graphical glitches due to lack of true 
 Direct X 9.0b support with some. As for Nvidia and ATi integrated graphics, any should do. Keep 
 in mind that Integrated solutions are much poorer than discrete graphics, and they'll tax your 
 RAM and CPU more especially with Intel integrated. 
  
  Like I said, e-mail me for any inquiries about requirements. Pretty much anyone should be able 
 to run the downloadable version. Good luck and enjoy!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5/10
  One of the best on the PC. The water is amazing, the jungles are full of wildlife and vegetation 
 and looks amazing. The islands look great from far away. The bubbles and fish under the water look 
 good too. Weapon models are good, explosions are good, good graphically wise game.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Good gameplay with plenty of weapons. It's a smooth game and it flows well. 
 No complains here. The blood and gore is nice too. Love the bullet holes in the body and the blood 
 in the water when a body is in the water. Really nice. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9.5/10
  Multiplayer is really fun and the campaign is really fun too. The multiplayer won't replace other 
 great multiplayer games such as Counter Strike or Day of Defeat but it's still a good multiplayer 
 game.
  
  Overall: 9.8/10
  It's a great game that is now free, but it's ad supported so that sucks. Some McDonald ad. Still, 
 it's worth getting it though. The single player is really fun. So, if you haven't played it and 
 your computer can handle it, then get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electric-Guitar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  Thanks to its combination of unmatched beauty and riveting game play, Far Cry earns itself a seat 
 among the FPS gods. 
  
  Far Cry's lighting, shading, particle and water effects stand out way above anything the genre 
 has ever seen. Also of note is the game's amazingly long draw distance  you can snipe an enemy 
 guard, safely nestled on a mountain perch literally halfway across the island. Character models 
 are elaborately and painstakingly detailed, and the thermal vision/night vision combo ("Cry Vision") 
 would blow Sam Fisher off his stealth ninja horse. All this praise adds up to the conclusion that 
 Far Cry is the most beautiful title that any gamer can play right now. It should be noted that 
 all this power comes at a price - namely, the retail price of an insanely powerful PC. Running 
 on an Athlon 3200+ with a Radeon 9700 Pro and 512 MB of PC 3200 RAM, Far Cry still dropped to a 
 sluggish framerate with all options turned to the highest level. It was certainly playable, and 
 the slight dip in performance was more than worth the visual splendor; but to get silky smooth 
 framerates, you're going to need an absolute top-of-the-heap system, with no less than a gig of 
 RAM and a 9800 XT/GeForce FX. 
  
  Far Cry has a competent multiplayer component, but the emphasis is squarely focused on the engaging 
 single player campaign. In spite of long load times at the start of each level and almost obscene 
 system requirements, Far Cry is an experience that all shooter fans should play as soon as humanly 
 (and financially) possible. 
  
  Play it,, see it,, enjoy it :)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ELECTRICA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is indeed the first game to be truly innovative and revolutionary in almost every aspect. 
 Unfortunately, for the game to be truly immersive you must, I repeat, you must play it at full 
 settings and high resolution. The eye candy does play a big role in this game. The physics are 
 truly amazing. The nighttime maps are simply breathtaking! If you have a decent system this game 
 will put it to work for once. The plot seems bland at the beginning but later on the story really 
 develops. There are quite a lot of times where you will run for your life. The adrenaline will 
 pump in your blood as you go through this masterpiece! Yes masterpiece! There is barely anything 
 left for Half Life 2 to be truly innovative. Far Cry has it almost all! Multiplayer is the only 
 thing lacking but I am sure it will continue to grow. Multiplayer is still very fun to play with 
 all the lush vegetation. If you have a low end system you won't truly enjoy the greatness of this 
 game and have a right to complain. However, if you have the system to run it you will be in for 
 an amazing treat. UT2004 got a higher score in its own category! Far Cry belongs to a totally different 
 category! You deserve this game. Go buy it! What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I first saw screenshots of Far Cry and being blow away by them. I just knew it 
 was gonna be an amazing game and I was just in awe over every new screenshot that was put out. 
 Then I got to read about how the AI was going to be highly advanced and certain actions made by 
 you will determined what course of action they would take and I couldn't believe it. Then I heard 
 about how the entire environment was open ended. See a mountain you want to climb in the distance? 
 Well go for it because you can. "This is just unreal." I thought to myself. Then I also heard that 
 you can actually use foliage and objects for concealment and that was it. I knew this had to be 
 the most amazing shooter EVER. The ability to up and go off exploring ANYWHERE on the island. Take 
 cover and hide in tall grass and spy on the enemy. Try to sniper them off before they radio in 
 for reinforcements. Try to keep them from out flanking you. All this taking place in a gorgeous 
 environment. Though the game is fairly difficult, it is with a doubt, non stop FUN. Hell, the most 
 fun I had was simply just exploring around the island and killing random NPCs without following 
 any of the story what so ever. It is a great blend of amazing graphics, very smart AI, open ended 
 exploration, and top quality sound that just makes this game pure out standing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoz18
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a very good shooter and unlike other shooters because it is set on a tropical island. 
 Despite its low specification requirements e. g. 1GHz processor and Geforce MX upwards on the 1.3 
 patch, this game has very good graphics and the game plays well with very good graphics of the 
 palm trees and the tropical water. With these good graphics in toe the games levels especially 
 the outside ones are very attractive to look at. This game also has very good sound and has large 
 and plenty of levels to play.
  Overall, this surprisingly is a very good fps considering the low specs of the game. This has good 
 sound and eye-catching graphics. I can't wait until Far Cry 2 is out because that also have even 
 better graphics then the first, and considering the graphics in the first one, I imagine that they 
 will be absolutely fantastic graphics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD_killeru
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  This is the most exciting game I've ever played. The gameplay, graphics, sound are awesome. But 
 you can't aim down the sight (damn) .
  
  In the game you are a lonely guy, called Jack Carver, who tries to save his girlfriend, Valerie. 
 You have a hard experience to finish, but in the finish you'll see the game worth your spent time 
 (a lot of time) .
  
  The training is not almost a training... but stills a training. This level will teech you about 
 how to play this game.
  
  The next levels are not very hard, but when you start the 6th or 7th level, the game become a living 
 hell. In this levels you will be face to face with some human created monsters (they are blind, 
 but they are a very fine smelling, and will smash you with theyre claws) .
  
  I never finish this game (now i'm at 12th level) , so the review is not complete. If you want high 
 adrenaline, and to spent your days and nights in the front of your PC, this is game you are looking 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Turn the speakers up, the lights off and immerse yourself in the survival horror of Farcry. My 
 advice is make sure your PC can run this with moderate to high or high graphics settings, anything 
 lower will hamper your gaming experience. 
  
  This game throws you head first into a compelling storyline, through fast paced action and terrifying 
 atmosphere. Not only do all of these combine to give you an outstanding game but they also spur 
 you on to try it on harder difficulty settings. 
  
  The scenery is fantastic, and ranges from lush tropical beaches with cyan blue ocean, to dense 
 rainforest and creepy research facilties. The atmosphere is perfectly composed for each surrounding, 
 meaning you can find yourself strolling happy as can be down a beach, or running around in blind 
 panic unloading a whole magazine of ammo at nothing in particular! 
  
  The gameplay is smooth and responsive and leaves you feeling like you are actually there charinging 
 through the jungle. The vehicles are fun to drive and easy to control and the weapons are very 
 fun to use.
  
  The physics engine is probably the finest thing about this game, it is fantastic. People, vehicles, 
 water and the wind all affect you, and all move in a very life-like way. 
  
  The game world is very large, providing you will a huge area to explore, that the fact that you 
 can sneak around and flank your enemies will have you captivated for hours. There is nothing better 
 than sneaking through the jungle, walking right up behind someone, and blowing them away without 
 them knowing you were there!
  
  I simply cannot reccomend this game enough, it is one of the most increadible FPS experiences you 
 will find. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  First the Good things:
  
  Gameplay: Awesone stealth system able to hide in bushes and ambush opponents are fun. Realistic 
 recoils (i guess) and the game makes u feel like a commando.
  
  Sounds: Great and realistic weapon sounds
  
  Graphics: Amazing lightings (at that time) and 
 great graphics
  
  Systems: Low system requirements
  
  The Bad things:
  
  Gameplay: few opponents can be frustrating and multiplayer feels a little like a RTS game.
  
 
  Sounds: nothing to say
  
  Graphics: Nothing to say
  
  Systems: Few glitches
  
  Overall: a great FPS ever. Great graphics and sounds. Also the game makes u feel like a commando. 
 Able to sneak and ambush ur opponents. if u love this game get Far Cry 2 when it comes out. sorry 
 that i couldnt write much about this game. I really dont have any words to say about this game. 
 heheheheehehehehehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grallis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Now here's a first person shooter that has practically everything I'd look for in a FPS game. Everything 
 from the scenery to the action, and from the AI to the arsenal, this game is one of the best I've 
 ever played.
  
  Gameplay: 
  This game has plenty of gameplay diversity and good points. The AI is some of the best I've ever 
 seen. The enemy AI take cover, snipe, drive vehicles, talk and several other things. I know you're 
 thinking, "Well, every FPS game has all those" ... and you'd be right, however, this game has those 
 features to a greater degree than most others. For example, you can use your binoculars to zoom 
 in and watch soldiers to see who is where, and to watch for patterns in their patrolling, but you 
 binoculars also can hear audio from a great distance, and sometimes you can sit there and listen 
 to the soldiers talk to eachother for minutes on end. Farcry seems to have non-linear gameplay, 
 because every mission you go on, you definitely have to go to that place, which makes it linear 
 right? Well, in a sense, but you can get to that place the abvious way, or you can get to it several 
 others ... trekking through the jungle ... take a boat ... climb a mountain. It seems everytime 
 you have a mission in Farcry, you can actually tackle it from a number of different angles.
  
  Graphics:
  Farcry has some of the best graphics out there still, with the nicest outdoor 
 environments I've ever seen. Without a doubt the best graphical part of Farcry is the jungle, tropical 
 environment of the island. This game uses a reworked version of the Doom 3 engine, and outdoors 
 apparently if details are on full, you can see a full 1.4 km equivalent in to the distance with 
 great detail. The onyl part of the game graphically lacking a little bit to me were the soldier 
 models. The actual models were really well done, but the Doom 3-shrink-the-poly-count graphics 
 made some of the models a bit too strange looking in my opinion.
  
  Audio:
  The over all audio of the game was pretty good. Explosions were big, gun fire sounded pretty cool. 
 Music score was pretty good, yet scarce, however, the game almost needed that as you can get involved 
 in a tense moment in the jungle where you'll find yourself hiding in the bushes waiting for an 
 enemy to pass, and no music definitely adds to the intensity of the situation.
  
  I would have given this game perfect if it had made it's server listings public. In my opinion, 
 that was the one thing that held this game back from becoming the best FPS ever, as games like 
 HL2 and Halo have a massive online experience. Multiplayer was extremely fun, and this game easily 
 could have competed with Halo and HL2 in the online category if it's server listings were public.
 
  
  Overall, this is one of the best games I've ever played. Check it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: palisthug
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is basically about Jack Carver who is stranded on an island after his boat was exploded 
 by mercs. So Jack Carver starts out on an island and this is where you get along with the only 
 friends you'll have on this horrific island, your weapons! 
  
  Once you begin the game you will automatically notice the spectacular graphics. The only reason 
 it didn't get a 10 was because the level of difficulty. Now I beat the game, but I first started 
 on Easy mode. And believe me, it was nothing Easy. When you begin to shoot down monsters you will 
 see what I mean. But none the less did I had a great time blowing them up.
  
  You should notice your weaponry. It is going to be equipped with probably the most greatest FPS 
 guns you could find. In Far Cry, you will technically meet a man named Doyle. He will guide you 
 through your missions but not help you. He will give you about a useless overview and you do all 
 the hard work. Oh, and it's over a radio thingy
  
  Doyle could get you off the island easily but a woman named Val is captured. And Doyle wants you 
 to save her. So you race through the jungle, and when I mean race, you have 100% free roam around 
 the island. So that's another great feature. So you battle through the jungle killing mercenaries 
 AT FIRST. Later on in the game, you will meet another dreadful enemy, the monsters. Now these creatures 
 will do damage. I do not suggest you use a quiet gun because they will take advantage. Another 
 excellent feature is the binoculars. They locate everything moving in the jungle so you see them 
 on the map. Also you get to drive cars and jeeps, but that's a different story.
  
  So as Jack Carver, you kill mercs gaining information on Val's location. The game gets fun when 
 you meet the creatures. And even deeper in the game, it gets better when they have weapons! And 
 the best part is when it becomes you vs. mercs vs. monsters. It becomes a free-for-all. So as you 
 continue to find word on Val's location you find more neat weaponry.
  You find Val about quarter in the game. She wont help alot but you know she's safe. {oh go cry 
 me a river, I didn't really care if she was eaten whole, I just wanted to leave the place.} When 
 you get closer to the end of the game, something very, very unexpected happens. I wont tell you 
 what but you'll find out soon enough. 
  
  All in all, I think the game is almost perfect, just for that difficulty problem. The weapons are 
 great and the environment is life-like. Oh a quick note, I would suggest you save ammo, {depending 
 on your choice of gun} because if you run low on ammo, monsters and mercs will join together and 
 chase you throughout the jungle. If you shoot some, you might turn Val on, {she's got the hots 
 for you} and if you die, don't worry sweetheart, Val will die right next to you, or at least some 
 body parts will. Haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played Far Cry, I just had finished Doom 3 (that, as everybody knows, is a great 
 game but, in someway, suffocating, with all that closed environments and darkness) . And when you 
 start playing Far Cry, you think: "ow man... one more of 'these' fps". But, when you see that huge 
 island, full of vegetation and life, born in front of you, a new feeling appears. Soon, the first 
 combat happens and then, you change your mind. You perceives that Far Cry isn't one more fps, It's 
 a revolutionary FPS! One game that will influence the next generation of games, perceiving that 
 the AI is something never seen before (only seen in games like Fear and Crysis, making Far Cry 
 revolutionary in this way for its time) , and you start to take care with yourself, mainly in high 
 difficulties. 
  This means: if you wanna shoot in everything that moves in a single run you will be dead before 
 you know and will never know what or who killed you. Different from others shooters, you have to 
 be more careful, hiding and covering yourself, thinking before start shooting. 
  
  Far Cry had one of the most brilliant AI. If you don't take care, your enemies will have an easy 
 time with you. Means that, in the same way that you do, they can do too. Hear footsteps, follow 
 the direction of your shoots and even know where you are when you thrown a grenade and they can 
 also hide themselves in the jungle. They interact very well with themselves, making an excellent 
 teamwork: covering, hiding, calling reinforcements and shooting. Also, is one of the few games 
 that the smoke and flash grenades work well. They can even flank or thrown a grenade, forcing you 
 to get out of cover.
  
  But what really shines in Far Cry isn't the AI: is freedom. From the beginning to the end, you 
 always have many ways to make things. If there's a camp full of mercenaries, this don't mean that 
 you need to kill everyone, you can just infiltrate the camp and kill quietly one by one or take 
 them out with a sniper from great distances or take one jeep or one patrol boat, using its superior 
 firepower of these machines to destroy some base. And when you think that you're almost finishing 
 the game, all surprising changes. And luckily, this always makes you wanting more, wanting to know 
 what surprise comes next, making Far Cry a great surprising long game.
  
  Owner of a awesome engine, I can't remember a single bug or crash. Very soft, run fine in almost 
 every system without lose his beauty. Bullets leave holes in the bodies and walls, objects and 
 enemies have self shadows, the vegetation is very abundant and diversified making all very natural. 
 The light counts with HDR, giving to the lights great effects. Then you put all this together with 
 an amazing water reflections and details, nice textures and with sound effects and music that follow 
 all the action and elements... puf! Far Cry was made.
  
  PS: I really tried to talk something bad of this game, but I don't find nothing to say against. 
 Or at least, I don't remember, only good memories from this game.
  
  #1 Revision# 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  There are turning points in every genre, and while as a collective, every standout obviously draws 
 and evolves from the games that came before it, the standouts are just as obvious, and usher gamers 
 from the foggy mist of what the genre was before, and in a single game, show us what the genre 
 will be now for some time to come.
  
  Myst did it for puzzle games, Final Fantasy 7 did it for RPG's, and Far Cry did it for first person 
 shooters.
  
  Citing those standouts, it's important to say that there were good games before these. But Far 
 Cry, like Myst and Final Fantasy 7, took first person shooters out of their clunky, blocky origins, 
 into breathtaking landscapes where both combat and setting were honed and fine tuned into levels 
 of realism never experienced before.
  
  And, like many great games, the basis or premise is not terribly inventive. There have been far 
 more ambitious stories than Far Cry. The interactive settings, the very convincing AI, the never 
 the same fight twice combat, and the multitude of options on how to approach all and everything 
 in the game made Far Cry truly unique, and made a simple premise seem and feel very real.
  
  Never before has combat seemed so rewarding, especially sizing up a camp, or a post, and figuring 
 out how you're going to take it out, from your first shot to your last. Cause you know after you 
 fire that first shot, the enemies will take cover, flank you, send boats and jeeps after you, and 
 basically do everything they can to keep you from getting off another clean shot.
  
  Even by modern standards, Far Cry's combat still holds up, even if the then revolutionary graphics 
 are starting to show their age a bit. In some ways, it's a better game than most shooters when 
 it comes to combat approach and freedom of movement, and that includes it's direct successor, Crysis.
 
  
  I still play this game once a year, just to see how well it holds up. I played it again, after 
 I finished Crysis for the first time, and as a gameplay, it holds up well, and is just as tactical, 
 just as immersive and beautiful, and just as enjoyable and rewarding as it was the first time I 
 played it. Mostly, because for my now 6 playthroughs, I don't think I've approached a single encounter 
 the same way. In games like Crysis, there are obviously stronger ways to approach an encounter. 
 In Far Cry, every approach feels just as valid, offering strengths in certain ways, but weaknesses 
 in others.
  
  It was a fantastic game when it was released, and remains a fantastic game now, and set a benchmark 
 for graphics, freedom, and stategic approach in shooters, where the sum of these groundbreaking 
 parts were even greater as a whole, creating an engaging, exciting, and one of a kind experience 
 that few games have ever offered before, and after so many years, many games since have failed 
 to deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I didn't really appreciate this game until I downloaded a mod that supposedly modeled 
 more realistic weapon damage. I think it was this one: Far Cry Enhanced Realism v1.4.5 Mod. 
  
  At any rate, the mod helped. 
  
  Far Cry is an excellent game for anyone who is tired of 
 the kind of dark or confined spaces of the Half Life series. It is set in the tropics, and is beautiful 
 to look at, in spite of it's age. 
  
  It has a compelling story, and a really great variety of maps to play on...
  
  Gameplay is 
 wonderful, with a wide variety of weapons. The dialogue, even the comments overheard by enemies 
 during gameplay, is strong. 
  
  It's basically right up there with Call of Duty 4 and Half Life 2 as far as my favorite FPS of 
 all time. I highly recommned it and you can probably find it cheap due to it's age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes Far Cry is no walk in the park.. Far Cry will surely test ur gaming skills.. This is one of 
 those games which will make u play through the entire game over and over again..
  
  The gameplay is outstanding. We get a really good feel for the weapons and the recoil too feels 
 great. The enemy AI is just brilliant. This game provides with the best enemy AI till date and 
 thus is a tag on the difficult side.. U can either use stealth or just gun down ur enemies.. But 
 the choice is urs.. But it would better to use a combination of the two..
  
  Graphically this game looks stunning.. Kudos to CRYTEK for this achievement.. The game is very 
 colorfull with completely open ended gameplay.. So u can explore the area to the fullest and also 
 drive any vehicle.. Game also uses great lighting effects.. The voice acting is also great so is 
 the music.. The music adds on to the tension during a serious fight situation.. The game also provides 
 an engaging story.. The single player campaign will take u about 10 to 20 hours as u will be repeating 
 a lot of scenarios over n over again cos of the difficulty.. And also the automatic saving feature 
 can put u in lot of trouble as sometimes the game will be saved in a situation whre u have really 
 less health and thus u will have to replay the previous scenario..
  
  If u are someone who likes a bit of challenge then this is surely worth a try..
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pratik_pbr
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially 
 sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons 
  farcy is killing game 
  i m egarly waiting for farcry 2 which will killed by me
  so lets game. Keep Gaming. gays i tell 
 u one thing crysis is game by FARCRY MAKER SO SEE THAT CRYSIS IS ALSO THAT LLLLL LA ADDD DD D DD 
 D DD DDD D DDDDDD cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very 
 cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard 
 game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom 
 all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are 
 very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and 
 hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 
 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets 
 are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool 
 and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 
 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the 
 gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its 
 very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper 
 rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very 
 good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons 
 cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially 
 sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes 
 its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other 
 weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and 
 specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which 
 makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the 
 other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool 
 and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game 
 which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all 
 the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very 
 cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard 
 game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom 
 all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are 
 very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and 
 hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 
 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets 
 are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool 
 and hard game which makes its very good the gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 
 24 x zoom all the other weapons cool its very cool and hard game which makes its very good the 
 gadgets are very cool and specially sniper rifle with 24 x zoom all the other weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvinnitsky
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  The story is not that interesting and humor was lacking. Enemies don't really say too many funny 
 things. Beach, water, jungle environment is nice but gets repetitive very fast. Most weapons are 
 very standard. Graphics in some parts look great, in some average at best. The game is way too 
 long, I prefer games on the shorter side so I can beat them without getting too fed up. It is an 
 OK game, but nothing special, certainly overrated and overhyped. There are plenty of better and 
 more fun shooters out there. Don't understand why everybody is raving about this game. Many FPS 
 games have a lot more variety and a better story. To those who just want to kill will love it, 
 but those who like an interesting plot look elsewhere. I can't believe I have to keep on writing 
 because of stupid 800 characters minimum limit. Ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wigster666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Far cry is a first person type shooter where you are marooend on a tropical island, where you have 
 to fight mercenaries and mutants later on. The whole of the game just looks stunning even now it 
 looks amazing, Crytek really know how to get the best out of computers and there graphics engine. 
 The game play is intense and sometimes quite scary e. g: when a mutant jumps out at you in a dark 
 tunnel. The AI are really challenging and make for a proper game, unlike some fps where its like 
 shooting fish in a barrel. I have a couple of critisisms such as the guns really dont aim well 
 and it can be a bit laggy. The multiplayer is just great fun, its a proper run and gun fest and 
 theres loads of servers still. The community is still massive even with this far on and loads of 
 people still play on it. 
  If you dont already have this game you should really get it, its a game i think that everyone should 
 own whether they enjoy this type of game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevilkitten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  While most games of the first person shooter genre try to suck you in with good graphics and leave 
 you disappointed Far Cry leaves you feeling your money was spent well... not that the graphics 
 aren't somewhat good looking but the game seems to be more focused on the gameplay and AI. I find 
 this game to be highly challenging since the AI seems to be able to do at least minor tactics when 
 in combat which contributes highly to the enjoyment of the game. Where in other shooters enemies 
 will blindly run at you attacking until you or the bots are dead the enemies in Far Cry will search 
 out your last known position if they lose line of sight and are put on high alert. If you go prone 
 and stick to the jungle you may not be detected as in real life, instead of being shot at no matter 
 how stealthy you were. In some areas you will not be able to take the enemies head on (unless you're 
 a pro) without using some tactics of your own which puts a new challenge in the game. However I 
 would not recommend this game to first time players as there is quite a challenge even on easy 
 settings for first time players. In a lot of levels there is some freedom in how you can complete 
 the level, you may choose to walk on the beach shooting up mercenaries in firefights or you may 
 choose to go to the other side of th island and avoid all enemies which adds highly to the replay 
 value of maps. There are also some minor physics in the game, mercenaries will toss around like 
 rag dolls fairly realistically if hit with a missile or jerk back if hit with a powerful weapon 
 which is quite preferable to seeing an unrealistic pre-generated fall. The sound quality is quite 
 good also. The game is somewhat lacking in graphics though but makes up for it in the quality of 
 the game and in being able to run on slightly outdated computers. If you are looking for a hard 
 but fun first person shooter Far Cry is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGrave
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When you first take a look at the gorgeously detailed world of Far Cry, your jaws will drop in 
 amazement. An incredible view distance, accompanied by highly detailed textures and a beautiful 
 looking environment, make Far Cry the great-looking shooter it has came to be. Although one could 
 assume that Far Cry's graphics are the only thing it has going for it, they would be very mistaken, 
 for its graphics are only one of the many things that make this game so memorable.
  
  In Far Cry, you venture into the island as Jack Carver, who is hired to sail a woman across the 
 Pacific. However, your ship becomes attacked, and you end up stranded on an Island. Jack's main 
 goal in the game is to adapt to his surroundings and rescue the woman by any means possible. Soon 
 you find communication with a man named Doyle, who tells you where to go to survive throughout 
 the islands. Throughout your adventure, you frequently encounter enemies, and with their intelligent 
 AI and unexpected challenges you encounter, Far Cry is by no means an easy game.
  
  The story in Far Cry isn't all too compelling, and defnitely isn't one of the game's strong points, 
 however, towards the end of the game you will probably find yourself more into it. For instance, 
 a few hours into the game you will find many mutant encounters, which is one thing that goes into 
 the storyline. Due to their power, the mutants can be very difficult to kill. However, they are 
 less intelligent than the mercenaries you will be fighting, so you can often find some rather simple 
 ways of avoiding them. Many of these mutants are equipped with heavy weaponry, one of which being 
 rocket launchers, and into a certain point in the game, you will come across lots of these monsters.
 
  
  Often you will find yourself in points of frustration, so you will sometimes resort to more strategic 
 methods than simply going out and shooting everyone you can find. Fortunately, Far Cry's environment 
 is completely open, so you can explore wherever you'd like. This is one factor that sets this game 
 apart from other's of its kind. Aside from that, its open environment can also provide you with 
 new ways of getting to certain places, which is absolutely neccessary for many situations you will 
 encounter. Although a lot of missions in Far Cry are pretty straight forward, such as get from 
 point A to point B, there are a few that change things up a little bit. For instance, there are 
 quite a few missions that require you to drive vehicles. However, during that time, there will 
 still be enemies trying to shoot at you. This will leave you forced to simultaneously shoot and 
 drive, and with ten rockets coming at you at one, this is a rather difficult thing to get past. 
 You play alone through nearly all of the game, except for one part, where the woman you were trying 
 to save helps you by getting through certain missions that are vital to completing the game.
  
  The weapons array that this game has to offer is rather expansive, so choosing the right weapons 
 at the right time is another thing that will sometimes help you get through certain missions much 
 easier. Due to the fact that you can only carry up to four weapons at once, you must choose carefully. 
 Alternatively, as you will find out in the beginning of the game, you can throw rocks at people... 
 But obviously, this becomes basically useless very quick. Aside from weapons, there are gadgets 
 you will come across that will help you through your journey. One of which is Night-Vision goggles 
 (or in this game, CryVision) which are very useful, even at certain times of the day, because with 
 the intense amount of robust foliage on the island, it will often be difficult to find some of 
 your enemies. Another thing that really sets Far Cry apart, is how immersive it is. As stated before, 
 its open environment leaves players freely being able to choose which routes would be most suitable 
 for certain situations. And thoughout the enviroment, the sound really can make you feel like you 
 are in the game. For example, when a rocket fires a foot above your head, your character will black 
 out for a second or two, and lose his ability to hear. As you're running through the jungle, its 
 ambience will be very convincing. You will hear insects making noises, water rippling through the 
 river, and of course, your enemies running to find a safe spot for cover. As I have said in the 
 beginning of my review, this game is absolutely gorgeous. The incredibly detailed environments 
 and characters will have you questioning whether or not this game was really made over 3 years 
 ago, assuming you're still not drooling over it. However, the great-looking graphics do come at 
 a price. If you have older hardware, you may have difficulties even running this game with stable 
 framerates. Though if you have newer hardware, you will undoubtly have no problems running this 
 game very smoothly with its maximum detail in perspective. One odd, but interesting this about 
 Far Cry, is it can render in four different modes: Default, Paradise, Cold, and Cartoon. Paradise 
 adds new levels of brightness, and makes it feel as though you're more on a vacation; Cold makes 
 it seem as more of a Silent Hill game on a tropical Island; and Cartoon makes everthing look... 
 Well, cartoony. The most disappointing thing about Far Cry, is saying good bye to it. You'll get 
 a great feeling knowing that you have beaten such a difficult game, but after the campaign, there's 
 really nothing left. The campaign fortunately lasts a while, about 17-20 hours for the average 
 player. After you beat it , you will probably take a break and find something a bit calmer, but 
 chances are you will eventually find yourself running back to Far Cry and playing it a second or 
 maybe even third time. The multiplayer is very lacking, and it is nothing in comparison to single 
 player. It has a few bugs here and there, and is highly underpopulated, and considering you are 
 playing on big maps, a high population is something that is absolutely neccessary. In conclusion, 
 Far Cry is an amazing game that shouldn't be missed by any fan of shooting games. If you haven't 
 played it yet, give it a try. For $10, it's well worth the money, and you will see what makes this 
 game such must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaykee8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Just a quick review.
  
  Positive: A decent story line that keeps you involved and not too predictable either. The weaps 
 are nice to use with the choice of zooming in on just about everything! The enemy kept me laughing 
 with their constant "die, die, die" comments even when you are AGES away.
  
  Negative: When shooting at an enemy, human in particular, the amount of shots that are needed to 
 kill an alerted solider is ridiculous, they can take far too much. I found the vehicles difficult 
 to use, almost annoying.
  
  All in all, looking by all the negative and positive. It was one of the better FPS that ive played. 
 It kept me coming back until I had completed scene after scene, level after level, it just kept 
 me coming back for more. Some things could have been worked on but which game couldnt?
  
  A great game. Good job Crytek!
  
  P. S. Yet another FPS in which you cannot see your own feet!
 
  
  -Jaykee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Well, I was told about this game by my cousin. I didn't know what to expect. I must say I was pleasantly 
 surprised and loved the game. I didn't like the weird bit of changing from killing people to killing 
 aliens but it is a good refreshment in the middle of the game so such a turn out is actually good 
 and adds value to the game. 
  
  All in all I absolutely loved the game as it is incredibily revolutionary - less linearity, more 
 space, incredible graphics and so on...
  
  However, personally I dislike the cartoony effects and the design of soldiers as well as their 
 AI as it constantly reminds you that you are playing a game and you are playing against computer 
 opponents. 
  
  I would give it 10 as a legendary game and put in my small box of absolute legends, but bearing 
 in mind that I didn't like the cartoony effects of the game, lack of stealth and a few other bits 
 as well as the fact that Crysis has just come out and Far Cry 2 is on its way, I have to give it 
 9.5 meaning it is legendary for sure, but it just has those small details missing to make into 
 my Hall Of Fame. 
  
  Having said that, this game cannot possible disappoint you and it is a must play. 
  
  
  
 
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulwrath
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  This review of Far Cry, you may have guessed was written after the release of Crysis, the two games 
 being made by the same developer, Crytek. Crysis is always being referenced as the 'spiritual successor' 
 and the two games are played on tropical islands so hence the link between them. I found myself 
 buying and playing Far Cry to fill the part of me that so wanted to play Crysis, yet didn't have 
 the machine to do it. Just so you know, I only have a fairly new and inexpensive laptop to my name, 
 so Crysis is very sadly not within my reach.
  
  But let's move on to reviewing the actual game, Far Cry is a brilliant game, but one with flaws 
 that stopped me from buying it when it came out. Before Far Cry, most FPS games were stuck in the 
 tired sci-fi corridors and dockyards that were becoming FPS cliches. Many of the games were also 
 very linear, forcing you down a path with lots of hand-holding to make sure you won't die and therefore 
 become frustrated. Far Cry doesn't do any of this, which makes it a brilliant game, but also very 
 difficult. 
  
  Far Cry gave us beautiful vistas to experience, to walk around in and to occasionally shoot the 
 odd Trigen or Mercenary. The enemies we'll come to later, and concentrate on the graphics. Far 
 Cry's graphics were the best of any to its release date, and still look impressive today. The draw 
 distance of 2km is very impressive the models of the enemies are nicely done. They are, of course, 
 dated now, with textures looking rather simple compared to today, especially at long distances. 
 It is worth noting that the game is playable on low spec machines nowadays, even runnning on the 
 latest integrated graphics, although I ran it with an ATI X1400 and dual core with most of the 
 options on high. 
  
  The sound is less impressive in some areas. The voice acting isn't terrible, but it does sound 
 that Crytek took in the first people who walked in to the recording studio and the dialogue is 
 rather corny. The ambient sound is great, however, hearing the insects and birds when trudging 
 through the jungle really make you feel you were there. 
  
  The gameplay is variable, meaning that there is good and then there is the bad. One thing must 
 be said that this is, compared to others, a very hard game. I completed Half Life 2 without dying 
 the first time, yet I was dead in Far Cry within half an hour of playing it. On easy. You learn 
 to deal with the increased difficulty through the process of trial and error , which can be frustrating. 
 Noobs be warned. 
  
  Overcome the difficulty and you have a brilliant game to play. The open-ended ness of the game 
 allows you to choose what to do and how to do it. A base is down the hill below you: you could 
 snipe the visible guards and let the rest come to you, you could try and traverse the terrain around 
 it, avoiding the guards, or you could use the 4x4s to punch through it with a mounted machine gun 
 and rockets. It really is your choice to what you do. 
  
  However the game hits its biggest snag around five to six levels in with the introduction of the 
 Trigens and the levels in underground bases. The first trigens, the monkey/ape trigens are the 
 most difficult in my opinion. These things can jump vast distances and can kill you from being 
 fully healed and full armour in just three to four swipes. On easy. These will take around half 
 a clip of assault rifle to kill and around two shots of the automatic shotgun, depending on the 
 range. Next are the human trigens, which comprise of an invisible, jumping trigen and a massive 
 rocket wielding trigen that will take over 10 shots at close range from the shotgun to kill. On 
 easy. 
  
  Then, around halfway through the game, you start fighting through dark corridors and warehouses, 
 no Far Cry, we want the beautiful vistas of before and open ended ness of the start. Encountering 
 the trigens here is just not fun at all. 
  
  However while this detracts from the game, its still fun to play, if only we fought the increasingly 
 harder mercs rather than trigens this game would be better. Oh and the mercs are some of the tactically 
 best enemies in any game bar none. Never mind, the flaws won't detract you from thinking of playing 
 one of 2004's best games. It's a shame Crytek had to learn their design mistakes from this game 
 and make the yet superior game, Crysis 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this I wasn't at all interested, the feeling the I was walking into a scene 
 which had already occured was none to motivating. Like being james bonds back up man, coming in 
 to find the place blown to pieces, the bad guys subdued or killed and the women loved up as you 
 step over the threshold with your gun in hand. Walking through the tunnels and listening to the 
 guys on the radio then trying to get through the jungle area without getting pounded by gorilla-esk 
 monsters was an up but I was distracted and lost interest quite early on, I have picked up the 
 saved game from time to time only to remember why it felt like a doctor frankenstien remake with 
 little red riding hood and the congo revolution thrown in. 
  
  I haven't yet finished the game but liked the multiplayer function enough to use that when CounterStrike 
 got aggrivating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxy65
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Far cry is a great first person shooter. It is much different to other shooters like Half-Life 
 2 and Doom 3 because of the huge scope, beautiful outdoor graphics and non-linear game play (to 
 an extent) . Although such things as the story are not terrific, the outstanding game play makes 
 up for this. There are many ways to play this game, and since i have replayed it many times it 
 shows the different approaches you can use. There are a variety of guns and enemies, which range 
 from conscript like mercenaries, elite special ops wielding shields and full body armor, and brutally 
 tough mutants that can easily destroy you with one swipe. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  No gimmicks with this game. Your skill with a gun, the stratigic choices made when confronting 
 the enemy, patience and stealth or run and gun.
  
  Outstanding graphics and sound. 
  
  Sc-Fi storyline works throughtout and is well explained.
  
  Replayability - I've played this 
 game 10 times or more.
  
  Long game, great value.
  
  No bugs, controls work well.
  
  Great weapons -- got to love the sniper rifle and it's zoom capabilities.
  
  Did I say 
 outsanding graphics? -- worth repeating.
  
  BETTER than Crysis as a shooter by a country mile.
  
  Only critisim is -- some battles especially 
 difficult -- the final boss battle is extremely hard and I've never gotten through without godmode.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I remember when i first played this game in 2004, my PC was not good so the game lagged. But the 
 graphics still looked good and amazing. The storyline and missions of this game are good too. I 
 still played this game again after upgrading my PC in winter of 2005. It wasn't lag any more then, and 
 it still gave me lots of fun. :D
  
  Far Cry was released before Half Life 2. But Far Cry has better graphics, LOL. I don't know why 
 I like Far Cry more than Half Life 2 but I play CS: S more longer than Far Cry online. Maybe The 
 multiplayer maps of CS: S are better for competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a first-person shooter computer game developed by Crytek Studios from Germany and published 
 by Ubisoft on March 23, 2004 for Windows. Far Cry sold 730,000 units within four months of release [1] . 
 The game's story follows an ex-Special Forces man named Jack Carver, who is stranded on a mysterious 
 archipelago in Micronesia. He is searching for a female journalist he was escorting after she went 
 missing when their sailboat was destroyed by mercenaries.
  
  On April 8, 2004, Ubisoft announced Far Cry Instincts for the Xbox, GameCube and PlayStation 2 
 systems. Far Cry Instincts graphically resembles Far Cry, but is more of an attempt to remake the 
 game to satisfy the console shooter community. The PS2 and GC ports were later cancelled because 
 the systems were not powerful enough to support the game. Far Cry Instincts is now exclusive to 
 Xbox and was released to wide acclaim on September 27, 2005, in North America. Another version, 
 Far Cry Instincts: Predator is also available for the Xbox 360. On March 28, 2006, Ubisoft released 
 a sequel, Far Cry Instincts: Evolution for the Xbox, which was met with less enthusiasm than the 
 first version of Far Cry. A game based on the franchise was released as part of Ubisoft's launch 
 lineup for the Wii (Far Cry Vengeance) . In the Wii version, the Wii Remote will be used for many 
 of the tasks assigned to buttons in previous iterations of the game, including driving vehicles, 
 shooting, and running. [1] Far Cry 2 has been officially announced by Ubisoft, although it was supposed 
 to be a secret until Ubisoft accidentally leaked information about the game. There are no known 
 details except that it will not be developed by Crytek, but by Ubisoft themselves. No screenshots 
 have been released, only concept art.
  
  Jack Carver has left his mysterious and bitter past behind him and dropped out of society to run 
 a boat-charter business in the South Pacific. He is hired by Valerie Constantine to take her secretly 
 to an uncharted island in Micronesia. After Val is safely delivered to the island, Jack's boat 
 is suddenly attacked by mercenaries. Jack manages to escape but is stranded thousands of miles 
 away from home. With his only friend lost somewhere in the depths of the jungle, he must now find 
 his way back to civilization.
  
  With the help of a man named Doyle, Jack travels across the various islands, battling mercenaries 
 in search for Val. Through encounters with the Trigens (genetically altered beasts) and information 
 from Doyle, Jack soon discovers that the island is part of an experiment involving genetic modification.
 
  
  As the game progresses it becomes clear that the Trigens are becoming too large a problem for the 
 mercenaries to handle, and that the experiments are not limited to just primate mutations, but 
 moved on to mutating mercenaries. When Jack finally catches up with Val, she is being taken to 
 another area by a helicopter. Jack attempts to stop the helicopter and Val manages to escape. After 
 swimming to shore, Val reveals that she is an undercover CIA agent and is investigating Krieger's 
 operations. Val then suggests that the two of them split up in order to better investigate the 
 islands.
  
  After further exploration, Jack must again search for and rescue Val. This is made increasingly 
 difficult as more Trigens have escaped, and have begun a revolt against the mercenaries on the 
 island. As a result Krieger has called in elite mercenaries, and Jack must battle them to reach 
 Val. After that they split up again, and reunite when Jack has killed the mercenary commander, 
 Crowe. Information Crowe had with him indicates Krieger has a tactical nuke on the island.
  
  After the Department of Defense has supposedly analyzed the situation, Jack and Val steal a 
 tactical nuclear weapon Krieger had intended to use as a last resort in covering his tracks, should 
 his projects be investigated. Jack seems uncomfortable about setting off a nuclear weapon, but 
 Val assures him "its only a tactical nuke, just enough to take out the factory and the base. By 
 the time it goes off we'll be upwind and out of range." Before entering the factory Doyle warns 
 that the mutagen might infect them when the blast goes off, and advises them to take some antidote 
 before arming the nuke. Inside the factory, he directs them to inject themselves with serum from 
 a red box with a biohazard symbol on it. They do so and arm the nuke, unaware that the serum they 
 took is not the antidote. The nuke detonates directly behind Jack and Val exiting the factory, 
 leaving them unconscious.
  
  While Jack and Val are unconscious, Krieger has visited the site, and abducted them. Jack wakes 
 up on a helicopter with Krieger and Val, and is kicked off by an elite mercenary as Krieger says 
 "survival of the fittest, good luck!" On the ground, he finds a rifle has been tossed out as well, 
 with 10 bullets. The player, as Jack, now has to fight through the trigen infested area to rescue 
 Val - for the third time - and escape the islands with his life. Upon reaching a mercenary weapons 
 cache, Jack notices his arm is turning green. Doyle responds "The antidote should have been able 
 to handle it, but the explosion could have saturated the air with mutagen. That's what happened 
 to Dr. Krieger. He developed a serum to keep it from spreading, and he's still on the treatment." 
 Jack is thus directed to find Krieger.
  
  However, once Jack reaches and defeats Krieger the plot twists. Jack asks a dying Krieger where 
 the antidote is, and Krieger responds "Who infected you? The mutagen can only be administered through 
 sub-dermal injection. I wish I could take credit, but I had no time to prepare the serum. You should 
 turn out to be a beautiful specimen. Give it another hour... much less for her [Val] ." Doyle comes 
 up on the nearby volumetric display and says "The old man was always one for melodrama. Too bad 
 he had no head for business," and reveals the 'antidote' they took earlier was a trick. He also 
 remarks that "Working for the government taught me that where there's a weapon, there's money to 
 be made." Jack threatens Doyle, who refuses to give them the real antidote, and then leaves Val 
 at a dock with a Falcon .357 (high-power handgun) to find Doyle.
  
  After battling through a horde of Trigens angry at him for killing their "father" (Krieger - this 
 is why Doyle needed Jack to kill Krieger) , Jack catches up with Doyle and corners him. Doyle's 
 last words were, "You don't understand. They sent me. They're all watching. They're always watching. 
 You can't change this. You can't change the future," to which Jack replies, "Probably not, but 
 I can make sure you're not a part of it!" and shoots Doyle, killing him. "Stupid bastard," Jack 
 remarks.
  
  Jack then escapes just before the volcano in which Krieger's main offices were located erupts, 
 and both he and Val are cured of the mutagen. The offices were completely destroyed by the explosion 
 and he and Val sail off on the boat. The ending cutscene shows Val looking at a thick folder of 
 papers and two CDs tied together labelled "Project Far Cry".
  
  Crytek developed a new game engine called "CryENGINE" for Far Cry. Reportedly, the game was born 
 out of a technology demo called X-Isle: Dinosaur Island made by Crytek to showcase the capabilities 
 of the NVIDIA GeForce 3. The game features relatively long view or draw distance, similar to Operation 
 Flashpoint, but has a more advanced rendering system for vegetation. Also, all of the level territory 
 is accessible to the player without loading pauses. The game engine features seamless transitions 
 between indoor and outdoor areas (for which slightly different lighting and rendering models are 
 utilised) .
  
  Graphically, the game makes extensive use of pixel shaders. For example, water shaders are frequently 
 used throughout the levels and have a significant effect on visual quality.
  
  Character detail is also improved thanks to Crytek's Polybump normal mapping technology. These 
 effects are used extensively in both indoor and outdoor levels.
  
  The release of the 1.3 patch saw the introduction of HDR (High Dynamic Range) in the CryENGINE. 
 It can only be enabled on a graphics card that supports Shader Model 3.0 and 64bit blending support.
 
  
  Human enemies in the game exhibit advanced artificial intelligence (AI) , which can be favourably 
 compared to other shooters (though its capabilities make minor glitches more apparent) . The enemies 
 are capable of navigating the large levels, using vehicles when necessary. They are frequently 
 visible patrolling, chatting with each other (CryTek wrote a lot of humorous dialog for mercenaries 
 that provides a backstory, showing how players' actions affect the archipelago population) , idling, 
 fishing, fixing equipment, etc. One mercenary was seen doing push ups. They can call for reinforcements 
 and execute coordinated attacks, outflanking and surrounding the player.
  
  The tropical jungle provides a lot of concealment and the game allows the player to use it to hide 
 from the enemies. These enemies don't know the position of the player unless they see or hear him, 
 but notably, they can remember his last known position and go there to investigate. On the other 
 hand, the player is able to track the position of all enemies on an onscreen radar screen that 
 are sighted and marked through the special binoculars found early in the game. Far Cry's AI is 
 scripted, but not scripted to the point such that the enemies can only follow one path. Crytek 
 had decided to make the AI as such because of the open environment of Far Cry. Over scripted AI 
 would allow the player to pass easily by approaching from a path not covered in the script, messing 
 up the enemies and letting the player move through the game with relative ease. With the AI that 
 Crytek instead made, the enemies now react dynamically to the player's tactics and actions. For 
 example, if the player was hiding in a bush and fired on a mercenary, the mercenary, unable to 
 return fire because the player's position is not known, would crouch and quickly sneak towards 
 cover.
  
  AI movement area and cover are defined in the level design. Without this definition set by the 
 designer the enemies are far less effective against the player. They will also not move as realistically 
 as would otherwise be expected.
  
  The game was notable for its open ended structure, providing a multitude of ways to complete a 
 given objective. It incorporates a mix of arcade-like and realistic gameplay, forcing the player 
 to effectively use cover while still allowing an upfront approach. For instance, there are no forced 
 stealth segments and setting off an alarm would not result in mission failure.
  
  The ragdoll physics were not limited to corpses. It is possible to throw rocks at either Valerie 
 or mercenaries who have fallen into water and can't return fire. The rocks would knock them and 
 make them move realistically according to the place the rock was thrown at. Dead fish also have 
 ragdoll effects, slashing at one with a machete would make it fly around realistically. The boars 
 also have similar effects.
  
  However, Far Cry was criticised for being poorly balanced. The difficulty increased sharply in 
 the later levels with the introduction of incredibly tough creatures created by the game's villain, 
 causing many problems when combined with the game's "checkpoint" saving system, which eliminated 
 manual saving. The increased difficulty required stealth and precision to even up the odds against 
 the player, but many found being forced to replay the same sections over and over tedious or frustrating. 
 The promised quicksave-update was never widely publicised, however it could be activated by bringing 
 down the console (pressing ~) , and typing "\save_game filename".
  
  Although the game was developed by a German company, it was subject to one of the most heated controversies 
 about video games in Germany. Upon release of the demo version in March 2004, the Bundesprfstelle 
 fr jugendgefhrdende Medien und Schriften found the violence level of the game (including gore 
 and ragdoll physics) to be too high even for adults and quickly indexed the demo. The full version 
 had most of that violence edited out (e. g. removed ragdoll behaviour of corpses) , nevertheless 
 it received a "Not suitable under 18" rating. A storm of indignation broke out, however, when German 
 gamers found out only days after the release, that a slight modification of some files in the game's 
 directory brought back most of the original gore. The first issue of Far Cry was also indexed, 
 and several weeks later a new version followed with the same censored content but without the possibility 
 to revert the changes. This version (also rated "Not under 18") is now for sale and can be recognized 
 by the note on the cover saying "Deutsche Version" (German version) .
  
  Although the original Windows version was generally well-received, critics complained at the high 
 difficulty level and panned the game's poorly implemented vehicle controls and save-game system. 
 Additionally, taking full advantage of the engine's graphical capability required a prohibitively 
 expensive (at the time) high-end PC system. The Xbox version of the game (Far Cry: Instincts) featured 
 an extensively-rebuilt but graphically toned-down version of the engine, rather than a direct port, 
 done by Ubisoft themselves as Crytek had previously broken ties with them as a publisher. The second 
 Xbox game, Evolution, was more of an expansion pack than a full title, and featured new game levels 
 but little in the way of new art content or features. The Xbox 360 version was a combination of 
 the two Xbox titles, but required the player to complete the first game before unlocking the second. 
 However, a recent update for xbox live users allows players to play the second game without completing 
 the first. The Wii version, Far Cry: Vengeance, was a remake of Evolution (the shorter of the two 
 Xbox titles) with little new content or graphical enhancement. The porting process went arguably 
 very wrong, as the game was almost universally panned by critics, mainly for its graphics, which 
 are reportedly bad enough as to impair gameplay.
  
  The game engine features a built-in real-time Sandbox Editor that makes creating large outdoor 
 levels easier, circumventing the need to load the game to test a custom level, or to see the in-game 
 effects of any changes. This enabled CryTek designers to add much detail to levels, creating many 
 different paths while reducing the time spent on level design. It also allows the player to choose 
 more approaches to solving goals, providing a more open and non-linear experience. The SDK (software 
 development kit) and the FarCry modding community can be found at the webpage crymod. com.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is has become one of my favorite games. There are no negatives about it. What hits you immediatly 
 is the awesome graphics. There are many weapons and the game lasts a long time but you never get 
 bored of it. There is nothing more satisfying than using the machine gun in this game. And the 
 shoot outs are breathtaking. The graphics are good enough but then I found out there was a patch 
 for it for the game so I downloaded the game patch and the graphics got even better. I was very 
 impressed with every aspect of this game. A beefy graphics card will really add to this gaming 
 experience. This shooter has some of the best PC gaming graphics out there, plus it is a real challenge. 
 A good storyline, sweet weapons, and various elements of strategy. Very addicting! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yephoe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  If you are even remotely into FPS games, FarCry should be on your must-play list (if you haven't 
 played it already) . The game mechanics combined with wide open areas make it an addictive and immersive 
 experience, with a good enough plot to keep things interesting.
  
  If you have a high-spec machine, rejoice, but even on a medium PC the graphics are astounding.
 
  
  So, if I liked that game so much, why only 8.0 points? Because in the last level, the game gets 
 hard. Really hard. UNENJOYABLY HARD. After I died for the fifth or sixth time within seconds in 
 the fight against Krieger, I got bored, looked for instructions on how to give myself unlimited 
 lives and finished the game that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  It isn't too often that a developer's first foray into the video game market is widely received 
 and breaks new ground in its genre. Only developers such as Valve, Bungie, Blizzard, id, and several 
 others have the pleasure of being on this very short list. With Far Cry, Crytek proves that it 
 can make games just as well as the big boys...
  
  From the moment you fire up Far Cry, you will be stunned by the vibrant and colorful graphics. 
 The Cryengine is a technological marvel, being extremely adept at rendering wide-open outdoor environments 
 and large tropical islands. The game is exceptionally well-rendered and has no weak point in terms 
 of its graphical presentation.
  
  Far Cry is far from an ordinary first person shooter, and is one of the first ones that attempts 
 the concept of open-world gameplay and shies away from the prevalent corridor-crawling which is 
 so common in other first person shooters. From the get-go, you're allowed to approach situations 
 as you want them, from scouting out an enemy base with your binoculars, to swimming up close, to 
 running in guns a-blazing, to completely bypassing a fight with stealth. It offers freedom, which 
 is very refreshing.
  
  In the chance that the player does get into the fight, you better watch out. Far Cry's AI is just 
 as impressive as its graphics. The enemies work together in squads to root you out and draw you 
 into the open. Grenades are commonly used, and since the jungle environments in Far Cry are so 
 thickly authentic, they are often hard to spot. The only complaint one might have is their laser-precision 
 aiming, allowing them to hit you with assault rifles from distances surpassing fifty meters.
  
  Far Cry's real weakness lies in its story-telling. From the get-go, you are thrust into a slightly 
 derivative plot of being stranded on an island, saving a dame, all while uncovering and thwarting 
 one man's goals for global domination. Later on, the game also introduces Trigens, a breed of mutated 
 humans whose only goal is to kill or infect those around them. This changes the pace of the game 
 significantly, and changes conflicts from ones requiring the player to think and plan out his attack, 
 to ones which solely require lighting fast reflexes to avoid being overrun by a sudden wave of 
 Trigens.
  
  Far Cry's multiplayer is a bit above average, but respectable for a developer's first foray. It 
 is obvious that Crytek put most of their effort into the single player, as servers are often quite 
 laggy and supported by outdated netcode. Once you do get into the play, you can play three or four 
 standard shooter gametypes such as deathmatch or CTF.
  
  Even with all of its flaws, Far Cry stands up strong due to the first half of its long, 15 hour 
 campaign, offering you tactical freedom and a beautiful, open island to explore. If Crytek were 
 to merely offer up a game which retained the same gameplay formula all the way through with some 
 enhancements and a more cinematic story, it would have an easy GOTY award on its hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_tanner
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  maybe because i play this game in the year 2006, because for me , this game is not such fun, the 
 graphics is fine, not great like all said, is fine,, 
  the story sucks, its not soo great, i saw best storys ,, dont have any sents, and the difficulty 
 sucks hard, i finish the game in normal, and hard difficulty, and maybe i die only one or two times,,,, 
 the story like i said, its no soo good, the final of the game dont have much sense, well yes have 
 sense,, but is a open final,, and for more,, the far cry 2, dont continue the story, , (maybe because 
 the guys saw the story suck) ) ,, but like i said, maybe i play this game in the wrong age, and maybe 
 i dont like the story, because i dont play all the far crys of xbox, maybe in xbox the story continue,, 
 
  
  but the think i hate about all this, is all the guys think this is like a new half life, , not 
 in story, but yes in genre,, no guys,,, Half Life is God, Far Cry the Clown,,, and in 2004, half 
 life 2 win far cry, in all, in graphics, in fun,, in all,, 
  
  well bye let the force be whit you padawan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I was late in getting this game. i don't think i actually got it untill 2006, but i'm glad i waited, 
 because had i got it any earlier, i woudn't of been able to run it. (just for kicks, here was my 
 gaming laptop of 2003-2005; 1.8ghz celeron proccessor, 256mb ram, 16mb ati mobility video card) 
 I finally got a decent computer, and bought this game. even two years after it's release it looks 
 great. Especially the water and the indoor areas. They beat pretty much anything esle that came 
 out that year, and held out ti'll fear was released a year later. The length of this game is also 
 great, it seemed to go on forever. i must say though, i though MOH: PA had better jungles. with 
 moving vegitation, and even partially destructable environments, this is something not seen untill 
 crysis, which has yet to be released. This is where my compliments end, though. The sound seems 
 simply 1-dimensional, very bland. the gameplay is also somewhat bland and boring, with the ai blurting 
 out random crap constantly hey, what was that. i'll just look through this wall with my x-ray vision, 
 rattatatat, your dead the combat was unsatisfying, and many times extremely frustrating. and don't 
 blame this on the fact i bought it late. i still enjoy shooters from 2003 more than this one. I 
 played the crysis demo, and they fixed these issues fortuneatly, and it maintains the same visual 
 standard. i'd definitly reccomend other shooters before i reccomend this. but it's all a matter 
 of opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalrvbest
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  In the midst of a lot of PS2 games, one PC game was bought because I wanted something a bit different. 
 Far Cry turned out to be the game that made me fall in love with fps games again. You had to be 
 tactical to do what you want, but if you didn't like that much, you could run in all guns blazing 
 and just lose all the time, but still have tons of fun at the same time. The game looked good, 
 after a little bit of coaxing. It messed up the graphics card a couple of times. Eventually, when 
 I did start playing, I was very impressed. There was a variety of guns, but I thought the machete 
 was pointless. I never used it. I liked the binoculars so you can get a perspective of the battlefield 
 and then your enemies showed up on the radar. I progressed OK to begin with. The missions were 
 easy enough at the start. If you are persistent you could get a decent way through without being 
 the most experienced gamer. It was fun and I spent lots of time playing on it, but it just simply 
 got too hard towards the end and it got too difficult for me to complete it without getting seriously 
 annoyed. It was a great game and worth every penny and it sent the benchmark very high for everbody 
 else who wanted to head down the same road. It's good to play this kind of game, but you can't 
 be too confident about completing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  One of the best FPS that I've played and maybe the most realistic one, unlikely HL2 or Doom 3 (wich 
 are great games I'm not saying they're bad) this game is much more realistic in the sence of the 
 damage made by your enemies .. in HL2 or in Doom 3 also and in most of the best FPS of history 
 your character can recieve a great amount of bullets without dieing, but in this one a good shoot 
 or a bit of them can easily kill you so you have to be more acurrate and inteligent in order to 
 win this FPS. About Graphs they are great I've seen better but this ones still great and well physics 
 are compareable to the HL2 Physics. End of my review I've nothing else to say about this game except 
 that is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a First Person Shooter that brings you back to the days of the original best. The game 
 has incredible graphics. The games graphics as well as mechanics are rendered beautifully, and 
 the physics of the game are unreal. The style of gameplay is very similar to Half-Life with great 
 weapons and skills that can be used to do what needs to be done.
  
  The game starts out with an Ex-Marine who is sailing in the Pacific with a woman. Then suddenly 
 everything goes wrong, hes being fired upon by mercenaries and falls overboard. Here he gets to 
 land and searches for anything that can offer him clues. When you begin your journey, youll pick 
 up weapons and begin slugging it out with the mercenaries, fighting for your life. The Artificial 
 Intelligence of the enemies is insane, they flank you, and they hide and take cover while sneaking 
 up at you. You have the choice of playing it like a true FPS and go on a rampage or take the tactical 
 approach picking them off one by one. The game offers many features, life-like weapons, and great 
 mechanics. The game takes recoil in to account heavily and becomes more difficult when the setting 
 is switched to harder settings
  
  I recommend this game to those who couldnt wait for Half-Life 2, or just want another great FPS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is, by far, the game with the better visuals I've ever played. Fortunately, there's a good 
 game underneath all that eye candy.
  
  The story is very interesting, as you follow the steps of a seemingly ordinary guy put into an 
 extraordinary position, in an island full of great visuals everywhere (up to the detail of the 
 textures of the tree leafs and stuff) . The fact that you can use a variety of realistic weapons 
 and vehicles (including the famous hang glider) only adds up to the experience.
  
  On the downside, the enemy AI is far from being excellent (for an example of an excellent AI, check 
 the Half Life or Quake series) , and I just don't get the developer's issue with the save anywhere 
 nowadays. Come on, it's my problem if I want to save every 5 seconds (which I don't, mind you, 
 but that's not the issue here) , and if console players can't do it because of their console restrictions, 
 then do a special game saving mechanism for them, and leave us, PC gamers with our own system!
 
  
  These two (especially the second) issues drop the rating a bit on this otherwise excellent game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtlePerson2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a game that shows what a single player FPS should be. Stunning visuals, excellent audio 
 design, high quality ai, and a great story too boot.
  
  The game was the tech demo game of it's day with huge draw distances and amazing rendering of every 
 piece of foliage. Despite this, I was able to run the game on max with 4xAA and 8xAF at 1280x1024 
 with a 7600 GT. The game's character models look a little dated, and the textures are showing their 
 age too, but overall the graphics actually look quite nice.
  
  The audio in this game is fairly good. It supports EAX 3.0 and makes use of positional hearing, 
 which adds to game play nicely. The music is interesting and has a nice little effect where it 
 increases the tempo and intensity of the music. The voice acting is also pretty good, but there 
 was a few little dubbing issues.
  
  The game play is what really shines in Far Cry. The game has a realistic damage model where if 
 you shoot an armored enemy it does very little damage, but a head shot will kill an enemy instantly. 
 The damage model rewards accuracy, but if that were all the game would be a standard run and gun. 
 The combat is non-linear, meaning that the battles will play differently every time. If you want 
 you can be sneaky use the silenced MP5 to kill a guy then take out another without them ever knowing. 
 You could also shoot a guy with the m16 then relocate to confuse your enemies. Or you could also 
 charge into the base with your m249 blazing. While the final option is usually not a viable option 
 the game doesn't necessarily need stealth. The ai is very good and will flank and kill you unless 
 you are better. The ai responds quickly and is overall very good. Sometimes you'll wonder why the 
 ai knows where you are or doesn't see you, but overall it's excellent and probably the best I've 
 ever seen.
  
  The single player is long and has a rich story, while the story has it's problems it is one of 
 the best I've ever seen in an FPS. There are twists and turns and unfortunately also a few cliches. 
 I can't review the multiplayer since I have the ad-supported version, but I'd recommend picking 
 up the game just for the single-player, which will probably last you for 30-40 hours on the challenging 
 difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydenakasha
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  A great game released in 2004, its still as impressive as it was back then. It features fantastic 
 graphics, a really good and enjoyable (but sometimes overly difficult) single player mode, and 
 an... ok... multiplayer mode.... I will list the following in sections ( as i always do with my 
 reviews)
  
  1. Gameplay- Far cry features a long and enjoyable single player mode. It generally involves tactical 
 shooting in jungle locations, with a various arsenal of weapons and vehicles. The games difficuly 
 was just right, until the last 5 or so levels, where crazy mutant monsters were introduced, making 
 things a little harder. Overall, the single player is very good
  
  The multiplayer is average. It includes standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, as well as an 
 assault mode, similar to capture the flag. There are three different classes to choose from, making 
 team work vital to success. Overall the gameplay of far cry is great, especially for a technology 
 demo. 9/10
  
  2. Graphics- Powered by the Cry engine, this game looks amazing. What makes it even better is the 
 support for HDR lighting, making the game look extra spectacular. 9/10
  
  3. Sound- The sounds was very good. What you hear in game is generally what you would be hearing 
 in a tropical jungle, making the game that extra bit immersive. My only problem with far cry's 
 sound would be jack carvers and a few other acters voices, they're just way too over the top and 
 corny .. 7/10
  
  4. Value- The game these days is cfairly cheap, especially for such a , great game, $30-$40 9/10
 
  
  Overall, Far cry is a fantastic game, and i definately recommend buying it. Overall score { 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I played Far Cry on release and the multiplayer beta but it never really interested me with alot 
 of bugs and just at the time i had too much to play. Now all the news of the game becoming free 
 it made me want to play through it again, i already own it so no ads for me.
  
  So Far Cry is a very hard game even on Easy or Normal modes i found it really really hard to play 
 and you do have to take alot of time making sure you don't get hit. This game wont be a run and 
 gun shooter because if you do then you die basically. It's also a very long game from Easy mode 
 being about 10 hours and normal mode about 15 hours + the other 3 higher modes i never played on 
 which could probably go upto 40 hours if you just paly to get through. However theres soo many 
 things to do as you play that you could spend alot longer on each level. The settings wont add 
 any levels but they will make enemies harder MUCH harder so you'll just die alot and take longer 
 to play through.
  
  The game starts off with a real bad quality Cinematic showing you how you got on the island with 
 a Woman who you don't find out who she is till later. Far Cry doesn't really have a great story 
 all the way through with no real character development or plotline other than people telling you 
 which point to get to and then a boss fight at the end with the evil man whose causing all this 
 and then another final boss after than. I never cared for any of the characters and found the voice 
 acting to be really poor in the cutscenes. Also the woman who you play through some levels with 
 can just keep shouting out annoying stuff and repeating it over and over again for no reason.
 
  
  The First few levels will just be fighting soldiers and then you'll move onto fighting Mutants 
 and then you'll move onto fighting both at the same time lol. What impressed me the most was the 
 level where you first saw the mutants and they're in like a zoo type thing, really reminded me 
 of Jurassic Park lol. I also loved levels where i could race boats and cars across the island, 
 the vehicles were really good and pretty much anything you see you can drive. The Weapons also 
 were all really good but you can only carry about 4 on you at one time, not including nades and 
 flashbangs. They were pretty bland, no OMFG crazy stuff but real standard military styled guns.
 
  
  The graphics are really top notch to this day and the games sooo beautiful, although it'll seem 
 very dated once Crysis comes out so play Far Cry now so that doesn't ruin it for you. Really lovely 
 scenery and everythings 3D, no stupid 2D backgrounds which is nice. The sound effects are all there 
 and really good and they got the ambiance right, however the Music doesn't seem to be there and 
 i did get sound glitches sometimes where the heartbeat would turn to a weird noise and thats on 
 1.4 patch (latest) but there wasn't really anyother bugs other than a vehicle on the elevator goes 
 through the roof. Also the voice acting isn't that great and can get on your nerves, specially 
 when you've heard them say something 100 times.
  
  The mutliplayer has some great mods worth checking out although most have noone playing them as 
 Far Cry doesn't have the real big community like other games as HL does. Then Standard multiplayer 
 is ok.... but theres much better, though each to their own. I'm sure theres alot of mods out there 
 to keep you playing both single player and multiplayer too. So Far Cry turns from a Action game 
 to a Horror game and then a mix of both. The Multiplayer isn't so good (there are lots of servers 
 still though so it's my opinion) but the Single player is long enough and more than satisfying 
 for a price tag of &pound;35 (full new UK price for PC games) let alone how much you now pay for 
 it..... FREE!!!!!!!!!! So download it and try it or if you don't like ads then buy it for the &pound;5 
 it costs in stores....
  
  Download link: http://www. fileplanet. com/180410/180000/fileinfo/Far-Cry-Full-Game- [Free-Game ---Ad-Supported] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashxwmc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game deserved a spot on the list of best fps's of all time. The graphics may be a bit lagging 
 at times because there is so much detail, but the gameplay is the heart of this game. The ability 
 to go anywhere at anytime, traverse to any detail far off in the distance, and use of realistic 
 tactics make this game a must play. Here are the pros of the game:
  
  - Wildlife can be interacted with (boars act realistically) - First level, training, built around 
 believable obstacles that help player quickly learn the controls without departing from the action
 
  - Vehicles are fun to drive because there are a lot of bumps, also- any vehicle can be controlled 
 at any time ( I was able to shoot down an enemy boat early on in the game... it wasn't supposed 
 to be accessed until later on)
  - Best use of atmospheric lighted interiors I've seen in a game - lights become smaller as you 
 get closer- also, lights can be shot and cast real time shadows
  -Events are not same every time - in one instance an enemy was talking to another, in another go 
 around he was patrolling the area
  - Never feel safe: there is always an enemy in the distance and the game never ceases to be exciting, 
 even when just taking a relaxing swim
  - Lush setting that hasn't been explored in a shooter before
  - Enemy's feel equally skilled 
 and have the same health : fair fighting just like in online multiplayer
  -Comes with it's own editor
  
  Here are some things that could use some final adjustments:
 
  
  - Too easy to be spotted: the enemy's line of sight is way too far and I was being shot at though 
 a tent that was off limits
  -Water isn't the most realistic, but holds it's own and feels more real underneath than above the 
 surface
  - Need more non- aggressive npc's : such as more wildlife or friendlies - Not all textures complement 
 each other: some areas are super detailed while others seem like they were rushed
  - Storyline, characters and facial animations are lacking when the overall look and feel of the 
 game is spot on
  
  This game is revolutionary in the form of do-anything and sandbox fps's. The story is almost created 
 by the path that the player takes, and everything just feels realistic (the enemies can be killed 
 in a headshot and are not cheap like in other games) . Beauty and graphics aside, this game would 
 be just as fantastic with cell shading or minimal detail. I guess it is more for a tactical type 
 of person than an adrenaline junky who prefers a room full of ragdolls that they can blow up over 
 and over again and who crave predictability *coughDoom3cough*. This game is a very slow- paced 
 game and has to be taken stealthily, which makes it realistic. This is no James Bond movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  The game starts off with a missle to a ship commandeered by you Jack Carver, ex-special forces 
 now driving boat cruises for tourists. When the missle launched from a nearby island hits the deck 
 the tourist you had accompanying get's kidnapped.
  
  After this swimming you are under the island's sewer system? After a brief tutorial and some feedback 
 of your enemies you meet your only guide and friend Doyle. He give's you points and tips on how 
 to play some segments. Play that's where the game take's a road down. Most missions have multiple 
 ways to be accomplished via stealth, gunning like crazy, or a mixture of the 2. Now I'll say the 
 AI isn't as good as most say. I found them constantly staring at a wall when I shot down there 
 partner or team. Ok stupid AI at times but in part's where you stealth it's weird how they see 
 you bright and shiny when your hidding in foliage completely. The sound meter and the attention 
 meter that shows how much sound and attention is being grabbed to you is absolutely bogus. Enemie's 
 usually see right through everything and start shooting. I never actually saw the AI work as a 
 time except in scripted sequences. The gameplay couldn't have been worse but they decided to add 
 corridor shooting. Mid-game you fight mutants and mercanaries in buildings and small corridors. 
 Here's where the game turns from non-linear beautiful environmental structures to bland Doom 3 
 corridor clearing shoot and die. I couldn't have been more distasted. The developerss could've 
 added big wide buildings but the game has small tiny corridors. That wouldn't have been that annoying 
 if the AI is a cheap shot. When the mutants are 3 feet away from you and slash apparently the scaling 
 is completely wrong but they kill you even if your nothing close to them. there is also a lack 
 of weapons in this game. I know it's to bench survival but there were a horrible amount of uninspired 
 weapons. The only weapon you infact need is a sniper rifle and an M4 since all the other weapons 
 are basically the same thing tagged with different names.
  
  That's to say Far Cry is ABSOLUTELY stunning in graphics. The game's draw distance is very impressive, 
 jungle, and water look great.
  I was disappointed in the indoor level textures which were exceptionally boring and low res. Outdoor 
 environments are great.
  
  The sound in this game is top notch. The voice acting is horrible. It sounds like a guitarist trying 
 to play Beethoven songs. Though the sounds in the Jungle feels ambient and alive.
  
  If you beat the single player then multiplayer is worth a try. Though it's nothing new and weapons 
 are all too accurate it's alot more fun than single player.
  
  I should also add there was a couple CD driver issue's in which the game would not install or play 
 at all. This is unacceptable. I fortunately realized I hadn't updated my drivers but other's have 
 and tried countless fixes with no prevail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCSID
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  When Far Cry was released it had the ,most perfect graphics ever to be seen, some of the most incredible 
 technical details that a game ever had, highly refined AI and great gameplay! The game's ambience 
 is amazing, capturing and absorbing you into it almost instantly!
  
  Graphics: The best ever seen when it was released! A little to rough for older PCs but, that's 
 the way it goes... 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Despite some minor flaws, this game was very well designed and it really is quite easy 
 to play! The enemies' sharp Artificial Intelligence gives Far Cry a little more of reallism!!! 
 9/10
  
  Sound: It does well to get you addicted to the game's ambience and surroundings!!! Great attention 
 was given to small details! Very good!!! 9.5/10
  
  Overall: One of the best 1st Person/ Tactical Shooters ever to be created!!! It challenges Half-Life 
 in many ways, and, in some, it even better than Valve's game (wich, in my opinion is the King of 
 this genre) . 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joren360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  I've got this game from a friend who highly recommended it to me. I started to play the game and 
 i realized that this game was SUPERIOR!!!. I'll explain why. The gameplay: In Far Cry you have 
 got lots of guns and lots of other stuff like vehicles, machine guns, boats etc. The stuff will 
 make the gameplay an 8 but that wasn't the big point. The big point is that they combined a stealth 
 game play (with an stealth meter) with an action gameplay. For example it means that if you'll across 
 some enemies you can those to kill them with shooting or sneak through the bushes and trees to 
 avoid contact (sometimes you can't choose between these things so you'll have to shoot them) .
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are extremely nice. Beautiful environts, the water is nice, the figures are 
 well made. Ok, I know that there are now nicer games than this but it is so nice for a game that 
 was relished in March 2004.
  
  Sound: Great voice acting, awesome sound. One thin that is funny about the voice acting is that 
 if you're spotted the enemies will screams some words like: Ive got your number, youre ass is 
 bright, Ive got a bullet with your name on it etc 
  
  Value: There is a high replay value because if you beat or start the single player game you can 
 choose between easy, medium, hard, veteran, realistic. The multiplayer is also great and the price 
 of the game is only between the 0-10 euros
  
  Tilt: The storyline suburb and it's very original game.
  
  Overall: THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  P. S I cant write/speak very well because Im not English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is something special in the game world. With wonderful and shocking graphic, the game can 
 be played on older computers. The charters are created in details and AI is almost realistic. You 
 can see a huge list of a great weapons and other things. The game got some bugs, but that doesn&acute; t 
 change the gameplay. As you can see, the things are made perfectly, but what about the story? The story 
 is so deep and heavy, that player can see the world from the other side. The good thing in the game 
 is also that, that in the game are vehicles, boats and... Such games are also called the Golden Games.
 
  
  Graphic: Shocking and so beautiful...
  
  Sound: The sounds are pretty ,but the main music is not what
  I expected to be.
  
  Gameplay: Hours 
 and hours playing the game, till you don&acute; t collapse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  I first played this game when I was visiting my family and their cpu was able to handle all the 
 graphics and draw distance and enough ram to run it. when i got it for my cpu was slow as a dead 
 slug to handle only the earliest pc games like warcraft, farcry started stutterring like crazy 
 when i would drive real fast in the jeep and all the sounds would slow my comp down to unsafe levels, 
 then my ramcard shorted out so the repairguy installed at least a 512mb but farcry still eats a 
 feast of memory. so the one thing can be said about farcry, is that its pacing is intentionally 
 slow. this was the first time i ever saw ragdoll physics and where an fps wasn't confined to a 
 closed labyrinth or in some world war setting. its semi open world experience and alot of places 
 to approach the stages, which are technically stages but seem very much like islands. the sound 
 fx and music was very well suspenseful and the addition of scifi horror to gunplay made it more 
 interesting. the water fx and tree objects and color scheme is beautiful it is very like being 
 on vacation, which i was at the time that i played this game. Sneaking is very scary and sometimes 
 its hard to spot enemies far away but it is fun to hide under trees and bushes and then ambush 
 the enemy when they run towards you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Well, I have played many FPS games and can honestly say, except for a select few I could probably 
 count on one hand, there aren't many that can top the fun you'll have playing Far Cry. Not only 
 is this game great looking even on a lesser performance machine but there is not much I can say 
 bad about it. Be careful to make sure you eliminate all the near by enemies if you want to stop 
 and smell the tropical flora! Do however, stop once in a while and look around, this game is a 
 work of art! The views from higher vantage points almost take your breath away. Water, lighting 
 and physics are an exciting part of taking in this games experience. Far Cry has everything. It 
 starts out with what looks like a poor attempt at kicking off a storyline but puts the pieces together 
 as you play and figure out what is going on, then it all makes sence. The levels are huge, AI is 
 scary good. If you tip these guys off, they will work together to find and kill you! They even 
 encorporate military like flanking tactics and cover fire to accomplish gaining ground on you! 
 Stealth is a huge part of how you'll survive this game as well as heavy firepower so kill the bad 
 guys and take their weapons and vehicles!
  Multi-player is just plain fun! Unlike other FPS games I have played, Far Cry offers much more 
 cover than the standard, hide behind the 55 gallon drum or wooden box that splinters but never 
 breaks apart .. LOL! Far Cry has lots of vegitation to use as cover enabling you to hide from the 
 iron sights of your oponant's weapons, however if you see a white glint of sunlight flash at you 
 from under a distant bush, hit the ground! It is the reflection of the sun off the optics of someone's 
 sniper rifle training on your skull!
  Finally, I have got to say Far Cry has re-play-ability all over it and I cannot wait for FC2 coming 
 out in 2008. Crysis, also by UBIsoft looks just nuts and I cannot wait to get my sweaty hands on 
 it. When I do, I am sure I will have to post my thoughts here on GS. Until then, if you have not 
 already, login to UBIsoft then order DL your copy of Far Cry or you might still be able to find 
 CD media (5 discs) from Amazon. com. Trust me, you won't be disappointed!
  Later!
  SplinterCellSC20 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  When I first played the demo a few years ago I was blown away by the fact that the demo level was 
 so open-ended, and the enemies (at that time) felt very clever to me - not that AI has come a long 
 way since then but I have seen better AI over the past few years. Not too long ago I finally got 
 around to getting the full game and it was pretty much what I expected - something like the Second 
 Coming of Christ in game-form.
  
  As with the demo level, most levels are open-ended (one moreso than the other) and very fun to 
 play through. It's not incredibly hard to play it Die Hard-style if you know what you're doing, 
 but it's also fun to be stealthy with the gadgets you receive during the game. You get the binoculars 
 very early in the game and not too much later you also get a Cryvision - these are thermal heating 
 goggles. You can use these to plan an attack and they usually make a difference between ambusing 
 someone or being ambushed. Now, I've seen a lot of people complain about the mutants. I'm not sure 
 why - I've even seen very extreme forms of this like people quitting as soon as they saw the first 
 mutant (quite early in the game) . I guess some people are too **** to take them on and while I 
 agree there are a couple tedious moments (not only involving mutants) it's just not big enough 
 of an issue to stop playing the game for. Besides, I think the mutants spice things up nicely. 
 Shooting soldiers only would certainly get boring after a while. The only real problem I have with 
 the mutants (aside from the monkey mutants) is that none of the weapons seem really effective against 
 them. I mean, I never really got a feeling of yeah, I'm kicking his ass! like I did with the humans.
 
  
  A great thing about Far Cry is the sound. Every weapon sounds very convincing, mostly due to the 
 echo effect when you fire them. I haven't ever fired a real gun before, but if it sounds like it 
 does in Far Cry, then that'd be great.
  Though not only the weapon sounds are great. There are also environmental sounds - birds chirping 
 as you walk through the jungle, the waves hitting the beaches,.. The ambience is great, and it 
 sets the mood perfectly.
  
  A thing that I did dislike were the indoor levels. Most of them had moments that were a complete 
 b*tch to play through, mostly requiring more brains than brawn to get in a good position to deal 
 with the enemies.
  
  At first I was also frustrated with the final level, but that is only because I've read on forums 
 that it is impossible without god mode . So then when it seemed it was actually quite hard, I thought 
 yeah it is - until I went back to it a while later and completed it. The ending could have been 
 more rewarding, I just didn't feel like I accomplished anything, but the mood from the final levels 
 made up for it.
  
  Anyway, if you like open-ended levels and a mixture of stealth and action this is really a must-have 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThereIsNoEscape
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  When you first take a look at the gorgeously detailed world of Far Cry, your jaws will drop in 
 amazement. An incredible view distance, accompanied by highly detailed textures and a beautiful 
 looking environment, make Far Cry the great-looking shooter it has came to be. Although one could 
 assume that Far Cry's graphics are the only thing it has going for it, they would be very mistaken, 
 for its graphics are only one of the many things that make this game so memorable.
  
  In Far Cry, you venture into the island as Jack Carver, who is hired to sail a woman across the 
 Pacific. However, your ship becomes attacked, and you end up stranded on an Island. Jack's main 
 goal in the game is to adapt to his surroundings and rescue the woman by any means possible. Soon 
 you find communication with a man named Doyle, who tells you where to go to survive throughout 
 the islands. Throughout your adventure, you frequently encounter enemies, and with their intelligent 
 AI and unexpected challenges you encounter, Far Cry is by no means an easy game.
  
  The story in Far Cry isn't all too compelling, and defnitely isn't one of the game's strong points, 
 however, towards the end of the game you will probably find yourself more into it. For instance, 
 a few hours into the game you will find many mutant encounters, which is one thing that goes into 
 the storyline. Due to their power, the mutants can be very difficult to kill. However, they are 
 less intelligent than the mercenaries you will be fighting, so you can often find some rather simple 
 ways of avoiding them. Many of these mutants are equipped with heavy weaponry, one of which being 
 rocket launchers, and into a certain point in the game, you will come across lots of these monsters.
 
  
  Often you will find yourself in points of frustration, so you will sometimes resort to more strategic 
 methods than simply going out and shooting everyone you can find. Fortunately, Far Cry's environment 
 is completely open, so you can explore wherever you'd like. This is one factor that sets this game 
 apart from other's of its kind. Aside from that, its open environment can also provide you with 
 new ways of getting to certain places, which is absolutely neccessary for many situations you will 
 encounter. Although a lot of missions in Far Cry are pretty straight forward, such as get from 
 point A to point B, there are a few that change things up a little bit. For instance, there are 
 quite a few missions that require you to drive vehicles. However, during that time, there will 
 still be enemies trying to shoot at you. This will leave you forced to simultaneously shoot and 
 drive, and with ten rockets coming at you at one, this is a rather difficult thing to get past. 
 You play alone through nearly all of the game, except for one part, where the woman you were trying 
 to save helps you by getting through certain missions that are vital to completing the game.
  
  The weapons array that this game has to offer is rather expansive, so choosing the right weapons 
 at the right time is another thing that will sometimes help you get through certain missions much 
 easier. Due to the fact that you can only carry up to four weapons at once, you must choose carefully. 
 Alternatively, as you will find out in the beginning of the game, you can throw rocks at people... 
 But obviously, this becomes basically useless very quick. Aside from weapons, there are gadgets 
 you will come across that will help you through your journey. One of which is Night-Vision goggles 
 (or in this game, CryVision) which are very useful, even at certain times of the day, because with 
 the intense amount of robust foliage on the island, it will often be difficult to find some of 
 your enemies. Another thing that really sets Far Cry apart, is how immersive it is. As stated before, 
 its open environment leaves players freely being able to choose which routes would be most suitable 
 for certain situations. And thoughout the enviroment, the sound really can make you feel like you 
 are in the game. For example, when a rocket fires a foot above your head, your character will black 
 out for a second or two, and lose his ability to hear. As you're running through the jungle, its 
 ambience will be very convincing. You will hear insects making noises, water rippling through the 
 river, and of course, your enemies running to find a safe spot for cover. As I have said in the 
 beginning of my review, this game is absolutely gorgeous. The incredibly detailed environments 
 and characters will have you questioning whether or not this game was really made over 3 years 
 ago, assuming you're still not drooling over it. However, the great-looking graphics do come at 
 a price. If you have older hardware, you may have difficulties even running this game with stable 
 framerates. Though if you have newer hardware, you will undoubtly have no problems running this 
 game very smoothly with its maximum detail in perspective. One odd, but interesting this about 
 Far Cry, is it can render in four different modes: Default, Paradise, Cold, and Cartoon. Paradise 
 adds new levels of brightness, and makes it feel as though you're more on a vacation; Cold makes 
 it seem as more of a Silent Hill game on a tropical Island; and Cartoon makes everthing look... 
 Well, cartoony. The most disappointing thing about Far Cry, is saying good bye to it. You'll get 
 a great feeling knowing that you have beaten such a difficult game, but after the campaign, there's 
 really nothing left. The campaign fortunately lasts a while, about 17-20 hours for the average 
 player. After you beat it , you will probably take a break and find something a bit calmer, but 
 chances are you will eventually find yourself running back to Far Cry and playing it a second or 
 maybe even third time. The multiplayer is very lacking, and it is nothing in comparison to single 
 player. It has a few bugs here and there, and is highly underpopulated, and considering you are 
 playing on big maps, a high population is something that is absolutely neccessary. In conclusion, 
 Far Cry is an amazing game that shouldn't be missed by any fan of shooting games. If you haven't 
 played it yet, give it a try. For $10, it's well worth the money, and you will see what makes this 
 game such must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_MrB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Written July 22, 2007 - retails for $9.99 at Direct2Drive. com.
  
  Single player: 9.3 (please ignore individual category ratings)
  
  The Good: Rock-solid action 
 and shooting, intense firefights, meaty campaign, strong AI, you will feel like a complete badass 
 most of the time., good difficulty options.
  
  The Bad: Some encounters are just damn hard, unsatisfying finale, cheesy, predictable, and just 
 plain bad story, disappointing voice-acting, AI has a ridiculously good spotting eye at times.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Not reviewed
  
  If you want multiplayer action, look elsewhere. The rather bare-bones package and thin crowd shouldn't 
 be put up with knowing Battlefield 2 or Unreal Tournament 2004 are out there and waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game did something that many games fail to do well. God in a new direction. Instead of having 
 you shoot your way through cities and ordinary places like that, you are on a tropical island, 
 and you may find yourself just getting up to a high point and looking at all of the beautiful scenery. 
 That is half of why this is a good game, the other half is the actual playing. The AI is actually 
 smart, calling in reinforcements and doing other things to help it kill you. It's also pretty fun 
 to listen to the Mercenaries make hollow threats at you (My personal favorite is: 'Bite my ass!!') . 
 Overall, this game is one that you should buy if you have a PC, and if you don't, get the Xbox 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: searsbarnett
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I BOUGHT a computer to play this gem. Far Cry breathes on the PC, creating a stunningly beautiful 
 cyberworld that nearly fools us all . The moment I peeped FC's first review on TV I was magnetized. 
 The graphical power of this gem still blows me away years later. This game comes with the traditional 
 single player campaign, multiplayer, and innovative map editor. Everything is literally done to 
 perfection. Crytek's Crew are a special lot indeed. CEVAT YERLI, ceo of crytek, you sir, are a 
 GOD. FC literally taught me how to use a computer. The A. I. in this game is innovative, slick, 
 and fierce. Love all the catchy, nasty taunts of the mercs. I have never been so frustrated in 
 getting through 20 levels. This baby makes you THINK. I beat this baby on the hardest level and 
 had to mentally put myself in Jack Carver's sandals by relying on my own survival instincts. I 
 have called in sick numerous times to play FC. Hundreds of times I have replayed through various 
 areas of the single player campaign and multi player maps. FUN you crave.... try sniping a grunt 
 with the sniper rifle from over 100+ yards away. There isn't a sweeter ULTIMATE THRILL in all of 
 gaming heaven. ..... and the environment sucks you in from the start. Water effects in FC are absolutely 
 second to NONE! It's like you can actually drink it!!! The lighting and special effects are hypnotizing. So 
 thank u Ubisoft because U changed my life. Not since Half-Life have I totally step out of myself 
 and forgot that I am actually playing a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Shooting your way around foes and monsters is fun, but without a solid story to back-up your moves 
 and make your accomplishments meaningful, it is easy to get bored. I guarantee you wont get bored 
 with Far Cry and you will get sucked into the game so easy that you will play for endless hours 
 without noticing. The story is very smart, and the way you interact with it sets it apart from 
 almost all other shooters around. Walk, and the minimum noise will alert your foes. Run, and for 
 sure you will get shot at if someone is close, or move in the open and if someone is looking at 
 you, for sure you will get shot at even if they are very far, or they will run towards you and 
 hunt you. What I found incredible about this game is that you can hear noises that are not necessarily 
 meaningful for the game, as it happens in real life. Shoots at the limbs are useless for some foes, 
 and a shoot in the head will guarantee you victory. Is that real
  
  I have only two complains that prevents me to give this game more than 9: stability and the inability 
 to save the game between levels. In terms of stability, I played this game on a Dell computer overqualified 
 to play this game, way over qualified, and I still had some video glitches and the game ran slow 
 in places were the environment was vast or rich on vegetation, which is in about 60% of the game. 
 I had to lower the resolution and some features to play it comfortably, and this shouldnt be with 
 a system more than qualified to play the game. The other thing that made the game extremely hard 
 and repetitive was the inability to save between levels and the use of a checkpoint system instead, 
 particularly on the hardest levels. Levels can take a long time to complete, and in some of them 
 is very easy to fail. So, as it happened to me many times, you fail when you have completed 95% 
 of a particular level (for some reason many levels are hardest closer to the end) , you have to 
 go through the whole level, the long road again. Not good if you are a person that dont have plenty 
 of time available to play games, like me. Fortunately, there is a cheat that will allow you to 
 save between levels, but it is a bit cumbersome to use (you have to use the command screen) . I 
 used it and was able to enjoy the game much more this way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Farcry is one of the greatest fps hands down. Graphically it was years ahead of its time with water 
 you can sit and stare at. The free roaming worlds offer endless strategy and tactics, you can be 
 stealthy and clever or you can load up with big guns and blast every thing. The AI also allows 
 you to manipulate your enemies and scare them; nothing is more fun than to watch a guard firing 
 at trees while shouting. The game switches from vast jungles to dark damp gloomy bases that are 
 infested with mutant enemies; this also gives farcry a frightening side were you will find your 
 self scared to enter rooms with growls echoing out. Some may say the story lets farcry down but 
 the simple hero story is nice and gives it a simple flow game.
  
  The multiplayer adds to the fun with insane dog fights between players as they jump all over. You 
 can also have lots of fun hiding in bushes as a guy walks past you only to have a machete in his 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  When you think of Far Cry you think of graphics and the marvelled CryEngine.
  
  The CryEngine allow for vastly superior outdoor environments to any game to date (I say this before 
 Crysis and the CryEngine2 have been released) . The island tha the game takes place in is miraculously 
 detailed down to every plant, every bird, every fish and every inch of sand and sea. The soft lighting 
 on the swaying palms, the detailed textures on the rough tree trunks really have to be seen to 
 be belived. And, unlike games such as F. E. A. R you don't need an amazing graphics card or buckets 
 full of RAM to enjoy it all.
  
  The gameplay can leave a little to be desired, however. Through the first level of the game stealth 
 is expected as you have only a pistol and little ammo for an M4 Carbine. Stealth can be wholey 
 satisfying at times, at others it can be boring and tiresome and becomes obsolete the further you 
 get into the game. You see, the better the weapons you get and the better the enemy get at spotting 
 you as you travel about the island the easier it is and the more tempting it is to get dragged 
 into being John Rambo. Now onto the AI: Everyone says how amazing the AI in Far Cry is and it can, 
 at times, live up to it's expectations. Most of the time, however, it is very predictable, slow 
 and irritating. If you have played Metal Gear Solid on the PS1 you'll understand what I mean by 
 saying the AI is very similar to that game. The mercs will often grunt out lines such as did you 
 see that? , who's footprints are these? and what's that over there? in an irritatingly old fashioned 
 way. Also, the AI has many bugs even when the game is patched, they will get stuck on walls or 
 forget they're in a fire fight and just walk off, you will also find that often they have hearing 
 difficulties as gunfire would really be heard for miles around, at least faintly, on a queit tropical 
 island. But you can shoot a dude in the head in one tent and find his friend in the tent next door 
 has't even noticed. That said, sometimes the AI is very good, they won't just ignore dead bodies 
 like they arn't there and if they do see someone fall to a sniper more than a kilometre away they 
 will come looking.
  
  The sound leaves a bit to be desired, the guns don't sound very threatening, the voice acting is 
 some of the worsed in video game history and some of the soundeffects seem to unreal or cartoony 
 .
  
  Despite this, the game compels you to play, is fairly long and incredibly challenging and, as such, 
 makes for a good play. Although I wouldn't suggest you to belive all of the hype, I would still 
 reccommend this game to almost anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch774
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  The first time I played Far Cry I was like HOLY C***. The amazing scenery was stunning for it's 
 time, as well as the AI. For some reason after that I stopped playing. Anyway, I got my new computer 
 recently and decided to put all my games back on it. I started up Far Cry and set everything to 
 Max and went into the game, and once again was stunned by how good it looked. The water effects 
 are great, the scenery and huge maps are great, the AI of the annoying Mercs is great as is pretty 
 much the rest of the game.
  
  It still easily hold up against most of todays best and most beautiful games. It is still definitely 
 one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I normally don't like stealth games. I've stayed away from Metal Gear Solid, Splinter Cell, Thief 
 and all the other sneak-around games. It just isn't fun to me. In Far Cry, you can definitely stay 
 alive longer and not have to reload as often if you're into the stealth thing. I would generally 
 go charging in with guns blazing and have to replay the level several times to make it through.
 
  
  Far Cry is one of the toughest games I've ever played. I played it on the easiest setting and still 
 got killed many times. I can usually play most FPS games on the medium or hard setting and be able 
 to get through. This is the first game I ever played where I used the easy setting for the whole 
 game.
  
  Even though it was tough, it was one of the best games I've ever played. I'm a huge fan of the 
 Half-Life series and Far Cry comes pretty close to the original Half-Life. Good story, great action 
 and good graphics.
  
  Far Cry has one thing I absolutely hate in games, which is a checkpoint save system. Luckily there's 
 a cheat code you can get that lets you save anywhere you want. Some of the checkpoint saves were 
 so far apart that you'd have to fight two or three major battles before you got to the next point. 
 That's just not fun. I paid for the game, why can't I decide whether I want to save it once in 
 a while or a lot? That should be one of the game options, using a checkpoint save or manual save. 
 That way people could choose for themselves.
  
  This game was a lot of fun, since you got to do a lot of different things. You get to drive a jeep, 
 fly a hang-glider, drive a boat and use all kinds of guns and explosives.
  
  There were two parts of the game that I thought sucked. 1) When you get captured and let loose 
 with a rifle with only ten rounds of ammo in it. Since it takes at least five rounds to kill creatures 
 (and there are dozens around) , it took me forever to get through that section.
  
  2) The ending (don't read further if you want it SPOILED) . You go through a big fight to get to 
 the end villain and then it's over with a stupid cutscene. They could have done more with it. I'm 
 really looking forward to Crysis. I'll probably have to upgrade my computer before then, to handle 
 the graphics. I'm sure it will be worth it, since Far Cry was so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game came out with almost no hype and it made big scores in every reviews. The AI is really 
 good in this game. You can play many ways you like in this game. If you play in realistic mode, 
 this game takes a long time to win! This game has very nice visual for its time. The story is okay 
 and the ending is extremely dissapointing (I knew this was coming) . I like how the game is played 
 most of the time in the jungle. I hate indoors where you can't see crap (aka doom 3) . Good plain 
 fun FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Concept- You take a photographer to a secluded island where things go horribly wrong. Graphics- 
 The graphics are great, Ubi Soft makes another big hit in this department. Sound- Everything sounds 
 great Controls- Very simple for a PC shooter. Replay Value- High. Far Cry is an awsome game. The 
 sound is awsome. The voice overs and the graphics are great. The cutscenes are very good. They're 
 right up there with Doom 3. THe bulelts sound great as well. The lighting in this game is awsome. 
 The shadows are very well done. When it's dark you can use your falshlight but don't let the enemy 
 see it or it'll be an ambush. Did I mention that you can take control of any vehicle you want and 
 that you can swim. Yeah this game is that awsome. The story although there end up to be zombies, 
 the story fold out nicely and is very original. I was surprised actually how good the online play 
 was too. It wasnt complicated at all like MOHAA can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  One of the hardest enemy A. I but still great game
  
  The variety to be found as you progress through the approximately 20-hour campaign is another unparalleled 
 achievement on Cryteks part. Not once, even for a moment, did I feel that it was a chore to tackle 
 whatever challenge was in front of me. Whether its the environment, the weapons and gadgets available, 
 new enemies to defeat, or nonstandard objectives to accomplish, Far Cry continually innovates  
 even after ten hours into the quest, something new was constantly causing my jw to drop in awe. 
 The vehicles integrate seamlessly into the action, whether youre flying across a crystal-clear 
 bay in a speedboat (with a mounted minigun, of course) or evading enemy choppers trying to hunt 
 you down. Additionally, all of the weapons (and the several different grenades) react nicely, including 
 their reload times, rate of fire, and accuracy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTRIGGER092x
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Story: Youre Jack Carver, a freelance boat charter. Some chick named Valerie has paid you to go 
 to an island. So, you go. Mercenaries attack you, Valerie gets kidnapped, and you struggle to survive. 
 You meet a mysterious man named Doyle, who helps you out along the way. You find out that some 
 genetics research is going on by some retarded scientist, and these mutant monkeys come into the 
 game, making a three-way battle between Jack, the Mercs, and the Mutant Monkeys. Sounds sort of 
 Clich&eacute;, but oh well. I guess its suitable.
  
  Graphics: Wow. These graphics are pretty much the best I've seen besides Crysis (An upcoming game 
 by Crytek, the makers of this.) . The jungles are green and lush, the water is clear and blue, and 
 the sand is white and realistic. These graphics are extremely immersive. You will find yourself 
 just looking at the beautiful environment. The character models look sort of cartoonish, but they 
 are quite detailed, so I can't complain. Another good visual part of the game is the draw distance. 
 You can see 1.2km away. That is what I call far. Unfortunately, these amazing graphics also take 
 an amazing PC to consider it extreme eye-candy. Sound:
  The Sound is great. It is very nicely used to immerse the player in the jungle. But, I noticed 
 some sounds were re-used countless times, and some of the sound was plain ugly. But oh well, this 
 doesn't stop it from being bad.
  
  Controls: The controls are pretty close to every other shooter. You'll find yourself clicking to 
 shoot and holding down W, S, A, or D to move like normal, and I have no problem with that. The 
 only problem I really have is pressing F to get in vehicles. This feels sorta awkward. Other than 
 that, I have no problem.
  
  Gameplay: Far Cry gives you different ways to play. Go Stealthy, Go All Out Guerilla. Well, it 
 sort of does. The enemies have really frickin awesome eyes, so if you make one move, theyll see 
 it, and start shooting at you like no tomorrow, kind of making all of the foliage useless. This 
 brings me to my next point: AI. They are just TOO smart. Add auto-saves that pop up every 20 minutes, 
 and you have a frustrating, difficult, game. The weapons are good and accurate, and theres quite 
 a few of them too. Vehicles are in the game, but theyre close to useless considering the rough 
 terrain of the island. Their handling is poor anyways though, so it isnt really much that your 
 missing out on. Swimming is fun to play around with in the game, and is better cover than the foliage 
 when you are submerged. I am afraid I cannot critique the multiplayer, because of my firewall, 
 and I have no idea to disable it, but Ive heard that it really isnt all that great. So, its 
 probably not much that Im missing out on.
  
  Overall, Far Cry is a solid game that youll be coming back to several times, but only several 
 times. Like I said, at best, Far Cry is a technological advancement for games. At $10.00 though, 
 its an offer you cant refuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  They introduced the tritons, WTF. They are creatures that attack you and kill you in one hit!!!!! AMAMZING!!! 
 even with full health. And guess what, half the game your jsut fighting them. They just F#@$ed 
 up the game for me. I mean i love shooting people, it was a great action game, BUT WHY do they 
 have to introduce monsters??? It always has to be something that makes a great game into a horrible 
 game. They are sooooooooo annoying and jsut game the game really gay Also i hate how they put you 
 into all these scary regoins, YOUR NOT PLAYING TO GET SCARED!!! your playing to have FUN!!!
  Getting scared isnt fun, unless your watchin a movie with a girl, cause she gets scared and stuff 
 happens. Aight anyways, the graphics are extremely good for a game thats 3 years old. The graphics 
 are jsut unbelievably good, their great. Also i love how they have the out side environment where 
 you can go just about anywhere and explore, but then they F@#$ it up by introducing DARK indoor 
 environment, which make sthe game really gay I mean why did they think addiny creatures and dark 
 indoor places would make the game better, i hate that about it.
  
  Over all its a pretty good game worth buying i guess! Also its extremely hard because the AI is 
 soooooo smart, i like that part! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomnia37
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Firt thing you will probably notice is how amazing this game looks. Personally I enjoy playing 
 shooting games that are set in jungles because of the many possiblities of stealth game play. The 
 gameplay is exactly what I was hoping for. The game is not necessarily in an open world but the 
 levels are huge!! To add to that, this game is also non linear. You can choose a few paths to get 
 to ur objective. The gameplay is also non linear as well because you can go through each level 
 rushing everyone with guns blazing or you can take the patient approach and go for stealth. The 
 weapons are good too. Some have a secondary function and you can carry up to 4 weapons at a time 
 as well as 3 different gerandes. I was hoping there would be a silenced assault rifle or sniper 
 rifle. I can't say too much about the multiplayer because even when I purchased this game a couple 
 of years ago there weren't many people online. It would have been great to have an offline multiplayer. 
 This is a fun shooting game and will have you wanting to play again. After beating the game you 
 can also choose which levels you want to play. Overall this is one of my favourite FPS of all time, 
 it is just unfortunate that there weren't more people online. Can't wait to play Cryteks next game- 
 Crysis, I'm sure I won't be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mifzan
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  Long game but it keeps u intrestd till d end...
  Nys story line too.
  Its a must play if u r interested in 1st person shooters..
  Very nice models, this game kept me 
 goin late at night.. u really wana kill that bastard krieger. u als get 2 handle many vehicles, stationary 
 weapons so u can device your own strategy 2 get rid of hard targets like Fatboys..
  So grab ur m16 get packin, u have 2 b quick or become trigden bait.. or become another number in 
 the mercenaries kill list...
  The levels are also different and each 1 has its own feel.. i enjoyd the outdoor action because 
 the world looks very beautiful, especially with the islands.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Major_Gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry A very good game well worth playing (yeah on the hardest mode with no cheats FY) game play 
 was great! this is a game where you Shoot first or eat S*** the Difficulty was just right on the 
 mark of being a kick ass game you get some pretty Difficult places that it looks like your deader 
 then a door nail get a Big bad ass gun and shoot your way out! great Difficulty Level your going 
 to have to play this one again just to watch your enemies die faster then when you first played 
 it and find lots more to do then you first thought I classify this to all it's Cracked up to be 
 and more and it was Really really action packed you couldn't go far without getting someone shooting 
 at or something Beating your head in while your not looking GRAPHICS they are really good Crytek 
 did an awesome job on it you can move though brush and use it to not get hit as much where as in 
 other games you move in a get the crap shot out of your ass and when you shoot out of the bush 
 you will see pieces fell off the bush it is masterfully done and the water looked pretty good not 
 this unmoving blue thing
  
  the sounds they had on everything was almost what it should of been a gun or two's sound was off 
 great MP real kick ass ain't got anything left to say so get the Game yourself and see just how 
 long before someone comes knocking on your door to kick you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hip-hop-cola
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Farcry is one of the greatest fps hands down. Graphically it was years ahead of its time with water 
 you can sit and stare at. The free roaming worlds offer endless strategy and tactics, you can be 
 stealthy and clever or you can load up with big guns and blast every thing. The AI also allows 
 you to manipulate your enemies and scare them; nothing is more fun than to watch a guard firing 
 at trees while shouting. The game switches from vast jungles to dark damp gloomy bases that are 
 infested with mutant enemies; this also gives farcry a frightening side were you will find your 
 self scared to enter rooms with growls echoing out. Some may say the story lets farcry down but 
 the simple hero story is nice and gives it a simple flow game.
  
  The multiplayer adds to the fun with insane dog fights between players as they jump all over. You 
 can also have lots of fun hiding in bushes as a guy walks past you only to have a machete in his 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdavidb
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 19, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one intense experience. Once you get going, it's hard to stop. It's like FPS crack. You've 
 been warned!
  
  The overall visual appeal of this game is fantastic. It's not just that the graphics are technically 
 well done. The whole environment makes you feel like you really are on some tropical island full 
 of old war ruins. The birds and fish look and act like real birds and fish. The grass. trees, rocks 
 and shadows offer real cover and concealment (which comes in very handy when those helicopters 
 come around) .
  
  The sound is equally well done, with a good script, realistic ambient noise, and appropriate mood 
 music.
  
  Gameplay allows for multiple solutions for most situations. There is almost always more than one 
 approach route to a target point. You can engage the various mercs and mutants head-on (usually 
 the most difficult option) , or you can crawl though the grass and avoid them altogether (well, 
 sometimes, anyway) . You'l find the right combination for you after a few levels. I like to scope 
 out as many enemies as I can, then sneak to any available high ground or good cover and pick them 
 off one by one with the silenced MP5 on single shot, or the good ol' sniper rifle. You can take 
 some amazing long range shots from the right perch.
  
  The enemies all have pretty realistic AI, like moving and firing from cover to cover, or employing 
 a flanking attack. Keep your health and armor up, and reload early and often. They can easily overwhelm 
 you in the wrong situation.
  
  And now for the big BUT...
  
  I could do without the mutant monkeys that jump across the room and kill you in one swipe. I get 
 that it can add to the challenge of the game, but I think for non-hard-core gamers (most people) 
 it's just annoying. Add that to the check-point-only saves, and it can get to be VERY annoying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acyberexile
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I've played many, many First-person Shooters and I am sure more or less everyone played one FPS 
 too. So we pretty much know the cliches of the genre, some scripted events or cut scenes that makes 
 your adrenaline pump, enemies that are there for you to kill them and unseen/seen corridors that 
 block your freedom. What Far Cry does, is to destroy every routine a FPS has ever done. There are 
 no scripted events save some talks between the mercenaries, and very few cut scenes. There is an 
 island, fully at your service and there are many mercenaries that after some point, don't give 
 a damn about what you do. The graphics are exceptional for their time and so are the sounds. The 
 AI seems to do OK, although there is a similar pattern to what they're doing and when you understand 
 it, they are not really that smart. Story is full of cliches, but it does ok for a game where action 
 matters more than the plot. And the action is just mind-blowing, you can't even blink. But what 
 Far Cry fails to do, is again graphics. While the outdoor maps are fantastic, the indoor maps can't 
 do the trick. They are boring and dull, also the textures seem to be faulty. But still, it's a 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s41to
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  i already play this game in Xbox, now in my pc looks awesome and for first time a PCgame let me 
 put ALL graph in maximum at 1280 x 1024 in my actual PC (athon 64 3500+, 1gb RAM, GeForce 7600GT) 
 and the FPS remain strong, very good optimization work.
  
  now is a 3 year old game but remain in a pair whit the current games, be good if other games make 
 use of the cryengine 1, an old but still powerfull engine not like other that require a supermachine 
 and the graphics don&acute; t are that good.
  
  PD excuse my english but im from colombia (spanish) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 9, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are holy crap!!!! Unbelievable!!!! Its like your actually there!!!
  But thats the only strength of the game. For $10 its a good game but not worth it for anymore though. 
 But if you got the hardware to run this with max settings its worth getting just to see what the 
 future of gamings going to look like.
  
  With the Openness of the game it really had the chance that you could play the game stealthy but 
 you cant. they hear and see everything. if you can see them chances are they can see you. and once 
 they know your there you cant hide. If this was not a problem and you could do some stealth killing 
 from far and up close. this game would easily be a 10/10 game. Ok, so lets say its not one of those 
 games. its a run and gun type game. well theres a problem with that too. even on easy they out 
 gun you. you take damage way too fast. this may be a little realistic but very hard for this game. 
 Its too bad. i really enjoy the graphics but there missing enough to make this not an enjoyable 
 game. I would not recommend getting this game if you want game-play out of it. But i cant wait 
 till they come out with Far Cry 2. just as long as they improve the games kinks. Hell, they can 
 use the same island for what its worth lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is without a doupt, one of the most graphically advanced game today. The environment, water, 
 character details simply blew me away. The lighting effects are extremely realistic, much like 
 Doom 3's. The gameplay is as good as it gets. It's got an immersive storyline, superb AI, all sorts 
 of vehicles &amp; weapons, and its pretty fun too. I love the massive environments. You're free 
 to do, pretty much anything you desire. There are millions of ways to get to your objective. The 
 game really gives the player a lot of freedom, and that kind of thing is pretty rare in shooters 
 these days. Another factor that sets Far Cry apart from the other shooters is the pace. While most 
 games are high-crunk fast-paced adrenaline rushes, Far Cry takes the slower, more thoughtful and 
 MUCH more engaging route, where you're forced to use your stealth, brains and cover under the fantastically 
 detailed foilage to survive. Forget running and gunning. It's out of the question. This is no commando 
 game. This is the silent assassins jungle, so you better think and act like one if you plan on 
 getting anywhere with Far Cry.
  
  Far Cry isn't just one of the best shooter games, but it's one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Many gamers waited with anticipation for the release of Farcry. Almost from the moment it was announced 
 Crytek kept throwing out juicy tid bits to keep gamers interested in their debut offering. This 
 game turned out to be one of the best games released to date. The maps were expansive and permitted 
 a variety of different play styles. You could either run and gun or you could us a stealthy approach 
 to moving the story forward. Many of the areas where large numbers of enemies were located had 
 stuff you could blow up to take out multiple targets at once. You were given a set of binoculars 
 that would track various enemies at a distance and acted as a listening device also. The game created 
 just enough tension to keep you immersed in the action. When you least expected it enemy troops 
 or monsters would pop up and send your adrenaline into overdrive. The cut scenes were not only 
 informative but entertaining. In conclusion this game was a highly enjoyable and very addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  This should be a game, so let's analyze it.
  
  Graphics:10/10 The graphics are really stunning: from beautiful tropical landcapes with sun reflections, realistic 
 water, parrots in the air &amp; high-textured details to creepy interiors, beautifull textured people (the 
 holes made by gunshots are incredibly realist) , FarCry wins the best graphics of year 2004 &amp; 
 still has the best graphics at lanscapes, untill Crysis &amp; Alan Wake appear.
  
  Sound:10/10 The first thing to admire is the soundtrack-one of the best that I ever heard. It beggins 
 mild,&amp; it soon gets violent &amp; creepy. The other thing, sound effects, are again magnificent 
 &amp; the humor in voice acting is wellcome.
  
  Gameplay:9/10 You begin just with killing some mercenaries, but things get more complex: drive buggies, boats, snipe 
 enamies, run from hellicopters (the best pursuit I've ever experienced, with a desperate &amp; wounded 
 Jack Carver trying to hide from a hellicopter inside the rainforest, while shooting mercs with the 
 pistol with 6 bullets) . Stealth missions are present. After that comes the horror part: batteling 
 the mutant monkeys that jump on you &amp; spill your parts on a bloody wall. Not to mention the 
 last fight, on the volcano! But the main problem is that FarCry is too hard: you get killed to fast,&amp; 
 there ain't many medpacks.
  
  Value:10/10 It's a very long game &amp; it's components make it valuable. My regards here.
  
 
  Tilt:9/10 A good storyline, but not perfect. Tensioned moments, betrayal &amp; the mystery of the 
 islands is maintained all the game.
  
  Multiplayer:10/10 Simply the best multiplayer in a game.
  
  A very good game with superb graphics, but 
 does not beat Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malakogavlides
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Although i play more strategy and sport games than FPS i must admitt that Far Cry is the by far 
 the greatest computer game ever created. Its not only its amazing graphics or the sound or the 
 story. Its the whole thing in it. The scenario is complex, the physics of the game are tremendous 
 and the most important. its REAL TIME!!!. you dont have to pass a specific spot so that the soldiers 
 will show up ( like Half-life 2) . everyone seems to act indepentendly to what you are doing. so 
 you dont feel like you play a game. You live the situation!! When i played i felt like Rambo. when 
 it finished i was so dissapointed that i didnt sit on my computer for a month... since that game 
 all other FPS seem boring to me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_bingham
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I've played this a couple of times through; I first got the game back in March or so of 04 -- the 
 first day it came out. I was eagerly awaiting Doom III which was long over due (but came out in 
 August 04) and HL2.
  I expected Far Cry to get me through to both games.
  
  Far Cry sort of ruined each of them a little. After playing FC, neither really amazed me as much 
 as they might have otherwise because Far Cry broke so much ground: completely open levels capable 
 of being solved over and over, different ways; large, open spaces; vehicles -- realistic vehicles 
 that you could just hop in and cruise around with; an engaging story in which every found item 
 could be used with interesting, functional locales and enemy placement. Overall, a very polished 
 game.
  
  Sublime was the first time I came across a glider. Before you is a picturesque, open island, and 
 you take off, flying in just about any direction you want; it was a thrill for me at the time because 
 no other game I had played offered such an open ended approach. I restarted that level many times 
 in order to take the flight time and again. The rest of the game is excellent -- difficult with the 
 saving limit -- but excellent and rewarding. The only thing it may have needed was additional 'monsters'. 
 It does suffer from the FEAR problem of just fighting a few different enemy types, making each 
 battle a variant on one set of enemies over many different types of terrain (like a good army movie, 
 I guess) . Doom III and HL offered a more divergent mix of surprises; but the other aspects outweigh 
 this deficit, especially given that this game came out 3 years ago and still, nothing much can 
 touch it.
  
  In retrospect, Far Cry is the gold standard in my view.
  Doom III and HL2 have their place and are excellent games. Doom III's horror element isn't to be 
 trifled with -- it's incredibly fun, had me plenty freaked and spooked while sitting in the dark 
 playing (definitely got the hee bee jee bees) , but these foreign developers are now on the hunt. 
 Crytek knows how to make games. There is absolutely no doubt about it. They basically turned FPSs 
 on their ear with this game.
  Looking forward to Crysis; if they can make just an updated Far Cry, I'll be more than impressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornishgeezer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I bought Far Cry about a month ago off ebay for &pound;1.99. For a game that is quite old now, 
 Far cry's graphics astonished me. They're better then a lot of whats out now. Two little things 
 that i really love about this game, that i think are really well done, are the great terrain and 
 water graphics, the way that when you kill someone in the water there body leaks blood into the 
 water rocks!, and the detail in the water is nice. The other thing that i really like is the way 
 the forestation creates shadows on your gun. It may be a small thing but i think it really adds 
 to the greatness of this game.
  
  The sound is perfect- from walking through dense forest where the wildlife creates a feeling of 
 reality, to the gun sounds and even the mini conversations the gaurds have when you use the binoculars 
 (people who have played will know what i mean) . The game is very enjoyable and i am still working 
 my way through it. The difference between this and other great FPS's is that this game is hard 
 throughout, it doesn't start off easy and this is good. Its got a great mix of gameplay. I myself 
 like the inclusion of mutant ape things, it makes the game interesting and unexpected from the 
 beginning. Overall i would say that this game is perfect for FPS fans and can now be bought really 
 cheaply off the internet or at stores becuase of its age. Doesnt make it any less of a classic 
 though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is the best game to display large beautiful maps and no loading time except in checkpoint 
 saving. The draw distances are very well done, and you can actually walk to areas 200 to 300 meters 
 away.
  
  The graphics with the water, light reflections, birds and fish add lots of realism. The sound is 
 done very well with the hum of the helicopters and gun fire.
  
  When released Far Cry had the best AI to date. It's good in outside environments, but indoor cramp 
 environments they suck. The mutants are like from Quake. The monkey type fiend dude is scary. Keeps 
 you on the edge of your seat. The mutants are tougher than the mercs because there mutants.
  
  The single player maps are expansive and fun. The level design was very well done. The physics 
 is ok.
  
  The main problems is awful voice acting of the hero Jack Carver. Didn't take away from gameplay.
 
  
  Checkpoint Saving and couldn't save when you wany. Cmon developers! Wolfenstein 3D and Doom released 
 (1992,1993) you could save whenever you want.
  
  It's a great shooter and should not be missed for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Games_Analyst
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft is well renowned for their impact in the first person and third person shooter classes. 
 Games such as Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon, and Rainbow Six are all highly rated games in their own 
 right. Well into the 2003 gaming season, Far Cry was announced. A game that would be open ended 
 and allow a user much control over a linear adventure. The end result is a game that offers revolutionary 
 AI, graphics, and game elements, further proving that Ubisoft will remain a master of their niche. 
 Far Cry is simply breathtaking.
  
  As stated, Far Cry is a first person shooter. First person shooters such as the Half Life series, 
 Doom, and Unreal Tournament are games that pride themselves on fast paced action and pending the 
 game, a riveting story. You will simply see through the eyes of a main character as you carry around 
 a gun, knife, or mass means of destruction (explosive: 1. tending or serving to explode: an explosive 
 temper; Nitroglycerin is an explosive substance.) to dispatch various enemies as you progress through 
 the game. Jack Carver is your man in Far Cry, and he packs enough tactical weapons experience and 
 mayhem to serve your cartoon Saturday needs. The story of Far Cry is rather simple. You as Jack 
 Carver wake up on an island and must find out why you are there and what is going on. You encounter 
 enemies early on who want nothing more than to place you in a grave. Eventually you will find out 
 that you must help an unknown source get to the bottom of scientific experiments going on at the 
 island. These scientific experiments turn out to be both horrifying and thrilling. The game does 
 not dissapoint in putting you in the middle of a great story, complete with a hot babe and some 
 faces you won't forget. The story itself lasts well over 20 hours and can take a while to finish. 
 There are many different areas and missions that you'll explore before taking on a unique and dangerous 
 boss which can only be compared to a setting and ending relative to Goldeneye 007 for the Nintendo 
 64. It is certain that the journey will be epic, and you'll wish it wasn't over. The game leads 
 up very well to a trrific ending and could easily be made into a movie.
  
  Throughout this journey Jack Carver will have many encounters with various enemies and soldiers 
 looking to protect the secret of these scientific experiments. They'll come complete with explosivs, 
 guns, blades, and other forms of damaging components. Your mission? Simply mow down what's in your 
 way (would you really expect anything else) ? The Artificial intelligence in this game is TOP notch. 
 Enemies will strategize against you and call others over for support. They take cover, utilize 
 alarms effectively, and will pursue you with close combat weapons should you hide from snipers 
 or long range weaponry. It is really a wonderful site to behold. Since Jack Carver is only human, 
 he can carry a few weapons at any given time. You have limited ammo (although plenty can be picked 
 up) and limited weapon slots. This simply makes you strategize with what weapons you wish to pick 
 up and use. It adds a decision making process to the game and allows you to choose which weapons 
 best suit your style. There are pistols, machetes, grenades, rocket launchers, sniper rifles, sub 
 machine guns, and a M-16 type gun. While there is plenty of up close fighting and action, there 
 is also a sneaking component to the game. You won't want to draw much attention to yourself because 
 there are plenty of enemies out there to make your life a living hell. Drawing in too many baddies 
 at once could make Carver's life rather difficult. You can simply sneak around areas and watch 
 your threat meter. Throwing rocks and stones in a direction will draw an enemy soldier's attention 
 and may get him moving in another direction to help you line up a better shot. This allows players 
 to snipe and stealth their way through areas, or to take action head on and grab big hitting weapons 
 and cause chaos. The game does not allow you to stealth through all of it, so causing mayhem and 
 destroying everything in your path is a more preferred and intended method.
  
  Aside from traveling and dealing damage on foot, there is a variety of vehicles that Jack can drive. 
 The handling on these vehicles is quite realistic and they come with enough firepower to make even 
 the most gun crazy folks happy. You can drive boats, buggies, or hang gliders in the game, all 
 of which have different uses at appropriate times. All vehicles can be damaged, driven by enemies, 
 and have limited ammo, which again enforces realism. Learning to effectively use these vehicles 
 is key to your success in this adventure and also a very fun aspect of the game. You will also 
 board large frigates and take helicopters head on as part of the more epic battles.
  
  While every first person shooter is linear, Far Cry takes a bit of a different approach. You must 
 of course trek through the game in a linear fashion, but you are given more freedom. The island 
 is VERY open ended and you can approach every hostile situation a different way. Take a boat, buggy, 
 or hand glider. Go up a different path than a more heavily armed one. Use various turrets to clear 
 a path. Swim past enemies or hostile zones instead of going through an ambush situation. There 
 is no SET way to deal with a threat and some enemies may be skipped which is VERY refreshing. Far 
 Cry allows you to play the game, instead of the game playing you.
  
  Far Cry offers various difficulty modes ranging from normal to Realism. Only the hardcore players 
 will get through the highest difficulty, but it is certainly a challenge. While the AI does not 
 necessarily change, the damage you take will be more relative to games such as Counter Strike, 
 where 1-2 bullets really would do quite a bit of damage. The game allows for casual players to 
 hop right in (using the normal difficulty) or the hardcore players to really get down and serious.
 
  
  Graphically Far Cry is beautiful. While the game was released in 2004, the graphics are still superior 
 to many games. Full lighting effects and shadows are throughout the game, and character detail 
 is spot on. Water plays a large part in the game and is very richly detailed with fish and various 
 aquatic life floating about. Sandy beaches compliment this well, and palm trees detail the island. 
 A very rewarding experience is seeing a helicopter fly overhead, and zooming in with your scope 
 to see soldiers zip line their way down to the ground. Sniping one out of mid air and watching 
 him fall is ever more rewarding. The glare effects from the sun are added, and enemies will patrol, 
 appear to talk to each other, and push brush aside. The game is VERY richly detailed and at times 
 you will feel as if you're watching a movie. Far Cry also has a beautiful sound system. The game 
 does not overdo itself with the musical score, except for a sound letting you know you've encountered 
 trouble. Otherwise it's just you and the island. You'll hear waves lapping up aganist the beach, 
 birds and wildlife in the distance. The guns and explosives sound great, but are not QUITE as powerful 
 as they could be (such as F. E. A. R - another popular PC FPS) . Overall the game immerses you in the 
 island very well with the sound effects.
  
  While Far Cry does offer a multiplayer system, it is not the key focus of the game, which is single 
 player and the story. The multiplayer system is not quite popular do to the system requirements 
 the game requires. You will need a very fast internet connection and high tech computer to run 
 this game in multiplayer. Even then, your opponents or teammates will probably not have those high 
 end computers. The multiplayer component is okay, but half the time you are not aware of who is 
 shooting you. It's best to stick to popular FPS multiplayer games such as Unreal Tournament, BF1942, 
 Call of Duty, and the ever popular Counter Strike.
  
  Far Cry is simply a beautiful game. The story is immersive and is backed by a rich environment 
 that truly immerses you. Although the game is long, the story keeps you wondering what will happen 
 next and even if you're not into the story, the beautiful graphics and fast paced action certainly 
 will. In the end, Far Cry is metaphorically more of an experience than it is a game. It is something 
 that every PC gamer (who enjoys first person shooters) should play. Far Cry was a candidate for 
 game of the year (beat out by World of Warcraft) and it easily shows. Without a doubt one fo the 
 top games for 2004, Far Cry holds a special place in the first person shooter genre and should 
 be recognized as an industry best practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AParkedCar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  So Far Cry came out in 2004 and I just got around to playing it (got it for ~$5 on amazon) and 
 I must say that I enjoyed it. It is a stealthy fps (you WILL die if you're not stealthy) and features 
 fairly large maps to play on. It lasts~20 hrs. if you're a normal player and the gameplay against 
 the mercs is rather fun. The mutants introduced later in the game are not fun to play against for 
 the most part, sadly. The difficulty of this game without quicksave is almost unimaginable, however 
 if you put these commands in the console:
  \save_game 1
  \load_game 1
  
  you can indeed quicksave and quickload! It made the game fun for me and is the ONLY way to play 
 unless you like pain. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Crytek's Far Cry made quite a few heads turn when it was released, in 2004. That's a big achievement 
 considering that many famous shooter franchises had scheduled a release in that same year: Half-Life 
 2, Doom 3 and Unreal Tournament 2004 were the biggest names for sure.
  
  So what did Far Cry do to draw that much attention? It basically mixed first-person shooter action 
 with some light stealth elements and an unusual setting for the fps genre: a tropical island. The 
 graphics are the first thing that will impress; once you get the first glimpse of the great outdoors 
 you will know what I mean. The outdoor combat scenes are also the thing that make Far Cry so entertaining. 
 You can use foliage as camouflage while you silently take out your foes, drive jeeps or boats and 
 even use a glider. The only reason why I'm not giving it a 10 for visual presentation is because 
 of the pretty conventional design of interiors. And you will see for yourself that interior fights 
 are also the least interesting moments of the game, as the action becomes pretty conventional without 
 large spaces and foliage to use as cover.
  
  Lets talk fire-power: Far Cry's arsenal is great, most of the weapons are taken after real life 
 weapons and feel pretty good. It's a balanced locker that includes pistols, semi-automatics, grenades, 
 rifles and even a rocket launcher, add to this the many types of jeeps, trucks, boats and even 
 a glider and you can pretty much see how rich the selection is; an essential aspect for any shooter.
 
  
  Far Cry also has a few problems. The first one is the story, which is pretty conventional and the 
 addition of mutant monsters really ruined it. The second flaw is the weird feel of the physics, 
 it could have used some tweaking. And the last problem is the multiplayer, which also could have 
 used some tweaking. The vehicles in mp are useless, they just make you more vulnerable to gunfire 
 and it is also a bit frustrating to play in small numbers because the maps are pretty big.
  
  But overall, the good parts will eliminate the bad ones, making Far Cry a very good game. One 
 thing I really loved about the game was the much-criticized saving system. You can't save manually, 
 you need to reach a checkpoint, for the game to autosave. This adds a bit of tension and makes 
 you feel more vulnerable then you actually are, thus forcing you to always play at your best. Final 
 words: Far Cry is a good game, don't hesitate to pick this one up! In all probability, you will 
 like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin-Drak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  First of all, If you don`t own this game, rush down to your local store and buy it (it`s a Ubisoft 
 eXclusive so its not expensive) , here in South Africa it only cost R99.00 (Dont know how much Dollars 
 that is) . The game is one of a Kind. It`s been made for Everyone.... Well... Sort of. You can Sneak, You 
 can Shoot, You can Drive and you can Die... A lot of times. I love this game, cause it runs quite well 
 on a Low Spec machine. I played it on a. Geforce 5200 256 RAM 800mhz CPU on medium settings. Even 
 if its getting old, you will still enjoy it. Its also very easy to mod. Its not a linear game like 
 Half Life until you get in Buildings. A very enjoyable game. The Graphics are Best until Crysis comes. The 
 Sound is also very good but I think they could`ve done a bit more. The A. I. is very good, with the 
 enemies taking cover yelling commands and orders, and are sometimes very accurate, although sometimes 
 i have checked that they can see me when they shouldnt, but thats more like a developing flaw than 
 the A. I. cause in the built in Editor that they use you can set behind which foliage you can Hide. About 
 the editor, it is also very easy to use, you can make a good looking level in a few days. The hardest 
 part might be placing all the vegetation which can be awkward, and you cant make cliffs. There is 
 not much to say any more. Even if you get Crysis this is a game you must own. The game is quite easy 
 until you get to the fifth level where most of my friends get Irritated and quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abridgers71
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game sports the most amazing world immersive FPS gameplay I've ever encountered. For the money ($20-$30) , 
 you can't get a better game. The gameworld is so amazingly detailed that it's almost visually overwhelming. 
 I'm running it on a P4 3.0Ghz, 1Gb HyperX RAM, and a GeForce7600GS video card (hardly a cutting 
 edge system!) but even with some of the graphics set to Medium and low it runs very, very smooth 
 while still looking fantastic. The CryEngine does an incredible job of balancing the scenery and 
 the game without significantly dropping the frame rates. The world of FarCry is HUGE! This is not 
 a game you can play and beat in a single weekend. There are a massive amount of baddies to gun 
 down (especially after level 6-7) and the fairly realistic reloading sequences (read: SLOW) will 
 get you killed FAST. It looks to me (just my opinion) that some of the AI got sacrificed on the 
 altar of graphics, but that doesn't mean you're just zapping morons... these guys move very quickly, 
 use cover, and they also use simple squad based attacks to come for you in multiple directions.
 
  
  This game is rated as a 20 hour game, but you'll be hard pressed to make it through in that timeframe. 
 I sure can't even get close! This game is TOUGH to beat and the enemies are merciless in their 
 attacks and they hit HARD!!!!! (which will frustrate you to death and send you looking for ways 
 to bypass a fight) . I only have 3 real beefs with the game: (1) driving the vehicles is a real PITA 
 (2) sometimes there are just TOO many baddies to wade through. 5-7 bad guys=ok; 15-20???? HUH ???? 
 (3) there is no Quicksave funcion.... You'd better be a really good shot and able to handle your 
 weapons FAST b/c you're going to spend alot of time praying that there's a health kit nearby! Like 
 I said, the baddies hit you HARD and do some major damage in a hurry (don't get me started on the 
 Trigens.... 1 swat from these things and it's RESET time!)
  
  All in all, this is a really great game and definitely worth owning. You MUST download the patches 
 (v1.4 cumulative) b/c it will drive you nuts with crashes, artifacts, or unexpected behavior. Aside 
 from the patches, this game hits the mark on all levels: gameplay, plot, world scenery/size, physics, 
 bad guys, weapons, etc.... If you don't own it, get it. You will not be disappointed ! It's a jungle 
 FPS combat game that makes you FEEL like you're in an actual jungle. Top Kudos to Crytek for developing 
 this incredible game that's beautiful to look at but won't kill your framerate during gameplay; 
 not too many games on the market have managed to pull this off without owning a top shelf big $$$$ 
 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepps2007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  As you will probably know, in far cry, you play as jack carver and you have to get vallerie back. 
 Gameplay:
  The gameplay in far cry is almost certainly the strongest part of the game as a whole, it is a 
 shame about the fact that the stealth mechanics werent as fleshed out as they could have been... 
 that said there is no really good oppurtunity to sneak, the enimy AI is too cautious and pulls 
 the alarm as soon asthey hear a noise, this isnt to to say that the AI is bad, in fact it is very 
 good, but it does get frustrating at certain points, but if you were on an island with horrifically 
 mutated monsters youd be cautious too wouldnt you? Graphics:
  
  The graphics are great, but havent aged well, when compared to certain of todays games they just 
 dont hold up, but at least the water and sand looks good! Sound:
  Good, at its best. jack himself is done well but the mercs that are dispersed around the islandare 
 pretty poorly done shouting such things as I got you! and You! in the shirt it sounds like small 
 childeren playing a game of hide and seek than grown men firing live ammunition at each other definateley 
 the weakst part of the game. Vallue:
  This game will take along time to complete and there is alot of replay value as the mercs and enemies 
 almost never act in the same way twice so youll always have a different game, which means that 
 people wont be able where each enemy is in all the levels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game simply is a bad ass, from start to finish. Going through the first time is kinda sketchy, 
 but it is one of the best pc games to date.
  Concept is cool, game play is smooth, and the dynamics of the world are
  nothing short of HOT. 
 I find going through the jungle an eye-candy experience. Hang gliding and sniping from a mile-out, 
 all fit into the cool category.
  The accuracy from the weapons is great from shooting helicopters out of the sky to close courters 
 combat.
  Going so far as to get a leaf out of your eye for the perfect shot,.. this game is a killer addition 
 to anyones collection.
  The monsters are a nice touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The only bug I encountered was with the latest patch 1.4... 1.33 also had a bug but that has been 
 fixed.. Since this review is late.. 1.4 has been around.. so the bug I encountered as well as others 
 have is with the mouse not responding in game.. (works in the menu) neways there is no mouse control.. 
 you have to set the controls to default in the menu. This fixes the problem.. Now, Farcry has held 
 up well over the years.. Using the stolen Source code (I feel that it does since just after release 
 of Farcry Ubisoft's offices got raided.. hmmm suspicious) It had the best graphics of any game 
 at the time, and holds up damn well now.. Gameplay: perfect.. weapons are accurate as a sniper 
 rifle in most other FPS games. Difficulty is what you make it.. since the game has several different 
 levels of difficulty and with the added box of AI balance you can find more challenge in this FPS 
 than most others. The controls are great.. you can customize them so you can pretty much feel at 
 ease. The in game mechanics are awesome.. though it uses a modified version of the Source code.. 
 some objects just don't move.. something that expresses the limitation of what Crytek used. For 
 such a game though the physics are just perfect.. in line with most modern FPS games. Graphics: 
 as mentioned above they are stellar and still are.. even for a several year old game. Sound: terrific.. 
 music along with weapon sounds/enemies feel accurate and audible. The effects are enhanced with 
 a good sound card and a nice speaker setup. Value: killer.. the game has more replay value than 
 you can imagine.. after the long single player campaign though you will hesitate in starting another 
 game right off the bat.. but you will be back.. the game is addictive that way. My personal review/taste 
 is that it is a game worthy of a perfect 10 even though there are issues with the latest patch.. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yiggles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I've got this game from a friend who highly recommended it to me. I started to play the game and 
 i realized that this game was SUPERIOR!!!. I'll explain why. The gameplay: In Far Cry you have 
 got lots of guns and lots of other stuff like vehicles, machine guns, boats etc. The stuff will 
 make the gameplay an 8 but that wasn't the big point. The big point is that they combined a stealth 
 game play (with an stealth meter) with an action gameplay. For example it means that if you'll across 
 some enemies you can those to kill them with shooting or sneak through the bushes and trees to 
 avoid contact (sometimes you can't choose between these things so you'll have to shoot them) .
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are extremely nice. Beautiful environts, the water is nice, the figures are 
 well made. Ok, I know that there are now nicer games than this but it is so nice for a game that 
 was relished in March 2004.
  
  Sound: Great voice acting, awesome sound. One thin that is funny about the voice acting is that 
 if you're spotted the enemies will screams some words like: Ive got your number, youre ass is 
 bright, Ive got a bullet with your name on it etc 
  
  Value: There is a high replay value because if you beat or start the single player game you can 
 choose between easy, medium, hard, veteran, realistic. The multiplayer is also great and the price 
 of the game is only between the 0-10 euros
  
  Tilt: The storyline suburb and it's very original game.
  
  Overall: THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  P. S I cant write/speak very well because Im not English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  One of the best first person shooters ive played in the past months is farcry. It offers alot of 
 diffrent styles of combat in a 10 hour game. The game could be divided into 2 parts. The first 
 is island to island gurilla warfare. you sneak around take out merc bases destroy operation plants 
 and factories. the second part is fighting the mutants that are set loose. the mutants and the 
 mercs dont get along. The AI in this game is really good. the single player is very fun. The only 
 problem with single player is its voice acting. All the one liners sound so cheesy. The cutscences 
 are also terrible.
  The multiplayer has its own problems. I wasnt able to log onto ubi. coms servers. All in all, you 
 could find this game for 20 bucks alot of places so go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathread
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Crytek rules. This is one of the best first person shooters I have ever played. I can't believe 
 that I did't play it before. Mixing sandy beaches and beautiful green flora with first person shooting 
 is great idea, it is good for relaxing. If you like FPS, with this one you won't miss, and if you 
 don't, you should give it a chance because it kicks ass! Number of weapons, number of targets, 
 nice story, great graphics, great voice characterization, I don't know what else to say; this is 
 one of my favourite games. Maybe you won't think as I do but anyway, is a trip you must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Pros.
  - Graphics. The lush environments are outstanding.
  - Staged saving mechanism. None of this save/load business for the hard parts, your always living 
 on the edge during game play.
  - Great story line.
  - Reasonably intelligent AI. Except they did tend to reset their agro status a little too easily 
 at times.
  - Multiple ways to achieve mission goals.
  
  Cons.
  - I honestly can't think of any, the game was such a blast to play.
  
  Graphics.
  
  The 
 level of detail for outdoor environments is impressive. The sheer feeling of space is something 
 rarely felt in games these days. The day/night cycle deserves a mention, taking on enemies during 
 the dead of night is a lot different from broad daylight. Audio.
  
  Also great. The music was top notch, as was the ambient jungle sounds, and the eerie enemy sounds 
 was creepy.
  
  Game play.
  
  This is where FarCry really stands out. The game just keeps you drawn in. The storyline has got 
 it all, tropical setting, loads of enemies, a mysterious woman, and loads of enemies. The main 
 character has a great sense of humor and also sarcasm that really fits the situation he's got himself 
 into.
  
  Weapons mechanics appear to be nicely realistic, assault rifle vibration when you go full auto, 
 sniper rifle sway and shot gun kickback all feel right.
  
  Staged saving mechanism is great. No in game-cheating by pressing F5 every two seconds to save 
 the game, its all or nothing. This added sense of preservation makes you a lot more cautious than 
 other games. More first person shooters should have this as standard, it makes the game that much 
 more realistic.
  
  Numerous vehicles can be driven around the landscape, trying to avoid/run over enemies, while firing 
 the mounted weaponry was definitely exhilarating in places. Try driving off a cliff and get that 
 vertigo feeling. :-)
  
  Enemy AI.
  
  Quite good in most places. Trying to pick them off one by one, then getting surrounded and trying 
 to blast your way out was a lot of fun. The only glitch here would be the AI alert status had a 
 tendency to reset a little too easy (if the player just crouched and did nothing for a bit) . Multiplayer.
 
  
  A few problems exist with multiplayer that should be mentioned. Firstly turning the graphic detail 
 up on one persons machine meant more foliage was being displayed from their perspective, however 
 another persons may have their detail setting down low and none of that foliage is displayed. We 
 had situations where person-one was hiding in the brush, but from player-two's perspective player-one 
 was out in the open &amp; would just get shot.
  
  Sniper rifle is way too powerful in multiplayer game. Players just find a nice camp location, and 
 rack up the kills. Granted Crytek have attempted to address this by adding scope glare to allow 
 campers to be spotted a little easier, but its still a bit like Counterstrike in that one weapon 
 is too powerful when compared to the others.
  
  Re-spawn locations was a bit strange also, the number of times player-one would get killed by player-two 
 and then re-spawn in the exact same location was uncanny, possible some logic here to spawn further 
 away from any other players may of been an option here.
  
  In Summary.
  
  A fantastic game all round. Rarely have I had as much fun with a FPS as I have had with FarCry. 
 Usually after competing a game on its medium setting thats it - uninstall &amp; shelve it, but 
 with this one its back at it on a more difficult setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 42scarecrow
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Farcry could have been an awesome game, and it was for the first few missions. You had to be tactical. 
 Running into a camp of mercenaries would usually get you killed, but as soon as the mutants turned 
 up, that mostly went away.
  
  Whenever you saw a trigen, you would pull out the shotgun and hopefully killed it before it got 
 to you, otherwise a reload would be forced because you'd be at little or no health.
  
  The story had you doing just about what every other fps does, get from a to b, killing everything 
 on the way and picking up items, before blowing something up, and killing the boss. The outdoor 
 fights where the only things that where interesting, because you had a slight choice in how to 
 do it, though the usual was pick off someone from a far and weight for the rest to get to you.
 
  
  The ending was truly horrible. The last person you kill is a defenceless scientist, which is very 
 anticlimactic.
  
  I enjoyed playing most of the game, but the good is similar to other games, so i speak about the 
 bad.
  
  If you like running around huge distances and possibly doing the same 5 mins section over and over 
 (unless you use \save_game) then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Paradise goes to hell in this FPS game developed by crytek. The game's story is confusing from the 
 1st cutscene stuck on a random island full of mercanaries and old japanese warships. There is some 
 crazyresearch that has to do with mutant primates as well. You charcter is jack carver a ex special 
 forces with a job to escort a journalist. She gets kidnapped after a mortar rounds hits your boat. Gameplay 
 is repititive and gets old fast. Shoot this guy shoot the other guy grab a key and drive away over 
 and over and over again. The game is short with 5-8 hours of gameplay. Graphics are amazing. This 
 game was released in 2004 and looks like a game that would be released this year on a next gen 
 console. Sounds is great to from screams of dying soldiers to the chrips of birds and waves crashing 
 on the beach. The game is all flash and no fun. The game is only 20 bucks right now so check your 
 baragin bin at your local game our department store out you can rent the various spin offs for 
 console version. ( bad games also) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunaJ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I am so tired of all the typical run and gun games. This game breaks the mold. 
 You basicly are trying to sneak around and shoot people. You can hide in the jungle to keep enemies 
 from seeing you. But be careful, they can hide as well. The sniper rifle is always fun to use, 
 and the controls are almost perfect, but with a little tweaking, you can fix this. It is also fun 
 to see ( and hear) through the bonoculars. The enemies all do thing in their spare time. I do have 
 a complaint though, i am not far, but i do not see a way to do stealth attacks, or set traps, and 
 this seems to be a given for this game. But other wise you should definately buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvorgang
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is an achievement in gaming. It's an astonishing game set in a tropical island. First and 
 foremost, the games visuals are amazing. The bright beautiful landscape is amazing to look at. 
 Running through the jungles is amazing watching the effects of the game. When you're carrying your 
 weapon and moving in the thick jungle, you can see light being scattered on your weapon, which 
 is a nice effect. The game's engine is amazing thing to look at and surprised that no one else 
 has used it.
  
  The game's A. I. is the best I have ever seen in any game, bar none. The AI will coordinate to get 
 you and using the old FPS technique of storming in and trying to mow everything down will end in 
 failure, especially on harder difficulties. The game is so hard, at least for me, that I could 
 not beat it on the Challenging difficulty, which is the 3rd hardest difficulty setting. I do not 
 even want to see how difficult the game is on Realistic, the highest setting. The weaponary of 
 the game is really nice. You have a simple pistol, machete, but then move on to the good stuff: 
 M-16's, SMG's, an awesome sniper rifle (which I think is the AWP from Counter Strike, or AWM in 
 real world weapons) , a great rocket launcher, and your standard grenades. I suggest this to any 
 gamer out there who REALLY likes a challenge, enjoys a great FPS, and wants to see what an amazing 
 graphics engine can do.
  
  Oh yeah, it's a fairly long game for a FPS: 20 levels that take some time to get through. It took 
 me about 25 hours to beat the first time. What a great 25 hours though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I must say firstly I did not have any expectations whatso ever about this game. I bought it when 
 I couldn't find the game I was lookin for a few months back, and saw Far cry in the bargain section 
 of my local game shop.
  
  After Half life 2 I was optimistic about the FPS games that are on market toay so I gave it a try, 
 and how I was pleasantly surprised to experience this one.
  
  Far cry offers a great game play that takes distance from the linear, corridor like method of playing 
 in most shooters. Even if it is not a real Free roam concept, the game offers tons of freedom to 
 aproach a situation. Even if other people mention otherwise don't believe it. Though the game has 
 a linear story line, and is not a GTA in the jungle, it allows you to choose several methods of 
 tactics and strategies to get past a bunch of opponents. It is true however, that often the carefull 
 approach is the most recommended and usefull to choose for because you can't go into most situations 
 in a guns blazing style of play.
  
  The game looks good, even for a game that is now 3 years old, but you might need a high end PC 
 to play it at high or Very high specs. Even then, I played this game at medium to low settings 
 first, and it was still nice for the eyes. It is not a foto realistic game though, so if you expect 
 something like Half Life 2 you might be dissapointed, but the level design is very nice, and the 
 environment are believable.
  
  Gameplay in Far cry is fun and challenging and often even bloody hard, especially for an FPS noob 
 like me who plays it at Easy difficulty. However the game's mechanics really work for me, and things 
 like the steath method of approach make it a great thrill to experience.
  
  The AI has been very good so far, and I doubt it will dissapoint me later on the game. The enemies 
 are pretty clever and know how to make your life a pain, setting a new standard in FPS AI fo the 
 games that followed and will follow afterwards. One of the major downsides to the game for me is 
 the checkpoint save system, which often is frustrating because it makes you go trough the same sequences 
 over and over, but I resolved this with the \save_game cheat in the console. Other than that the 
 only downside for me is the difficulty, but if you are a hardened FPS player, looking for a challenge, 
 you will have no problems with this game and really enjoy it's challenge.
  
  Even after Half life 2 stole my heart, I must admit that Far cry is in someway as good, even though 
 I can't say you can compare both games that much. Far cry is way more tactical and strategic in 
 its gameplay than most run and gun shooters, and does not have much of puzzle solving like HL2 
 for instance.
  
  downsides of the games for me came halfway and near te end of the game. It is allready a difficult 
 game to start with, and when the more advanced, rocket throwing, tridgens appear I was displeased. 
 They are too powerfull, look ugly and merely seem like a munchkin characterstic of the game developpers. 
 Also the game is perhaps too long, and gets boring near the end, because you alwas have similar 
 situations before you. On top of that the logic for the main character to continue fighting evaporates 
 near the end, nd gave me an all over 'why should I bother' feeling. By now this game will be in 
 the discount section in most shops so there is absolutely no reason you should not buy it and give 
 it a try. A must fo every one who likes a good shooter, offering good atmosphere, great challenge 
 and loads of fun.
  
  Go get it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  If you believe the hype, we? re on the cusp of the golden age of first-person shooters, a renaissance 
 led by Half-Life 2, Doom 3, and, for those console folks, Halo 2. Ubisoft? s ambitious Far Cry has 
 jumped in before the bar is raised, but is it the first step of the future or the last gaffe of 
 the past? I Can See Clearly Now In Far Cry, you? re Jack Carver, a charter boat captain hired by 
 reporter Val Cortez to help investigate the shady research being conducted on a mysterious tropical 
 island. When your boat gets destroyed and Val disappears, you? ll have no choice but to fight for 
 your life against the scientists? evil militia and discover their dark secret in the process. Far 
 Cry? s hype has mostly dealt with its mind-boggling long-range visibility (claimed to be 800 meters) , 
 and there? s certainly no denying that this game allows you to see very far, very clearly, and with 
 phenomenal detail: Every astoundingly crisp blade of grass shimmers, and the water effects are 
 absolutely unparalleled. But although Far Cry? s jungle environments take bump-mapping to a whole 
 new level, some garish indoor textures and odd light sourcing keep the game from being a completely 
 immersive experience. And only very high-end gaming rigs will be able to appreciate Far Cry? s true 
 beauty, its outdoor landscapes. Far more frustrating, though, is the pedestrian level design, which 
 delivers frequent ambushes that rely on memorization and replay instead of stealth and skill. You? d 
 think the much-heralded long-distance factor would allow you to take advantage of sniper scopes, 
 but enemies usually don? t appear until you? re within close proximity. Disappointing control decisions 
 also mire the tropical paradise: You can? t shoot from ladders, even though you? ll frequently emerge 
 into confrontations; the game uses checkpoints instead of a quick save option; and no there? s no 
 gamepad support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbayay
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The only word that I can use yo describe this game is wow . Not only is this game really fun to 
 play (hard games are always the best because it takes longer to beat them) , but the graphics are 
 so damn good. 10/10 right there. Everything is all polished up and beautiful. The water looks fantastic! 
 The sounds are really good too. The controls are smooth and easy to control. A feature that I really 
 enjoyed about the game is that when ever you have 2 or more mercenaries beside each other, you 
 could actually hear them have small conversations. I thought that was a great touch to an old game 
 (well it's not that old) . I also enjoyed the fact that you could drive vehicles. It's always a 
 pleasure to run people over. If you are looking for a great fps game with some difficulty (even 
 on easy) , well this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REAL12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is an excellent game and gets better as your video and sound processing power goes up. 
 I played this when it first came out in 2004 on a PC with low detail. I am currently in the middle 
 of the game play now on a new gaming PC with maximum detail. This game is sweet looking and has 
 great details, sounds, cool guns, cool bad guys and some fun to drive vehicles. It is easy to follow 
 and since everyone is trying to kill you, you can kill, blow up or run over anyone. I liked the 
 mix of guns you have and I liked the fact that you could tailor your carried arsenal for indoor 
 or outdoor fighting. I give this game 8 out of 10. I would give it a 9 if the world was bigger 
 and offered a bit more wandering around room. A few more different vehicles would have been nice 
 too. Those were my only downsides to this excellent game. ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scavija
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to extend my earnest congratulations to you for your paramount success 
 pertaining your highly acclaimed first person shooter, Far Cry. You seemingly emerged out of nowhere, 
 and before long, were celebrated by hundreds of thousands of gamers and by the press alike. Furthermore, 
 you arose to contend the two most anticipated sequels of all time of the genre, which in itself 
 is an incredibly bold move, especially considering how Far Cry is your first released game. What's 
 even moreso spectacular is that in the eyes of many, your game is the one that came out on top, 
 effectively trumping both DooM 3 and Half-Life 2, both of which had not only spectacular and revolutionary 
 predecessors, but were also under development by two prominent and experienced giants of the industry. 
 Needless to say, your achievements are nothing short of amiable and impressive, and for this I 
 respect you.
  
  Now, all courteous and appraising affirmations aside, there is this one question that's been burning 
 in my mind since I first played through Far Cry;
  WHY?! WHY, OH GOD WHY?! Why did you ruin what could have been one of the most amazing and immersive 
 games of all time?! It eludes me. But, before I elaborate on how, what, when and where you messed 
 up, it would be unfair of me to not talk about the things I really did enjoy about your game, because 
 it really isn't bad per se, it just falls short of its mark. Big time.
  
  The gameplay in the beginning is exquisite; Your surreptitious hide and seek elements are fused 
 seamlessly with your lush and gorgeous rendition of what could only be described as a paradise 
 under siege, right from the very inception exuding a lavish and mysterious atmosphere thick as 
 custard.
  The open design of the outdoor maps work well enough at most times, giving me the opportunity to 
 chose my own approach to a challenge (Although, ultimately, it doesn't have any impact on the game 
 whether I chose to take on all the enemies at once, or lure them one by one into a deadly trap) .
 
  The occasionally quirky AI aside, the mercenaries usually put up a good fight, attempting to sneak 
 up and flank me, frequently taking cover and shouting out commands to one another.
  The weaponry, while somewhat underwhelming and paltry, provides fairly consistent and reliable 
 ways to disposing of my foes. They feel just fine, and they sound pretty good.
  The visual style and presentation is just great, especially the lush jungles and gorgeous sandy 
 beaches.
  Together, it makes for an excellent and immersive experience that's fairly unique and innovative. 
 You let this run for a couple of hours into the game, ensuring me that I am in for one hell of 
 a ride. As I progress, I am further presented hints pertaining to the Great Mystery of the paradise 
 under siege, the plot thickens, yada yada, etc etc. This is where it all goes downhill. (Spoilers 
 ahead) It starts off well enough with a gorgeous beach encompassed by cliffs and vegetation, and 
 a good deal of mercs to shoot in the face. Once I have persevered through that encounter, I haphazardly 
 stumble through a damp cavern/pumping station, shoot a handful of mercs in the face and finally 
 ride an elevator. Cue to you dropping the bomb on me, and unleashing what could only be described 
 as probably the biggest and most critical design flaw ever to be intentionally featured in a game, 
 effectively savaging the entire experience in the most unabashed and repugnant fashion imaginable.
 
  
  TRIGENS?!
  
  Whoever conceived the idea of shoving MUTANTS down the throat of the unsuspecting player ought 
 to be fired and labeled a moron on a permanent basis. I mean, seriously, HOW does one possibly 
 justify the implementation of MUTANTS (Inexorable little bastards, too, I might add) in a shooter 
 that which started off as a solid game of jungle-themed hide and seek with guns? It doesn't make 
 any kind of sense, and only serves as a detrimental kick to the face. To top it all off, you decided 
 to take the checkpoint approach on saving, which if done correctly could heighten the intensity 
 of the gameplay and can provide an incentive to persevere through many of the game's challenges. 
 This does not apply to your game, however. Far Cry's checkpoint system is, for the most part, severely 
 broken. Some of the checkpoints are seemingly placed with absolutely no foresight, consideration 
 nor any tangible logic, rendering a handful parts of the game just incessant and unrelenting. Also, 
 the difficulty is extremely inconsistent. At times, it's a breeze, and at others, it's a frustrating 
 trial and error procedure, which, coupled with the checkpoints, is not what I consider an integral 
 nor an entertaining part of any game.
  
  Asserting whether I like Far Cry or not is a very difficult thing to determine. The beginning is 
 nothing short of incredible. Few games are as immersive and beautiful. However, once you cross 
 paths with the TRIGEN, it's beyond salvation. So much potential, such an amazing concept, such 
 an inexcusable way of treating it in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chettyharish
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  REVIEW ON MY THOUGHTS ABOUT THE GAME
  
  1} Graphics {9/10}
  
  The Graphics Are The Greatest thing Here In This Game Very Few Match Its Might.
  
  2} Sound 
 {4/10}
  
  There Are Some Foolish Mistakes In The Game Considering Sound First Of All When U Throw A Grenade 
 In A Closed Room It Should Create More Larger Noise Than In Open. Second When A Rocket Hits You 
 In Real Worlds U Wud Get Deaf For About 6-10 Secs. Any Gun Shooting Inside A Bunker Wud Sound Higher 
 Than Original Sound Which Is Missing Clearly.
  
  3} Physics {3/10}
  
  Maybe Ubisoft Should Go And Learn Physics Or Science They Just Seem To Be Foolish. It Can Be Clearl 
 y Seen That They Have Not Bothered About Physics.. For Example If U Kill Someone On A Slope He 
 Wood Begin To Slide And Also Gain Speed Isn't There FRICTION Or Anykind Of Thing In Real World 
 Either The Body Will Not Move Or Will Roll Down And Not Just Slide Down And Gain Speed Too. Second 
 When U Are Driving A Uphill With A Vehicle When U Stop Pressing UP Button The Vehicle Would Start 
 To Roll Down Considering That his Place Is Green And Not Sand Thats Impossible. The Last And most 
 Foolish Thing In This Game How U Can Detect The Body Heat Of A Trigen With Geothermal Visions When 
 He Is Standing Next To Lava ??? And The lave Shows Up Blue Whereas It Should Be Bright Red.
  
  Reality {2/10}
  
  The Game Does Not Follow Any Rule Of Reality For Example When U Go Near 
 A Merc He Would Start Shouting Like I Am Gonna Tear U Into New One Who In The Hell In Real Would 
 Would Shout To Get Noticed??? Besides All The Sound And Physics Mistakes Make This Great Game Foolish. 
 And What The Hell When You Kill The Driver Of A Patrol Boat And Leave The Gunner Alive And Then 
 U Can Walk At The Back Of The Patrol Boat Or Even Dance And The Merc Wont Disengage The Gun And 
 Shoot You ??? And U Can Just Pin Him Down.
  
  Overall {6/10}
  
  Considering the Graphics Are Great And Mostly Correct The Game Still Stands Atop I Believe All 
 The Mistakes Before Would Be Corrected In The Sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranum1997
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  I've seen alot of first person shooters in my time, going all the way back to heretic for pc. The 
 openness of the map and the non linear gameplay are what really impress me. You can go vehicular 
 in certain areas, or choose not to. You can choose to go in the front of a compound or try the 
 back door. You can shoot your way through an area, or sneak around it, and it has little consequence 
 in the story or progress of the game. plus the ai is very well thought through also.
  I think what got me the first time I played the game was the fact that you could either sneak around 
 an enemy or shoot your way through was awsome! PLUS HARDLY ANY CHEESY CUTSCENES. Mostly in game 
 story points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCaccy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Before I start, there's possibly a large number of reasons why I found Far Cry so underwhelming.
 
  Firstly, I played it 2 years after it came out, and have played many other more recent, superior 
 FPS games (such as Half Life 2) . Graphically, and in terms of innovation, I therefore found Far 
 Cry lacking for the revolutionary, genre-defining game it was supposed to be.
  Secondly, it was by no means what I was expecting. I was thinking that the game would take place 
 on an entire island, being a lot more freeform than it was. Almost a Just Cause with an FPS game 
 mechanic. Instead I was treated to what seemed to me to be merely a jungle version of Half Life.
 
  These are my two major problems with the game. There are more, but I can't particularly remember 
 them right now. Basically though, the whole experience left me considerably underwhelmed, seeming 
 to me to be like every other FPS, although merely with a jungle twist (which in itself, I felt 
 was not exploited to its full potential) . I am sure that with recent iterations the game has been 
 kept up to date with technological advances, but I'm still not overly enthusiastic about playing 
 another Far Cry. If I could not even be motivated enough to finish this one, then I think that 
 I would be unlikely motivated to spend my money on another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I usually only go for FPS's with monsters, peculiar stories, long lasting gameplay and pretty much 
 a really fun and memorable game. I usually don't go for modern fps's, but this blew me away. I 
 got it in 2007, 3 years after it's launch and it still amazes me. A great physics engine, polished 
 graphics, but the most amazing thing is the levels. There by far the largest and most detailed 
 enviorments i'v ever seen in an FPS. Virtually everything you see you can walk upon, yes even the 
 small islands that you think are just for detail. Besides the beautiful enviourments, FarCry is 
 a very fun game with unparrellelled AI. Graphics are very good, and the sound is exellent. FarCry 
 has a large amount of value because it has a lasting campaign, multiplayer, and a very simple tool 
 to create Mods with. I think FarCry is an amazing game. If you like FPS, action games, or this 
 is your first, check this out you will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torq2112
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out and have put many hours in playing it. Great game-play, 
 great graphics, great everything. Just wish the storyline was a little longer, but hey, replay 
 value is great too! Ranks right up there with Half Life! Also the ability to jump from truck to 
 boat to hanglider was too much! I love cruising in the hanglider, it adds such a new dimension 
 that also adds to the replay value of this game.
  
  I was able to run this on a very modest machine: P4 2.4Ghz, 1 gig of ram, with a ATI 9600T and 
 it ran good. Now that I have upgraded to a Duo Core 2.13 (oc'd to 3.1Ghz) , a Geforce 7600GT and 
 2 gig's of ram, this game really screams now.
  
  I compared this to Quake IV when it came out and I must say that Quake IV is a dissappointment 
 compared to Far Cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  Well this game is totally different from other FPS, it's neither a world war game, neither a Mafia/Spy 
 game.... It's a jungle survival runaway!!! It starts with some guys destroying your sail boat while 
 you're heading to a beautiful topical island, and since you survive that part..... well..... things 
 get even more complicated!!!!!!!!!! You start some missions in those island, blindly guided by 
 a guy named Doil, with whom you communicate via a videophone. He tells you what to do, and by this 
 you complete some missions where you explode satellites, use boats, 4WD-s, even some canyon gliders.... 
 But this is the first part of the fun part . The guys in the jungle are leaded by someone named 
 Crowe, which is, let's say your most matched opponent... But you get to some laboratories and you 
 find out whose really in charge.... Some scientist named Krieigen. he has developed a program where 
 he genetically transforms humans in some creatures called tridents, and fighting them and humans 
 too at the same time during some mid-game missions is the boring part It's a little bit scary to 
 be honest... But the game get's really cool when Val joins you, you get to kill Crowe and you and 
 Val get to explode a nuke somewhere, but having someone else gives you the mutliplayer sensation, 
 and that makes it really cool!!! After exploding the nuke Krieigen captures you and throws you 
 from a helicopter to a jungle full of tridents..... You only have ten bullets, but there's only 
 a trident near you.... The others are 200 m below, down a waterfall you gotta jump off!!!! It's 
 fun jumping from it, but it's even more fun running like a mad through the jungle to save your 
 life!!!!! You then find guns and ammo, and start your journey trying to rescue Val (or just get 
 off that place!!!) . You do so, kill Krieigen, who now is transformed in a half-Trident but you 
 see that you and Val are transforming too, and Doil is the only guy that knows the solution..... 
 You get Val to a boat, arm your weapons and get ready to find Doil. By the way you'll have to kill 
 around 15 giant armed tridents and 30 super armed and protected soldiers but you reach Doil and 
 kill him, after finding the cure for your problem. You leave then the island with Val ect. ect.
 
  
  But you get to enjoy this game, it has the greatest graphics, scenes, missions and sounds ever 
 applied to a FPS so far. And the cutscenes (not all missions have them) are WOW!!!! Play this GAME!!!!!!
 
  
  And if you don't agree with this review just PM me so we can discuss it over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricatrinda1993
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  A friend of mine borrowed me this game and wow!!! IT IS AWESOME!! The graphics are excellent and 
 map is very good too. The shadows, environment, lightning are all excellent, I have never seen 
 a FPS like this since Half Life 2. I don't know which one is best... Well this game is one of my 
 life favourite games. Even if you got a compatible old card for this on you will like it! The water 
 hasn't got reflections... but it is good always! The A. I. is very good and they can really work 
 together :P I recommend this game to everyone I mean you should really try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  And Far Cry isn't all about Graphics.... it has a great, engaging, and lengthy single player campaing 
 action.... that set you loose in a tropical island with rogue mercenaries whose wants you death....
 
  
  Gameplay - As i said before, the single player its great and engaging with high replay values... the 
 enemy AI its outsanding that makes competition with FEAR AI...
  
  Graphics - The most i like visually of far cry..... was all..... far cry can be a game from 2 or 
 3 years old.... but then is visually great, and incomparable
  
  Sound - The sound effects are great... i like how it sound the M4... and the ambience sounds.... but 
 the music is good but not great... and Jack Carver is a cool guy (on spanish version)
  
  Overall - This game is excellent ... i recommend it..... is an engaging single player game.... and 
 if you played and liked it.... lets wait for the big.... thats it... CRYSIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertinmann
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Fast, AI that&acute; s great, nice weapons. All that&acute; s missing is even better level design 
 to reach a solid 10
  
  Graphics:
  Not exactly the best but the surroundings are great and lush. HDR is a bit overdone in various 
 places and during night it&acute; s outright faulty. It doesn&acute; t look as great and high class 
 as HL2, but it is more pleasing and you love just staring at this fictional paradise! FarCry's 
 environments in source, now that would have been an 11/10... well, just a dream of course.
  
  Sound:
  Good, but not the best in class.
  
  Value:
  Great action, size, gameworld, 
 ai, etc... it&acute; s simply entertaining!
  
  Tilt:
  It&acute; s just so easy to fall for this fun fun fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam0926
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  First impressions count and Far Cry has a very good first impression, You start the game on a beautifully 
 tropical island and have to fight with mercenary's to find your friend that has been captured as 
 you get deeper into the game you find out that this isn't just any tropical island this island 
 holds allot of deadly secretes that you uncover as you progress in the game. Far Cry is the best 
 first person shooter I have ever played on your enemy's are clever and use cover they don't just 
 stand there unloading there gun into you they use short burst of first while running for cover. 
 Far Cry also lets you control a number of vehicles that are very realistic bullets will leave holes 
 in windows, jeep bobs up and down over bumps most vehicles have a gun mounted on top of them. The 
 visuals in far cry are amazing you will want you stop and enjoy the view its best to have a midrange 
 graphics card so you can run in full settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mostafaoraby007
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  BEST fps and adventure game ever made , it is a revolution in every thing , graphics , AI , story 
 and gameplay of course
  
  it is farcry 
 
  
  what can i say 
 
  
  i think the only game that will be better is crysis LOL :)
  
  for any one who doesnt know crysis , so he doesnt know what is the FPS revolution made
  
  by 
 the way , the XBOX version sucksssssssss, cause FPS is made to be played with mouse and keyboard
 
  
  ABOUT CRYSIS CHECK THIS OUT : CES 07: Crysis Hands-On
  We finally get some hands-on time with one of the most anticipated action games on any platform 
 this year.
  By Jason Ocampo, GameSpot LAS VEGAS -- At this point, Crysis is the poster child for Games on Windows, 
 Microsoft's big new push to reinforce the PC as a gaming platform. The highly anticipated first-person 
 shooter was featured in the video that Microsoft showed at its keynote address on Sunday, and the 
 game is available to play at the Microsoft booth at the annual Consumer Electronics Show. Senior 
 members of the development team were on hand to help guide us through the demonstration level built 
 for the show. The demo level sees your US Special Forces character in a battle to seize a village 
 from North Korean forces, and it starts off in the jungle. It's not an exaggeration to say that 
 Crysis is causing many attendees to stop and gawk at the game's incredible graphics, which were 
 being displayed for the first time taking advantage of DirectX 10. The visuals are incredible, 
 and Crysis is certainly going to sell a lot of hardware as gamers upgrade their systems to play 
 the game at maximum detail level. Surprisingly, the systems at the show weren't too unreasonable. 
 We were told the game was running on a single-core high-end CPU with the latest Nvidia graphics 
 card, and the frame rate was smooth for the most part. Crytek CEO Cevat Yerli told us that the 
 game still has plenty of optimization work to go through. Crysis looks amazing when in motion. 
 The game is stuffed with all sorts of graphical technologies that, when combined together, create 
 the sensation of being in a tropical jungle under fire. In the demo, we stealthily approached the 
 village and used an assault rifle to start picking off North Korean soldiers. With the alarm raised, 
 the battle began in earnest, and we used the environment so that we could lean from cover and cut 
 down enemy troops. Crysis takes place in a near-future setting, so we used our nano suit to switch 
 power to various systems. Dumping energy into speed let us sprint at superhuman speeds over large 
 distances. Directing power to strength let us pick up and toss heavy objects, knock down doors, 
 and leap onto the roofs of village buildings. Diverting energy into armor made us effectively invulnerable 
 to the small arms of the North Koreans. The downside is that using any of these abilities drains 
 the power of the suit, which means you have to ration their use. Energy slowly regenerates if the 
 suit isn't being used. The most common weapon we used was the assault rifle, which can be modified 
 on the fly with various scopes and attachments, depending on your need. One thing you can also 
 do is divert suit power to strength and pick up enemies by the neck and hurl them 30 feet in the 
 air, effectively killing them. We played hide-and-seek with the North Koreans, leaping onto rooftops 
 and sniping down on them. The artificial intelligence showed some imagination. We saw the enemy 
 soldiers try to use cover, and in one instance a soldier leaped over a fence to try to get out 
 of our line of fire. While picking off soldiers was fairly easy for our Special Forces operative, 
 things got a lot hairier when the North Koreans brought in a helicopter gunship. Trying to shoot 
 one down with an assault rifle is very difficult, since you'll probably run out of ammunition before 
 you can inflict enough damage. Still, we were able to use location damage to take out various components 
 on the gunship, such as the rocket pods, which crippled the helicopter's firepower. We then engaged 
 in a running battle as the gunship used its weapons to try to kill us, shredding buildings and 
 trees in the village. Fountains of dirt kicked up from near misses all around us as we scrambled 
 for cover. One way to kill the gunship is to leap into a nearby vehicle and use the vehicle-mounted 
 machine gun to shoot down the helicopter. Another way is to find a missile launcher in a building 
 and use it to down the chopper. The problem was that in the demo we played, the designers purposely 
 disabled the missile guidance system, which meant that the gunship could dodge many of the incoming 
 missiles. Still, we were able to eventually score a hit by running beneath the helicopter and shooting 
 up, minimizing the distance and the amount of time the pilot had to avoid the shot. The destruction 
 of the helicopter ended the demo. Throughout the entire demo all the graphical features of Crysis 
 dazzled us. The use of motion blur and depth of field made any kind of sudden motion seem more 
 realistic. Trying to use the iron sights of a weapon is also cool, as sun glints on the metal and 
 the depth of field blurs objects that aren't in focus. The high dynamic range lighting and extensive 
 shadowing made the level feel sun-drenched. In terms of sheer fidelity, the DirectX 10 version 
 was noticeably better than the DirectX 9 version of the game that we've seen on previous occasions. 
 Both versions look amazing, but DirectX 10 simply looks better. Meanwhile, the demo gave us a taste 
 of what to expect in the full game, though Yerli pointed out that it represents only a fraction 
 of what Crysis will have to offer. We didn't get to see the alien invaders in this demo, or any 
 of the interesting environments that are promised later in the game. As to when we can expect it 
 to ship, Yerli said that they're currently on track for a spring release, though he also said that 
 Crytek will not rush the game if more time is needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is an excellent game I just love it, it may be very hard at some times but this game is 
 awesome. The graphics in this game is so real and the action is exciting. It is even better to 
 play this game with mods. I like driving the 4WD Cars they are fast and strong. This game is the 
 best action game I have ever played. There are weapons in this game that are so powerful. I think 
 that if there was more cheats then it was even going to better. You can die very fast in this game, 
 you die the same way as the players in the game die, Fast!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Far Cry takes an excellent concept -stranded on a jungle island with several killers out looking 
 for you- and some fantastic gameplay, and mixes them together to make an incredible game that absolutely 
 perfect, that is, until you realize that absolutely no one play tested the game's balance issues.
 
  
  There have been several games that might be impossibly difficult, but still manage to be incredibly 
 entertaining (Ikaruga is a prime example) but this type of frustrating difficulty just does not 
 work with a shooter, even early in the game you'll be challenged on the easiest difficulty level, 
 and near the middle and end, the game is just murderous. Stacking you against two rocket wielding 
 mutants in a five by five foot room shooting you at point blank range with no room to maneuver, 
 add on to that that it takes about thirty shots into their thick skulls to kill them, and you have 
 a recipe for people screaming to all mighty heaven. Far Cry is somewhat revolutionary, and this 
 makes it only more upsetting. It's breathtaking to take a sniper rifle and to zoom it out all the 
 way, only to see a section of the island you were on twenty minutes ago, along with that, the fact 
 that there's a nearly limitless amounts of routes and methods to approach situations or travel 
 through the jungle, and you've got a recipe for success. Unfortunately, this doesn't always work 
 well, in certain situations, no matter what you do, no matter what route to take, the challenge 
 is always insanely difficult, trying to rappel, fly, or drive into a fort surrounded by nearly 
 fifty mutants all firing machine guns and rockets at you all at once is impossible, and it'll make 
 you break your keyboard in anger. While this would have been forgivable if these situations were 
 farther apart and more sparse (see God of War) but they tend to be everywhere, and not only that, 
 but the ridiculous lack of checkpoints (this has been fixed in the newer patches, although there 
 are still certain areas with a total lack of checkpoints) almost always guarantees you that you'll 
 be playing -trial and error- certain segments over and over.
  The island is beautiful to look at, character models are exceptional, the mutants are intimidating 
 and huge, explosions are massive and vibrant, bullets fly as weaponry lights up rooms and forest 
 canopies, nearly everything is absolutely gorgeous, even the sun reflecting off the water, it's 
 even easier to appreciate this during all the carnage, where explosions rock the soil and surrounding 
 foliage constantly. The ragdoll physics are especially well done, enemies will tumble over the 
 sides of buildings when you pop them in the cranium, and monsters will appropriately fly back as 
 you blast them in the face with a shotgun as they leap at you.
  
  The story is not Far Cry's strong point, nor is it much to care about, although it does give a 
 good backdrop. You star as Jack Carver, a guide for tourists wishing to travel on boat. A certain 
 lady has hired you for your services and request that you take her to some paradise island, apparently 
 for some sort of research on World War II ruins. This doesn't turn out to be the case, as your 
 ship is lost in the night, and you emerge in some sewer pipes hidden under the island. You soon 
 find out that both you and your lady friend are being hunted (her whereabouts unknown at the moment) 
 and you have to fight to survive, and find out what the hell is going on.
  Along with the story, the voice acting sucks equally as bad, although they aren't bad as in stupid 
 phoned in voices with bad quality they're more so in the sense that nearly every character sounds 
 incredibly cheesy. On one hand, this can bring up some funny situations, since many of the mercenaries 
 have some hilarious taunts in battle ( BITE MY ASS! gets me every time) .
  
  Other than the voice acting, sound is fantastic, each vehicle roars through the jungle, guns are 
 loud and audible (and very satisfying) and the roars of beasts can be heard from across the island. 
 What's even cooler is the sound of distant battles, since you'll constantly see mercenaries fighting 
 against the vicious mutants of the island. Just watching these battles is a joy, since they can 
 last for long periods of time, and neither side automatically targets you either, so you can actually 
 use it to your advantage, or just add to the chaos yourself. Far Cry uses a nice weapon system 
 that challenges you to always choose the correct weapon for a certain situation. You can only carry 
 up to three weapons at a time, and many weapons will slow you down or speed you up when you carry 
 them. A machete will allow you to run much faster, while a heavy sniper rifle or rocket launcher 
 will have you trudging slowly across the settings. Far Cry's AI is decent to say the least. Mercenaries 
 will set off alarms and keep their distance, even using cover at times. They will usually attempt 
 to flank you, and tend to focus fire in groups. They can still easily be out-smarted though, as 
 a well placed grenade can wipe out a closely packed group of mercenaries. The mutants don't really 
 enter the AI picture, as they just tend to run straight at you, or stand still. Despite it's frustrations, 
 Far Cry is a game worth trying if you're patient. Although its difficulty drags down the score 
 by a large margin, playing on an easier difficulty on the latest patch will prove it much more 
 enjoyable. Just remember that warning, and get ready for a game that might challenge your perceptions 
 of how a shooter can be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Highs: Lush tropical island landscapes, open ended fun gameplay, voluntary vehicular manslaughter 
 without the grand theft auto guilty conscience, a well played out story, action to rival Half-Life, 
 gorgeous explosions and water, hang-gliding, jungle combat, claustrophobic hallways filled with 
 monsters in the dark, crossfire hazardous war zones. This has all the action you could ever want, 
 of a multitude of varieties of intense combat action, satisfying multi-play, and a science fiction 
 setting that is well implemented. Topped with the most unbelievable sights ever experienced in 
 a game, this game will sell you with its looks and keep you with its gameplay.
  
  Lows: A little buggy, long load times when you start the game and between major levels, definitely 
 could have used a little bit more polish, system requirements are high, no way to save between 
 save-points, A. I. is a touch too all knowing at times, can be very challenging even on easy.
  
  FPS/Action Fans: Go for it, the whole nine yards. The 40 dollar price tag is nice and comfortable 
 and more than worth it.
  
  Everyone Else: This game is the cream of the crop, but its geared more for hardcore FPS gamers, 
 it may very well be worth a shot, you may love it if youre interested in the best the genre has 
 to offer, but be warned, its not easy.
  
  I predict there are going to be a lot of direct comparisons between Far Cry and Half-Life, in more 
 than just the quality of the gameplay. Far Cry meets and maybe exceeds a level of excellence unsurpassed 
 since they were initially accomplished in late 1998 by Valves very own launch title, Half-Life. 
 The beautiful island world created by Crytek, and filled with dark foreboding World War II wreckage, 
 downed fighters and wrecked tanks rusting over, crumbling bunkers, and jungles filled with things 
 not human have been created within the game using master craftsmanship. The weaker points of the 
 game come from its artificial intelligence, steep system requirements, and rough around the edges 
 programming.
  
  You play through the game as Jack, the captain of a charter boat, who has been contracted for a 
 leisurely little cruise of some pacific islands on his yacht. Paradise makes for a great retirement 
 location from the armed forces after all. While on said cruise a few rockets are fired at his poor 
 yacht, breaking it to itty bitty bits and washing him onto a nearby island, separating him from 
 his client and stranding him in the middle of hostile territory. God forbid this should be the 
 end of your woes, as you will be taken from one vacation resort backdrop styled island to another 
 while things and people and bigger things are being blown up all around you. It becomes immediately 
 clear that the time has come to kick butt in a red Hawaiian shirt.
  
  The game is really pushed forward by the intense action in the jungles and camps and even inside 
 facilities both above and below ground ranging in states of repair from rusty and broken away to 
 well maintained to recently demolished by recent terrible conflict. You may find it amusing that, 
 fortunately for Captain Jack, everything you need to do anything, whether it be explosives or hang-gliders, 
 will be kindly provided by the very thugs you want to leave dead when you return from this vacation. 
 I bet theyd have a nuclear warhead if you needed one. As mentioned earlier, some minor A. I issues 
 dampen this action. While in close range combat the enemy soldiers seem to be realistically aware 
 of your presence, looking for you when they lose sight of you, not returning to full relaxed state 
 after having seen you. However, in larger arenas of combat some of the A. I. issues begin to surface. 
 Over great distances the enemy targets are far too all knowing and sometimes seem to become aware 
 of you when you use your binoculars (one of the best toys in the game, allowing you to eavesdrop 
 on conversations from a great distance and well worth putting to use) to spy on them. Similar situations 
 occur and it simply wont seem fair at how all knowing the opposition is at times.
  
  Games this good make a number of mistakes overlookable. Another problem in the game, which as a 
 player youll probably notice at the exact same time as the previous one is designed into the game 
 deliberately. Save points, no saving wherever you want to, or, in some cases, need to. On occasion 
 you might find yourself cursing a cluster of mercenaries who you just cant seem to get passed 
 as well as the save point that you have to jump back to every time you mess up. Its not a terribly 
 poorly done system, but it does increase the difficulty of the game dramatically at points. Its 
 even arguable that the invisible and unknown locations of said save points make this game impossible 
 to sit down and play without the intent to play for 30 minutes or often times, an hour minimum.
 
  
  That said, there is nothing about this game that is designed for the casual gamer other than the 
 graphics. This game is successfully designed hardcore gamer heaven. Which is one of the few places 
 that it fails to surpass the original Half-Life, which was accessible to all and could be played 
 in quick bursts of short gameplay when the urge hit. As future patches come out this game will 
 undoubtedly get better, but out of the box newcomers to the genre will have some serious trouble 
 at points.
  
  Crytek has a rough gem of the highest quality, a masterful work that I for one plan on playing 
 through a second time. Taken as a whole it is every bit as breathtaking as the environment they 
 put you inside of. So take a walk on the beach with your assault riffle, keep an eye out for trouble 
 and shoot anything that moves, but dont forget to enjoy the view and the fresh air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okaystick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  One of the best games ever made. Even today many games can only barely break the ice when compared 
 to this stellar game. Far-Cry is a very impressive game; anyone who is looking to get pulled into 
 the world of 1st person shooters should grab a copy of this wonderful title. It features graphics 
 that some games still cannot rival, game play that although a little out dated is still very fun 
 and some intelligent (sometimes to intelligent) AI. The action and intensity of this game will 
 keep you excited and wanting to continue on to the next level. Throughout the game, as you battle 
 through its lush jungles you will be drawn even further into the nostalgia by sound affects which 
 do a great job of immersing you into the jungle settings. It is best played on the PC (the X Box 
 does not have the power) with a nice video card to truly show off its visuals. Far-Cry is a stunning 
 game. If you have not played it yet dont wait any longer than necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshalldbdx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This games is like no other FPS this one is amazing. You play as a man named Jack carver who is 
 hired by Valerie Constantine to go to and island and take pictures of some war site mercenaries 
 bomb them and kidnapped Valarie its up to Jack and some assistance from Doyle to save her and stop 
 Kriegers plan. This is one remarkable fps there are many verity's of realistic weapon you can choose 
 from like Machete, Falcon .357, P90 Smg, M4 assault weapon, sniper rifle, a jack hammer shot gun 
 and more. u can only choose from 4 weapons so u will be forced to leave weapon to get others to 
 fit ur situation. This game has great graphics and is mostly based on stealth the jungle environment 
 is amazing the shades can be seen and make great camouflage. the enemy is a though thing they have 
 the ability to hear u and call reinforcements the great thing about this game is that u can throw 
 rocks so that it can cuase a diversion. Many weapon have a second ability which allowed u too shoot 
 differently. The islands look very realistic and makes u part of the experience. This game has 
 many environment affects the grass provides with great como and u can shoot things that may explode. 
 The online play to this game is just fantastic you have 3 types of game Free For All, Team Death 
 Match, and Assault (Capture The Flag) . The only bad thing is that the online game play can be annoying 
 its either to slow for u or too fast. There are many verity's of vehicle in the game and are fun 
 to play around with. there are many feature on the map it can point out enemy's, makes sound sonnars 
 so that u can hear things and a detection meter which tell u if the enemy is on u. this is by far 
 the greatest fps i have player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberKillerZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this is the one of the best shooters for pc. About the multi-player mod u can tell 
 it&acute; s very funny because, when we interact with the cars (and other) , we can do amazing things.
 
  i give the Giant congrats for the crytek.
  So i can write this word for you guys and there it is:
  Please, play this game.
  
  P. S. good 
 luck for the new game crysis i hope like it :D, CES roks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  #|vZ| ActiVe aKa cyberkillerZ aKa cry2k aKa Leeroy Jekings  
 ss s ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majestik25
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Aside from enemies being superb riflemen and being able to get kill shots at 200 yd+ while you 
 are in the bushes, there is little to complain about this game. I have played it through half a 
 dozen times over the past 3 years and it is always fun and sets a benchmark for escapism and graphics 
 that is not frequently seen. The only thing that was needed was a bit more skin and sexual indiscression 
 after killing all the guards, that would have certainly earned a 10, but only made 9.7 with the 
 short modest cut scene, I love waterfalls. Rarely do games capture me like this one did, I LOVE 
 IT! Waiting impatiently for Crysis!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  They have this which came first, one on Xbox, one on 360 and one on Wii, which is the best? Well 
 always return to your roots is the saying that describes this setting as Far Cry on PC is the best 
 of all of them. If Crysis is made slightly like this but with its own style it will be amazing.
 
  
  The setting is on a tropical island where you play as Jack Carver ex special forces who is taking 
 Val to this island for some reason. The story isn't amazing but thats not the point, the gameplay 
 is. Stuck on a tropical island being hunted by mercenaries with nothing but a Hawian jacket to 
 start with and a load of rocks, whats not to like? What must be said that in this game if you run 
 in guns blazing you will end up like a pig running into a mincing machine, this is proven in the 
 later stages where the enemies are fully kitted out with the best rifles, body armour, thermal 
 visors and tons of grenades. At the start though it tries to get you into the main jist, stealth 
 is the key to sucees. Its like a first person Splinter Cell but with more stealth, no dark corners 
 to hide in and you get better guns.
  
  The setting is perfect, plenty of trees and plants to hide behind and try to pick off your enemies 
 as best you can before they unload in your direction. The weapons are also extremely realistic 
 as if you aren't laying down with a sniper you chances of hitting the target are terrible even 
 at quite close range. Most weapons also have different firing modes such as single shot, which 
 is useful for long range and underslug grenades and rockets for others.
  
  While most the time your enemies are unaware of you whilst you hide in a bush, sometimes this does 
 go wrong and your ememies become aware of you if you throw a rock away from you and they dont see 
 it fly by. Also at some points they appear to see you through wall which spoils the game as it 
 ussually is realistic.
  
  Faults aside though Far Cry is and excellent and since it is cheap now adays is well worth the 
 &pound;10 for such a long and enjoyable gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2funny
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Not only one of the most technically impressive games out, but one of the most pretty games as 
 well. Far Cry is the type of game you've always wanted, but never expected. You, Jack Carver, are 
 on a tropical island fighting loads of very intelligent mercenaries. The game play, down to its 
 controls, is very generic. Too generic. The controls of the game isn't what the fuss is about. 
 One dissapointing part of the controls are that there are no iron sights. You right click your 
 way to just zoom and take out people with crosshairs instead of the iron sight of your weapon. 
 Everything else works fine though. The damage and accuracy of weapons seem to be a bit wonky. On 
 many occasions a pistol will seem to do more damage than an M16, and an M16 will seem very unaccurate 
 from midrange at times. Shots to the head, or what it seems like to be shots to the head aren't 
 always pinpoint. Those, though, are just a few mishaps that wont distract you from the action too 
 much.
  
  The artificial intelligence is top notch. Enemies will take cover, call reinforcements, try to 
 flank you, and all that good stuff. Their aggression of course, is determined by the difficulty 
 you select before starting the game.
  
  The non-linear nature of this game puts you in command of what is, strategically, the best way 
 to move. Over here [insert some pros and cons] , over there [insert pros and cons] or look for a 
 new way to go. Freedom to go anywhere on this island is the best part, and getting to your objective, 
 because of it, is so much more rewarding. You'll be packing an arsenal of weapons that you will 
 acquire as you progress through each level. From M16s to sub machine guns, everything you expect 
 is here. I don't really need to discuss it, but the graphics of this game are amazing. The gun 
 models aren't the best, nor are the creepy corridors, but sheer detail on the island and possibly 
 one of the best water effects can be one of a kind eye candy, even in 2007. The online isn't too 
 hot though, its very generic, and the generic controls, and speed of the player/pace do not match 
 the tropical island multiplayer setting. Shooting people that are going pretty fast, with wonky 
 shooting mechanics (that work for the single play, but are still a bit too fast paced for the atmosphere 
 of the single player) turn out to be one mess of an online component. It surely had potential, 
 but its obvious crytek was shooting for an amazing single player experience, and they pulled that 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  But since this is about Far Cry, I better get back to the attention to detail, the learning AI, 
 the ability to use boats and more is truly stunning.
  
  Game pace moves along quickly but I don; t feel rushed. The enemy works very well together in small 
 units including coming to investigate disturbances and using terrain. At least that was my impression 
 in the village I first encountered a sizable force. But it's there ability to get better based 
 on your skill level that is amazing: I've never played a game with that capability before and I 
 love it. There is the constant need to continue to stay ahead tactically as well as strategically: 
 no solving the AI quirks and then playing around them to defeat individual enemy weaknesses.
  
  Visually very impressive as well. If you are hesitant due to the age of the game, don; t worry.
 
  
  And for the bargain prices it's going for now? A Steal. Get it, enjoy it and wait in eager anticipation 
 for their next evolution. You will enjoy Far Cry in the meantime.
  
  Now that I'm done, I was frustrated 3 times in the game where the opponents were so tough or numerous 
 that you had to find the exact combo of actions, sequence and weapon to make it through. Still, 
 I would rather have that than a single freakinly tough monster that you need to find the arbitrary 
 secret method to defeat it and move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a game of extremes. When it's good, it's one of the most spectacular gaming experiences 
 you'll ever have. When it's bad, it's like forced intercourse with a grizzly bear - horrific. Fortunately, 
 there are a quite a few more good parts than bad parts; enough to elevate the game to almost-nearly-classic 
 standards. You are boat-captain Jack Carver, and with a name like that it'd be surprising if you 
 didn't turn out to be an action hero. A reporter employs you to drive her to a set of uncharted 
 islands in the South Pacific. As often happens in these situations, the trip goes awry, and you 
 end up stranded and alone on one of the islands, hunted by mercenaries working for a mad scientist 
 of some sort. The plot is hackneyed rubbish, hampered by a poor script (Jack's quips are of sub-Schwarzenegger 
 standards) and poorer voice acting. It serves only as a framework for the game itself - over 20 
 levels of tactical FPS action, set in a tropical paradise. And 'paradise' is no exaggeration - 
 the whole thing looks glorious. The maps are huge, and filled with all sorts of beaches, jungles, 
 mountains, caves, and buildings. Reflections (and refractions) dance in water; sunlight filters 
 through the trees; birds lazily fly about the place. It's absolutely stunning. They've also got 
 the psychics and ragdolls in there. They're not quite up to the quality of Max Payne 2's (objects 
 feel a little light, and ragdolls are somewhat erratic in their positioning) , but that's made up 
 for with the great cloth and chain effects; it sounds insignificant, but it's nice to be able to 
 shoot the rope holding up your dingy and have it realistically tip you into the sea like an idiot. 
 The only possible problems with the graphics would be the static nature of the foliage (isn't the 
 wavy-trees effect the standard by now?) , and the blandness of some of the indoor environments. 
 Weather fx would also have been great, but that's probably asking for too much. These are minor 
 quibbles at most, and overall the visuals are wonderful. Unfortunately, the same standards aren't 
 quite reached in the audio department. Ambient and weapon effects are excellent, and Dolby 5.1 
 + EAX are in attendance, but the music isn't anything spectacular, and the voice acting is, as 
 mentioned, atrocious. Not a crushing disappointment, but it'd have been nice to have a more rousing 
 score to go with the visual delights. It needs to be mentioned that in order to get the full eye-massaging, 
 ear-nibbling splendour, you'll need to run it on a truly, truly powerful system. You'll probably 
 get away with running it on a mid-level PC, but you'll be missing out, occasionally searching fruitlessly 
 for your reflection in low-res pools of vaguely-animated water. Play it on a beast of a computer, 
 and it's like looking at God. Onwards, to the game proper. The game sets up the action in standard 
  style. Most of them boil down to 'get from point A to point 
 B,' with occasional picking up of thing C, blowing up of thing D, or shooting of Mr E. The outdoor 
 locations are vast, and usually allow a certain amount of choice in terms of the path you take. 
 The only restrictions are the terrain, and the occasional unstoppable gunship to stop you sailing 
 the seven seas. The bulk of the game's combat takes places in these open areas; most of the battles 
 are long-ranged, tactical affairs. Storming into conflicts will usually result in quick death; 
 truly, a certain degree of planning is necessary. Stealth is an option, but generally conflict 
 is mostly unavoidable. These kind of considered battles would be worthless if they weren't backed 
 up by fantastic AI. Far Cry definitely doesn't disappoint in this area; the enemies are refreshingly 
 intelligent. They react accordingly to your actions (investigating noises, staying alert when they 
 lose you, fleeing grenades, etc) . Their tactics are varied and unpredictable enough to give them 
 a good chance of outsmarting the less attentive player; it's both humbling and impressive to be 
 successfully flanked by a team of CPU-controlled soldiers. The other essentials are in place: the 
 weapons are satisfying (if lacking variation) , and the controls are responsive and intuitive enough. 
 There's vehicles, which set up a few car-chase type scenarios, but usually just serve to spice 
 up the conflicts or get you around quicker. There's also a great sense of realism to the proceedings, 
 that's never more intrusive than it needs to be. There's a stamina bar that's drained by sprints 
 and jumps, but it's easily ignored in most situations. Most of the tactics that work in real life 
 (or the movies) work perfectly here. Overall, the game's combat mechanic is one of the most entertaining 
 I've played in a long while. Unfortunately, there are a few flaws. Not enough to bring the whole 
 game down, but enough to bring on some teeth-grindingly frustrating moments. A fair chunk of the 
 game is taken up with indoor levels, that give way to more linear, scripted action. They're playable 
 enough, but they're not up to the same standard as the outdoor areas, and there are other games 
 that do close-range gunplay far better. The design of these areas is also tiresomely repetitive 
 and uninspired, especially when compared to the stunning outdoor environments. The indoor levels 
 are also where you fight some of the game's less-than-human enemies. Without giving too much away, 
 they're something of a disappointment compared to the mercenaries - mediocre design and frustrating 
 attacks and AI make them a chore to fight. Probably more than a third of the game is fighting them 
 as well, so it's not a minor thing. The only other potential annoyance with the game is the difficulty 
 - it's face-punchingly hard. It's nice to play a game that's a real challenge, and in many instances 
 defeat feels like a result of your own poor tactics rather than flawed design, but in others, it's 
 fist-through-the-monitor infuriating. It's not something that going to put off everyone, but less 
 patient players will have trouble. None of these are game-ruining faults. Overall, it's a superb 
 game on a superb engine, and a testament to Crytek's development skills. By today's standards it's 
 reasonably long, and there's the standard replay value in different difficulty and multiplayer 
 modes. Far Cry has all but reinvented the one-man-army shooter; it's rarely as absorbing or enjoyable 
 as this, and is sure as hell has never been do damned beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstevens
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game has excellent graphics and sound. If you have a beefy system, then max that sucker out. 
 The water detail is hard to match. The sound quality is very spacious and so real you will find 
 yourself looking over your shoulder once in awhile. If you fail to reach the next auto save area, 
 you can always try to analyze your approach and try something else. I found the end of the game 
 a little difficult but my reflexes are not what they used to be. I still found myself coming back 
 for more, once I cooled off a little. Anyway, you won't regret it, BUY IT NOW. Good luck, Jack... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Farcry is a game full with action.
  This is really great.
  The game takes place on different islands where weird experiments are going on.
  The Artificial 
 intelligence in this game is very good (sometimes to good) .
  Even when you make a small sound, they can hear you.
  Your also going to fight against human 
 like apes, which arent that smart but very powerful.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Stunning action
  +Large maps
  +Excellent AI
  +Nice story, very simple though
  +Cool enemies
  -Maybe the 
 Ai is too good
  -Enemies can hear you when you make the slightest noice
  -Long loading times
  
  Graphics:
  +Stunning graphics
  +Runs OK
  +Maps/islands look beautiful
 
  -Long loading times
  
  Sounds:
  +Love the weapon sounds
  +Thrilling music (When enemies see you or attack you the music changes)
  +Nice quality in-game 
 cutscenes
  
  Value:
  +Nice maps, which will take you while
  +Nice but simple story
  +Multiplayer is a solid addition
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall nice presentation
  +Easy controls
 
  +Entertaining story (feels like your in a action movie)
  +Solid multuplayer
  
  Farcry is a great game if you like action and FPS games.
  Its also a great game if you rather 
 prefer the sounds and looks of a game.
  Bye all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technixps3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I used to own this game when it first came out... then I sold it away on ebay. Boy was that 
 a mistake!
  
  I picked it up again at a Walmart PC value software stand for $9, even though originally when I 
 purchased it in 2004 I paid the full $39 for it.
  
  I reinstalled it, downloaded the latest patches and got immersed yet again!
  
  This one has 
 tons of replay value and surprisingly, many people still play this game online! I made my way through 
 the single player campaign and now I find myself joining random servers in a good ole fragfest. 
 Great pings too!
  
  Too much to dive into so I'll keep it short and to the point. A lot is to be said about this release, 
 and it is a solid FPS that leaves you wanting more. The beautifully crafted world, better AI than 
 most gamers have been accustomed to, and playing this game after a hard day's work leaves you with 
 that sand in your shorts, I've been to the beach feeling. Well... maybe not in the literal sense, 
 but it's like visiting your favourite island hotspot, minus the sunburn.
  
  Gameplay is great, except your character can get stuck at some points on multiplayer maps.
  
 
  Graphics are a blast, still great even almost 3 years later.
  
  In-game audio helps keep the player immersed for hours, excellent job done here.
  
  Value? 
 Well at the time it was, but even if you're just discovering the game now, pick it up for a cheap 
 $10 and get yourself a copy of what PC Gamer magazine called the #1 Action Game of 2004! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Crytek? Never heard of that company. If you say I should buy Far Cry, then this better be Crytek's 
 big break!
  
  Sure enough, Far Cry was Crytek's big break. The game is a masterpiece to FPS games. It manages 
 to travel to places no FPS has ever gone before, and remain completely in tact. Story - Welcome 
 to the jungle sailor. You play as Jack Carver, a former navy soldier who now lives an easy life 
 being a tour guide along the tropics. When he comes across the lovely and beautiful Valerie Constantine. 
 When Jack sails them to an enormous group of islands, Valerie borrows his jet ski and rides it 
 straight out to the islands. Soon after she has gone, your boat is hit with an RPG and you must 
 swim to shore and hide. You find a PDA with a man named Harland Doyle talking on it. He let's you 
 know he's on your side, and that you're on an island where deadly happenings take place. He's going 
 to help you find Valerie and get off the island alive. The gameplay factor is probably Far Cry's 
 biggest strong suit. The game is divided into levels, but it doesn't feel that way at all. Each 
 level covers about 1-2 hours of brutal bloody action. Fire fights, vehicle chases, river boat rafting, 
 predating on enemies. Anything you can think of. Each level covers a large portion of the many 
 islands the game is set on. It feels amazing going from point A, on a cliff top, to point B, a 
 pier 15 miles away. The deep jungle fights are astounding. If an enemy hears you, you get down, 
 go prone an sneak up on him with a machete and slash him to bits. Physics look pretty good. Sometimes 
 they become a tad bizaar. Sometimes I'm shooting an enemy, and when he dies he just kneals down. 
 Then sometimes the physics are just exaggerated. I'd shoot an enemy a few times in the head and 
 he'd go flying to the right before he'd land. But the majority of the physics are good. There's 
 a decent weapon selection that could be bigger, but nonetheless good. You start with a falcon .357 
 and a machete, and have to work your way up from there. You soon get to classes of weapons like 
 SMG, Assault, and special. You'll collect an M4, G36, P90, and much much more. You are allowed 
 to hold up to 4 weapons at a time which is a bit of an interesting change. Ignoring the only 1-2 
 weapon realistic but boring setting, ignoring the  setting, and 
 going straight down the middle with 4. The enemies have brilliant A. I. They run, they shoot, they 
 duck, they sound alarms, they call for back up, they investigate noises, and they can make the 
 game extremely difficult. There are vehicles all over the place in-game, and you can access anyone 
 you want. They are fun to use and make getting from one place to another a whole lot faster and 
 easier. Most vehicles have a gun except the river raft. Sadly you can't fly the enemy choppers, 
 but oh well. Far Cry overall is an extremely difficult game even on the easiest difficulty. Anyone 
 who calls it easy is lying to you, or trying to sound tough. Far Cry's visuals and graphics are 
 gorgeous, and will make even the toughest dude say, they're beautiful. With a game set on a huge 
 tropical island paradise you expect to see lots of detail in your jungles. Sure as hell, you get 
 it. The vegetation is beautiful in any form it comes in. It's even interactive with weapons like 
 the machete, but you cannot cut it. The enemies look great as well. Lighting effects show greatly 
 on every wrinkle in their dead bodies. The blood effects are cool, but average. I haven't seen 
 blood effects as good as source engine's, and these blood effects looks like they're just red spots 
 filled with blooming. The water is unbelievable. You'll notice the ripples and waves in the water 
 that goes off into the distance without any lack of detail. It's blueness darkens with depth. Sometimes 
 the game is interrupted with Bink video cut scenes which look horrible compared to the in game 
 cut scenes. Honest to god, the ingame cut scenes look a ton better than the Bink Video cinematics. 
 The sound in the game is great. There isn't a bad area for the sound with the exception of some 
 of the voice acting. Sometimes Jack Carver can bust some pretty stupid lines, but sometimes he 
 can sound good and say something actually funny. Krieger has some overall good acting himself. 
 Col. Crowe's voice acting can be considered good if you imagine him as a crazy cowboy on steroids. 
 Sometimes the enemies say things that are dumb beyond reason. I'M GONNA SHOOT YOU IN THE FACE SCREW 
 YOU BUDDY .
  
  Far Cry is a brilliant and unique FPS that redefines the genre no doubt, and sets a benchmark for 
 environments and detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  FAR CRY have a good storyline, good graphic, good sounds, and an addictive &amp; tactical game-play 
 that let far cry the one of the best shooter ever made!
  
  Graphic is good and the requirements is not too high for this!
  only: 3.0 GHz CPU | 1GB RAM | 
 256 MB VGA
  
  you just try far cry, but in the easiest difficult the game is hard, so if you a no-ob player try 
 another game, example Half - Life 1 because HL have poor AI, and lot of health, and Far cry have 
 less health than HL, and a good AI, and highly addictive tactical game-play!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game, has some of the best shooting mechanics ever. There is just the right amount of gore, 
 and although the AI isn't perfect, it is usually implemented well. The storyline is not lame like 
 some fools will try and tell you, despite the game taking place on just an island base the levels 
 are varied and unique, there are a good amount of different enemies and weapons, you need strategy, 
 you can save whenever you want, (good for games of this class) , it is just good stuff. The game 
 also comes with a mission editor for multi-player or single player. GamePlay-This game has just 
 the right blend of violence and strategy. The aiming is realistic and there are physics and vehicles, 
 mounted machine guns and machetes and sniper rifles galore. This game is a FPS player's haven. 
 It has more addictive shooting than Goldeneye64. Need I say more?
  
  Graphics-The gfx are a bit overrated if you don't ave an awesome system but they include revolutionary 
 filters much like adobe photoshop.
  
  Sounds-The sounds are realistic as hell and the music is for the most part awesome.
  
  Cons-You 
 need a top-notch PC or the game will freeze constantly, for multi-player you need high-speed internet. 
 Sometimes the enemies require too much ammo to finish them off. There is too much sniping with 
 non-scoped weapons.
  
  If you have an awesome PC, stop being a lame fool and pick-up this awesome game, it wont be like 
 some mediocre, boring as hell shooter for the XBOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is no longer a new game, but if it came it today, it would still be considered technically 
 amazing, and more importantly, incredibly fun. The graphics are second to none imo, u can almost 
 feel the heat of the tropical island and nice water. The blood effects are also excellent. Spray 
 someone with bullets, and youll see the bloody holes in his body as he lays on the ground. The 
 jungle feels like a jungle, but you have got to get this on high settings. Birds fill the sky, 
 fish fill the water, and theres even a couple of pigs here and there for you to play with. Enough 
 about graphics tho, they can only go so far in making a game truly epic. Its the gameplay where 
 it counts, and this game succeeds on every level.
  
  a shooter is only as good as its guns 
  this game has some awesome guns. I havent felt as comfortable 
 shooting an m16 assault rifle since the one in goldeneye. it will be your go-to weapon early on, 
 and its ver accurate if you know how to steady your cross hair. Other guns range from sniper rifles, 
 assault rifles with sniper scopes and grenade attachments, rocket launcher, a sweet pistol, a machete, 
 and of course a shotgun. Sniping someone from a mile away is truly a good feeling.
  
  The AI in this game rivals that of any other, including FEAR. Enemies in the jungle will react 
 as they likely would in real life. Make a noise by hitting some loose leaves or a bush, theyll 
 investigate. If they are taking casaulties, theyll call for reinforcements via choppers. If they 
 know ur hiding behind something, theyll have 1 guy shoot at u to keep your head down while another 
 flanks. They typically also have deadly accuracy, so youll have to be smart to take em out, especially 
 on higher difficulties. There are also beasts and mutated freaks later in the game, who arent that 
 smart, but they make up for it with their brute strength. The best part of this game imo is the 
 open ended way you can approach things. Thats why this game has amazing replay value even after 
 all these years. Approaching an enemy camp from the jungle using stealth is an awesome experience. 
 There is a very strong stealth aspect to this game. You can take out camps of enemies without ever 
 being spotted if your a swift, efficient killer. Or then again, you can go arnold S on em and guns 
 blazing and while this may be suicide in certain difficult sitautions, it can work if you make 
 the shots that count. If i have one gripe with this game, its the grenades. I prefer the grenades 
 in Return to Caslte Wolfenstein, where they can be primed and thrown at just the right time. In 
 this game, u just toss em and hope they nail somebody. There also isnt any gibs in this game, in 
 that bodies do not lose limbs or explode. Other than that, it would have been cool to fight some 
 wildlife, like a bear or a great white shark, but hey, theres always CRYSIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for the last couple of years. I still consider it my benchmark for FPS games. 
 The AI, graphics, &amp; the story itself are amazing. I am still playing it regularly. The open 
 play &amp; the trigents make late-night gaming hard &amp; scary. This game has made me shutdown 
 my computer &amp; flip on the lights more than I can recall. I have played Doom3 &amp; I'm finishing 
 up F. E. A. R., but this will always be among my favorite games. Every time my best friend &amp; myself 
 talk FPS, this game comes up or get compared to. If you do not have it, for $10 it is a steal now 
 &amp; definitely worth grabbing. I credit this game also with making me buy more than a few pc 
 ugrades in order to get it maxed out on the settings. Water effects are 2nd to none. It is also 
 not a run. gun, &amp; jump around game. It requires stealth &amp; tactical movement because of 
 the great AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iminthepink
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  For years First Person Shooter games were often considered mediocare, either because they were 
 concentrating on one particular gameplay aspect too much or there was too little of something else 
 that could've easily have made the game better. In 1998 this trend forever changed with the release 
 of Half-Life, a revolution in the gaming genre that not only delivered a great story, but combined 
 the aspects of dozens of gameplay aspects and improved upon them.
  
  Far Cry, another first-person shooter to hit the genre, has got to be, literally, the best thing 
 since Half-Life. Fay Cry is an exciting FPS shooter that not only delivers a good story but, in 
 complete contrast to Half-Life, a non-linear environment.
  
  Fay Cry introduced players to Jack Carver, a man hired to transport a mysterious women arcross 
 the Pacific. Unfortunately Jack's ship comes under heavy attack and he, along with his ship, is 
 washed ashore. Jack must then traverse across a dense jungle with a story just as thrilling as 
 Half-Life to find the mysterious women who is now missing. Far Cry introduces several locales including 
 a lush jungle, facilities and a Volcano stronghold.
  
  Fay Cry has some of the most advanced graphics seen in any FPS game to date: to the dense foliage 
 and trees of the jungle, to the dynamic shadows that cast real-life shadows on the ground and walls, 
 to the intense heat blur making the volcano stronghold look even hotter than it is. Its truly a 
 sight fore sore eyes. The AI (apart from other games) is quite advanced as well. The density of 
 the jungle will cause your enemies to find cover in the tees and foliage, the sound you make in 
 the undergrowth will help your enemies detect your presence. Stealth, it would seem, plays an integral 
 part of the game's gameplay.
  
  The sound, which is probably one of the most integral parts of any game, is extremely realistic 
 and helps add much to the overall atmosphere. Disturbing noises can be heard in indoor level above 
 you. Insects and birds fill the air around you. The distant hum of helicopters in the distance 
 coming closer to you adds to the suspense. You can even listen to the enemy's conversations with 
 a specialised microphone that helps you see whats up ahead.
  
  Surprisingly, vehicles have been implemented into the game rather well depsite the game's locale 
 being the jungle. You can use a variety of vehicles such as boats and jeeps. Using these vehicles 
 will undoubtfully get you closer to your destination quicker, unfortunately this will expose you 
 quite a bit to detection. Even better at night is when you can see the headlights of a vehicle 
 coming around the corner, giving you the perfect chance to take cover or ambush them.
  
  In similar fashion to Halo, Far Cry, only allows players to carry 4 weapons at a time. A tactical 
 system has therefore been implemented to allow you to change and replace weapons with newer or 
 better ones. The game also seems to have limited 'ragdoll physics' where objcts and bodies can 
 be flown across the environment, however objects such a crates cannot be broken which somewhat 
 reduces the level of realism in contrast to the rest of the game.
  
  Fay Cry comes with its own saving system and loading system very much like Half-Life. Every now 
 again at the end of each level a loading sign will appear telling you you've progressed to the 
 next chapter. There are a number of specified checkpoints through the levels where the game automatically 
 saves, however the distinct location of these checkpoints and size of the levels can cause players 
 to miss these checkpoints. This can get extremely frustrating for players who may have to start 
 again from several hours beforehand if he or she dies.
  
  The single-player campaign will tend to last a maximum of 20 or so hours depending on the skill 
 of the player. A Multiplayer component also exists with several different modes including Free 
 for All, Team Deathmatch and Assault. Overall Far Cry should run on most computers these days, 
 although people with lower-end computers wil have to reduce the amount of detail thats set in the 
 Options Menu.
  
  Overall Far Cry is an amazing FPS shooter that rivals Half-Life in almost every way. The Developers 
 at Crytek have done an impressive job at combing gameplay elements into one package and implementing 
 great graphics that help submerge players into a realistic world of action, storytelling and plain 
 old fun. The result creates, without a doubt, a truly immersive and entertaining experiance. And 
 if Crytek were able to do this well with Far Cry, I can't imagine the possibilities that await 
 us in their upcoming shooter, Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfutoma
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  HL2 vs. Far Cry
  I used to play Far Cry. (play it on a high difficulty level) Recently, I bought HL2. What a huge 
 difference! Far Cry has gigantic maps. Often, there are many ways to achieve objectives. You don't 
 have to get objectives in a predetermined sequence. You can chose your own playing style: stealth 
 or brute force. Of course, you have to adjust it to particular parts of the game. Many different 
 types of enemies. Enemies behave differently. AI is very good. Mercenaries will track you based 
 on your noise. They will try to flank you or ambush. An example, if you make a lot of noise in 
 one of building rooms, mercs will come from the whole building to kill you, or they will prepared 
 to shoot at you when you leave. None of the above in HL2. Maybe the maps are large, but there is 
 only one way you can go. Player is limited by corridors, tunnels, and passages. No way to take 
 any shortcut or alternative path. Very linear game play. Mostly, you just have to aim and shoot 
 your enemies. No way to avoid them, hide, etc. Poor AI. Brainless enemies have either predefined 
 position to which they stick, or they go straight at you. Enemies are not aware of your position. 
 You make noise in one room, but enemies are stuck in the adjacent room. They will never attack 
 you. And these puzzles with wooden boxes. Puzzles from Nintendo Zelda for kids are 10 times more 
 smarter and interesting. After 1 minute of moving around boxes and barrels, it is insulting to 
 do it over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alanlynott
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Beautiful to watch, brilliant AI and the best designed maps I have ever played in that there are 
 always multiple ways to attack levels. I rate this game above Half Life 2 for playability, though 
 Half Life 2 still scores better for the story and atmosphere. There are a couple of difficulty 
 spikes in the game, but these are few and far between. The part of the game where you meet the 
 mutated monsters is terrifying and you will run firing wildly to get away from them.
  
  You can pick this up for about a tenner these days which is fantastic value for money.
  
  Keep 
 an eye out for Crysis from the same development team, though you will need some serious hardware 
 to play this on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Passa91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Basic plot rundown, you are a retired CIA agent who now takes rich tourists on boat tours through 
 the pacific. You are taking this chic called Valerie to some random pacific island when you are 
 attacked and your boat destroyed. You are separated from Valerie, and find yourself face down in 
 a sewer hours later. Then you get into communication with this guy called Doyle, who pretty much 
 explains that Valerie works for the CIA, and that she is on a secret mission to stop some guy named 
 Krieger, who does scientific testing on this remote unchartered island. Doyle works for Krieger, 
 but is really another CIA agent undercover. You must find and rescue Valerie, and after that, help 
 her achieve her mission. After finding a gun and some ammo you are on your way. The point is, the 
 story isnt that flash, but its a decent vehicle for the action to follow.
  
  The game consists of a lot of modern weaponry, some of it extremely familiar, some of it extremely 
 fictitious. You begin the game with a simple desert eagle, although this is almost instantly redundant 
 as literally two minutes later you have found an M4 rifle with plenty of ammo. There is a huge 
 assortment of rifles and sub-machine guns, many of the using the same sort of ammunition, meaning 
 you are severely limited in the four weapons you can hold. Infact, there are only seven types of 
 ammunition in the game: rifle ammunition, pistol ammunition, sub-machine gun ammunition, rocket 
 ammunition, sniper ammunition, shotgun ammunition and grenade shells. There is the usual assortment 
 of standard grenades too, from fragmentation grenades to flashbangs and smokes. Unfortunately the 
 gameplay does not leave much use for any of these grenades, and if there is a use for them, they 
 are so extremely underpowered that they do not get the job done.
  
  There are also many vehicles at your disposal including huge pickup trucks, forklifts, sand buggies, 
 hang gliders, armed motor boats, 4WD assault vehicles and inflatable rafts. At many stages of the 
 game, you are given choices about whether to use say a 4WD to just storm the outpost up ahead, 
 use an armed motor boat to pummel the base with rockets or just assault the base on foot.
  
  General gameplay is quite neat. You really have a choice of stealth or just running out and 
 shooting. Note the latter option takes strategic skill, if you repeatedly in a checkpoint, the 
 only way you can really eventually get past that point is by actually devising a plan on how to 
 get from point A to B without dying. This adds a lot of depth into the game. Even the most experienced 
 FPS players will realise that its not a mindless shooter, and actually requires a degree of low-level 
 thinking. Unfortunately though, the stealth aspect of the game is severely flawed. If you are seen 
 by an enemy, all other hostiles in the area are instantly on high alert and will begin shooting 
 into your area. It can be extremely strange at times to be spotted by someone five hundred metres 
 away even if you are lying prone in thick grass. In many ways the AI have incredibly simple routines, 
 if you run into a building while being chased by a hostile, they will actually fire accurately 
 through the walls of the building (it has to be a tent or aluminium building for bullets to penetrate) . 
 In other ways though, the AI is incredibly complex, and will work together to take you out, sneaking 
 up from behind cover and whatnot. They even seem to take roles, as one enemy might crouch and provide 
 covering fire while the others move ahead and attempt to get into a closer position to take you 
 out.
  
  However, once you get to the stage of the game with the mutant humans and monkeys, the AI for them 
 is incredibly simple. As soon as a mutant monkey sees you, it will simply chase you, then leap 
 and attack you. The mutant human rocket guys also seem to just lumber after you, firing rockets 
 repeatedly at the last place they saw you.
  
  Many FPS games have huge shootouts with AI, such as FEAR, but with Far Cry, having shootouts in 
 the jungle is quite different. Instead of simply hiding behind cover and popping up for a shot 
 or two, you have to move around to avoid being flanked. Normally semi-realistic shooters would 
 require you to stay in one spot, instead Far Cry forces you to keep moving. The game manages to 
 surprise you all the time as well. Just as you think youve successfully cleared an area of enemy 
 soldiers, you will find yourself pinned down under fire again. Tracking enemies in the jungle is 
 downright impossible, and as soon as an enemy runs behind some large foliage, you have pretty much 
 lost them until they come out from behind you. This creates great tension, as you nervously trek 
 through enemy territory while being extremely cautious of hiding enemy soldiers. Even the indoor 
 areas follow similar design principals, making sure that once you get into a frenetic firefight, 
 you wont know where the hell you are. Unfortunately, this sort of gameplay, while at first quite 
 novel, gets boring after a while.
  
  Visually the game is amazing (for a game made in 2004 anyway) . Not really optimized for todays 
 generation of cards though (I was running it maxed out on my 7800GT and experienced less than 15FPS 
 in many parts of the game) . The lush jungle environments look great, as most of the foliage are 
 actually 3D models compared to the sprite based foliage in other games. The water though is probably 
 the most striking thing about Far Cry, its just so damn beautiful! The character models are extremely 
 detailed, and textures are reasonably high resolution. One of the most striking things is character 
 animation. Its just so realistic and smooth. The shadow system in Far Cry is exceptional as well, 
 for example, if you are hiding under a tree, you will see the shadow of the tree on your hud-gun 
 model. There are also great full screen effects, so that, for example, you have blurred vision 
 and odd colours come on screen when you are shot or near an explosion.
  
  The engine itself (the CryTek engine) can be quite buggy at times. Even with the latest 1.4 patch, 
 at many stages of the game characters would just freeze in mid-air after being shot. Thankfully 
 none of the bugs were bad enough to prevent levels from being finished.
  
  The game also features fantastic audio, gunshots wizz over your head, explosions make you jump 
 out of your seat, sniper shots have you running for dear life, and of course, some of the stuff 
 the NPCs say is just hilarious, although as the game progresses and gets more serious, youll begin 
 to hear less and less of the quirky dialogue. The NPCs dialogue is affected by what goes on around 
 them. If one of their friends is shot, they will run over and say are you ok?, if they are stalking 
 you through the shrubs, they will yell out at their allies ahead where is he?! , and, of course, 
 they can call for backup and they say some of the funniest things while shooting you.
  
  The music in Far Cry is top notch too, and changes depending on what is happening. If you have 
 been spotted and are on the run, then the music changes to fast frenetic music, whereas if you 
 are slowly crawling through the undergrowth, then the music will be slow and subdued.
  
  While its single player is great, Far Crys multiplayer component really lets it down. It uses 
 the generic Ubisoft online login system which is extremely annoying to set up. The multiplayer 
 maps are incredibly boring and poorly designed, most requiring more than 16 players, then one or 
 two maps needing four players or less. There is no real variety in the game modes, with standard 
 Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, although there are some more interesting modes somewhat similar 
 to Team Fortress Classic, allowing you to choose a class and do specific things, like an engineer 
 can build bunkers and sniper towers. Far Cry has an incredibly small multiplayer community as well, 
 so dont expect to find a populated server with a nice ping easily.
  
  Overall Far Cry is a great FPS game with all the good elements taken from some of the best FPS 
 games of all time. It incorporates plenty of its own original ideas as well and the finished concoction 
 is quite enjoyable. The gameplay however does get boring after a while, and the game becomes rather 
 lacklustre in the middle, and even the last few levels feel like a bit of an anticlimax. Its multiplayer 
 component also leaves a lot to be desired. The sumptuous visuals and great AI though makes up for 
 a lot of lost ground, and overall, the game is worth playing and a must have for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  now were do i start cause this game has to be one of the best games ihave every played the grahics 
 are some of the best the sound is great
  and the gameplay is just as great apart from the long loading screens this is a brillent game u 
 have to get it
  
  in this game there is beautiful tropical islands and oppressive indoor locations set the secne 
 for 20 great vast ,non linear missions
  u also get to master an arsenal of cutting edge weaponry and vechicles to over come the odd and 
 unravel a deadly conspiracy
  u will have to fight perceptive enemies who adapt and improvise there tactics according to the 
 gien situation in other words the ai is brillent.
  
  but thats all in the single player mode in the multiplayer mode there is all of this and the great 
 experince of ever body else u can also make ur own maps and play on them so if u r thinking of 
 getting this game wat r u thinking of just get it i got my copy of it in asda or is it called walmart 
 in amercia GREAT GAME MUST GET THIS IF NOT GOT IT OK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  
  on the surface very shallow, your boats gets blown up, mercanaries, yea the whole deal. However 
 it gets a lot more in depth.
  
  
  the gameplay in far cry is suprisingly 
 good. The guns are really cool and are very varied, plus its fun to just boat around and run guys 
 over in boats or jeeps or something. The vehicles are pretty awsome too and are fun to drive/fly, 
 yes i did say fly, there is a hanglider than u can pilot and its awsome! lastly i loved the feeling 
 like you were alone and everyones out to get you. i think i was so scared in the first level when 
 one of them ercinaroes saw me and started shooting at me, the n the helocopter came and.......
 
  
  
  
  i think the setting is prob my favorite part of this game. the tropical island gives a very fun 
 and refresshing addition to a generally grimy genre. Thats not to say its all outside and at daytime, 
 a lot of the levels are in eery factories or at night (wich is pretty awsome)
  
  
  
  i think the island also adds 
 to a cool graphical level too because the visuals are apsolutly breath taking, once i just hopped 
 on a little boat and drove around the island looking at all the awsome water affects and trees.
 
  
  
  audio is pretty good, the yelling of the mercinaries is pretty nice, and the sound is awsome too
 
  
  in the end far cry is and awsome shooter with awsome graphics and a awosme good time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishLacrosse88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  FarCry is a cry to all PC gamer's to buy this game. It has everything a player could want, great 
 graphics and gameplay.
  
  The game takes place on remote tropical islands in the pacific. It has you sneaking through the 
 jungle to blasting merc's. It is everything a PC gamer could want. The game is pretty easy on medium 
 settings, and can be turned higher or lower. I'd have to say it has graphics almost equal to HL2. 
 As I've said before, the gameplay is addictive and fun, and will keep you coming back for hours 
 apoun hours. The strongest point of this game I think is the fact that you can do anything whatever 
 style you want, from sneaking to blasting away. You can take multipule paths, and approach every 
 objective a different way.
  
  Pro's: Great Gameplay, Good AI, Emmersive atmosphere, Unlimited Replay value.
  
  Con's: At 
 moments in the game the AI can seem too good, and sometimes they can pull dumb moves, but really 
 you'll still have fun blasting enemies away.
  
  I'd have to rate this game a 9.3, it's a must for PC Gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_morel_123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a great game with an alright story, and alright game-play. You're put in an island but 
 there isn't really much to do. To start with, this game has some of the greatest graphics you'll 
 ever see in a game. The A. I. isn't that bad, but through out the whole game you feel as if thats 
 all you're doing is killing mercs and mutated animal like creatures. There are vehicles in the 
 game put they're nothing big. Right now you can find the game for $5 is if your a FPS fan, it would 
 be a good game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astor47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  You start the game as Jack Carver, who is sailing in the sea with a woman called Valerie, but suddenly 
 you are hit by a rocket launcher. From the start you can appreciate the quality of the graphics, 
 which are simply breathtaking. It features the most advanced graphics engine seen in a PC game, 
 according with its release date. Real time shadowing, incredibly detailed models and textures, 
 and the farthest draw distance ever seen. The island where you play its simply a pleasure to see 
 and youll often end up saying: whoa! But the graphics are only a part of what Far Cry has to offer. 
 The gameplay is incredibly refined, youll face many tough foes who are usually as smart as you. 
 The only bad thing about this guys is that for ex: if you make a little noise, or maybe they spot 
 you, instead of investigating further, they will likely activate the alarm, and so on.
  The weapons in the game are very varied, and you can only have four at time so you have to be careful 
 and have a weapon for a specific situation. This game also uses a checkpoint system which is mainly 
 designed to avoid constant quicksaving like another games. But the special part of the gameplay 
 is that it lets you try different approaches, for ex: you have to go to the other side of the island, 
 you can go by foot eliminating all the enemies or doing it or you can try to sneak, but if you 
 want you can go on and use the hang slider, though maybe one of the helicopters can spot you if 
 you dont like those you can jump to the water steal a boat and go, so this is indeed a very open-ended 
 gameplay which is given by the fact that you can explore all the island if you like, and so on.
 
  
  Far cry features good sound the environmental effects are very well done, the conversations between 
 the mercenaries will usually give you clues about what you should do, and some of them are very 
 funny to hear. The voice acting isnt breaking any ground but is very good for the most part. The 
 story is very interesting to follow but it isnt anything from the other world. But if you dont 
 want (though youll be missing a lot) , you can ignore the single player and jump to the multiplayer, 
 which features deathmatch and assault which is objective based. The game also runs very smooth, 
 even in low end systems. I have a geforce FX 5200, and tweaking some settings I could get a smooth 
 frame rate and excellent graphics. Far cry also features and utility that lets you create your 
 own modules, though it isnt as user friendly as others, however, there are many good mods in the 
 internet. Overall Far Cry is an incredible experience featuring a lot of great ideas, mixing great 
 gameplay, superb graphics, good sound, and a great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtlr077
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing FarCry since May of 2004, I still play whenever I get the chance. There is 
 simply not a better mix of action, stealth, and just pure fun out there. When some user submitted 
 maps for this game are better than other games (in their entirety) , that tells me something about 
 how robust and open ended this game is. Levels can be approached from different points, with differing 
 tactics, and you can still meet all of your objectives. There's no doubt about it, this game is 
 hard. I found a quicksave feature for this game when I started playing, it is in German but it's 
 worth installing as soon as Trigens start showing up. They are the weak point of this game, and 
 aside from some minor technical glitches, its only downfall. The mercs are the most capable and 
 fun AI I have ever seen, the feel of the weapons, the targeting, the environment, I could go on 
 and on. By far the best FPS out there. Find that quicksave, it will make this game fun for those 
 of you who have played the same checkpoint 36 times after being swiped at by a Trigen from 10 meters 
 away over and over again :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Farcry is a fun shooter that has one of the best environments that I've seen in a long time. The 
 gameplay itself is pretty fun, but like a lot of PC shooters, the aiming can be sketchy at points. 
 The AI in the game is repectable to, when the hear you they call up their buds and are on the lookout. 
 When they see you you'd better take 'em out, or hide ASAP. However the only downfall of the game 
 is that sometimes you get stuck in a situation which can seem impossible. But after what may seem 
 like hours of trying the same thing over and over again, you'll finally get past the rut, and be 
 on the go again. Overall Farcry provides a fun experience and is a suitable choice if you are looking 
 for a fun PC shooter, but I won't go out of my way to recomend this over other great PC games of 
 different genres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suprman2184
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game over and over lately cause its fun and playing at different difficult 
 levels makes it more fun for me to play.
  
  The game has great detail when you are playin. Shootin the guns is somewhat realistic, the bullets 
 spread as you shot at high rate. As you play and get more into the game you will have to save you 
 energy and ammo. finding the ammo, health, and armor is kinda hard when cause when you kill someone 
 and get their ammo and armor it is really low and doesnt help you out to much, unless you are really 
 in need of them. The emeny with higher settings is better, they have better accuracy when they 
 shot their guns and are more pissed off. If you like great made guns with really good grapics this 
 is the game for you. All the detail in the game is really great in my oppion. There are mods you 
 can download and use in the game. I haven't yet downloaded them yet but i will cause it adds to 
 the games ability to play better, with the guns and IA in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjddoogg
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  kk
  so yall prolly are looking at the 9.2 rating by gamespot and saying ima go get that
  think again
  this game came out at the beginning out 2004.
  for those of you who have no math 
 skills thats almost 3 years
  at the time the game was great
  but now days games like F. E. A. R and half life 2 episode 1 are way better
  far cry has average 
 graphics for now days but the value is great with 5 different difficulty levels and a 30 hour campaign
 
  gameplay itself is fun for the first 10 and then u just want to get it over with i dont know how 
 much it costs but unless its 15 or lower dont buy it
  unless of course
  ur rich 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcbuilder
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say. Probably one of the best first person shooters ever. Trapped on an island 
 where not everything is as it seems. Graphics will blow you away as will the million or so marines 
 that will try to kill you. Fantastic weapons and vehicles be it jeep or speedboat with a rocket 
 launcher attatched. Midway you will come across super jumping ,super strength creatures and it 
 will get dark so take your blankey with you to keep you safe. But don't worry. You wll have more 
 than enough weapons to deal with these so called trigents. You start a reformed soldier just trying 
 to make a decent living when a young so-called journalist asks you to take her to a remote tropical 
 paradise to do some 'research'. Turns out she is a cia agent and you have to go and find her when 
 your boat is bown to pieces by an apache war helicopter....... You have to buy this game now....................... what 
 ..... your still here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Definetly, one of the best FPSs I have ever played!!! It is absolutely perfect... Like, the graphics 
 is awsome, and not to mention the gameplay... Crytek really hit the Jackpot this time... They did 
 a great job... I heard somewhere that there is going to be Far Cry 2... Hope it's true... I am 
 really impressed by the game... It's on my TOP 3 FPSs list... I'm not sure what place it takes... 
 In TOP 3 is also Unreal Tournament 2004 and so is F. E. A. R. I didn't complete the game yet, but 
 I will soon... I will complete it more than once... I'll do it a hundred times until my PC gets 
 bored by it and starts refusing to start the game, lol... :P I think that it's a MUST HAVE to all 
 gamers that like FPS genre... This game is absolutely perfect!!! It's brilliant!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is, without a doubt, the most overrated game of all time. The story is full of plotholes, 
 the characters are two dimensional - the whole thing is entirely detestable.
  
  You would hope the saving grace is that at least it's a good game, but it's not. Here's FarCry 
 gameplay:
  
  Walk through forest/mountain base.
  Shoot group of 6-10 soldiers.
  Walk through forest/mountain base.
  Install conveniently located bombs to things.
  Walk through 
 forest/mountain base.
  Use pretty but useless handglider.
  Shoot group of 6-10 soldiers.
  Repeat.
  
  These soldiers can hear you approaching from several hundred yards have better body 
 armor than you and - admittedly - have excellent AI (though so excellent that they can see through 
 walls) . Your own lack of power, movement, reload speed and cover mean you're going to die regularly. 
 Now, I've been playing FPS games since Doom came out, and as I've said in other reviews, losing 
 because the odds are stacked against you is fun, but losing because the game is poorly planned 
 isn't.
  
  That being said, a challenge can be fun anyway but the problem is that the save points tend to 
 be a long way before your confrontation, so if you die you end up having to do loads of travelling 
 just to get back to where you died. Have the save points before every major engagement so that 
 you're not constantly replaying the same bits over and over.
  
  What was the need for Val's bathing scene? What's the need for the AWFUL dialogue. Jack Carver 
 is completely unsympathetic as a character, every one of his lines is the most irritating cool 
 American surferboy sarcasm that just doesn't work. I couldn't even bring myself to complete it 
 and to put it at the same level as Half Life?! That is blasphemy at it's highest. God knows what 
 you're all seeing in this...
  
  Oh wait, I do. The graphics. This game is built solely on the beautiful location and graphical 
 ability. Other games are actually a lot better looking (FEAR, Half Life 2) but because this is 
 set in a location we don't normally see in these kinds of games, suddenly it's the most important 
 game this year. It's not. It's crap. Don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_mario_128
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Well I picked this up for a bargain &pound;10.00 wow and I gotta say what a great deal that was. 
 I have not even finished the game yet but I still find it highly addictive in the little area I 
 have explored. The graphics look superb for a 2004 game and the moments when you're in a fight 
 are just as good. The stealth scenes, umm think MGS in first person. You hide underwater enemy 
 looking for you, you pop out machete in hand and swing, splat, you know the rest. The fact you 
 can free roam a lot of the area around you is fantastic and is a must buy for FPS fans. The storyline 
 is basic and quite original, but you won't bother with the story when you get into this unique 
 little pack of fun the developers call Far Cry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac_ska
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  This game is really rocks! Awesome 3D Environment texturing and with the ability to maneuver vehicles.. 
 It really gets exciting. This is one of my favourites... A Must Have for all RPG Lovers.... Plays 
 beautifully on my P4, 512 Mb RAM, nVidia GeForce 5200 PC..
  
  Some levels are creepy... Feels like you are in Jurassic Park amongst Marshes and Mangroves.... 
 while sometimes you just enjoy the beaches.... and the car chase add to the thrills... One of the 
 best things in the game is the ability to fly the quiet Hand Glider.
  
  This should be another revolutionary game after Half-Life 1.... That's just an opinion!! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I dont know about the rest of you guys, but this game just seemed to come out of nowhere. We all 
 knew about the next Half Life years before it came out, and we knew Doom 3 was going to jump out 
 of the dark a long time before it actually did. Its called hype. Hype can make a game (HL2) or 
 destroy it (Doom3) . But forget about hype, Farcry doesnt need it. I saw Farcry in a Game shop not 
 knowing much about it at all, but the screenshots just looked too good to be true and so I bought 
 it on the spot. Playing it back home, I realised Farcry is one of the most beautiful games ever. 
 The palm trees, the blue skys, the sandy beaches and the eye-wateringly sexy water was an incredible 
 distraction while palying this game. The graphics truely are great, even 2 years on. So what about 
 the gameplay? Well, its almost as beatiful as the graphics themselves. The freeroam aspect, the 
 vehicles, the smart AI and the genuinely tough difficulty level simply stun throughtout. The variety 
 (starting at a nice island shooting mercs, to a dark lab shooting mutants, to a volcano shooting 
 both) immerse you in this game. I have not found many other games that match Farcrys all around 
 greatness, and only a few that surpass it. Get this now.
  
  The Good - Some of the best graphics ever - Addictive and old school FPS action - A proper challenge
 
  
  The Bad - The hell is going on with the story?? - Main character is a nob - Not entirely free roaming 
 like you might think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VDrakula
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the best FPS games ever created. Like Half Life revolutionary graphics and sound 
 and incredibly fun! This game is MUST HAVE! Game took place on many islands and its end at volcano. One 
 thing what i don`t like is cheap story. But other parts is awesome. I can`t wait to Crysis come out. Download 
 a DX 10 video to see what that game contain. U can find in at Crysis union or click on that link. 
 http://totalcrysis. filecloud. com/files/file. php? user_file_id=282780. Far Cry is about 16 hour long 
 game on 3th difficulty. Tons of real weapon and vehicles are in that game. Relly one of greatest 
 game all of time. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raffid
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  To this day I haven't played a first person shooter as good as FarCry. Amazing graphics, great 
 sound, and it's just a fun game. Everything about it is just a lot of fun. Control Jeeps with machine 
 guns, run over bad guys, drive off cliffs, it has it all. Has some great replay value as well (hidden 
 tunnels and passages) .
  
  The games open ended style makes this game very addictive. It's the opposite of every other linear 
 game. Go here and do this, kill this bad guy, get this key to open the door, can't go back. No 
 no no... This game is open. Here is where you start - this is what you have to do. Complete these 
 objectives any which way that you want to.
  
  If you haven't given this game a chance yet, I highly recommend that you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  FAR CRY one of the best FPS out there well first if you are reading this review and you dont have 
 FAR CRY get out of youre home and go and buy this game because i can asure you that you will never 
 regret doing this but if you are readynd this review and you have FAR CRY you can relax and read 
 my review.
  
  GRAPHICS: amazing graphics no dout about it the water are amazing the jungle to what a magnificent 
 graphic this game have.
  SOUND: could have been better that's all i can say
  GAMEPLAY: amazing game play very smart anamies... amazingley smart.. finaly a game that your enemies 
 are not **** but are good ****.
  but i didnt like the driving part of the game i think it could have benn better if it was in 3rd 
 person the driving part of the game (my opinioun) .
  
  but in the end that's a solid game and worth yo be played.
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasparesky
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the best games i've ever played, if you haven't played it, you should, becouse 
 it's more than great it's AWESOME, not just the graphics, but the whole thing is just brilliant. 
 At first it was like WOW, but later it was like Oh My God, and belive me it get's better and better. 
 Compered with CS: conditional zero, Far Cry is the Master, CS is the slave...
  
  I think since Far Cry, there is no game that's better in this genre.
  
  So please play this 
 game, becouse it deserves to be played, if you haven't played it you can't call you a true PLAYER... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Exculpator
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Far cry. Is an action game. A REAL action game. There is no other real way to describe how this 
 game plays. imagine, if you will, that you were Arnold and NOT the govener arnold, but the TERMINATOR 
 arnold and you will get the idea i am trying to pertray.
  
  The biggest set-piece and probably it second biggest selling point, is it's graphics. The graphics 
 are brilliant and contradicts the stereotypical idea that all good games must take place in the 
 dark. With bright, colourful sandy beaches to massive, beautifully dense jungles. far cry does 
 it all spectacularly.
  
  So the game looks incredible, but how does it play? well It plays like an action movie, loud and 
 bloody, but here is where the real genious comes into play. For example, an enemy carlessly minding 
 his own business... unfortunately for him hes is in your way, what do you do?
  
  1- Run up and slit his throat shooting all in your way
  
  OR
  
  2- Throw a rock and distract 
 him enough to allow you to pass by unseen
  
  The brilliance of this idea is that its truly a gamer's game, in all ascpects of the term. The 
 game is BRUTALLY difficult but true gamers and fans of action games could surely fight their way 
 through with ease.
  
  An engaging and harrowingly impressive experience, far cry is brilliance exemplified. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  This is the first of the two and is just as fun as the second and just as chellenging and fun but 
 no super powers but lots olf camps and snipering and ai it is a very fun and cool game it is fun 
 and voilent nice good old tropical islands and sensless Violence who could ask for more it has 
 to be one of a kind though in no others games to you get the same type of fun and entertainment. 
 It is one of Ubisofts proudest achievement s and should be and this is all about a man who got 
 his boat shot and washed up on a destered island that wasnt so desrte dafter all it had scientists 
 who do lots of nice illegal experiments and that leads on to the second game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyindanet
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This has been game i have been waiting to play. Here's what i think about the game: Far cry
  
  graphics- the graphics are just awesome. You cant really cant get any better than this. The 
 guys at ubisoft and crytek sure this together perfectly. Its so realistic with the environment 
 and the player models. The guns too look realistic. The water is just too crisp.
  
  gameplay- the gameplay in farcry varies with the differemt vehicles to choose from the island ( 
 thanks to some of the militia, lol) and the gun fights can be intense.
  
  sound- the sound is good u can really here all those explosions and gunfires really clearly, no 
 quarms.
  
  value- this game is worth what it is worth. good game 4 your money
  
  tilt- i think he knows what he did right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Ill explain why i said that later, for now lets start the review:
  
  Crytek an Amazing company that pushed the barriers with Far Cry and now is doing it again with 
 their upcoming game Crysis.
  
  anyways when you first get into farcry you figure out its nothing like youve ever seen before, 
 most FPS games are Urban City Scapes, or Post-Apocalyptic Cities. not Far Cry! in Far Cry you get 
 stranded on an Island witch is suspisously being guarded my mercanaries. so you find a knife and 
 a Deagle wondering around a HUGE open island not having any idea whats going on till you pick up 
 a covienetly placed cell phone type thing in which a man calls to you and tells you to basically 
 shut up and follow his instructions.
  
  so you killing Merchs (which have Incredible AI, might I ad) and just trying to figure out how 
 to get the F off the island, but then you get entagled into helping out this guy and doing favors 
 for him on the island, then you come to find out theres some sort of genetic experimentation going 
 on, of this crazed scientist making Trigens...
  
  unfortunatly this is were the game starts to go downhill. the trigens ai is basically charge and 
 swing their arms.. thats it, it seems crytek either got lazy, or couldnt figure out where to go 
 because the game just got extremely repetative, and w/o going into to much detail you turn into 
 one.
  
  The game has Awesome Graphics (even for 2006) good physics (even though there not used to their 
 full extent) and great AI that takes cover and works together, w/o any pre-drawn paths.
  
  again if you dont pick up this game your mising out on a very different game that is very fun to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewoodalls202
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Can't wait for Cysis to come out but till then, i've been playing Far Cry over and over since it 
 came out. I am avid torrent downloader but some games you just have to buy. Far Cry, Half-Life 
 2 and soon, Crysis. not to name but a few. If all games could just have such substance. By substance 
 I mean story line and ever-changing gameplay. Just beautiful. Cannot wait till Crysis comes out 
 but until then, Far Cry will never dissappoint. Oh yeah, the weapons in this masterpiece are 2nd 
 best all-time only to Unreal 2004. It is a graphics hog but now days, you can pick up a nice 8-pixel 
 pipeline (or more) video card on ebay foe around $100. ie.. geforce 6800 or better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agriath
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I bought Far Cry recently and beat very quickly on medium difficulty. 9-10 hours. I was very surprised 
 by this; because the people at Crytek were showing off the 1.2 kilometers draw distance and so 
 I assumed I would be traveling around the island searching for certain things, creeping around 
 stealthily. But of course, No this wasn't the case. It was just blow everyone in your path to pieces. 
 Yes, you have to be careful while doing this but it doesn't matter how stealthy you are. When an 
 enemy hits the alarm the most that ever happens is the other guys are aware of your presence and 
 a buggy with two guys might come. I was very disappointed in Far Cry for having so many indoor 
 levels. In fact it frustrated me, because it looked so plain and boring inside; outside in the 
 jungle is where all the actions happens. Trigents arent even a bother inside because a shotgun 
 blast to the head takes care of them. Out in the jungle its different, they weave back and forth, 
 jump around and do their best to avoid being killed. This of course makes it much more challenging. 
 The cut scenes in Far Cry to me were terrible, they were not acted well and the movements of the 
 characters seemed choppy, I would have preferred no cutscenes/ingame cut scenes. Now that I'm done 
 with my complaints, here are the parts of Far Cry that make it a great game. Because of the 1.2 
 km draw distance, sniping is so incredibly fun. Taking a guy out from 1 KM away gives you a satisfying 
 feeling (Its hard though, Jacks' hands are very shaky) . The Ai is also quite impressive; they 
 call up reinforcements, duck for the nearest cover and flank you. But the Ai in the Trigents was 
 average, but it didn't need to be good because well, they're escaped science experiments. The loading 
 times are quite impressive. The only time there is ever a loading bar is at the end of a level, 
 and that goes by quickly. You can always tell when you're checkpoint is being saved though. The 
 game stutters for a second or two whilst its being saved but its not something that will get you 
 killed or even hurt ( by a mercenary or Trigent) . In conclusion; I though Far Cry was given more 
 credit than it deserved. It was a fun 12 hours of playtime but not that awesome. The multiplayer 
 was a letdown, shouldn't even be there unless you can get 64 player support. Maps are too big.. 
 Far Cry is now at a discounted price and is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur_digitized
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  It would be an understatement if I say Far Cry is the best game ever. In fact, its the best game 
 ever by far ( Half Life 2 comes a distant second) . It is set in a tropical paradise which looks 
 stunningly beautiful to say the least. The graphics is awesome, AI superb and the mission engrossing. 
 What I liked most about this game is the suspense element. Just when u think the game is coming 
 to an end, it throws a pleasant surprise. Also, its not a typical FPS where there is only one way 
 to complete a mission. e. g, u can take a vehicle, steam boat or glider or just swim to your destination. 
 The weapons are cool, sniper being the best of them all. Some minor flaws are rudimentary physics 
 engine ( heavy objects dont feel heavier ) and difficult vehicle control.
  But you wont notice them at all as you will be engrossed in this virtual heaven called FAR CRY. 
 It is a game which should not be missed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  When my noob buddy bought it for $10.00 and asked if I'd like to play it with him, I replied It's 
 an old game but heck, let me setup and we'll play ... The thing is, I haven't played it in 3 yrs 
 almost and I thought just to let him get OWNED by me and that would be that... Well, I updated 
 all the latest patches and some AMD Dual core patches, To my surprise the game is still the GAME! 
 It's graphics still rocks as I'm the KING of Turtle Bay Island in MP... Sure I play HL2, COD2, 
 FEAR and all the other HIGH END game but this original is still kicking in the dust! The Crytek 
 egine still rocks shaders and optimum colors! A MUST REPLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed in the game was that you can distract enemies by throwing pebbles to 
 make noise. This distraction effect can be handy throughout the game to draw enemies near or get 
 them away from where you are. The second thing that EVERYONE will notice after a couple minutes 
 into the game when you get out into the open environment is that the graphics and detail in this 
 game are absolutely stellar. They are unlike anything I have ever seen in a game, from the extremely 
 detailed character maps to the waves of the ocean crashing up onto the shore. Almost everything 
 in the environment can be interacted with, from shelves in buildings, to hanging carcasses, to 
 the birds in the sky. You can even shoot fish in the water and they will float up to the surface 
 and roll in the waves. You might find yourself focusing on the visuals more than the game at first 
 since they are so impressive. The landscape is amazing compared to that of games like Ghost Recon. 
 You can actually hide in the grass and bushes and the enemies will lose track of you. If hidden 
 well, they can actually be standing right next to you and not realize you are there. Granted that 
 works both ways and I ended up getting shot quite a bit from the sneaky enemies. The vegetation 
 reacts to explosions and the wind, and it will also even leave shadows on your hand as you run 
 through. In order to complete the different objectives in the game, you are not set to any particular 
 approach, but are left to decide your plan of attack. You are not required to run from Point A 
 to Point B via Path C. You can drive around to a different part of the island in a boat and progress 
 from there or you can bushwack through the jungle. It doesn't matter, just reach that spot on the 
 compass. Some areas need for you to be stealth and creep about so they do not see you right away, 
 and other moments are all-out gunfire fests. The AI is impressive with enemies taking cover behind 
 boulders and then peeking out the other side to shoot at you. They even will flank and surround 
 you and will seem to attack from all sides. To help with this, you have a set of high-tech binoculars 
 that will plot enemies on your compass once they have been viewed by them. You can even hear what 
 the enemies are saying to each other when you are zoomed in on them. These are handy so that you 
 do not get caught in the open by a squad of grunts that are ready to mow you down. You can drive 
 different forms of vehicles in the game from armed buggies to slow, gigantic trucks. You can even 
 fly a hang-glider. The steering can get a little hard at times but there is a 3rd person view that 
 will help navigate around the islands when you are in a vehicle (which also makes aiming next to 
 impossible) . Multiplayer consists of Assault and Deathmatch style game play which I haven't really 
 tried out yet. Too bad there is no co-op multiplayer. One of the only bad parts about the game 
 that I have come across so far are some crazy attack monkeys that are near impossible to beat. 
 They move lightning quick and can leap crazy distances, only to kill you in 2 hits, regardless 
 if you have full health and armor or not. Once you are hit, you get stunned and you may as well 
 let go of the mouse because before you can aim again you are dead. The best I can say about these 
 guys is take your time, try to attack from a distance with the sniper rifle or at least aim for 
 their head, and get ready to run. Use the binoculars to try and find them in the open. Another 
 drawback is the lack of a quick-save feature. The game has specified save points that you hit along 
 the way, but if you get to the end of an area before a save point and you die, you have to go back 
 possibly quite a bit to get back to where you died (maybe just to die again) . Aside from these 
 two minuses and the fact that the game has such steep requirements, this is by far one of the best 
 FPS games I have ever played and would definitely recommend to the anyone who enjoys this type 
 of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king12kong12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry has stunned the world with a FPS that raised the bar of what makes a great game. Coming 
 from a once unknown developer, Crytek has become well-known thanks to this game.
  
  Far Cry follows the story of an ex-marine, Jack, who unwillingly ends up stuck on a group of tropical 
 islands, run by a madman who has an army of mercenaries at his disposal. The game will take you 
 through lush jungles, beautiful beaches, and deep into dark laboratories and factories. The story 
 is interesting and deep, with great, though sometimes a bit cheesy, dialogue.
  
  Getting through this story is very enjoyable, thanks to the great gameplay. Far Cry is quite similar 
 to any modern FPS. You find a variety of weapons to use, ranging from machetes, to assault rifles, 
 to rocket launchers. With a limit of four slots to carry a weapon, you will have to decide which 
 ones you want to use. There are also three types of grenades to toss around (frag, flash, smoke) , 
 as well as an unlimited supply of rocks, which can be used to distract the enemy. There are numerous 
 other gadgets which will help you through the game, such as night-vision and binoculars.
  
  There are a variety of vehicles you can operate, both land and sea, some of which have built in 
 machine guns and rocket launchers. All vehicles can be destroyed, so you have to be careful when 
 using one. There are also stationary machine guns and mortar launchers, often found in enemy bases, 
 which if you can get to them, you can use to mow-down enemy mercenaries.
  
  This game has unlimited ways to play it. You can run into an enemy camp, guns blazing, Rambo style. 
 Or you can sneak up (with the help of your stealth meter) and take the enemy out one at a time, 
 using the silenced SMG. Or you can climb to the highest hill nearby and snipe everyone you see. 
 With the outdoor levels, which are completely open, you can approach your objective from any way 
 you like.
  
  The graphics are what made this game famous. Everything, both the outdoor and indoor levels, look 
 amazing. The sound is also great. The weapons sound realistic, enemies chat with each other, vehicles 
 announce their approach and more. Both the graphics and sound are what really immerses you into 
 the game.
  
  With twenty long levels to complete, as well as multiplayer action online, this game has a lot 
 to offer you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the hardest games i have ever played. Playing on easy is ridulously hard, 
 i don't even want to try realistic. The game gets a little silly midway through with the trigens, 
 and overall i have to say the storyline was distorted at the least. Nonetheless, Far Cry is an 
 incredible game. The ai is one of the smartest i have ever encountered, being able to track, hide, 
 ambush, regroup, call for reinforcements and use advanced tactics to catch and kill you. The graphics 
 must have been stunning for their time, seeing that the veiw distance is enormous. The weapons 
 are realistic and well animated. Animations are well done. The levels that took place underground 
 or indoors had so so graphics. Outdoors was incredible. Gameplay was great. Overall, great fps, 
 one of the best. Looking forward to Crysis. The single player is long as hell by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrettHall
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  A friend recommended this game to me and I'm absolutely glad he did. At the time I bought it I 
 owned a Pentium 4 with 256 MB RAM with an ATI Radeon 9550 with 256 MB on board. I figured like 
 most games I was playing, I would have to set the game options to their near minimum settings. 
 Even at these settings the game looked amazing. It's look and feel simply draw you into the world. 
 After a little experimentation I found I was able to move the settings up some and I didn't notice 
 any degradation of performance of the game and the look got even better. After that then the games 
 story line grabs you and keeps you engaged and it's easy to lose track of time as you work to find 
 out what weird thing Jack is going to encounter next. The odd thing is that it seemed like it would 
 go on forever and I didn't mind that at all. I admit I bought the game well after its' relase and 
 so the price was a bargain especially when you factor how much game you got for the money. Even 
 at full price at release time the game would've been an excellent value had I bought it then. I 
 admit I'm a cheap S. O. B. and I was definitely not disappointed at all with this game. I like to 
 go back after a while and play a game on a higher difficulty setting and see how much tougher it 
 is. The game makes it tougher without becoming impossible. the only thing I found missing was a 
 quick-save option so you don't have to repeat so much when you die on the harder levels. Found 
 the cheat-code and that problem was solved. (I also admit I'm not the most skilled gamer and I 
 need a little help occasionally) For the most part the automatic save points are fine, though.
 
  
  Since I first got the game I've gotten a newer system and am able to turn the games settings up 
 even higher. I was amazed once again and how beautiful it looks. Even the wind moves blades of 
 grass and trees. The water also looks even more amazing. I can't seem to stop saying that. The 
 people at Ubisoft have obviously taken a lot of care to create game that's this beautiful and engaging. 
 I definitely recommend it to any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hertrix
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  For a 2003 game, graphics are over-advanced, AI system is way to skilled for you're own good (yes 
 it is MUCH like F. E. A. R.'s AI, but that game is 2006, not 2003) , and the story will keep you on 
 edge until you... well i'll let you find out for yourself. its just a shame that they didn't take 
 instincts to the PC. I would definetly have paid at least 70$ if they made instincs for the PC 
 or else the new Wii far cry for it as well. I mean, how many games in 03' did you see with this 
 much level of detail that let you explore the island at you're own free will? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  For being as old as 2004 or whatever year it came out. This game was one beautiful game. And very 
 hardware demanding for you computer. But if you have the system to run this bad boy at max settings 
 you wont be disappointed. This game is an awesome game and the only downfall i had with this game 
 was that you had to fight genetically altered monkey beasts. I like games where you just have to 
 deal with humans and killing the humans. Not creatures. Dont get me wrong the games are fun but 
 that was the only downfall that this game had, otherwise it was one awesome game. The island setting 
 was awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a stunning game in so many ways. The game design is fairly great, and you'll never know 
 where the enemies might come from. You really get the feeling of being in a island full of mercenaries 
 after you.
  
  The graphics of Far Cry are incredible. The lightning effects are really realistic. If the sun 
 is right behind you, you'll see your own shadow; if it's above you, you'll see the trees' shadows 
 on your gun. If you kill someone and his body falls on the water, a small amount of blood will 
 spread around the body. If something blows up near you, you'll be stunned by it for a couple of 
 seconds. You need to have a very powerful graphic card in order to play this game at its maximum. 
 You don't really need a top-notch video card, though. It runs perfectly smooth in either an integrated, 
 and brand-new video card.
  
  The gameplay is outstanding. The AI is really smart, and it'll react to your actions. For instance, 
 if you blow something up with a missile, the mercs will try to know where the missile came from, 
 and they'll start shooting at that location. This game is a bit of a mix between First-Person Shooter 
 Action, and Stealth Action. You have a "light meter" like the one found is Splinter Cell, but it 
 doesn't work the same way. It just tells you how likely you are to be spotted. You have a whole 
 lot of weapons, and items that you'll use to battle your way through these 20 tough levels. You 
 have a pair of binoculars, which are really useful to scout an area that's really far away. Don't 
 be fool, though. This are no commom binoculars. When it finds an enemy, it'll tag it, and the enemies 
 tagged will show on your radar when you get close enough to them. It has 24x zoom capabilities, 
 which is extraordinarily cool. The games graphics are so realistic that it keeps them active real-time 
 through a range of a kilometer around you. This means that you can tag, or kill an enemy from very 
 far away. As in Splinter Cell, you'll have a pair of goggles. They are called Cry-Vision. It'll 
 help you during night time, and to find hot bodies. Iy has a night-thermal vision. Everything that's 
 not giving off heat will be shown in gray, and anything that's giving off heat will be shown in 
 purple or red. You can carry a total of 4 guns at any given time. There are a total of 11 weapons, 
 and 3 kinds of grenades. You have a machete (Machete) , which is a huge blade that you can use to 
 cut your enemies. You have a pistol (Falcon .357) , which can be quite powerful as a close-range 
 weapon. You have 3 variaties of rifles (M4 Assault Weapon, G36, OICW Assault Weapon) . From the most 
 inaccurate, and not-so powerful to the most advanced and powerful one. There are 2 types of Sub-Machine 
 Guns (SMG) (P90 SMG, MP5 SMG) . You have a loud, but quite accurate one; and a quiet, but very inaccurate 
 one. You'll get one of the best shotguns (JackHammer Shotgun) I've ever seen. It's a semi-automatic 
 shotgun, but it feels as if it were full-automatic. A sniper rifle (Sniper Rifle) which can be use 
 to take down foes from a great distance, as much as a mile or so away. You'll come across a four 
 missile rocket launcher (Rocket Launcher) which is very powerful, and it can take out a whole group 
 of enemies. There's also a Machine Gun that you'll get to use in the final levels. It contains 
 a whole lot of ammo, but it's very inacurrate, but it has a fair substain rate of fire. There are 
 3 kinds of grenades, again, like the same kind that you have seen in a Splinter Cell game. There's 
 the Fragmentation Grenade, which will explode a second or two after you throw it. There's a Flashbang 
 Grenade, which will blind anyone within its radius. And you've got a Smoke Grenade, which will 
 make a very thick wall of smoke.
  In Far Cry you'll be able to use vehicles to get around faster, and sometimes safer. There are 
 2 jeeps, the Buggy, a small but very fast vehicle for two persons with a mounted Machine Gun on 
 top of it which you can shoot while driving. And there's the Humvee, a stronger version of the 
 Buggy. It can hold four or five persons, and it has a mounted Machine Gun too. There are two different 
 kinds of boats that you can use to go on water, you can swim, but it's faster to do it on a boat. 
 There's the common, and outta guns Inflatable Boat; and there's the Patrol Boat, which is stronger 
 and has a Machine Gun mounted on it, and a Mortar, or Rocket Launcher on it as well. There's a 
 "Big Truck" which is a big cargo vehicle, but it's very slow and doesn't have any weapons, so try 
 not to use it unless you feel like running over some bastards. A Forklift is fun to drive, but 
 like the Big Truck, it doens't have any guns, and you're really unprotected while sitting on it. 
 For the first time in the history of FPS, you'll get to fly through the sky with a glider. Yeah, 
 you heard me, a glider. The Hang Glider is the best vehicle to get around a huge island like this 
 one. It's kinda tricky to use it the first time, but you'll get the hang of it very quickly. You 
 can use your guns while you're above your enemies, and drop things at them too. There are two types 
 of choppers ( Helicopter Gunship, Cargo Chopper) , but you don't get to fly them. They're just for 
 enemies only.
  
  The story of Far Cry is a bit complicated. So, OK, your name is Jack Carver, and you were hired 
 to get a hottie photographer girl to a deserted islnd for her to take some pictures. The girl gets 
 captured by the mercs, and you have to save her. You find that she's a CIA agent, and she's looking 
 for something is this island. the mercenaries work for someone named Krieger, a mad scientist that 
 thinks he's doing some good by creating mutated animals. So you have to stop this dude at all costs. 
 The mutants go lose, and, yeah... All Hell Breaks Lose. Now the "paradise" is not only infected 
 by mercenaries that want you dead, but also mutants man-eaters that want every human dead. Tough 
 situation, huh? Stopping the mad scientist, save the girl, and get the f*** off this island. Harder 
 to do than to say, but that's the point, right?
  
  Overall, Far Cry plays like no other FPS does. It's somewhat innovative by the fact that the visuals 
 are so mind-blowing that you'll really think you're alone in a huge island. This is a must-have 
 for anyone that enjoys playing a very challenging FPS, and that it includes a bit of Stealth Action 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arto1223
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  It has by far the greatest single player mode of any game I have ever played. I almost hate the 
 game now because I beat it and there is no more, but that's not to say it doesn't have great replay 
 value, because it does. Since it is set on a massive island, you can go about completing the missions 
 a little different the second and third time around. Also, the AI is so good that in harder difficulties, 
 it seems so different.
  
  I wish that they would re-release it with the new engine that crysis has. Then the game would almost 
 be flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadp1xel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Even today, (the game is almost 4 years old) , i can't find a FPS of that kind.
  What you get with this one is huge outdoor environment, non-linear gameplay, (sometimes you've 
 got to follow corridors) , superb graphics; the crytek engine 1 still looks pretty amazing. You get 
 to fight mercenaries, soldiers and even virus infested monkeys... The A. I. was the best a the time, 
 (before F. E. A. R.) n. p. c.'s take cover, try to flank you, call's for back-up... You'll get enough 
 challenge for you're moneys worth.
  Storyline is not the best around but the environments are so diversified. You go from tropical beaches 
 to reaserch lab's to offices to three houses...
  If you have not played this one yet, then give yourself a treat get this one, check in the bargain 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  As I said Far Cry is one of the best action game I've played ever! This game is astonishing! Through 
 the time You are playing this game, it makes you think about it all the time. Everything in this 
 game looks so real: guns, environmental, people and so on. When I was playing it, i had stopped 
 few times because it was too hot, I had even un-installed the game, but next day I had installed 
 it again :D That's because this game makes you crazy. When i began to play it, i did not think 
 there will be kinda zombies or those ugly creatures in the game, but when they "came in" understood 
 that they really made the game more challenging in I knew that there is no way back and I just 
 have to kill'em all! I suppose everyone who likes action has to try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke6Lily
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are beautiful. It's bright, colorful, and a nice change from so many of 
 the other games that are dark and difficult to play because of that.
  It is a nice combination of shooting, driving, and strategy with outstanding music. It is challenging 
 in many ways... sometimes too much so, but that's all part of game play. I have spent way too many 
 hours in one location, trying over and over again to get it right. That's actually a good thing. 
 I would say that this is one of the two of my favorite games of all time and I would recommend 
 it to anyone who likes a challenge, likes quality graphics and who just wants to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usy911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  gameplay is difficult. bcoz farcry dont have quick saving option. it saves automatically. that is 
 weak point according to me. player life gets decreased instantly by just 2,3 bullet shots & 1 trojan 
 hit kills u. enemy a. i is very good & they r not easy to kill they hide & attack.& trojans are so 
 deadly their 1 it kills u. small trojan can be killed by 2,3bullets but big trojans needs big guns 
 like rocket launcher or a machine gun. i took me 1month to complete the game man phew... but game 
 is good but not excellent. one thing i like about this game is beautiful islands & halo style jeep 
 driving. game is good go for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  The graphics are wonderful, astonishing in fact, the AI is great and man did I have fun sneaking 
 around and taking out every single mercenary on the islands.
  
  Actually this was the first game I installed on my new system (XPS600) after I've been playing 
 a few levels on my old Dell Dimension 8200. What a difference! Now I could see grass moving in 
 the wind and much more detailed objects and besides that a highly improved frame rate. I remember 
 at the very beginning I jumped when a shadow dropped on me, quickly I turned, looked up, turned 
 again, but saw nothing, nothing but a palm tree... then it came to me, it was the shadow of one 
 of the palm leaves that dropped on me. This I didn't have on my old 8200, so it was a complete 
 new experience and worth it to start all over to not miss out on any of the eye-candy. (I had planned 
 to copy my saved game to the XPS at first) .
  
  Story: You're Jack, you're boat was blown up by a rocket launcher and now you're stranded on an 
 island group. It's clear you're not alone and that your presence is not appreciated. Find yourself 
 a weapon fast, keep your head down and don't make too much noise. A few flashbacks will tell you 
 more about your background.
  
  Game-play: When you draw attention to yourself the mercenaries come looking for you, don't try 
 to be smart, when on a beach, to hide on another island, these guys can swim too! When in the woods, 
 they'll try to close you in. So take 'm out fast, or try to sneak past 'm, which I found difficult 
 at some times. I killed them all, I don't like to be attacked from behind nor to be able to fall 
 back far enough to hide from new enemies.
  
  You can drive jeeps and boats. Take out drivers and gunners from other vehicles and take 'm over 
 when your own vehicle is damaged too much.
  
  Start wondering: Why are there dozens of mercenaries around these islands, what's so important, 
 what's there that must not be revealed? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Great game to own, and test your high powered graphics and memory cards. The color, physics, and 
 gameplay are terrific. 
  
  Very realistic weapons handleing. Annoying, but very realistic. Great story line. Could play all 
 day and night, just as long as the graphics card holds up. LOL.
  
  The best requirements for seamless gameplay:
   256MB graphics card
   1G DDR Memory
   3G 
 Processor
  
  Terrific map editor in order to create your own paradise to battle throughout.
  So far the only 
 UbiSoft product that actual does what it is suppose to do. Ubi needs to take heed to this style 
 of first person shooter design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  What is far cry? You ask..
  
  It is simply the best single-player first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life.
 
  
  While all the people were eagerly waiting for Doom3 and Half-life2 an unexpected player came to 
 town. Far cry was released and it changed every thing, one can expect from a shooter. It offered 
 the player the richest game-play experience in a shooter to date. 
  
  The game offered more of every thing. More freedom.. More vehiclesMore weapons.. More choices.. More 
 intensityMore excitement. More More More
  
  All this presented in an excellent environment that is defiantly the best looking since.. forever. 
 So what can u do in such a game?
  U can hide in the bushes and snipe the enemy in a way that beats delta force.
  U can engage in 
 close quarter combat in a way that beats f. e. a. r (which was released long after the game) 
  U can drive more vehicles than halflife2 (which was also released after the game) 
  U have weapons 
 that function realistically in ways that beat (rainbow six lockdown) 
  U can bring down a plane with your rocket launcher in a way that beats battle field 2
  U can 
 engage in vehicle combat 
  U can .
  U can .
  U can 
  U can.
  
  Get the point .alright then lets dance
  
  The game beats almost all the shooters at their 
 best points, and it does not seem limited by any boundaries.
  I. e.: The long range firefights does not affect the excellent close quarter combat battles. Having 
 wide open areas does not affect the beautiful indoor settings. 
  Being action oriented and intense does not affect the realistic (recoil, aiming, and shooting) 
 factors.
  Driving vehicles doesnt mean that you cant go sneaking between the bushes on foot.
  
  The 
 A. I in this game is something else I have never seen something like it. Keep in mind the huge open 
 door area that the A. I is operating in then consider any other title with huge outdoor environments 
 and try to compare the A. I. in both titles. Far cry wins hands downthe A. I is also extremely clever 
 in close quarters too, similar to the one we saw in f. e. a. r. 
  
  The sounds are excellent; u can even hear the sounds of the jungle birds. the graphics are superb 
 if your machine can handle them. The game-play offers the player high levels of freedom. Yes you 
 have to move from point A to point B but how you get there is totally up to u, sneak , rush or 
 in-between. 
  
  This is the gamers dream. Defiantly the new king of shooters 
  We must note that the new titles (Stalker, Hell-gate, Crisis) and many others are seeming very 
 threatening. We have to wait and see if these titles can beat this king or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schfive
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I've had a number of FPS games so far and none have delivered like Far Cry. It's an awesome game! 
 There is nothing to dislike about it. It has gorgeous graphics, amazing sound (even better if you 
 have THX surround and a great sound card) , addictive gameplay, smart AI, and great guns. The graphics 
 in the game are just phenomenal! Crytek did an amazing job with this. There is so much density 
 in the graphics. The jungles are so thick with plants and trees that it's almost like it's straight 
 from the Amazon or something. 
  And everything else is just rendered so beautifully that I can't stop admiring it. The sound is 
 also very well done. With surround sound, sound placement is done well along with the Doppler. 
 Leaves and such crunch under your feet and grenades in tunnels reverberate. And the gameplay is 
 just unbeatable. I've been a fan of Halo and Halo 2 for a long time, but this game has so much 
 more to it. I can't describe just how good it is. The AI is great too. If they see you they'll 
 go get others to help fight you. They hide when shot at and do most of the stuff you'd expect them 
 to do. The guns, I think, are balanced quite nicely, with all the weapons you need to get the job 
 done, whether you're going in full commando or if you're sneaking in. The vehicles are pretty cool 
 too, but I think that they could have made them a little better, especially adding more traction 
 to the tires. But other than that, the game is stellar. Absolutely amazing. Amazing. Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSGD2003
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Pretty, definitely pretty, very pretty, or as the french would say: trs pretty! The best part 
 of this game is the graphics. These are very good graphics. Do NOT underestimate the prettiness 
 of these graphics. But besides the graphics, there are also gameplay, which is okay, but the plot 
 is horribl. The gameplay is much as other FPS'es, with a bad plot to boot. To put it in simple 
 terms, the plot is the antipode of the graphics. Another thing with this game, is that the enemy 
 has supersight! They can see you 200km awy, so beware. Besides the standard gameplay and plot, 
 there is sound, which is also standard, but above par. Oh, and multiplayer is: eh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuckboy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  In FarCry you play as Jack Carver, an ex special forces... charter boat guy. One day a brown haired, 
 belly-button flaunting woman asks him to take him to an uncharted island, so by some coincidence 
 he manages to find this UNCHARTED island and delivers her there. The intro cutscene was pretty 
 unimpressive, as it did not really explain what was going on, but I pretty soon realised that story 
 is not FarCry's Forte, and the cutscenes aren't either.
  
  Jack starts his adventure in an underground bunker, and I have to say, at this point the visuals 
 are very, very good. When you get out of the bunker though, you'll realise why FarCry is great. 
 You are presented with a vast island full of mercenaries, foliage and eventually mutants. 
  
  It is good fun to hide in the bushes and plan out your attack on the merc camps. Rushing at 
 4 or more mercs guns blazing is likeley to earn you a one way ticket to hell, since damage is more 
 punishing than in other games of the genre- A few seconds of sustained fire at full health and 
 armour will be enough to whittle you down to 0. When you get to the mutants, you will find that 
 two swipes is enough to kill you and your armour.
  
  You have all sorts of equipment at your disposal, sniper rifles, flashbang, frag and smoke grenades, 
 rocket launchers, night vision goggles, Buggies, HANG GLIDERS!- the list just goes on. So what 
 makes the game entertaining almost the entire way through is the sheer variety of ways you can 
 make progress.
  
  As for the general jist of the game, it's almost comical; Macho ex-special forces boat charter 
 guy meets sexy photojournalist who lands him on a tropical island owned by a crazy scientist guy 
 who thinks that the future of mankind is for us all to be 10ft tall and have a rocket launcher 
 for an arm. The quality of the cutscene animation ranges from pretty good to downright awful, but 
 appreciate that this game was rushed by the developers so that they could win the "next gen" race.
 
  
  There is no escaping the fact that far cry is 100% corny- the voice acting, the sexy female heroin 
 who by custom strips to her underwear at one point in the game for no real reason, the whole mutant 
 business, the way the vehicles handle, the adherance to the strip the player of his well earned 
 arsenal 3/4 through the game. Again the list just goes on. But being corny doesn't make far cry 
 bad, it compliments the game.
  
  The only problem that I had with far cry is the developers idea of a climax was to flood the entire 
 map with every enemy in the game. Once you get to the later stages you'll find yourself using the 
 "fire some wild shots to alert them then run back to a choke point and get out the shortgun" tactic 
 far too much. This gets tedious after a while, as does the extreme difficulty of the last level- 
 you will have to reload many many times.
  
  Its a shame about the end of FarCry in my opinion, because the rest of it is excellent in just 
 about every way, but when I finally beat the game, I had no desire ever to touch it ever again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballerking
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  Far cry is a beatiful and long game that should be added to any body game collection, wether you're 
 a fanboy of a certain system, you just can't beat some of the exclusives of games on all platforms.
 
  
  Anyways game is challenging, even on easy mode it can be tuff for a newcomer but if you're a vet 
 in fps then you'll get in the hang of the game controls easily and should try it out on hard mode, 
 but some of the voice acting could be bad but the sound and graphics make up for that.
  
  The story line is fair and interesting in the later part of the game, if you like horror twisted 
 plots then you'll will like this game story line.
  
  As for online, not that much people plays it now but back when it first came out it was one of 
 the crazy online games you can play but now you still have fun but don't suspect much people to 
 be on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Farcry is a great game, I'll sya that flatout. Shooting mechanics are nice, weapons are cool, enemies, 
 vehicles and environments are all nice. The graphics are the trademark though. Sharp, stunning, 
 and crystal clear visuals are amazing. You'll wanna just jump in the water the minute you see it. 
 You do need an up to date graphics card though, an old 128 Ram one won't do. The story is not impressive 
 however. It's simple. Ex-military (I think) Jack retires to being a charter boatsman and escorts 
 a scientist chick to this secret island with ex-mercs and mutated creatures... she disappears and 
 you go on a mission to find her. But the story isn't important anyway. A. I is arguably excellent, 
 but environments don't vary much and you might not be compelled to finish the game and start over. 
 But if you can run this game with full settings, it makes ALLL the difference. Awesome game, check 
 it out if you can, you should love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gagan21
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  i really like this game , i always wanted to play this game , but due to my low end pc , i was 
 never able to play it, and now i ve played it on my new pc an amd 3000 with 6600 GT 256 1 GB ram. 
 and all i can say is that it was worth the wait , far crys graphics are amazing even if u compare 
 it with other shooters like half life2 or doom3 , it should be described in one word awesome, plus 
 the sound is even better , u actually get the feeling of being in the jungle , the tropical island 
 settings are perfect,
  far cry is not just a regular run and gun , it s based on some stealth action too , there are manny 
 different ways to complete ur objevtives plus u have the freedom to roam in the jungle, u can detect 
 ur enemies by their footsteps or see them through leaves , the graphics are detailed whether you 
 are inside the ships or in the caves , the jungles are even more detailed when u set the settings 
 to ultra high. their is tons of shooting in the game and u get some powerfull weapons in the game 
 , plus u geta binocular in this game that helps u on ur route to ur objectives , its up to u whether 
 u want to just play it by stealth or just run and gun , but doing that will give u frequent deaths 
 , so at somepoints stealth is a better option , far cry also has vehicles in it . u get hummers 
 , boats , jeeps , trucks and my favourite a handglidor , this game would be remebered by me in 
 my books as 1 of the best games on my pc since half life and half life 2 . 
  people those who havent played this game should right now get this game . its storyline is great 
 , graphics are awesome , sound is mindblowing and gameplay is superb. far cry is simpl; y the best 
 action adventure game on the pc that no fps or action fans should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  
  Far Cry is one of the Best First Person Shooter on PC & its come out before 2 years but its still 
 Good choice if u want New game ... this game Competition with Halo - Half life & another FPS games 
 & u must try this game . . . 
  
  Story = Jack Craver have boat in the middle of the sea Mercinaries Shoot his boat with RPG he wake 
 up in island & want to survive . . .
  
  Good = Splendid Single Player Mode - great graphics - drive any vehichle u see like HALO. . . 
 
  
  Bad = The Levels tough , Hard & thats good but its short . . .
  
  Just Try this game & u will like it . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstareo1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is an excellent game. Really. There are dozens of approaches to any situation in the game, 
 the AI is smart and responds to what you do, 
  the graphics are top-notch, its sounds great, and mods are incredibly easy to make with the Cryengine 
 sandbox. the bad news, though is that later in the game, it becomes damn near impossible. The trigens 
 are way to ahrd to kill, especially the big ones, which can withstand dozens of rocket hits, and 
 many sniper shots to the gead, and theyre usually right on you so you usually end up dying. the 
 jungle scenery looks amazing, and well, becides afew cheezy lines "who are you?" "that's not important" 
 "how do i know i can trust you?" "well, for starters, I havent turned you in..." said in a weird 
 excpression on some words that gets better as the game goes on, thankfully. but yeah, great game, 
 worth buying, although the multiplay is kinda iffy. Oh, and its reeeally long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesjiao
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Crisp and beautifully rendered. This is the best first person shooter I have played 
 pre-doom. The character models, with Anti aliasing turned on to maximum, look extremely competitive 
 compared to the ones found in the Doom 3 game. In the game, shadows of your enemies give away tell-tale 
 signs of how close they are to your position so as to give you ample time to get yourself ready 
 to blast them away with your shotgun. The game is divided into outdoor and indoor levels. Outdoor 
 scenes are breathtaking. The water looks so clear and real. Indoor dungeons are very Doom 3 like 
 and walking through the corridor gives you an eerie feeling that you are being watched and you 
 can be attacked at any moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madnesscombat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Just to let you know, I ran this game with 2 gigs of ram, 3.2 GHz speed, and a GeForce 7300 LE 
 graphics all max out at 1024x768 resolution. So if you don't believe me, a GeForce 7300 LE card 
 is more than enough. I've played the 1.33 version all high textures and shadows and all the goodies 
 turned up.
  
  Gameplay is one of the best. It's like a great combination of stealth and instant action. The AI 
 is great, they communicate, they work together, they try to flank the player and the lush jungles 
 are a treat to explore.
  
  Graphics is just flat out gorgeous. Lush beautiful jungles, each plant casts its own shadow on 
 your gun, beautiful water and sunlight effects are just a treat to the eye.
  
  Sound is great also. You can track your enemies by their footsteps, leaves crunching underneath 
 their boots and bird chirping in the jungles are just so immersive.
  
  Replay Value is also awsome. there are many different ways to approch a problem. Like hide in the 
 bushes and take out mercs silently, go crazy and run and gun, or try to flank them by swimming 
 around to the other side or sneak past them. It's really well played out. Only problem is the enemies 
 are always starting in the same place.
  
  Tilt is pretty good too. From going to jungles to caves to ship interiors are a great shift in 
 the gameplay. Like in ship interiors, you can't hide in bushes or leaves anymore, you have to use 
 your wits to out smart your enemies.
  
  Over it's an amazing game. It does everything right. 9.6 is a well deserved score. This game is 
 going to be in my collection for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Buy far Cry!!! It has been out since 2004 so it should be very affordable now.
  
  The game looks great, plays great, good storyline, and there is a ton of downloadable content for 
 the game. Once you are done with single player jump in to multiplayer and have some fun
  
  I really like the fact that once you start ratcheting up the difficulty setting the game really 
 does get difficult. I died more in far cry single player that pretty much any game I think I have 
 ever played. It is refreshing to have a game designer make a game so that even the one bump in 
 difficulty can make the game noticeably more difficult. In numerous games out there an increased 
 difficulty means where there was one bad guy, now there are 2 or three: yet their overall aggressiveness, 
 accuracy, etc. never improved... not so in far cry.
  
  Did I mention this game looks great? Go play on a tropical island and blow everything up while 
 you are at it!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a great blend of outdoor and close quarters fighting with a variety of combat capable 
 enimies. The game has excellent graphics, good physics, and the best jungle warfare so far in a 
 game. If you can get past the weak story, the annoying dialog and the sometimes frustrating enemies, 
 you will have a blast with this game. The environments are well thought out and are packed tons 
 of detail, from mercenary bases in jungle clearings to huge sience labs overrun with pesky mutants 
 the game environments stay interesting through to the very end. The human enemies are clever and 
 search through the jungle in search of you forcing you to flank around and attack them from unexpected 
 directions. The mutants you run into later on in the game are not very smart just hard to kill 
 and you will find yourself falling to their claws on multiple occasions which can get pretty frustrating. 
 The game comes with a nice map editor and the single player campaign is pretty long.
  
  Pros: Great graphics and environments, intense gunfighting both indoors and out, nice long single 
 player game with pelnty of replay value, crisp sound effects, stays interesting and fresh right 
 through to the end.
  
  Cons: Weak story line and bad voice acting and scripts, mutants aren't much fun to fight, long 
 loading times, multiplayer is weak, minor stability issues.
  
  Overall: Worthwhile game that provides plenty of fun and can be played a couple of times. The incredible 
 island graphics help set this game apart. The gameplay is solid and stays fresh. Worth getting.
 
  
  --Mark -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JP_Raptor
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Ok, this game ain't like any other game to me; it shouldn't even be under the catagory of a shooter. 
 It should have its own catagory. You are basiclly Jack Carver, retired navy commander who just 
 retired. But of course, you get throw back into action! The graphics on this game our amazing!!!! 
 When I play this game, I feel like I'm on Jurassic Park :D: D The detail is soooooo amazing. The 
 sound, well, just as good. Don't want to gointo detail though XD. A. I. is very well done; these 
 "mercs" call in renforcements when you start spanking them. They also have pretty good sight and 
 hearing like a real person does. They also flank you and communicate with eachother. Now I don't 
 suck, but every once and a while I get killed by them, they DO flank you. Gameplay is AMAZING!!! 
 If you want to go stealthy, then go stealthy. If you wanna go commando, well then start rushin. 
 You can do what ever you want. Multiplayer is just as good (if not better) than single player. 
 So if you happen to stroll by this homeless game at a store, do yourself (and itself) a favor and 
 buy it. You WILL play it non-stop!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best shooter games that there has ever been on the pc. One of the reasons is 
 that you actually have a mission objective and it is not just going around beating the crap out 
 of everyone. This game also has amazing graphics. Unfortunately in this game you cant save so that 
 really sucks. Since you cant save the down side is that even on easy mode it is almost impossible 
 to beat. Other than not being able to save this game deserves the shooter of the year award and 
 perhaps the award for the best shooter game of all time. So if you are looking for a excellent 
 shooter game then this game is certainly the game for you and you can trust me on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Farcry is a strong first person shooter that brings great action and gameplay with it.
  
  The Pro's: Great graphics, even for now. So imagine them 2 years back. Many different weapons at 
 your disposal. Open-end gameplay lets you try situations in different ways. A. I is good and will 
 usually hit their target at the higher difficulties. Physics in the game give it a realistic feel. 
 Vehicles.
  
  The Con's: Open-end gameplay is not really as good as many would think. See the island over there? 
 yes, you can go there, but there is nothing on it. Meaning no people are bases. And usually doyle 
 will tell you something to make you go the right direction. A. I can detect you pretty easy and 
 will pull out their gun on the slightest sound or movement. The game crashes from time to time. 
 The story is pretty bad, but has an okay twist to it. It doesnt really finish on a good note, meaning 
 you still want to know more after the ending. Driving a vehicle is pretty hard and can get annoying 
 because it is so jumpy.
  
  The con's are actually minor things and shouldn't really bother the typical first person shooter 
 player. There is a lot of shooting, and its great fun. I enjoyed this game a lot. Even for a 2 
 year old game, i can see why everyone is "crazy" about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most goregous games out there. You are Jack Carver, a man that recently 
 got out of a dirty buisness and is now doing tours around a cahin of islands. But when a persuasive 
 girl rents his water scooter, a rocket comes from the island annd tears his ship to pieces.
  
  Stranded on an island, Carver must find out exactally whats going on, and find a way out. Easier 
 said then done.
  
  Fighting off soldigers at the begenning, zombies near the halfway mark, and diffrent mutated creatures 
 later in the game, Farcry gives you relentless action from start to finish.
  
  The graphice are nothing short of amazing. The new engine shines in the first of the series and 
 gives the player a huge sense of freedom. The navigation radar shows you the destination, but you 
 make the path. Run into a camp blind firing until you can make your way into a jeep and push the 
 petal to the metal? Stealthy creep in the grass over to a watchtower with an unsuspecting sniper, 
 kill him and take out the rest of the camp newly found sniper rifle? Or just stay as far away from 
 the camp ass possible and grab a boat and head for the open rivers? It's all up to you.
  
  The sounds are your average guns shots with backround sounds dubbed very well. The chatter between 
 enemies is often hilarious, and you may find yourself listening to a group of enemies complain 
 about their hygene or sleeping quarters before finishing them off.
  
  The only gripe I could have with Farcry is that the beginning impresses you with good stealth mechanics, 
 but then further into the game, it seems to get a bit more sloppy. Enemies somehow ALWAYS know 
 where to find you in the brush and relentless checkpoints puts you down a hallway and the next 
 corner has a rocket creature, ( almost looking like the one from DOOM ) that has you trying to 
 dodge rockets fifty times in a row before you can land a few good gernades. 
  
  All that aside, the origional Farcry for PC is much past the newer commings in quality. No spamming 
 with infinitive enemy spawnpoints and not telling you that it's impossible to kill them all. No 
 ordering you around in a certain path with a grassy fence. You go wherever you want. Peroid. I 
 would definately recommend it for playerd with higher end PCs because this is really a game to 
 show off to you friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plays_4_Pants
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Playing this game now rather than when it was hyped to death. You'll realize a lot of things that 
 makes this game not so good. 
  First, the story. There is none and when there is something in that sense it is ABSOLUTELY PATHETIC. 
 I mean horrible folks and the character actors are so ridiculous and over the top in a not-so-funny 
 way.
  Second, the gameplay. It's open-ended. Cool. But it's an open ended SHOOTER!? So, what, i can swim 
 or walk... then shoot people. Or i can drive... and shoot people. Or i can just run and gun... which 
 involves shooting people. 
  The graphics were something. the hype was something... but besides that it's dull. If you like shooting 
 hundreds of mercenaries one kill at a time (cause you can't get caught! RUT ROH!) over and over 
 and over again. pick this up... but i can't stand this game for more than 30 minutes at a time. 
 
  
  This game goes to show what hype and "purty graphics" does to people. It makes people ignore the 
 fact that what they're doing isn't fun at all and nobody at crytek bothered to try to make it fun. 
 That was the last thing on their mind in this game it seems. They were too busy making trees sway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robinvd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game ROCKS!!!
  i had so much pleasure with this game its a recommend to FPS lovers!
  
  Graphics:
  Awesome!! Never seen something like this before in 2004 ;-)
  I was really stunned 
 of the Nature where you were it was really some hot ass work. Go Crytek!
  
  Gameplay:
  Super as always.
  
  Value:
  Omg what you waiting for?
  Go buy it!!!!
  
  Sound:
  WTF!!!!????
 
  The sound is soooo good.
  
  I really hope they make a Far Cry 2 for the pc cause this is so much pleasure and i want to feel 
 it again.
  People that want this game must go to there shop now. DONT WAIT!
  The movies in this game are also very nice done and this game made me really scary @ some points 
 and that was just great.
  Hmm dont know what to say anymore.... oh yeah.... THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!
  
  Cheers /me ^_^.
 
  
  Woohoo First review: P and it sucks tbh: P
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObviousMan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  After finishing the original Half Life the other day I was looking for a new game and found Far 
 Cry on Fileplanet's D2D service for $10. I figured that I couldn't go wrong with a highly rated 
 game for $10, and boy was I right!
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay here with the exception of a couple flaws is incredible in Far Cry. This has 
 all the elements that make a great FPS game including a great story and great firefights. The great 
 part of this game is that there is hardly ever a dull moment. Also a high point here is the enemy 
 AI. This is the first FPS game I have every played in which cover actaully means something. In 
 most games a bush is simply transparent to enemies, however you can sneak around all you want in 
 this game. 
  
  On of the few problems with this game is that Jack Carver moves way to slow. When the sprint key 
 is held down the pace is just about right, but Jack has limited stamina. Also, sometimes when you 
 are attacked by the mutant creatures, they will swipe at you, and even if you are a good ways away 
 you can take damage. 
  
  Graphics: When this game was released in 2004 it boasted the best graphics of any game out there. 
 These graphics are still great and will stress almost any GPU out there. The engine does have a 
 few flaws. For instance, in one indoor temple leve I entered a room and killed some bad guys, yet 
 they never fell down or stopped moving. They instead ran in place still holding their weaponsno 
 matter how much I shot them. Strange glitch.
  
  Sound: The sound quality in this game is great there is nothing wrong with it. One annoying problem 
 was when using the binoculars and listening in on a far away conversation, zooming in and out would 
 cut the audio.
  
  Value: For $10 who wouldn't pick up this game!
  
  Tilt: I want to give this a 10, but the cheesy dialog throughout the game kind of turned me off. 
 Don't let that stop you from buying this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiquityxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Large open expanses, insane draw distances, and intelligent AI made you stand and take notice. 
 The sound effects reinforced the visuals and pulled you into the action. The music was understated, 
 felt dynamic yet immersed you further into its world.
  
  Although the 'Mutant human experiment gone wrong' script has been killed to death in gaming - the 
 areas of innovation in graphics and AI make up for its few weak points. A solid FPS.
  
  For the Creative Beast - The game shipped with an amazing sandbox editor to help you extend your 
 fun with Farcry by designing a level of your own and share it with the extensive online community. 
 Both of these elements stretch the replay of this game into the hundreds of hours as it's easy 
 to spend many of them pouring over maps and mods released through the community.
  
  I can attest to that as I spent months learning the mapping tool and writing my own level. Going 
 through this process I found a new respect for the designers and scripters of Farcry. http://www. michaelkosmatka. com/farcry. html
 
  
  A highly recommended title. Gamers will be reference back to this game for years as a benchmark 
 in FPS gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is the most graphically impressive game of its time. During the campaign, you will notice 
 a very non-linear mission structure and great depth of feild as you can sneak by your enemy in 
 many of the missions. The game is great looking from the interior when you start the game through 
 the expansive outdoors. That is where far cry really excells, while its interior is as good looking 
 as any other FPS, the outside is impressive from the trees to the sky to the amazing water. Of 
 course you will need a quality graphics card to see all that the game offers. That is not to say 
 that it is hardware intensive, of course it needs decent specs, but any card should play this game. 
 The multi-player offers a few different maps although you will get hooked on just having fun running 
 around or hiding in the bushes. it is not too faced paced where only veterans can get into it, 
 but it gives you the choice of your style of play. this is a game that all FPS fans should own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  I still can remember downloading the Demo of this game and being amazed at the graphics! The very 
 first thing that caught my eyes was the water... WOW!!! Over all the entire environment was just 
 amazing as well. Back then I was running a MSI 5600 XT 256 Meg Video Card... and it still looked 
 very nice. After upgrading to my EVGA GeForce 6800 GT 256 Meg card... the game became even better.
 
  The overall gameplay and storyline is great in that it keeps you riveted and on the edge of your 
 seat as you play! Trying to stay alive is the key to the game without getting noticed by your enemy. 
 This is very hard to do in that the AI in this game is just amazing. Probably the best in any game 
 on the market to date. You can throw rocks to lure the enemy towards you or away from you... but 
 don't rely on that because they will search for you and try their very best to kill you. As the 
 game progresses you find out your mission is to find a girl named Valerie and help rescue her while 
 trying to fight off hordes of Mercenaries and creatures the evil doctor is creating. Not only do 
 you have several types of weapons at your disposal, but vehicles as well ranging from jeeps to 
 boats and even hang gliders! Weapons abound as well in that as you kill enemies... you get to take 
 what they leave behind. The other thing that makes this game so very interesting is that it is 
 very non linear. The quest on each level is told to you by a man named Doyle via a radio... but 
 you choose how you are going to get there. Having played some levels over and over I find that 
 you can do each level different every time! This is because the AI is so great that the enemies 
 will follow you to kill you making each encounter different each time you play. 
  The graphics.... AWESOME! If you have a high end video card you are in for a real Eye Candy Treat!!! 
 The water is just so pretty and if you can have the graphics set on max you will see shadowing, 
 plants and even fish swimming around as you do in the water. The transitions from diving deep to 
 coming up to the surface are great in that the light will get brighter as you surface as well as 
 things on the surface slowly come into view. Simply the best water in any game on the market to 
 date! When you shoot something in the game... it marks up the area with a bullet hole just like 
 it would in real life... and it stays there thru the entire level. Not just a mark that is temporarily 
 there... but a lasting impression. I particularly was impressed on the carrier level when I shot 
 a enemy and after he dropped I noticed that the bullets had not only killed him but gone thru the 
 sheet metal in the wall... thus letting light beams come in! Realism at it's finest! Birds, fish, 
 mosquitoes are all over the place bringing the environment to life. Vegetation everywhere blowing 
 in the wind along with great sky textures that are reflected to the smallest detail in the water. 
 Ground effects are also unmatched by any other game as well. Gravel to sand to grass... it is all 
 here and looks so very very real!!! 
  Sounds are exceptionally great in this game. If you have a surround sound system... you will really 
 learn how to appreciate it! Also having a high end sound card makes the entire difference in this 
 game. I am currently running a Sound Blaster X-Fi. I upgraded from a Sound Blaster Audigy and the 
 game sounds totally different. Being you are not only hunting down the enemy... as well as being 
 hunted too. You can hear people walking up behind you and it actually sounds as if they are. Distance 
 and sound work hand in hand very well in this game. If you listen you can hear the enemy getting 
 closer. You can tell how far away they are very easily because so much detail went into making 
 this game realistic. One time I was in prone position in a bush and heard footsteps coming up behind 
 me. It was so very realistic it was scary. With my card I can even hear sniper bullets going past 
 me in the air... both on approach as well as they pass me. I can tell where they came from just 
 from the awesome sound in this game. Vehicles as well have great sound too and change their tone 
 as damage happens to them. Explosions are just awesome as well from grenades too! My personal favorite 
 is the sounds underwater. You can hear everything in the environment around you as well as the 
 water and bubbles as you swim around. I also found the binoculars great in that they have sound 
 enhancement on them so you can listen to the enemy talking to each other. They have funny conversations 
 that will make you laugh as well as other conversations that will inform you of things to help 
 you on your adventure. 
  In conclusion... this game is not your typical FPS! It has so much to offer the consumer. Awesome 
 graphics with amazing sounds, great environments with a great storyline make this one of my favorite 
 games to play! A quest for survival is the key to this game. This is not a run thur, spray and 
 pray type of game... but more so a very tactical game in that you can literally seek out your enemies 
 and decide the best attack mode for your safety as well as to complete each task. The game is somewhat 
 of a demanding game in that if you want all of the Eye Candy it has to offer, you will need a medium 
 to high end system to obtain that. My only thing I wish it had was a quick save feature. You have 
 save game points in this game. This I feel is what makes this game so hard. You start a level and 
 have no idea of where the next save game point is. This is a blessing and a curse in that it will 
 make you become a better player because you have to slow down as you play becoming as I stated, 
 more tactical in your game play. It can become a curse in that if you are hurting health wise and 
 are quite far from the next point... it can make your quest very difficult! If you don't have this 
 game and are looking for a great challenge along with the best graphics and sound... go and get 
 your copy today! You will not be disappointed in any way! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenHu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  I loved the game, the guns and the stealth. One thing was the ability of AI's to be able to spot 
 you so easily and could ruin your whole stealth plan. One thing i really wished was that the objects 
 moved a little more and more objects could move instead of just standing there being stationary 
 when shot at...
  
  But all in all I loved the singleplayer, (quite lengthy and fun) the vehicles (sweet) and the multiplayer (especially 
 the assault mode) A little more people playing the MP would have been better since there are only 
 about 4-8 decent ping servers around and there could have been more maps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  When far cry was released I thought that it was just another one of those shooting games but after 
 I saw some gameplay movies my curiosity was peaked and I bought the game and I'm still glad that 
 i did. The graphics iun this game are still some of the best around, the story in the game starts 
 off a little slow but later on you discover things more quickly and you start too realize what 
 a great story the game offers. The difficulty is not so bad in the beginning of the game but can 
 get terribly difficult at the near end of the game. The cutscenes are also sweet thanks to the 
 nice cry engine. The guns are looking very realistic and all the gun sounds are nicely worked out. 
 The vehicles in the game are a nice addon for a shooting game but unlike other shooters where vehicles 
 drive like **** they drive very well in far cry. The freedom that the player gets in far cry is 
 another pluspoint for sure, you don't have total freedom but you can still choose your own route 
 through most parts of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  First off, I think FarCry is a very good game. It is polished, looks great (even after 2 years) , 
 and the performance is flawless. Everybody kept telling me I'd love FarCry, but the fun never really 
 arrived.
  
  The game begins, your on a lush tropical island, and bad guys are looking for you. You must use 
 stealth and steady aim if want to survive this outing. If you try to John Rambo against these dudes, 
 you'll be Swiss Cheese.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Standard FPS controls and everything you'd expect from an FPS in terms of solid performance and 
 quick twitch action. There's added stealth and distraction techniques added in which behoove you 
 to employ some sense of strategy in your mission. A set of binoculars with super microphone power 
 add a nice compliment to the man-being-hunted feel of the game.
  
  People are praising the AI, but I just don't see it. On the first set of huts, I ran up, was spotted, 
 ran around the corner, and sat there picking off a dozen bad guys who just kept running right into 
 my line of fire. Shortly thereafter I enter an aircraft carrier. I stood just above the ladder, 
 was spotted, and sat there picking off 2 dozen bad guys. They were stacked in a pile to the ceiling. 
 It was laughable.
  
  The cutscenes are also very stiff and akin to the comic book style the game profers, but I wasn't 
 amused all that much.
  
  FarCry also uses a checkpoint system instead of the "quick save" method that other titles employ. 
 I hate the checkpoint system. On several occassions, I'd enter a zone, and an enemy with a rocket 
 launcher would lay waste to me before I'd ever spotted him. This means I need to repeat a portion 
 of the game, though I now know exactly where everybody is going to show up. The result is that 
 I'm not having fun for that period of time.
  
  Graphics
  
  Excellent for two years ago. Still very good today. The lush outdoor scenes look great; the indoor 
 environments are feeling their age in terms of the texture quality.
  
  Sound
  
  It's ok, but nothing special. Maybe its not fair, but the last FPS I played was COD2, which has 
 tremendous sound. FarCry has stock sound by comparison.
  
  Value
  
  FarCry is a long and difficult game, and it offers some really nice environments for multiplayer. 
 It's a very good value, and if you're digging the game, you'll surely get your money's worth.
 
  
  Tilt
  
  I just never got into FarCry. I appreciate that its a nice shooter, but I just wasn't having fun 
 playing it. If you're a shooter by heart, you'll enjoy it (at least all the shooters I know think 
 its gravy) , but if you're not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neighdawg
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game, it sounded pretty good. I had some money, on me and i was planning 
 to buy another game. When i got to the shop, the game i was gonna buy wasn't there, and then i 
 came across far cry. i had just enough money to buy it. So i did. 
  
  When i got home and played it, BOOM!
  my mind exploded.
  
  The graphics were amazing, but 
 i hadn't seen it all yet. The animations are really well done and the scenery and enviroment are 
 amazing! If you have a fast good computer, the better the game will look, so don't say the game 
 sucks just cos your computer does.
  
  Vehicles is another thing that is amazing. Driving cars can be so fun in this game because this 
 game is a first person shooter, not a driving simulation. A lot of first person shooters that include 
 cars and vehicles don't give that actuall car simulatoin feeling, and usually the handling is really 
 poor. but in Far Car, boy, your worries are over baby. They're so easy to drive, the animations 
 are perfect, although it is quite hard to drive and shoot at the same time, but thats just a matter 
 of time and practice.
  
  The jungle-like enviroment is perfect. Its got a real dream-island holiday, apart form the mercs 
 and violence.
  
  A lot of games that i have played can really excite me. I'll play it all the time. but one thing 
 that a lot of games suffer from is when you get to a certain point in the game that is really hard, 
 and you keep dying, and the game just gets really boring. Far Cry, fortunately, does not suffer 
 this problem. It never gets boring, there's always a surprise, It gets really intense, the action 
 is actually fun, you never get bored, the story is actually really interesting, and the makers 
 prove what the computer can do.
  
  This game also is kinda violent, depending on your choice. Its quite a gory game, although you 
 can just turn of the blood if you want.
  This game also wise got a long distance of view, and theres practiclly no fog. It just goes on 
 and on.
  
  And last but not least, the enemy AI. The enemy is actualy pretty smart. They run away from grenades, 
 they sometimes try to ambush you, the have conversations, they yell threats at you, they chuck 
 grenades at you, they don't just stand there and wait to be killed and they will find cover if 
 possible.
  
  So, i think I've said enough.
  
  Graphics- A masterpiece. Its like theirs an actual world behind the screen.
  Sound- Really good. 
 The machine guns sound so realistic.
  Gameplay- Perfect. Never gets boring
  Value- 10/10. 100/100. 100% I think you get the idea now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a great blend of outdoor and close quarters fighting with a variety of combat capable 
 enimies. The game has excellent graphics, good physics, and the best jungle warfare so far in a 
 game. If you can get past the weak story, the annoying dialog and the sometimes frustrating enemies, 
 you will have a blast with this game. The environments are well thought out and are packed tons 
 of detail, from mercenary bases in jungle clearings to huge sience labs overrun with pesky mutants 
 the game environments stay interesting through to the very end. The human enemies are clever and 
 search through the jungle in search of you forcing you to flank around and attack them from unexpected 
 directions. The mutants you run into later on in the game are not very smart just hard to kill 
 and you will find yourself falling to their claws on multiple occasions which can get pretty frustrating. 
 The game comes with a nice map editor and the single player campaign is pretty long.
  
  Pros: Great graphics and environments, intense gunfighting both indoors and out, nice long single 
 player game with pelnty of replay value, crisp sound effects, stays interesting and fresh right 
 through to the end.
  
  Cons: Weak story line and bad voice acting and scripts, mutants aren't much fun to fight, long 
 loading times, multiplayer is weak, minor stability issues.
  
  Overall: Worthwhile game that provides plenty of fun and can be played a couple of times. The incredible 
 island graphics help set this game apart. The gameplay is solid and stays fresh. Worth getting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmod
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a thinking person's FPS. You have free roam of tiny atolls in the pacific, populated by 
 mercs and mutants, all of them actively hunting you down. Your strategy and style will change your 
 game experience. Do you cheat w/ god mode and blast away everything in sight, or do you sneak around 
 in the underbrush to snipe and disappears? A great get-away after a long commute home.
  
  This game will take all of your computer's CPU/GPU processing power to produce the rustling leaves/branches 
 plus the ocean waves. I upgraded to Radeon X1800 GPU, Athlon64+3700 w/ 1.5G mem from an earlier 
 gig - the replay w/ all graphics setting on HIGH was definitely worth the second tour. Can't comment 
 on the 64bit upgrade - I am still stuck w/ 32bit XP Pro - that is, until WinHorn comes out.
  
  The game is on sale around twenty bucks or so - a great deal. A must have for serious FPS fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoraledGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  far cry is probably one of the most awesome games i have ever had the pleasure of playing. it does 
 introduce new mechanics that i have never seen in previous fps games. the ability to sneak up on 
 your victim and pick off your enemies one by one is heart pounding. there's pretty much nothing 
 wrong with this game except for the fact that is ends. the awesome graphics and real time shadows 
 is something to be greatly impressed and so is everything else. the difficulty is quite hard even 
 on easy mode, but it's well worth the challenge because no game is fun without a bit opposition 
 towards you. this truly belongs among the best fps games of all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  When Far Cry first came out, I honestly thought it didnt get the reaction it deserved. Maybe because 
 it was overshadowed by the mediocre Doom 3, or the Incredible Half Life 2. For whatever reason, 
 it soom was forgotten about. But doesnt the fact that this game, from 2004, looks better than Doom 
 3 and Half Life 2, in some cases, say something about it? Doesnt the fact that its AI and tactical 
 gameplay was the best out of all three say something? Far Cry's innovative combination stealh and 
 action, with a smattering of harsh realism, made this game the best shooter I have played, EVER. 
 I loved the realistic damage modeling, HUGE, detailed envoirnments, and intelligent AI that adapted 
 to your movements. IT was the most shooting fun I've had in years, and I love the setting. Tropical/ 
 Jungle is an incredible place for an action and shooting experience, but few games have picked 
 up on it. 
  
  Yes, the story is total bogus and sucks bigtime, but I honestly didnt care, I just tuned it out. 
 The game was so good. 
  
  -The Crimson Major out
  
  
  
  (heres to Crysis, my dreams come true.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Highs; Exellent Graphics, physics and and sound. Stunningly open-ended, best AI well, ever.
  
  Lows: Save point system is annoying, multiplayer needs improving (out of the box, a Patch fixed 
 it but it still is not going to be remembered for multiplayer, but it will for single player)
 
  
  This game did not get any where near enough attention when it first came out. But when it did come 
 out all the people who played it loved it, exept the meph addicts at Computer-Gaming -World, who 
 gave it an average score, which to a game this great is a horrible score.
  
  Now why exactly did everyone go from "This game may be a pretty cool game" when it was previewed 
 to "OH MY F**KING GOD THIS IS THE BEST GAME SINCE HALF-LIFE!!!!!", well it is because Far Cry was 
 very well made and exells in all fields (that apply to single player) . The thing I (and the other 
 reviewers who aren't on meph, you know Hitler was on meph and if he was not on mrph he would have 
 been a good boy?) are most impressed with is the AI who is smarter than our president, okay bad 
 comparisine I gave to much credit too our idiot-in-chief, but yes comparing this Far Cry's AI to 
 that of that include (but are not limited to) Halo 2, and Far Cry Instints (yeah I said it, origenal 
 is best) is like comparing Abe Lincoln to Dubya. And in over all greatness comparing Far Cry to 
 halo 2 and Far Cry's Xbox copies is like comparing The Aneaid to The daVinci Code (Virgil says 
 "Kiss bite my ass Dan Brown!!, so do I. This AI of mythical proportions is capable of squad tactics 
 and effective use of cover, grenades and foliage. I mentioned the foliage, a really cool part is 
 the thousands of beautifly rendered shruberies are potenial hiding places for when you are being 
 tracked by the peculary intelligent red-neck mercs (red neck thing is no joke, in the game I found 
 a magazine called RedNeck Today, cover read "Bigger Trucks, Bigger Guns, Bigger Mullets, Bigger 
 T*ts!") . Now for the gameplay. Since the AI SOULD be only a little dumber than you (unless your 
 name if Gee-dubya-Bush, than expected to be outwitted many times) , and you are not only vunerable 
 to cryptonite, the bullets do do a large amount of damages (though you won't be killed in one hit 
 by any of the,) you need to use all you can to beat them. This means all tactics you used in any 
 game were a gun is your weapon of choice will need to come into play sometime, stealh (which in 
 this case is hiding in the bushes and using the SSDMP5) , and doing that Rambo thang will be required 
 for you to play without being humiliated. But what is cool about Far Cry's gameplay is you are 
 never required to only use one on a certain occassion, you can do what ever you damn well please 
 as long as you find it fun (which you will) and you are smarter than George Bush the Second! The 
 games plot is Doctor Krieger is using his Merc filled Island Paradise (or paradise lost, cool, 
 TWO references to classical literature!) to make mutants to take over the world and you have been 
 unknowingly conscripted to control them (the game's story is mre complex, you should play it to 
 ind out) .
  
  Bottom Line: If Half-Life is the Odessy than Far Cry is the Aneaid; a more modern, overall the 
 most incredibly slightest bit worse testimony to man's greatness.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  far cry, is what i call the "the pride of the PC gaming industry"
  it has every factor possible for making a great game.
  
  Graphics, never before have i seen 
 a game with such graphics, the texture, lighting of the tropical island is amazing. if you play 
 at 1200*1600 resolution and every setting at max, and AA high as well, then thats what i call "perfection", 
 even compared to many games nowadays, the shine in the Farcry's graghics will remain.
  
  A I, everytime a random person start to talking about FAR Cry, the first words they mention are 
 about these two magical letter A I, which stands for Artifical Intellegence. the enemy will take 
 cover, provide supporting fires, sneak around the back and call for support when needed to. never 
 will the enemy just pop out of nowhere and charge towards you, they act as a team, they will ambush 
 you in higher difficulties. if a shot is heard they will come and investigate, and tell other mercenaries 
 as well of that fact. sniping the enemy from a distence will not work any more, they will take 
 cover try to sneak behind you for snipe you. the enemies act like real people. though the A I for 
 the trigens (Mutants in Far Cry) is no where near impresive, it still creates a nice mixture of 
 Smart AI and Dumb AI. the only bad thing is that the player has no allies, thus unable to enjoy 
 having smart people fighting next to you. (that will be in Crysis, Crytec's next game)
  
  Weapons, there are many weapons in the game, each suitable for its purpose. the two assult rifles 
 with scope and grenade launcher are good for all ranges, but no where near the sniper rifle at 
 extreme long distence. the damage is far from the rocket laucher and not as quiet as the MP5. the 
 grenade are useful as well. the M4 is a average weapons, okay for most situations. pistal okay. 
 the knife is useless. the P90 and the shotgun is unstopable. machines gun loud. the last "weapon" 
 rock is for distraction.
  
  there are about 8 Vehicles in the game, all of which are fun to drive excpt for 2.
  
  there 
 are over 18 enemies in the game, with guns or just claws.
  
  this is a great game, buy it or suffer the a punishment worse than death, regret!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game looks amazing on an average PC and can even run on older computers with less 
 eye candy. The story actually is good and runs fairly well with the game. The story is also different 
 than your average bad vs good shoot-em up. Farcry's enviroments are varied and are cool because 
 they are very open letting the player choose different ways to achieve objectives. The A. I. is 
 fairly smart and use squad tactics such as helicopter support and radios to communicate which makes 
 it challenging on the player. Since the A. I. can be so challenging on even easy mode, trial and 
 error with checkpoint (boo) saves is common. The audio is average in Farcry but the cutscene voice 
 acting is very poor and could use loads of work. The enemies vary from mercinaries to rocket wielding 
 mutants and sometimes get stuck in walls along with some weird movement animations. The multiplayer 
 is very satisfying but other multiplayer games such as the Counter-Strike series and Battlefield 
 series blow it out of the crystal clear water. In the end, Farcry was ground breaking with its 
 graphics in '04 and still is a solid FPS today with its plot twists and fast shooting gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATOMB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain cool. Guns blood and and explosions. Great graphics and control. Plenty 
 of content and action. You must get this game. I haven't even got all the patches and upgrades 
 yet. The single player campaine is good but the online multiplayer is friggin sweet. smooth and 
 FUN. The environments are Beautiful. Open land scapes with nice vista's. 
  The level of detail and realism is truly next level. I have never played a game with this crisp 
 of detailed graphics. The Control is tight and fluid. 
  Enemy A. I. is sharp too. I was startled plenty if times. If you have a good speaker system it really 
 helps. The ambent sounds are great. Bugs brush waves wind and more. Again while graphics are not 
 every thing they did an awsome job on taking this up a notch. Everything else was done very well 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lv99squall
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  While Far Cry has some amazing graphics, very good AI and quite good gameplay, it is the story 
 and the voice acting which are a letdown.
  The first half of the game is really good, the mercenaries are tough enemies, and every time you 
 see one in the distance you know you're in trouble.
  However, the introductions of Treegers, genetically mutated animals, ruins the game. The treegers 
 are not as intelligent and do not prove as tough a challenge as the mercenaries, apart from the 
 fact that they need more shots to die. It really annoys me that developers, to make a game better, 
 think that they can just stick monsters/zombies/other stupid stuff in the game.
  The voice acting is horrible, and it really ruins the whole atmosphere, which ,however, is partly 
 saved by the outstanding graphics.
  However, this game should be bought just fro the first half and i recommend it to anyone who like 
 first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightinblaze
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  Do you want a game that would have good graphics, great sound and an innovative gameplay? Well 
 if that is what you want then you must try Far Cry. It's an awesome game which will entertain you 
 till the very end of it.
  
  It's plot is rather intriguing. Some mad genetic biologist, Kreiger, wants to create an army of 
 genetically mutated creatures to replace human beings and use them as tools of war and you are 
 an unfortunate holiday-maker, out enjoying your vacation with your girlfriend (who turns out to 
 be a CIA agent hot on the heels of Kreiger) . Soon, your yacht is discovered and its all guns-and-bombs 
 after that.
  
  The graphics are top notch except that the foliage appears a bit tacky. The sound-effects are perfect, 
 except, at times the gunfire seems a bit unreal. The explosion of grenades or vehicles creates 
 an immersive ambience. The chirping of the birds or the continous blabbering of the mercs is a 
 delight to hear.
  
  The multiplayer is very good, facilitating loads of fun, if you are wary of the snipers. Version 
 1.0 does have a few hiccups while running the multiplayer and may also cause the game to crash, 
 but an update to a newer version would fix that problem.
  
  It would be prudent to spend those $30 or $40 on this game. It isn't perfect, but it is, nonetheless, 
 outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  right from the beginning FarCry gave me a goose-flesh and I had all i needed in that game; the 
 best graphics, the best gameplay, the best sounds, and the best story. no matter what i say, and 
 how i say it... I can't describe how wonderful and mind-blowing this game is!!! I kept playing 
 this game for hours without feeling the sense of time, first, the graphics stunted me, what a beautiful 
 atmosphere! what a breath taking nature! what a wonderful island ! what a great exploitation of 
 the graphic engine ! the game play on the other hand, is the best of all, just perfect and no problem 
 found in it. the sounds are extra-amazing with a 3d rendering system that simply put you inside 
 the game like you were there for real. the story, at last is very interesting. all in all, FarCry 
 should not be missed, this is a masterpiece that everybody's gonna love and enjoy I swear !!! it 
 is a model that should be followed in all coming FPS games indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big PC gamer. I prefer consoles much more. You don't have to worry about setting your 
 computer for the right settings, you don't have to deal with downloading patches when things screw 
 up, etc., but this game blew me away. After I got my settings right which was everything up all 
 the way except one or two things, I was ready to go. The graphics were the first thing I obviously 
 noticed. You can see as far as the eye can see in this game. You can clearly see the trees and 
 the landscapes from seemingly miles away in this game and it is absolutely breathtaking. If you're 
 computer isn't the best or can't handle cranking the graphics up to a high extent, skip this game 
 for now and come back when you get a better one. Without graphics, this game would be just another 
 run of the mill FPS. Graphics make this game what it is.
  
  Ok, first the gameplay. The gameplay is very reminiscent of typical first person shooters. You 
 move around and shoot anything that moves. That's basically it. There is a stealth mechanic to 
 it and also vehicles, including boats, that you can drive to your destination, but unfortunately, 
 none of these are incredibly well handled. I hated the way the cars and boats felt. I got used 
 to driving them after a while, but at first it was close to impossible to shoot things while driving. 
 Every control possibility I tried felt the same way. Also, I rarely used the stealth mechanic. 
 Yes, I did for some portions of the game because it was a pain if you didn't, but in most cases, 
 especially with just the soldiers, you can just gun them all down from a distance. The ones you 
 miss will run right into you eventually and you'll be fine. Being stealthy took way too long and 
 it was way too tiresome to care. If you completely didn't use stealth in some portions of this 
 game and completed it in 3 or 4 tries, it would take essentially the same amount of time to complete 
 it in 1 try using stealth. Basically, using stealth is a component to this game that is sometimes 
 not needed, but still a nice diversion for people who thrive on being sneaky.
  
  The graphics, like I said were absolutely gorgeous. If it weren't for the graphics, this game would 
 not be as highly noted as it is today. It's amazing and you will find yourself stopping to look 
 at the beautiful scenery more than once. If you don't have the computer for it, don't buy this 
 game just yet. Get a better computer, then prepare for some amazing looking areas. Enough said.
 
  
  The sound was decent. It wasn't the best, but it did it's job. You could tell when someone was 
 approaching by the footsteps and you could hear people talk, which would increasingly grow louder 
 as you approached and vice versa. The guns also sounded very well. A pistol sounded just like as 
 you would expect. Same with the machine guns, grenade launchers, and the other multitude of firearms 
 at your disposal. My only real complaint with this department is the voice acting. None, and I 
 mean NONE, of it sounded good. If I were thrown into a situation like this, I'd be freaking out. 
 It doesn't matter who I am or what I did, this is a situation unlike any other in this game, and 
 regardless of who you are, it's not something you want to be a part of, so the voices should have 
 sounded like it. Sadly, they didn't.
  
  This game is great and deserves all of the recognition it gathers. If it weren't for the excruciating 
 difficulty and the fact that it's a PC game, I would recommend this to anybody. For the people 
 that have a good enough computer and more importantly, have the patience to deal with some of the 
 incredibly tough areas in this game, it is a must have and an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game is not just a walk in the park, its a very difficult but highly enjoyable game, with 
 lots of fantastic weaponary which will make you smiling from ear to ear. The plot starts of with 
 you fighting mercernarys, however the game does lose realism and you end up fighting GM Creatures, 
 but its still a hugely enjoyable game with fantastic graphics (some technical faults with some cards 
 including nVidia 6600 cards) . The envorioments are highly immersive, the game is best described 
 as "Eye Candy" being that you'll often step onto white sandy beaches, walk through jungles and 
 so forth. 
  
  It doesn't end there, the game also comes with a map editor which is fairly easy to use, although 
 most of the objects are filled with a "Replace Me" texture which is very irritating. 
  
  Multiplayer isn't very good as most of the maps are too big, but the ability to make your own maps 
 makes up for this. What this game really needs, is a co-operative mode in multiplayer.
  
  Conclusion, this game is well worth getting and you will not be dissapointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinvg6
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  you believe the hype, we? re on the cusp of the golden age of first-person shooters, a renaissance 
 led by Half-Life 2, Doom 3, and, for those console folks, Halo 2. Ubisoft? s ambitious Far Cry has 
 jumped in before the bar is raised, but is it the first step of the future or the last gaffe of 
 the past? 
  
  I Can See Clearly Now
  
  In Far Cry, you? re Jack Carver, a charter boat captain hired by reporter Val Cortez to help investigate 
 the shady research being conducted on a mysterious tropical island. When your boat gets destroyed 
 and Val disappears, you? ll have no choice but to fight for your life against the scientists? evil 
 militia and discover their dark secret in the process. 
  
  Far Cry? s hype has mostly dealt with its mind-boggling long-range visibility (claimed to be 800 
 meters) , and there? s certainly no denying that this game allows you to see very far, very clearly, 
 and with phenomenal detail: Every astoundingly crisp blade of grass shimmers, and the water effects 
 are absolutely unparalleled. But although Far Cry? s jungle environments take bump-mapping to a 
 whole new level, some garish indoor textures and odd light sourcing keep the game from being a 
 completely immersive experience. And only very high-end gaming rigs will be able to appreciate 
 Far Cry? s true beauty, its outdoor landscapes. 
  
  Far more frustrating, though, is the pedestrian level design, which delivers frequent ambushes 
 that rely on memorization and replay instead of stealth and skill. You? d think the much-heralded 
 long-distance factor would allow you to take advantage of sniper scopes, but enemies usually don? t 
 appear until you? re within close proximity. Disappointing control decisions also mire the tropical 
 paradise: You can? t shoot from ladders, even though you? ll frequently emerge into confrontations; 
 the game uses checkpoints instead of a quick save option; and no there? s no gamepad support. 
 
  
  Cry Havoc
  
  Thankfully, Far Cry really picks up a few levels in, when the story takes a page from Halo and 
 introduces a second malevolent force: the scientists? ?ber-clich? bio-engineered animals. Later 
 areas also take advantage of the dynamic sound design with ominous roaring that suggests nearby 
 monsters. The sound effects of the overly familiar weapons stand out? shotgun blasts feel like sonic-induced 
 force feedback. Unremarkable music, however, keeps this game firmly in ?almost great? territory. 
 
  
  Far Cry? s multiplayer package is a bit lacking as well as the game ships with only three game types 
 (assault, free-for-all, and team deathmatch) and a half dozen or so maps for each. It? s distinctive 
 for the beauty factor and the distance at which you? ll find yourself fighting, but hopefully the 
 included level-design tools will lead to more interesting mods. 
  
  Interesting Choice of Title
  
  Far Cry is a far cry indeed from revolutionary. It? s a solid, 
 challenging jungle assault that perhaps foretells the future with its gorgeous interactive environment, 
 but some lackluster game design keeps it stuck firmly in the rut of the right now
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bac_Alexander
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  This review is entirely based on Single player experience. 
  In 2004, everyone was awaiting two games, Doom 3 and Half Life 2. No one knew about this game, 
 but it came out before those two games and it definitely became a hit. This game is definitely 
 a masterpiece. With a good story, amazing graphics, good sound effects, good physics, challenging 
 game play and good and interesting AI system. I present you with Far Cry, definitely one of the 
 greatest single player games ever made. 
  
  The story takes place on pacific island. You will take the role of Jack Carver. One day a mysterious 
 woman pays Jack to sail her in the pacific. At night his yacht was blown up into pieces by a rocket 
 launcher. Soon he finds himself in a dangerous place with a lot of enemies and a lot of fun. His 
 job is to find out what the hell is going on here. 
  
  Graphics is definitely big part of Far Cry, it is amazing, even now at 2006 the games looks awesome 
 and better than most. Unlike most games, you play on pacific islands, and they are very detailed 
 and full of content. Jungles look very real, great lighting effects, while you are crawling under 
 the bushes you can see where the sunlight is on your gun. Realistic water with some fishes swimming 
 it in. Far Cry has very detailed characters, creatures, vehicles, guns and environment. Bullet 
 holes are very real like, make some holes in your enemy and check your accuracy up close 
  
  Sound plays an important role in most games, and it is definitely important factor of Far Cry. 
 The game has a lot of great sounds effects and voice recordings. Using your binoculars you can 
 listen to your enemies from the distance, they dont give you important information but it is interesting 
 to listen to the conversations sometimes to see what is happening and what you might encounter 
 in near future. Sometimes they just talk about you, so it can be funny to listen. But the sound 
 effects create the jungle atmosphere more realistic. When you are hiding, your enemies can give 
 away their position by talking, shooting or just walking. 
  
  Far Cry also has good physics, not the best but good enough. Some objects can be pushed and used 
 as cover or you can just play around with them. Like take a barrel and push it from the top of 
 the cliff and see it role down. If you want you can also try sending dead enemy from the cliff. 
 
  
  When you start, first thing you will have to do is get some weapons. Your character can only carry 
 four weapons at a time. You got a choice of a knife, pistol, shotgun, different automatic assault 
 rifles, sniper rifle and rocket launcher. You will also find some vehicles to help you crush your 
 enemies, there is a buggy, jeep, boats with mounted weapons of them and you will get a chance to 
 use a glider to file silently from one hill to another. You will fight on water, land, jungles 
 and secret bases. Because you play on islands the game gives you more choices on how to do your 
 objective. In some parts of the jungle there are not many enemies if you want to do the mission 
 in more silent way or just explore all of possible island and kill everyone you see, that is your 
 choice. But you should be more careful as you can not save your progress. But there are checkpoints 
 in certain areas on islands. 
  
  The AI system makes this game interesting. You will encounter different enemies. There will be 
 humans and creatures. Humans will use vehicles as well and fly on helicopters while creatures will 
 be just savage beasts with a lot of muscles but no brains. But that does not mean they are easy 
 enemies. So as I said the creatures will attack any human they see, you or the other guys. Human 
 characters are mercenaries hired to guard the islands so you will encounter them everywhere. You 
 can get an advantage on your enemies by, hiding in the jungle, bushes or dark areas. The best way 
 to hide is to sit or prone. When an enemy is looking for you just hide and dont move than sometimes 
 they dont see you until they will be half of meter away from you. Enemy human characters respond 
 to sounds, a great way to make a sound is to choose a rock in your grenade inventory and throw 
 it, make sure they dont see where the rock comes from. They will go to investigate so you can 
 just walk past them or shoot them in the back. 
  
  Well I made some points about the game, but words do not describe what you can experience. I definitely 
 recommend this game to players who like FPS games. You will probably end up loving Far Cry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avengefulreign
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is really fun! The graphics are great, with lush environments, 
 lots of color and interactable objects. The bullet wounds are cool... it is fun to snipe somebody 
 from a long range in the head and walking up to them and seeing a big hole. The gameplay is fast 
 especially when in a fire fight. The AI will actually try and out smart you, but if you plan the 
 attack out before hand it can be pretty easy. Vehicles are fun to drive, but sometimes they can 
 be a pain in the a**. The guns are fun to shoot because each one is different from the next so 
 you can also stratigize which one is best for the situation. I personally like the MP5 because 
 it is silenced, and through out most of the game stealth can play an important role. The sound 
 is okay, well good most of the time, but the background insects get kind of annoying. 
  
  Far Cry is a fun game keeping you at the edge of your chair forcing you to think about your next 
 move. It is an excellent FPS but it also has its moments for need of strategy. The story is good, 
 it takes a little to get into it and really know what is going on, but it is so much fun! This 
 game I would recommend to anyone because it is just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MentokMindtaker
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is without a doubt one of the best shooters ever made. I played this game in 2006 after 
 games like FEAR, Doom3 and Half Life 2 and I have to admit that Far Cry can still compete with 
 those games, even though they are almost 2 years newer.
  
  In the graphics department, it still looks great. The tropical feel to the outdoor levels (about 
 50% of the game) just makes you happy and it feels like you are watching an episode of 'Lost'.
 
  
  The sound is good, nothing special. The guns don't really sound different from each other. With 
 the binoculairs, you can hear conversations between soldiers. A fun and original extra.
  
  The guns are great, it takes a huge amount of ammo to kill an enemy, but they range from close 
 range (powerful shotgun, M4) , to medium range (OICW) and ofcourse long range (sniper rifle, rocket 
 launcher) and some other simular weapons. Far Cry saves the best (SAW-like machine gun) for last.
 
  
  The human enemy's are very cool to fight. Later in the game you have to fight against a lot of 
 mutated enemy's who are able to make huge jumps and fight with their claws........ this is something 
 I didn't really like, but it makes the enemy's a bit different from eachother.
  
  In the end, the game gets a bit repetitive and too hard in places.
  
  All in all, even though 
 Far Cry is 2 years old, the game looks and feel great. The story is ok and you'll have a game which 
 requires about 30-40 hours of playing to finish it. Compared to the 10 hours most games require 
 nowadays, this is always good.
  
  Should you find this game in a bargain-bin, be sure to pick it up. It doesn't matter how old it 
 is or how fast your pc is...... you HAVE to play Far Cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxic_tt_2006
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  this game graphics is one of the best i have ever seen. With the bullet marks on an enemy solider. But 
 u should be able to do damage on the walls when u shoot it.
  It should have been more like F. E. A. R. fdfd sfdfa safdafsd wsdffd jhggf sjhfg ssdfasfh safasf dsfdsf 
 sdfsdg dfgs dfgf sdfdf fdsf fsd ffsd ffsd fdf dfs fsdf d fsd fg fddsf ds fqjsdf sada f sadf f df 
 df f df f f .i'm just doing this to waste up space. Doom 3 don't want anything with this game. Go 
 To Hell Because I Like Unreal Tournament 2003 Multiplayer Better. hello hello hello hello hello 
 hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello 
 hello hello hello hello 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 12, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Although this game is nearly 2 years old, the graphics havent aged too much. The character models 
 do look a little rough around the edges but the environment is stunning. The most obvious thing 
 that this game has over other FPSs is the incredible draw distance. The ability to see hundreds 
 of yards in the distance adds a new dimension to anything from level layout to sniping.
  
  Gameplay is more dependent on stealth and having a plan rather than simply running and gunning 
 everything in site. The AI is quite adept in assessing the threat you pose and dealing with it 
 effectively. Other times the AI is a little too impressive. Being able to see perfectly in the 
 dark and even hit a moving target hundreds yards away are just a few of the obstacles youll encounter 
 as the game goes on. Also the different enemy factions tend to stop fighting each other and tag 
 team you takes away from the realism in the game. My last complaint is that unless you have a very 
 good constitution, the game gets pretty tedious by the end of it. For the first , the game does 
 a good job of keeping gameplay fresh with new enemies and varying environments to fight in but 
 by the end, everything seems repetitive.
  
  Sound is impressive as not only does everything sound like it should, it also plays a big part 
 in gameplay. Everything from gunshots to footsteps are used by the enemy to locate you with a great 
 degree of precision. This is a reason why it pays to be stealthy and to use the great draw distance 
 to scope out your immediate area.
  
  Overall, Far Cry is a great game that maybe lasts a little too long for its own good. The maps 
 are as beautiful as they are deadly which helps make this one of the more challenging games Ive 
 played in recent memory.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  Far cry have one of the most magnificent graphics on FPS games, thanks to its havok engine. It 
 can be quite heavy some times so check the system req, before purchesing this game. It's weird 
 though, that in the game some levels with open area and vast models runnig fast on the computer 
 and some close quarters levels struggling on the pc with really really low fps.
  
  The sound are sweet and as i say the gameplay is fun most of the time. I just can't undertsand 
 way there is no quick save??? save points is the most ugly and annoying thing that the developers 
 can do. It's frustraiting to go over and over on difficult level, espeicelly because this game 
 is not fair and the difficult is too hard. Not enough ammo and med kits some time.
  
  It's not very fun to go over and over and over the same level, just because there is no quick save. 
 I count like 50 times i tried to go over one save point (!!!) .
  
  The game also repet itself some time and very long but it still a good shooter with nice story 
 line and scary creatures.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  As the matter of fact, I dont like First person shooter games but This is the game everyone should 
 play, I have played and I think this is the best FPS game ever, Though I wont play its other gen/parts, 
 because I hate first person shooter games, My brother bought this game, I wanted to give it a try 
 and show my brother that FPS games really $ucks but when I played it I was like... Oh how can it 
 be, How can this game be this good? I lost 50$ to my brother. 
  Anyways, Graphics of this game looks good, Sound is very good and The gameplay is what I like the 
 most about it, I would give it 10 by 10 if it was a TPS, but it is not. I think everyone should 
 check this game out because I liked it when I hated FPS games so everyone would like it as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krishki
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  This is amazing game its simply superb.. I like the entire game play and the editor is very dynamic 
 and easy to use and we can creat our own game play. Thats cools ist it ? Wat more I cant say much 
 as I am still playing this game and hence I will get back to this para later... Keep up tha good 
 work boyzz.
  
  This is amazing game its simply superb.. I like the entire game play and the editor is very dynamic 
 and easy to use and we can creat our own game play. Thats cools ist it ? Wat more I cant say much 
 as I am still playing this game and hence I will get back to this para later... Keep up tha good 
 work boyzz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trochilus
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  It is awesome! "Wow!" was all I could think of while playing Far Cry. It is Highly addictive, Immersive, 
 Innovative, so that adds up to: Instant Classic. There's quite a lot to talk about, so I'm just 
 gonna start with the graphics, considering that's usually the first thing you notice when playing 
 a game.
  
  The graphics are amazing! When thirsty, the water looks so nice youd actually wanna drink it. 
 Youd want to dive right through your screen. And the jungles are indescribably beautiful! It makes 
 you feel like you are truly standing in the middle of an island in god-knows-what ocean. The sun 
 shining through so many trees and bushes almost makes you feel the heat of its rays. Swamps look 
 really wet, foggy, damp, etc and give you a perfectly creepy feeling cause of all the different 
 sorts of grayish vegetation there. Inside buildings the graphics are a bit less spectacular, but 
 nevertheless very cool. 
  
  Of course, walking around on one of the many islands with only your eyes wide open isnt half as 
 cool as opening your ears too. Sound is what makes the tropical experience complete as well as 
 the combat situations. The singing of birds, the rustling of leaves followed by a splash of water, 
 stressed out voices of some mercenaries, accompanied by the bangs of you firing your guns. Then 
 you jump into a buggy and head into the jungle with a roaring engine as overhead you can already 
 hear the approaching helicopter with some more bad news for you...
  Exploding rockets, thundering miniguns, mumbling mutants, it all sounds just as good.
  
  Now 
 where moving on to discuss the AI. You have two kinds of adversaries: mercenaries and mutants. 
 The mercenaries can and usually will work together to hunt you down. In most situations they are 
 doing a pretty good job at it. They make turning movements trying to surround and outflank you 
 so therell be no place left to run, they call in helicopters with big guns to blast you out of 
 the bushes or they can even bring in some extra reinforcements if they dont think they can put 
 you down on their own. 
  
  Mutants, though less intelligent, are very dangerous too. They make no use of tactics (theyre 
 pretty straightforward) but they are more alert. Where you can easily sneak up on a mercenary, 
 youd probably want to keep as much distance between a mutant and you as you can afford. Some of 
 them will silently swarm you, ripping you to pieces with teeth and claw, while others prefer blasting 
 you to shreds with rocket launchers that fire one rocket per 1.5 second. General conclusion: AI 
 = usually clever, but not smart enough. Plus, you practically always have an unfair advantage over 
 them if you use your binoculars, which puts them on your radar. Add to that the fact that you can 
 hear mercenaries talking and mutants growl before you have them in sight almost makes you feel 
 sorry for your enemies. Almost, that is.
  
  But the thing that really makes Far Cry a game you can keep playing forever is  no, not multi-player 
  The Level Editor! I had an incredible time creating my very own islands and missions. You can 
 create absolutely everything in a fashion you like: the shape, hills and valleys, kind of soil, 
 vegetation, lakes and ponds, rivers, buildings, vehicles, other objects (even fires!) , animals 
 (from simple bugs to menacing sharks) mercenaries and mutants, yes I mean everything! And of course 
 you can also determine if and when there are going to be save points and other triggered events. 
 Entire missions are waiting to be created. 
  
  Well, I think Ive said enough by now. If you dont have Far Cry yet I have one last hint: buy 
 it, play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  this is a pretty impressive game due to the scenery and the humongous levels, the levels are so 
 huge you actually think you are ina jungle at times, and the game does look pretty aswell, the 
 only thing that gets me down on this game are a few certain but non minor things.
  
  PROS:
  Nice graphics and pretty sun drenched scenery
  
  Huge expansive level with plenty 
 to explore
  
  Nice varied missions
  
  Plenty of diffrent weapons
  
  CONS:
  
  Story is pretty poor in my own opinion
  
  Them stupid creatures look well stupid
  
  Some 
 graphical glitches, but that could of been my graphics card which was a radeon 9200 at the time
 
  
  But overall a fun imersive game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game is great from the moment you land on the graphicly impressive island to the thick jungles. 
 The game skips all the talking and go's directly to the killing unlike some other games which make 
 you run around like a guinea pig to finnaly get a gun. The Ai are amazingly smart and use advanced 
 tatics to fight you. This game is sorta stealthy and sorta run and shoot which makes a perfect 
 couple. The game runs really smooth on my computer which uses a evga nvidia 5500 graphics card. 
 This game is equally impressive just like half life 2. The price of 19.99$ is practacly a steal. 
 You should definetly buy this game if you like FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Yeeha! Let's grab our loud Hawaiin shirts and head on down to the tropical islands with some chicks 
 in tight fitting clothes! Don't forget your machete!
  Honestly, though, I enjoyed this game. As I say in my tag line, while there's plenty of violence 
 the surroundings are so pretty you just can't help enjoying it. This game is just bundles of fun. 
 The weapons rock, and so does the vehicle system. I think driving a jeep off a cliff into a lake, 
 boarding a boat and blowing away everyone on it was probably one of the high points of my life.
 
  This game is inhabited largely with red neck mercenaries as well. I'm not trying to be rude, but 
 all these guys have heavy southern accents, cowboy hats, Hawaiin shirts (But then again, so does 
 the main character) , and plenty of swear words which they use liberally.
  There's lots of Jack Bauer style blowing people away in this game, and the plot's good too. I won't 
 say anything about the plot so I won't ruin it for you, but I think it's a doozy. If you enjoy 
 shooting things, buy this game. No, maybe that's not the best way to put it.
  By the way, be sure you have a good operating system because otherwise the graphics won't cmoe 
 out as amazing as they were when I played it. I got to play it on a very advanced computer, so 
 excuse me when I say, with deep maturity: Nyah Nyah Nyah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitronic12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  The game was interesting, to say the least. It puzzled me... and scared me.
  
  If Crytek set out to make a different mind-altering game, then they did manage to make it that 
 far.
  
  The start seemed to have no beginning, just being thrown into flat out war with no explanation. 
 It did make me wonder where on earth the story was getting to, until I managed to run into the 
 Trigens, which did freak me out.
  
  The game had it dull moments and its exciting moments, though the whole "mutated animal and human" 
 thing really did rub off on me. Besides that the whole game looked to be interesting. The graphics 
 and sounds were very up to scratch. The one thing that put me off was the AI, I tried it on all 
 different levels balancing them all out, and they seem rather stupid, especially the Rocket-Launchers, 
 if you stood under a tower they would shoot at the floor, killing themselves.
  
  If you want to play games because you can endurance hours of blistering gunfights and puzzling 
 forests where anything can and does happen the Far Cry is for you. It collaborates all the essentials 
 of gaming, FPS, TPS, vehicles, realistically modelled weaponry and a whole lots of bad guys to 
 shoot at. Far Cry is a great game, my only wish to Crytek and Ubisoft is to continue the Far Cry 
 Series onto PC, like recreating Far Cry Instincts: Predator for PC. Gotta love Far Cry.
  
  Overall I'll give it a 8.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trezizi12345
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Perfect in every way, exept it could use maby flying somethink more than just a hanglider. Well 
 done looking foward the the next one on pc if that ever happens. bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB1787
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've just finished going through Far Cry for the third time since I got it (its been on and 
 off my HD for the past few years) , and I have to say that it definitely is everything a game should 
 be. It delivers everything you should expect and more. Your encounters with the resistance on the 
 island takes on every form imaginable, and gives you every opportunity to outwit them, and outgun 
 them in every possible way. Apart from the cutting edge technology utilized by Cry Tech, the writers 
 of this game just know how to tell a good story, and they obviously know how to make a great game. 
 Why aren't all games like this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a truly unique gaming experience. It combines gorgeous graphics, realistic sound effects, 
 and excellent game play with a decent, thoughB" movie storyline. First, this game is long; it 
 took me over 25 hours to complete the game on the challenging level. Fry Cry is also a tough game, 
 because of a lack of quick save, and a very aggressive and intelligent AI. The great thing is it 
 is not overly scripted or linear like many FPS. Allowing one to play the game using different tactics 
 to better suit the situation and follow many different paths to get to an objective. This allows 
 the player to travel almost anywhere on the chain of islands, and use of any vehicle or device 
 Jack comes across on the long walks. The world is truly expansive with incredible draw distance 
 in this game allow one to see least a 1Km in every direction. This allows for some very long range 
 sniping, but allows the enemy to see Jack from very far off in the distance. The key to playing 
 this game is stealth since the Mercs will go on alert when you make too much noise, they will go 
 on high alert once you are spotted, they will call in reforcements. Also they are all crack shots 
 and they will deplete your health rapaidly. A good hint is to use the vegitation and contors of 
 the land, to try to bypass as many enemies as possible when in the outdoors. Though you will have 
 to enter some merc camps to find needed supplies or complete objectives. In the Indoor levels the 
 gameplay becomes much more linear like a traditional FPS. 
  
  What I like :
  Graphics: Realistic island paradise, with white sand beaches, lush rainforest, tropical fish swimming 
 in the turquoise ocean, wild animals and colorful birds. Incredible Draw distance. In addition, 
 the lighting and shadows are truly amazing. The shadows of trees will move as the wind blows, and 
 cast over your character. 
  
  Computer AI: Is very good, the mercs are tough ambries who will use basic squad tactics to close 
 in your position. They are able to call in for reinforcements, and use vehicles to try to stop 
 you from finishing your mission. These people also do not sit still and are constantly moving through 
 the forest to use it to their advantage. They are also tough to take down in later stages of the 
 game. The monsters are less intelligent and more brute force. Though they will gang up on you. 
 But, what would you expect for a geneticaly engineered mutant. 
  
  Sound: Besides the music, the sound affects are great. There are distinct sounds for everything 
 on the islands. From wildlife, ocean, different ground types, and even insects. Each vehicle has 
 a realistic sound such as the Humvees diesel engine rumbling to life, or the flapping of canvas 
 when soaring with the hang glider. Every gun also has a very stratifying sound when used. One is 
 also able to listen in on the mercs truly humors conversations with each other when using the Binos 
 with the directional microphone. I did have some problems early on with a glitch where I was unable 
 to hear some of the dialogue, and had terrible static through the speakers. I was able to fix it 
 with updates to my Creative Audigy 4 sound card driver. However, I never had this problem with 
 any other games I have played. 
  
  Story: Is like a cross of Island of Dr Moreau and Quake. Mad scientist tries to make super soldiers 
 by genetics and mutants. Luckily, this game does not take itself too seriously. Much like a B movie, 
 it is entertaining, and funny with the cheesy dialogue. However, at times it is too forced and 
 contrived. There could have been alot more done with the story.
  
  Negatives: 
  The biggest issues are the glitches. Even with all the updates applied I still had problems with 
 animations not performing properly, stuck looping sound effects, and even a glitch that crashed 
 the game. In almost every cut scene the animations and sound never seemed to be properly sinked 
 together. All telling that this game was clearly rushed to market without CryTek addressing the 
 problems. The updates help with some of the more serious problems, but still there are too many 
 glitches in this game. 
  
  The dialogue can be very repetitive. When the mercs are coming after you, they are constantly saying 
 the same repetitive statements. Such as Im going to drop your ass", You're ass is grass" or 
 I'm going to shoot you in the face." There where a few others but all where annoying by level 
 six. Valire also has some bad dialogue. She come across as very pushy, hyper critical of everything 
 Jack does and says. Doyle is less annoying though he has a more linear role in the game. The overall 
 story itself is a bit thin and not original at all. They could have done a lot more with the plot 
 and dialogue. 
  
  I also found that the human rendering in this game is not as good compared to newer games. In the 
 cut scenes, the bodies movements are rough, and do not seam natural at all. In general, the humans 
 models are not as refined in their movement or facially detailed as in HL2. 
  
  Conclusion :
  This is a very ambitious first game from a new company. Its shows CryTek has a 
 lot of creative genius in the company. Since they made a highly addictive game, with excellent 
 game play, graphics, and sound. It has everything going for it. To bad Crytek had to release it 
 with out fully addressing many of the glitches and the poor auto save design in the game. They 
 also could have done alot more with the story. Overall it is still a great game and worth the now 
 bargin price. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  Far is just great.
  
  Gameplay in my point of view was a little too stale for me and for some reasons I did not like 
 the whole gameplay with the visual effects. I think that the company was trying to showcase its 
 graphics baby rather than focus on the game itself. This is just my opinion. But it is likable.
 
  
  The graphics is rather spectacular but at the sa, e time I was feeling those guys where overdoing 
 it because at some point it seem a bit unrealistic although looking good. I have to say that the 
 detail was too har and not soft. If you understand what I mean.
  
  Sound has some issues too but it works just fine.
  
  Overall this game is a great game and 
 should have been donw better. The graphics engine was making me feel weird. Dont ask please.
  
  Seeing the new pics from crysis I believe that this is a better far cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  ok i got to start out look at the graphics man just so stunning in my eye come on the best ive 
 ever seen i mean every little detail in this game is just top notch and one of the thing i like 
 is with binoclers you can get them out and point them at two guys and here them carry on a conversation 
 the shooting is just so good and the guns felt a little old and seen them some where else in another 
 game the graphics the best ive ever seen to date and the sound is just ogood to go buy this game 
 and thats charlies word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boriscoolman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Well it is not really the best video game, I just wanted to create a good review deck, but nonetheless, 
 this is almost perfect. It is like a combination of a FPS and a strategy game.
  
  You are trapped in a tropical island, or as the developers like to say "paradise," and guess what? 
 it is populated with excellently trained mercenaries and mutants that are the results of experiments 
 conducted by a mad scientist known as Kreiger. So this island is a merc base and lab base and mutant 
 base. Wow and as the developers like to say "paradise gone wrong." 
  
  What more could you want in a game on a tropical island than good graphics. Everything seems so 
 real, the trees, the water, the shades. The sounds of the weather, the wind, and the animals is 
 great, though you cant see any animals, but no matter. The gameplay is excellent, there are super 
 good stealth mechanics. You can hide in a bush, throw a rock in front of yourself, the merc will 
 hear it, come close to the bush, and you cut him with a machete. A dream come true. After playing 
 this game you will certainly want to play it again on a higher difficulty to go against the enemy's 
 higher AI. By the way, the AI is really good. They use tacticts, call for backup hide in the woods 
 and other things. They also talk. You could listen to their conversations up close, but you cant............. 
 Yes you could! You have the binoculars, which have a mic in them and you can listen from far away. 
 You dont have to do that, but it's a lot of fun. You also have night vision googles, which are 
 also cool.
  
  This game is marvelously superb. The only thing I find bad about this game is that it could have 
 had more weapons, but that is a minor thing. I highly recommend this game to someone who likes 
 FPS games, strategy games, and paradise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  You are Jack Carver and you are being hunted by insane mercenaries. You must kill to get through 
 such a dangerous island. This game is a great shooter as it contains such great visuals!! Great? 
 More like incredible, you can see the trees and islands from miles away. This leaves you open for 
 great sniping targets. Not only are the visuals awesome but the gameplay is great!! Think of Black 
 with better gameplay! You can even go anywhere you want without hold backs. You can go where you 
 have been!! But it is not recommended because on the second level, which takes place on a boat, 
 if you fall off, the entrance is blocked and you are screwed! The shootouts are great and you can 
 totally destroy the environment. You see that guy over by the gasoline tank, go ahead, shoot the 
 tank and watch the sparks fly!! You can set awesome scenes by blowing up things. This is what Black 
 was supposed to be. Far Cry delivers action, great visuals, and cool gameplay. If your looking 
 for a cheap game and without boredom, this game will delivers you hours of fun online and off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habinator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Solid Game. Good Sound, Amazing Graphics (if you have a high end pc) , nice animations and solid 
 gameplay. There is a nice selection of weapons and vehicles. And the intro isn't too long or drawn 
 out. Once they teach you the basics your on your own.
  
  Multiplayer kinda lacks fun but every now and then you'll find yourself jumping into it. I like 
 the idea of engineers in the game. Its kind neat to be able to build walls and towers during CTF 
 to help out your team.
  
  Overall this game is def worth a buy, and now you can find this game for $20, so go out and buy 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  At the beginning a friend told me that was a great game and I've tried the demo. But unfortunately, 
 my graphic card was not good enough so the demo was horrible. Finally I've decided to change my 
 card and I rent the game. By the time I was installing it I saw screen shots in the installation 
 window, then it was too late I had already fall in love with that game because of the island and 
 the amazing graphics. I think I've spent more time at look the fishes, the trees, all the vegetation, 
 all that I could see on this wonderful island, than really play and progress in the story. Then, 
 when I've start to play for real, my excitement grew up, because of the way the mercenaries were 
 moving was so realistic and the physics effects so nicely done, that I had some hard time to stop 
 to play. In general, I'm not a fan of FPS, but I can't say this one make me change my mind. Unfortunately, 
 something deceived me about that game, and that's the ending. It's, in my opinion, a too quick 
 finish without real challenge. I think it could have been better, but unless, this game is huge 
 and I still appreciate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syredeathrooper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  When i started playing this game i initially thought that it deserves no better than a rating of 
 7.0. The start of this game is rather a disapp ointing one. Leaving you to do nothing but shoot 
 around the intelligent but very hard AI. There is no progress whatsoever with the story and the 
 gameplay even seems to suck. A player notices many flaws like the knife, whenever he slashes the 
 knife if the button is held then it almost seems like a fan's blade rotating. The game seems hopeless. 
 And it only leaves you thinking why it has been rated so high.
  Despite all these skirmishes if you have enough patience to play it till the story really starts 
 taking place then you will notice that Far Cry is one hell of a game. Combing great graphics with 
 awesome sound and a fairly good story. It tends to act as a glue b/w you and your computer screen. 
 But you will see yourself going through one spot again and again because of the immense difficulty 
 of the game. This is probably the hardest game available on the pc that is possible to finish without 
 cheats. Its intelligent AI and difficult environment will make you sweat and struggle hard.
  In the end this game does come up to expectations. But as an advice, i would like to say to UBI 
 that next time they make a good game, be sure to make a great start because a good start is half 
 work done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin808
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is just plain great.
  The editor is easy and fun once u know how to use it.
  Ive played this game for hours straight just to beat it. U could call it addictive. I played at 
 least 5 hours a day and beat it in 4 days. Then I spent countless hours trying to make the perfect 
 map with the sandbox editor
  
  Great, Amazing, wonderful, perfect
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  KF- dfh dhf hdf fdh fdh dfh hfd hfd hdf hdf hfd hfd dfh hdf hdf hfd hdf hfd hfd hfd hdf 
 hdf hdf dhf hdf hdf dfh hfd hfd hdf hfd hfd hfd hfd hfd hfd hfd hfd hfd fhd hfd hfd fdh hfd hfd 
 hfd hdf hdf dhf hdf fdh dfh df hd fh dhf hdf dfh dfh h dfh hdf hdf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrarmagedon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Even with the 360 out and several big name shooters out this game still reigns supreme in my opinion.
 
  
  Overall there is not much wrong with Farcry except maybe the weak story and a multiplayer that 
 doesn't really do anything new, but this game is strong in it's single player.
  
  Farcry's single player is very impressive the level are huge and the enemies are challenging. The 
 graphics are also wonderful better than most of the available 360 titles, and better looking than 
 Doom 3 and hl2 farcry's competition back in the day. It really feels it your in the tropics, and 
 it is the only game I know where you can actually see the bullet holes in your enemies!!! The action 
 never lets up. The game play for Farcry is also lengthy which is not bad at all since most FPS's 
 now are only in the 4-8 hour range. The sound is great too, guns sound real, hearing the ocean 
 waves crash the beach. 
  
  Overall Farcry is one of the best FPS games to date. While the weak story line and multiplayer 
 may sway fps fans, the game play will just blow you out of your seat. Unlike most Fps games that 
 are unchallenging Farcry offers a challenge as a matter of fact it isn't a game where you just 
 waste the enemy it is an FPS that requires strategy. Enemies squads all have leaders and different 
 squad positions so you can cripple an enemy squad by either killing it's leader of take out it's 
 support. The game is very open ended too. With some missions actually spanning more than 10 square 
 miles, now that's cool. This game is simply a classic that should be recognized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuts24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I was amazed by the clarity of the graphics. It was amazing. 
 The AI isn't so bad, either. Considering its a little old its a pretty solid game. If your looking 
 for a good classic FPS game than this is the perfect example of what you should get. The storyline 
 is intuitive, and the game play really leads you on. As I already said if you are looking for a 
 solid FPS this is the game for you. If your looking for something a bit newer I recommend Half 
 Life 2, or Halo PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotty3913
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Farcry is a brilliant game although easy at times you can set the difficulty too a harder level 
 if it suits. The game has got brilliant graphics and runs at a smooth framerate that is if you 
 have got the graphics card too play the game. The AI is quite smart in it even though they are 
 sometimes whimps.
  One of the good features of the game is the banocualrs I like these because they zoom in really 
 far and you can also hear what the mercinery guards are saying and the mad scientist alike.
  The game also has good replay value and you can bugger the missions and go in search for hangliders 
 and vehicles.
  The only nigle I have about the game is that the vehicle diriveing is rubbish and hard too control 
 one of the reasons for this is the awkward view through the windscreen especially on the 4x4 vehicle 
 even if you press F1 the view is even worse in my opinion, this does not destroy the game and is 
 tolerable.
  I really enjoyed playing this game and highly recomend it too a teen audience.
  Thanks for reading by Jack Scott. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome with awesome graphics and sound and gameplay and online mode and still everything 
 in the package this game it's not only good it's even amazing mind-blowing even. you play as jack 
 carver and he's a strong, muscley guy with a sexy girl called "something" and you have a lot of 
 singleplayer missions to complete as well as a lot of weapons to shoot and feel and experince obviously 
 after you're done with the singleplayer campaign then you can jump online and that's really fast-paced 
 and really fun and great all in all you should defiently get this awesome game it's still good 
 however if it was released in 2004 while we now in 2006 you should get this game and i know that 
 you're gonna play the online for a long while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Far Cry has given me the juciest game adventure ever. Right from the word go you enter a world 
 never seen before. Far Cry is a cool experience considering the fact that you are playing on a 
 beach island. The water is one of the best that we have seen in games and the jungly environment 
 really gives a jumpy feeling.
  When it came out, it was certainly the only game with heavy graphics, later followed by Doom3 and 
 more. Far Cry is different from other games because it is mostly played in an open environment 
 rather than inside a steel building that will never end.
  FPS are always the core PC games and Far Cry is no less. The gameplay is conventional and nothing 
 new for FPS players. There a lots of enemies to hunt down from humans to beats (whatever you call 
 them) to kill and as always fighting humans is easier. The game has a fairly nice plot but as the 
 game commences, you'll be more absorbed in its cool environment than its storyline. Total gameplay 
 time is enough to satisfy you till the optimum level.
  Far Cry certainly boasts one of the best graphics ever developed. The Crytek engine really showed 
 its abilities in this game and I expect more and more in the future. Though I always emphasize 
 that storylines are most important parts of games but Far Cry is one game where you can forget 
 about the story and play it just for its graphics.
  As for the sound, the developers have done a great job by creating such good music and sounds for 
 the game. I've never heard better weapons' sounds before, especially the pistol.
  In the end I'll say that without playing Far Cry no one can call themselves a true PC Gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Milli
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  I dont argue with the fact that Farcry does an excellent job at its most important aspect: shooting, 
 shooting and more shooting! This part of the game is really good as there is a powerful blast every 
 time you press the fire button and enemies are sent flying by the impact of the bullets in a realistic, 
 not too 'ragdoll effect' way. Highly satisfactory! Guns sound just right, powerful and deadly and 
 the AI is quite decent with enemies usually seeking cover as a shield against your bullets. 
  
  The game produces some amazing images which are just a pleasure to look upon, but for the most 
 part i find the graphics a bit overdone. They are just too colourful and sometimes even tiring 
 for the eyes as you desperately struggle to figure out what exactly it is that you are looking 
 at because of the unrealistic shading patterns used by the designers. I guess i would expect a 
 FPS to be a bit darker, offering a gloomier atmosphere even if the action takes place on a tropical 
 island. Perhaps the setting just isn't the right one for me. I am not questioning the superb quality 
 of the graphics, they are simply not to my personal liking.
  
  The storyline is completely pathetic with not even a half decent intro to get you in the mood. 
 You are kept in the dark for most of the game as to who you are supposed to kill, why, and how 
 you even ended up on that god forsaken island to begin with! Its amazing for such a cool dude, 
 clad in a hawaiian shirt, to be able to handle weapons of mass destruction with such deadly skill, 
 as if he has been trained in the ways of the commando since birth! Even if things might clear out 
 towards the end of the story, its still such a major put - off to struggle through such a hard 
 game, when even the minimum of curiosity is not satisfied having these unreasonable gaps in the 
 story. And why risk your life to rescue a shadow of a woman, whom the designers dont even attempt 
 to familiarise you with, or with the history between you two! Where's the motivation?! And who 
 the heck is that guy who seems to be on your side, knows everything about you and assists you through 
 the radio receiver? Who the heck and why the heck?? As if that's not enough, you can barely hear 
 him when he is giving advice and guidance, as the developres have really made a mess of the sound 
 here! Everytime he speaks, i have to turn up the volume or else wont hear a thing. As if that would 
 make a difference!! Just compare that crap to the superb and influential 'audio assistance' you 
 receive in the absolutely stunning 'Manhunt'!
  
  With all the other amazing shooters we've been bombarded with over the past two years, FarCry is 
 struggling to keep up near the top. So far its managed, but only just.
  
  Perhaps i am being a bit too strict but let us face the facts: A decent shooter with non existent 
 storyline, exaggarated graphics and many gaps. It just isnt worth upgrading your PC for the experience 
 it provides. And if a game is so demanding, that it requires a top of the range machine, it better 
 offer something really special in return!! For me, FarCry falls just short of being able to achieve 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Closing Comments
  I started out loving this game. It had so much of what I'd been missing. Sure, it looks fantastic, 
 but it also plays well and is satisfyingly long; each of the 20 levels should take you about an 
 hour or more to play through, if you don't get risky and keep your head down. But I hit a few level 
 design roadblocks that, combined with the Spartan save game system, made for some numbing repetition 
 of load, die, load, die, load, die, ad nauseum, until I finally figured out the correct strategy. 
 If Far Cry had manual saves, even a limited number per area or for the whole game, I would have 
 been overjoyed. I really hope they add this in a patch, or perhaps add it as an unlockable feature. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  I've tried playing this game several times without using cheat codes. I'm usually a gamer that 
 really likes to play by the rules but this is one game that will really get you angry. You see 
 it on shelves for $30 bucks maybe even $20. I've seen few copies floating around for $15. Just 
 ask. Is this game worth it? 
  
  Yes. Far Cry gives the first impression that it is a technical demo but after about an hour of 
 playing, you actually do care about what happens next. Not bad for a $20 game. I eventually finished 
 it but only using the save-anywhere cheats. Unless you're some FPS badass, Far Cry will get under 
 your skin. So please, unless you're really good, make use of the save anywhere feature (which can 
 be activated by Far Cry cheats) . The game's AI is very intelligent although somewhat too intelligent 
 and they seem to have an uncanny aim. The other enemies that you will meet in the game (which are 
 your typical hybrid-human baddies) give you a pretty good adrenaline rush, especially if there 
 are a couple of them after you.
  
  One of the reasons why I like Far Cry is how it rivals the graphics of Half Life 2 not only because 
 it looks pretty but it runs very smoothly. I'm not sure if Crytek just has really cleaver artists 
 that know the engine well but my PC has a humble GeForce 6800 GT and it seems to be more than enough 
 even when my character is viewing over an island and its many subtle details, the game does not 
 slow down even with maxed out details and sliders set at "maximum" or "highest". Even at higher 
 resolutions, the CryEngine is very impressive. It makes you wish that an engine like this can power 
 some of the other FPS games you enjoyed.
  
  Far Cry does not have many puzzle elements, nor does it have a unique story. What it lacks in this 
 area it makes up for in several areas: Sheer graphic power, super-intelligent AI, and just feeling 
 sneaky. Far Cry also has some of the most outrageous but funniest in-action dialogue you'll hear. 
 This happens often when trying to sneak up on an enemy. Far Cry also makes use of vehicles like 
 jeeps and hand gliders. It has nice waters, neat blood spills on enemies, especially if shot in 
 the water. Crytek went pretty far with some of the details making games like Soldier of Fortune 
 look like crap. It has your typical weaponry and like most weaponry, the sniper rifle rules all. 
 The sounds are well conceived especially for a game which takes place mostly on islands.
  
  The game also gets more interesting once you pair up with another character in the game. Overall, 
 Far Cry is a good game (as long as you can save anywhere) . Not great but good. It doesn't warrant 
 playing again but it is definitely worth the bargain money.
  
  I wish they would do something about its lame box art though.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srfisch
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great as is the gameplay, but the lack of a save hot key is maddening and just 
 kills this game. Why any game designer would think it would be fun to repeat the same stuff again 
 and again due to the lack of a save key is beyond me. Nothing is more frustrating than beating 
 2/3 of a level, getting taken out and having to repeat the 1st half or so of the same level 10 
 more times. Yippee. What fun. Not. One thing that set this apart from Half-Life 2 is that Jack 
 is allowed to speak and show some personality. Something Valve could learn from to spark up the 
 character of Gordon Freeman. If it wasn't for the major flaw of the lack of the save hot key, this 
 may be the best FPS ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  When I had finally loaded Farcry (after 5 cd's) I beheld a site mine eyes could not believe... 
 Ok, ok I am exaggerating some what. But the point is the game set a new standard for PC graphics. 
 
  
  The lush forest greenery and the stunning beaches. I didn't know whether to play a game or go on 
 holiday... It truly is stunning and still is. And to add to the joy, it all moved at a great frame 
 rate. I could run at reasonably high settings with my current kit (at that time AMD 2600+, 128mb 
 9600 ATI) .
  
  And then the game play.. Bloody good. Great A. I. busting creatures that hunt you down. And then 
 add a combination of excellent weaponary with cars and boats. It truly is a classic to the standard 
 of Doom, Halflife, Halflife 2, Quake, Unreal etc.
  
  At the time of writing you can get a DVD version on Ebay for around 2 plus postage. If enjoy 1st 
 person games then you MUST play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Now I finaly have testet this game I had heard a lot of good things about. Its a great FPS game, 
 and its full of entertainment and action. 
  
  The good: amaying graffic, full of action, not yust shooting, but hanglidning, boat etc.
  
 
  The bad: Much of the same, you go around I shoot, and shoot, and shoot.. even it is a history, 
 and you can use cars etc, its a lot of the same
  
  But exept from the bad, is this a great game. Its worth its money, but if this game came out today, 
 then its not that great (with graffic and stuff) but its made in 2004, and its really good to be 
 2 years old.
  
  You won't waste you're money on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Have played trough this game 2 times now since it came out. Great fun, very challenging fps game 
 and of the of the hardest FPS games yet. The best thing about this game is the huge freedom this 
 game gives you to accomplish your goals, and could be cool to see that amount off freedom in different 
 fps games in the future. The graphics look a little cartoonish but with great effects and overall 
 looks pretty good and has its own stamp on it, which is good because it would be pretty boring 
 if every game engine looked the same. The Story is more to get you from point a to b, because its 
 very b movie type, though the main menu has a cool hollywood blockbuster score to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry has to be one of the all time best FPSs on the PC. Not just technically but in every respect.
 
  
  Graphics are so stunning that you might as well stop fighting just to admire the scenaries, the 
 binocular has the best function in this game as compared to any game ever out there. The massive 
 draw distance is absolutely amazing which can be further increased by the Binoculars. The sound 
 is spot on with realistic firing sounds & explosions. Gameplay is just as solid. The game is also 
 lengthy enough to keep you occupied for nearly 15-20 hours.
  
  All in all this ranks among my favourite FPS of all time & should definitely be a part of your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinydude5656
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Far cry is one of those games that will be with you for ever. When it came out in 2004, i was surprised 
 and very much delighted to play it. The game has some graphics that by todays standards would great 
 looking. The action in this game is continuous and very addicting. The array of weapons ranging 
 from the simple pistol all the way up to the rocket launcher is a great addition to Far Cry. Along 
 with the weapons, the player is given a wide array of vehicls such as the STV, and the hand glider. 
 All-in-all, Far Cry is a must for all PC gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordanbarrantes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  The first thing i want to say about this game is that its one of the best first person shooters 
 without a doubt. Anyways i got this game for just a mere $20, and by how much i loved it, I would 
 have payed $200 for it. The gameplay is extremely fun and entertaining and even extremely tense. 
 The Ai always keeps you on ur feet and when u get in a firefight with lets say 7 guys ur ducking 
 and peeking around and running for your life. The vechicles are always fun even though somewhat 
 difficult at first. The gameplay does somewhat get duller when u start fighting the mutants. The 
 graphics are just amazing. Even for those with average systems the graphics are still quite impressive. 
 But when u got a powerful rig and u crank those settings up, you just wont wanna look away. The 
 noticable of the terriphic graphics are the amazing water graphics. When you look at it you just 
 wanna stand there and watch it. Truly amazing. The sound is terrific. Remebrable parts of the games 
 sound effect is when i was sneaking up behind a guy and while i was prone in the grass i could 
 hear the birds chirping and the wind blowing. Just amazing and the soundtrack fits the action suprisignly 
 well. The game is quite long and after u finish the awsome single player u can play the terrific 
 multiplayer, and after u get sick of that u can creat ur own far cry levels with the level creator. 
 Its wonderfully simple yet complex.
  
  My final thoughts: This game was worth every penny i payed and more. I honestly found this game 
 to be more entertaining the the terrific half-life (yep ur heard me!) So what are you doing standing 
 here at reading this, go and out and buy this awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  For any FPS fan like me, this game is a must for your collection. It must be said that it takes 
 some pretty hefty hardware to get this game working at top quality and speed, however, the very 
 neat and scalable Sandbox engine does a good job of making this game work for all recent PC's!
 
  
  The graphics quality is superb, and this really hits you when yuo first step outside from the cave 
 you swam into at the beginning. The fullness of the world and complexity of environment, lighting 
 and physics, all add up to a thrilling and complex experiance.
  
  The sound follows suit in its superiority, with capabilities for EAX2.0, and hardware mixing, a 
 good sound card is recommended to get the most deep sound experiance on this game.
  
  The gameplay is excellent, however, it does have one foolhardy flaw. Whilst at the start, the gameplay 
 is fresh, exciting and varied. After 20 missions, it all wears u down. Yet even so, i never found 
 myself BORED with this game, and its thrills you to tears with increibly complex AI! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealGwar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is an excellent and fresh game that will please most hard core and casual gamers. The story 
 line is very original as well as the game play. Far Cry is very tactical and forces you to use 
 your head. Sense the maps are so large, you can do a lot of really cool long ranged sniping and 
 rocket launching. The large, open environments are very fun to drive around in and have fun with. 
 The game has a lot of vehicles including hang gliders, buggys, humvees, boats, etc. The maps load 
 remarkable fast, especially considering the vastness of the levels. I hear that the multi player 
 is fun to, although I have been unable to access it. This is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to buying Far Cry, and once I got it installed, I decided to wait 
 until the next day to play it for the first time. The next day came, and I got it up and running 
 and then I started to play. Unfortunatley, Far Cry wasn't all it's cracked up to be. The controls 
 and everything were good, but it was alittle bit weird looking. I don't know if it was just my 
 PC, but the whole color scheme was all messed up. I like how they use ragdoll physics on the enemies 
 when you kill them. I guess the game was a little bit better than I had expected, but still a little 
 too hard for my taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played only demo version so far, but I would say I will go for retail copy. Game just brilliant. 
 This is another game which shake off Half-Life 2.
  
  Graphic in game ohhhhhhhhh... we have never seen such a thing so far in any game. Brilliant environment 
 which is done perfectly. It looks so real, trees, grass, water just fantastic!! Also the jungle/tropical 
 environment makes game real enjoyment.
  
  Aha, here is comes thoughts about game play. as we know in most games if graphich effects is in 
 a fantastic level, well, its messing up all this with its poor game play.... But not Far Cry!!!!!
 
  
  Games story line is really mindblowing and strong. So we have got here game with fantastic gameplay 
 and graphic... this happens rare..
  
  AI in game also is immpresive. it is too hard to strike to the enemy, which we have got plenty 
 of them in many difference. you will see. Well fro you equipment developers gave more options: 
 different types of weapons, binocular, night vision glass/equip. etc.
  But still game is too hard to play it in relaxed manner. you will be always in uotight tense by 
 this game, which is makes game really valuable from that point of view.
  
  If you wont get what you need... just Cry far... far... :) ) )
  
  Enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Mo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  In a word, this game is sweet. Lot's of different strategies can be used to accomplish goals. Realistic 
 settings and the graphics are great if you have the hardware. Later in the game, there were literally 
 times when I jumped in my seat! The creepy atmosphere is enhanced with a nice speaker or headphone 
 system. 
  
  The story line is OK, but the fear factor is very well done. Guns are fairly realistic and there 
 are a variety of vehicles and on-board weapons that can be utilized as well. 
  
  One of the most intense parts of the game was when I got captured and then dumped on the remote 
 island with the beasts with only one handgun and half a clip. Insane! The beasts are fast and scary!
 
  
  Overall, well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  this game is now a few years old yet still excells in many ways, i still play the game quite regularly 
 for the dynamic views, awesome weapons and addictive online play.
  the story for this shooter is imple yet strong, you are asked to take a woman on her boat to some 
 island where your boat is destroye by terrorists who then go to kidnapp her. your taks is then 
 to get her back, in all siplicity, yer there are a number of obstacles, including mercs annoying 
 scientists and the infamous mutants.
  you wake up in a dull, bleak cave, where you are given a short but useful walkthrough to the controls, 
 however you are then xposed to an eye watering view as you exit he cave only to find a beautiful 
 tropicl island, it really is fantastic. you may be used to play such games as oblivion and other 
 recent ones with ground breaking graphics but this still amazes me, not just because the graphics 
 are great, but bcause everything is so bright and colourful and it makes for a real visual feast.
 
  there are a number of weapons in your armory ranging from knives, to rifles to snipers, yet you 
 can only hold four so you have to decide which is best fr the job, the way the game plays is also 
 good, it is smooth and quite possibly the most non linear fps game i have ever played, you can 
 quite literally go anywhere on the island and you will still come across guard patrols, watch towers 
 and the odd boat or jeep meaning you can bypass any hard areas in a mission by literally going 
 round them, unless of course you are inside.
  this game also has a host of little things which really mkae it great, hings that you may not realise 
 first time over but come back to appreciate it later, or example, pushing barrels onto unsuspecting 
 mercs, and the obvious exploding barrel bits, not forgetting blowing up a barrel next to a boat 
 which then flys p in the air only to land on a guard patrol passing by.
  there are also vehicles you can hitch a ride on throughout the island, my favourite, the handglider, 
 during which time it really is the moment to take screenshots of the beautfiful scenery.
  i really would recommend this to and fps fan and at it current price on the makret you can go wrong, 
 enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a pretty good, average FPS game.
  
  It's gameplay is'nt much different from that of many other common FPS games, thus already leaving 
 a large gap in the games popularity.
  
  Far Cry's graphics are close to the best out there, so if your looking for a game with amazing graphics, Far 
 Cry should be on your list, assuming you can meet the system requirements which tend to be steep....
 
  
  The sound of this game is awesome, you can hear the trees wave in the wind...... Every footstep you 
 make is audible.
  
  This games online multiplayer is intense, all you have to do is have a Ubi Soft account, and you 
 can play for free, unless there are events occuring, then you have to pay if you'ld like to participate.
 
  
  Far Cry also consists of vehicles, many, many vehicles....... That you can use to your disposal at 
 any time that there around.
  
  All said, this is a awesome FPS game, and if your looking for a good looking, lengthy game, Far Cry 
 is for you!!!
  
  ~gunman357~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Yeah... Wow! That about sums it up! When this game made it into my DVD-drive 1 year back, I was 
 stunned. This was before Half-Life 2 and Doom 3, and F. E. A. R. and so on. The graphics were (and 
 still are!) exceptional, to say the least. A tropical island paradise never looked so good, or 
 felt so big. 
  The gameplay is pretty straightforward FPS-action, with some vehicles to utilise. Nothing groundbreaking 
 there. It's just that the feeling of you (Jack Carver) being all alone on a tropical island, with 
 nothing but a couple of weapons and a pair of useful binoculars, comes across so vividly, that 
 it can be frightening at some points.
  
  Picture this: You are standing on a hill-top, below you, you can see a vast island, stretching 
 as far as the eye can see. In the distance you can make out a camp, in which (through your binoculars) 
 you can see mercenaries guarding, practising their firearm skills or just doing some push-ups. 
 You contemplate what to do. Should I try to make my way past the camp unseen, or should I raid 
 it single-handedly? You go for a third option... You take your sniper-rifle and and zoom in on 
 the camp. You first try to spot any mercs standing alone, so their untimely death might go unnoticed. 
 Yet, you see 3 mercs standing there chatting, next to a barrel of what seems to be fuel. You have 
 estimated the merc presence in the camp to be of about 10. You fire your trusty sniper-rifle, blowing 
 up the barrel, sending the three guards flying in all directions. But the guards are not all that 
 are sent flying. A couple of harmless green barrels are also catapulted away from the inferno, 
 that is an explosion. One green barrel, hits a fourth merc, killing him instantly, yay, bonus! 
 The remaining mercs are bewildered, and sound the alarm. Shortly after, a helicopter arrives searching 
 the immediate area around the base. As it hovers over the jungle, you grin smugly, knowing that 
 you are safe, half a kilometer away. The helicopter slowly continues it's search, and at some point 
 it stops and hovers above the base. You can see, that the chopper is manned by a pilot and two 
 gunners. The gunners are exposed in the middle section of the chopper, so you decide to pick them, 
 with your rifle. You shoot the first gunner, facing you, and he falls out of the chopper, smashing 
 down in the middle of the base, to the surprise of the remainder of the the mercs. You plan to 
 shoot the other gunner, but the pilot in the chopper, realises that he is a sitting duck in his 
 current position. He swings around, and starts heading toward your position. Damn! You'll have 
 to find cover, quickly! 
  As you lay, quiet as a mouse, you can hear the chopper above you. You haven't been spotted yet, 
 but you'll have to wait for the chopper to return to wherever it came from, because you're out 
 of sniper-ammo and rockets for your RPG (which, by the way, fits perfectly in your pocket, along 
 with your sniper-rifle, and some automatic rifles) . After a minute, or so, the pilot decides to 
 head back to the base, and you can start moving towards the now slightly less guarded merc-forward-position. 
 
  
  This is how, the game plays. Or, at least, that's how I played it. See, that's the beauty of Far 
 Cry, you can play it however you wish. Try to be a stealthy assassin, sneaking up on unknowing 
 victims, or a ruthless sniper, blowing the brains out of baffled enemies from a distance, or perhaps 
 a psycho-marine, charging the enemies ruthlessly. Your choice... Get this game, now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seteger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  
  While Xbox has its newer, improved Far Cry: Instincts, I've taken a walk down recent-memory lane 
 and reinstalled the original PC Half Life. Have the last couple of years been kind to what was, 
 in 2004, a jaw-dropping romp through the jungle?
  
  Absolutely. The graphics remain extraordinary -- lush jungles, creepy caverns, large and beaitful 
 levels to marvel at. The sound will match the mood, scare you out of seat, and help you survive, 
 depending on how well you're paying attention. And the game is flat-out thrilling. Think Half-Life 
 meets Jurassic Park -- sort of.
  
  I think it's hard to appreciate this at first, but even at the "normal" difficulty setting, this 
 game is tough on you. You have GOT to be smart and careful, and sometimes a little lucky. You cannot 
 dominate your enemies; instead, you outsmart them, you outlive them, and then you move on to the 
 next challenge. This gave me a headache in 2004. Now it makes me excited to push forward to the 
 next challenge.
  
  I'm writing this for those people who maybe see this original in the bargain bin at EB Games or 
 Best Buy. I'd imagine you could find this dirt cheap today, and if so, wow, do yourself a favor 
 and snatch it up. In a time of first person shooting, this may very well be the best of the bunch, 
 certainly right up there with Half-Life and Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Far cry is awesome, playing on the tropical islands has nevered been so fun. You feel like your 
 in a actual tropical jungle trying to survive against the marines. That's what makes this game 
 fantastic, the graphics are so beautiful. The water looks so real and that you can use the environment 
 against your enemies. Such as hiding in bushes that they can't even see then sneak up and attack. 
 Man that's fun. Especially this game has massive amounts of weapons to use. Using vehicles to ride 
 around shoot people with and O you can ride boats, now that's fun. But far cry isn't a easy run 
 around and shoot em up game. The enemies aren't stupid, they can kill you pretty easy. So you have 
 to be more stealth in this game or else the enemy can take you down (If you try realistic difficulty, 
 good luck because it is near or maybe impossible to beat that difficulty) . Anyways this is a classic 
 shooter since half-life. Shooters won't be disappointed about this game. It is truely fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhizzlePop88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  REALLLY REALLLY coooooooooooooool. i love the blood effects when you you shoot someone. the guns 
 will make you look over your shoulder out of reflex. What the enemies say is hilarous. The ragdoll 
 effects are some of the best ive seen. The best is probably HL2. this game is hard though. the 
 soldiers are a bunch of panzies, while the monsters are like a bunch of panzers. i got this game 
 free with my sound card. a great deal because this is one of the best games you can buy with just 
 a little money. So remember, buy it. buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyerok
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Far cry is an average FPS with very god graphics. It feels as if theres a lot of untapped potential 
 in this game.
  
  The cry engine is really good, the graphics are very refreshing and the tropical setting is more 
 of a ketchup on a very good pizza (pizza = graphics) . The physics are pretty real and there are 
 a lot of interesting parts in the game where you can manipulate the environment and the objects 
 around (like using a trolley by pushing it or pushing a bolder and crushing your enemies to death) . 
 
  The level design is satisfactory to say the least; the devs have done a good job on it. The core 
 gameplay is simple and it feels that a lot could have been done here. Youll find yourself seeking 
 objectives using your radar and gunning down enemies for the most parts of the game. The rest are 
 populated by vehiclesand even when youre in them youll be firing at some enemies on your way. 
 Thats about it. There are some interesting parts in the game and most of them are in the beginning 
 but I felt frustrated at some places. Nevertheless, because of the simple gameplay, the game gets 
 old by the end. But that can be partly blamed on the length of the single player campaign which 
 is very long. Thats a good thing if you like the game very much but a bad thing for those who 
 think the game is okay.
  The sound of gun fire is pretty realistic but apart from that and the main menu music, theres 
 nothing else to talk about on the sound department 
  The story = lame even for a video game the storys just meh. A few short words on it: Tropical 
 islandsboat accidentstuck. mad scientistcreates monsterswelcome to The Island of Dr Moreou.
 
  
  Several vehicles exist that can be used in the levels. Some of them are:
   Buggy
   Humvee (armed with machine gun/rocket turret)
   Inflatable boat
   Patrol boat (armed with 
 machine gun/rocket Launcher)
   Large truck
   Forklift
   Air Glider
  
  Weapons
   Machete  Kukri knife
   Jungle Falcon  a fictional Desert Eagle clone
   Jackhammer Shotgun 
  semi-auto/auto shotgun
   FN P90  fires 5.7mm KE rounds (in the game, shares ammunition with the MP5SD)
   MP5SD  fires 
 9mm KE suppressed rounds (in the game, shares ammunition with the P90)
   M4 Carbine  fires 5.56mm KE rounds
   G36 w/ AG36  an assault rifle firing 5.56 KE rounds, 
 with an underslung 40mm grenade launcher
   XM29 OICW  an assault rifle firing 5.56mm KE rounds as well as 20mm airburst fragmentation rounds
 
   AW50 Sniper Rifle  fires .338 Lapua Magnum rounds
   M249  machine gun, fires 5.56mm KE rounds
   Rocket Launcher
   Mortar (Stationary)
   
 M134 minigun (Stationary)  Fires 7.62 KE rounds
   Hand grenade
   Flashbang (non-lethal)
   Smoke grenade (non-lethal)
  
  Far cry is a nice game with awesome 
 graphics and a solid engine. But it gets repetitive and has bad dialogues and voiceovers. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Amazing, simply amazing. This is the second best first person shooter I own next to Half-Life 2. 
 But what makes it so great? Well I'll tell you why. Let's take the graphics first, character detail 
 is great. With the little things such as buckles and fabric looking realistica as well as hair 
 and skin. The weapons look and handle like they were in your hand, with the little parts on it 
 looking interactive, all with the most brilliant reloading animation. The vehicle detail is extremely 
 accurate, with wheels and chassis looking like they should. And that's not even the best part, 
 the enviroments are so lush, you'd believe you were in a real jungle that grew and breathed with 
 you, fish in the sea, birds in the air and angry mercenaries on the land, good stuff. The gameplay 
 is pretty hard, even on easy, due to intelligent AI, over powerful weapons and vehicles and the 
 power of enemies, one of which has a rocket launcher built into it's hand! WHAT! But don't be afraid, 
 there are plenty of vantage points and hiding places to kill these guys with no trouble at all. 
 Each level is a big as the last, with the opening level, fighting your way through waves of angry 
 mercs, then cavernous places with a strange creature killing all the mercs and then a rebellion 
 of mutants verses humans with you killing either. All this combined with the amount of complexity 
 in planning your kills, setting traps and plotting your route of murderous massacering makes this 
 a physcological and physcial game to play. The music score is pretty good, dying down when there 
 is no danger and being replaced by the sounds of your surrounding, the waves on the sand, parrots 
 cawing and the frenzied fire of Carbines as you dive behind a wall for cover. All in all, if you 
 already have Half-Life 2, get this none the less, it's probably the closest great FPS compaired 
 to Half-Life 2. Go Ubisoft, and don't make another Tomb Raider or I shall eat you all! What? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawmanrevolutio
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Ive wanted this game for a long time but never had a good enough PC but this was the First game 
 i got after getting a Gaming PC 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Truely amazing graphics here folks (when on highest setting) .
  The Island looks amazing
  
 
  Sound 8/10
  typical for an FPSthe guns sound cool & the voice acting is great Very Happy
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Great u can get in a Truck or Boat or even Hang gliders
  also u can do whatever 
 u want. u can go anyway across the island to do the mission
  
  Lifespan 8/10
  a long single player mode & a great multiplayer mean hours of fun can be had from Far Cry
  
 
  Overall 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combinesoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  I just kept saying that, throughout the whole game. To put it simply, everything about this game 
 was cool. Sure the plot was weak and predictable, but it actually doesn't matter. The game is so 
 outrageously awesome that you completely forget there is a plot until you get an escort mission. 
 The graphics are incredible, the enemy programming is incredible, the vehicles, the water, absolutely 
 everything is polished to such a fine degree it makes your brain hurt just thinking about it. Although 
 the game could have used a bit more of a melee aspect, slash a bit of interactivity with the enemies, 
 I found blowing holes into them with a desert eagle equally satisfying. The ragdoll is very realistic, 
 including bloody mist trails in the water which actually attracts sharks! The ability to do pretty 
 much anything you want to anything is a very delicious addition to the game. My only gripe really 
 is, that the game is brutally difficult. Newbies will have an insane amount of trouble even on 
 the easiest difficulty setting. A small price to pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Sound: I gave sound a 9.0. Mainly, because while the voice acting is done well, there are a few 
 goofs. For instance, did you ever watch those modern-comedy-action movies were the villian seemed 
 to have a comedic anger. That Jerry Sienfield show always comes to mind when I hear this. Anyway, 
 no matter how angry he/she sounded, it made you want to laugh. That's how the Crow character is. 
 
  But, what manages to keep the sound score so high, isn't just the voice acting, but the ambience. 
 The wind blowing, waterfalls, ocean sounds, fire, really no ambient sound was missing in this game. 
 And it really immersed you in the game. I still remember the chills I got hearing the strange monkey 
 howls, thinking it might be some mutant in the distance.
  
  Graphics: If I still owned my old Geforce 3, I might not agree so much on graphics. But, with the 
 right video card, this game is still awesome looking, today. Every aspect of the graphics brings 
 the world so much to life. The waving grass, foliage, and trees. Tropical birds flying around, 
 or resting on a tree or rock. 
  The hundreds of little fish swimming around in shallow water I found amusing. And I suppose I can 
 get into interactivity here. Most objects in this game are interactive, and have some effect from 
 what you do. Back to the fish. If I throw a grenade at a bunch of fish from a earlier game, chances 
 are they will still be happily swiming. Toss one in, in this game, and the water actually bubbles 
 up, and all the dead fish float to the surface. And it doesnt stop there. Shoot at a dead fish 
 floating, and it will get pushed down, and float back up with a tiny blood gush. This is only minor 
 stuff of what this games physics can do. Its your responsibility to see the reat, if you want. 
 Or else Id be going on forever.
  
  Gameplay: Most AI in other first person shooters dont seem to work together, as well as Far Cry 
 AI has. It has it's flaws still. But, the AI is smart enough to mess with you. But, unlike most 
 other FPS, you can mess with them very much too. To many ways that I could describe. But, you can 
 do almost anything to take the enemy out. And a game that offers dfferent ways of going about things, 
 usually has more playability. This definatly was a game and story that made you want to keep playing.
 
  
  If this hasnt convinced you enough, PM me, and I'll try even harder.
  
  Now for the goodies. If you like/liked this game, I have been looking around for a while. And I 
 know my FPS. These seem to be a few future releases that might have a similar gameplay style to 
 Far Cry. Some are actually by Crytek themselves:
  
  Far Cry addon http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/farcryaddon/index. html
  
  Crysis (another Crytek 
 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. This must have been one of the second games announced around Far Cry's release, 
 that had the same look and feel almost. 
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/stalker/index. html
  
  *ok so really there is only one other 
 game by another Developer. But, it seems like it will be just as immersive, if not more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a very addictive game. You have a lot of weapons to switch from on multiplayer and on 
 the single player campaign. It may take you a bit to memorize the keys to play though. Any difficulty 
 on this game is also fun to play on Far Cry. The players you play on single player can find you 
 too easily though if you try to sneak up behind them or anything like that. The vehicles are pretty 
 fun to get in also and it is better to ride a vehicle than walk in Far Cry. Even though it has 
 some down-sides to Far Cry it is still a pretty good and action pack first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino258
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. If you have a super power PC than you should play this game because this 
 game has a excelent graphics (amazing, beautiful, detail) , environments are open ended so is the 
 gameplay. When i started playing this game i was amazed of quality of water, i only wanted to watch 
 sea, i didn't know what to do because i didn't wanted to do anything else.
  This game has good story, great gameplay and everything else.
  You can drive jeeps, boats, ...
 
  If you like FPS you need to buy this game because it's out before Half Life 2, Doom 3. This game 
 is better than original Half Life.
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grosgrostas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  March 2006 and FAR CRY still looks better than most games today WOW !!
  I Love this game... 
  
  The immensity of the land the richness of the details is mind boggling
 
  how is it that games coming out 3 years later don't look as good?
  Clearly these guys have talent . 
  
  You can spend 10 minutes just looking at the birds
  
 with your binoculars and they're behavior is natural 
  
  The effects of heat is great
  The water is perfect
  the fact you can go for a swim and that is almost fun by itself
  I mean 
 fishes and bubbles for heavens !!!
  
  And the replay value is the best I have seen.
  also
  -Killings- -Knifes - -Guns - -Explosives-
  
  BUY BUY BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the strangest games I have ever played. You are some guy trapped on an island 
 and you must escape or die. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is also great. The only thing 
 I disagree with is the sound. It may be me but I think the voices are a bit genaric. This is a 
 very good game though because it is extremely long and is very difficult. This isn't a run and 
 gun game, you actually have to use guerrilla tactics to finish your enemy. If you have a very powerful 
 computer I recommend Far Cry but if you have an older computer I recommend you stay away from it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised by how well this game turned out to be. I enjoyed almost 100% of its content and 
 have played it many times both campaign and multiplayer.
  It stars you as Jack Carver, a hawaiian shirted warrior that comes to these jungle islands to kick 
 some bad guy ass. Which you get plenty of.
  Firstly the plot was extremely weak, almost none. And the parts that it did have sucked completely, 
 BUT the gameplay out shined it. Its an easy, straight forward interface that equips you with a 
 great arsenal. They also throw in a twist of "Cryvision" which ill keep a surprise for the people 
 going to play it. You get a powerful pistol, an array of different AR's and fully autos, and of 
 course the infamous sniper that can shoot across a whole map!
  The sound FX is really top notch and i was really pleased with it. The gfx were amazing too. The 
 jungles feeled really real and alive, and people models moved really well in the physics engine. 
 Which is also a nice piece of work.
  Mulitplayer was probably the worst part of the game because of the lack of options. You load a 
 DM map and then when your done it just switches to assault or team DM. there is like no options 
 and queing of maps. Its really a disgrace, but once you get over that factor the play is really 
 fun. Big maps to waste your friends in.
  So overall i wouldnt pass it up. anyone whos an FPS fan should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i had the coice of waiting for Xbox 360 version of Far Cry or get this 
 i thought seeing this is $20 ill buy it and it was a good choice. You play as Jack Carver an ex 
 Marine that was just living out his life till one day he is hired by a women named Valeri to sail 
 her out to these islands off the coast well when they arrive at the islands their boat is destroyed 
 and Valeri who had left befor the boat was destroyed is somewhere els while jack fends for his 
 life aginst hordes of mercenaries.
  
  First of the graphics bring a tear to the eye knowing that its not real makes me cry it is so beautiful 
 the water is crystal clear with fish swimming about foilage is scattered about the islands allowing 
 you to take cover and hide from your enemies. Charcter models look great as well with sweat shining 
 off you foes faces and spatters of blood come from your enemies with every hit not only that but 
 you can see where you shot enemies with bullet holes appearing with every hit. Tho to get this 
 best graphics you need and up to date computer.
  
  Sound is great with an ambience full of birds and bugs making noises in the area and the sound 
 of the wtaer brushing up aginst the shore is something to charish. Guns sounds are solid and explosion 
 effects all sound the same which is a dissapointment. The voice acting is not all that grand Jack 
 Carver sounds somewhat like a superhero out of a comic book not to mention the voice acter cant 
 act well anyway not to mention some crappy taunts from your foes.
  
  Gameplay is intense and nonstop but the best part of it is the variety of options you have at your 
 dissposle there is always more than one way to finish the job with multiple routs to your objectives 
 as well as the choice to be stealthy or make a head on assault. The down side is the game sometimes 
 can get reptetive in some points but not enough to make you stop playing. The multiplayer isnt 
 as good as the single player tho its pretty boreing tho theres nothing in it that makes it different 
 than any other FPS out there.
  
  Overall this game is a deadly force with beautiful graphics and the variety in how to do your missions 
 you will be playing this game for a long time to bad the multiplayer aspect isnt as good as the 
 single player and the voice acting isnt the best. This game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is all about action and setting with little effort towards character development or engaging 
 dialogue. This storyline surrounding a company involved in twisted genetic engineering has been 
 done to death, but never in such a resplendent setting. Breath in the fresh, sea air while fertilizing 
 the plant life with the bodies of psycho mercenaries. Partake in the sonorous rapture of swaying 
 trees and lapping tide pools, amidst the explosion of gunfire and howls of mutated monstrosities. 
 Travel brochure for an island getaway or training camp for the demented? You decide.
  
  * Gameplay: As first-person shooters go, all the most common elements that make up this game type 
 are here. You get an arsenal of weapons, all of which become available in prescribed doses throughout 
 the game just so you can ooh and ahh at the new features it brings. All the guns are realistically 
 modeled, inside and out, with their own reticule tolerances, ranges, rate of fire and ammo counts. 
 Most of them are well balanced for the gameplay so that reliance on one weapon is rarely experienced. 
 I found the P90 the least useful, which burns through ammo too quickly. Other than weapons, the 
 vision-enhancing tools were golden, especially the binoculars that let you tag the positions of 
 enemies so you can track them on the radar. I found myself using them even on distances within 
 twenty feet under dense brush, just because they were better than my own eyes at spotting mercenaries 
 skulking around. Health and armor pickups were more than generous and it was a nice touch to have 
 enemies drop armor in varying states of durability, depending on how many bullets they took when 
 you fired into them! Movements of all adversaries were realistic, especially the tactics of human 
 enemies who spread out to attack from several directions if you let them. On the more unrealistic 
 side, the game design cheat of omniscient foes is revealed when stepping on one little twig brings 
 the entire archipelago to pounce on you. Sniping one guy from a hundred yards automatically alerts 
 everyone to your general position. I would rather have seen them running around wondering where 
 you are than pretending to be ignorant of your position and advancing as if you had a giant Hes 
 Right Here! sign above your head. Each map is laid out in large, organic shapes that offer multiple 
 paths to the same objective. Sometimes you can take a motorboat or buggy to get to where you are 
 needed, other times you can just hotfoot it through the jungle, or swim, or even hang glide. Each 
 option for mobility has its ups and downs which makes for a suitably large variable in gameplay. 
 In addition to all the jungle action, there are plenty of concrete and rebar locations to add to 
 the whole mad scientist on a desert isle feel. None of this helps the story however, which is 
 so thin you could cut through it with a Ritz cracker. If it wasnt for the sparse dialogue that 
 cropped up here and there, I would have forgotten who I was supposed to play and what I was doing 
 it all for. This is unfortunate because the whole tropical theme just begged for a decent story. 
 Instead we are stuck with an ex special forces guy led around by his nose using a carrot in the 
 shape of some vapid female given a particularly insulting scene that would make Sara Lee roll over 
 in her grave. In all, the gameplay is pretty even with no moments that stand out or were extremely 
 frustrating. What you see and do in the beginning is what you will be experiencing in the end.
 
  
  * Graphics: When you think of an island setting, you picture pool-blue lagoons, palm trees bending 
 to the wind, grass huts, rainbow colored parrots and tiki idols. Take away the birds and tikis, 
 add some military bunkers and assorted evil scientist equipment, and you have the world of Far 
 Cry. Describing how realistic everything looked would be like discussing how real a video-taped 
 vacation looked. Its that good. The water effects were so beautiful, I found myself just staring 
 into the sunset the first time I landed on the shore. You wont find any tiled textures here. Everything 
 from the dirt paths to the concrete floors inside buildings look authentic, right down to the bullet 
 holes you create. Youll need an extremely high end graphics card to make full use of what this 
 game can deliver. Blowing up enemies treats you to the ragdoll physics currently being employed 
 by many games. This technology is still in its infancy, and Im sure will soon lose the ragdoll 
 tag as this type of animation becomes more realistic. The cinematics are brief and do little to 
 help the already boring story.
  
  * Sound: The soundtrack is limited and rarely pushes itself to being noticed during regular gameplay. 
 The effects are a different matter, filling the environment with every sound you can imagine hearing. 
 Footsteps accurately depict the material you tread on. You can feel the greenery brushing by you 
 as you slink through plants. Sniper gunfire echoes through enclosed canyons, and grenades tinkle 
 across the ground when thrown, exploding with much energy seconds later. The vehicle engines idle 
 and roar in conjunction with the way you drive them, and the tires on wheeled vehicles transmit 
 the type of terrain you drive through. When you hang glide, the air whistles through the fabric, 
 giving you a real sense of moving through the air. Something I remember enjoying from No One Lives 
 Forever is eavesdropping on conversations, listening to the mercs complaining and bragging to 
 each other. Besides them, the rest of the voice work in the game is middling, bordering on uninspired. 
 The only voice exception is for the character of Doyle, who, for some reason, appealed to me much 
 more than the others. Players with a surround sound setup will appreciate the sound in this game 
 more than others.
  
  * Value: Multiplayer is one of the reported strong points of this game, and I have no doubt it 
 must be spectacular, if the level design and graphic features are any indication. Alas, I have 
 not participated in any multiplayer action, so I cant comment. The length of the game I found 
 to be just long enough, with enough variation in mission objective to see myself playing the single 
 player campaign again in the future.
  
  * Tilt: Ive played lots of FPS games, but none that offered as much ability to strategize the 
 best method of attack or evasion as this game. Im very glad to have played it, and if I want a 
 good story, Ill read a book.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Farcry, welcome to Paradise Gone wrong, actually in my sights its gone well with this game. It 
 has very good graphics, a solid campaign, and a good storyline, and it wasn't predicable like other 
 games, except for one part. (eg: I knew I was gonna end up killing Doyle.) The game had a large 
 variety of vehicles to drive, except it stunk that the choppers and cargo planes aren't vehicles 
 in the accessbility list. The game's AI did use tactics (eg: suppress and flanking) , but if you 
 were in a tower or something they'd just charge at you. Ubisoft put ALOT of time into this game, 
 especially the jungle, the shorelines, and the water, but out of those the water really caught 
 my eye. The water almost looked real, and the next thing of course is the AI detail. Their mouths 
 move like on most modern PC games, their hands are normal shaped, not brick, and when you shoot 
 them their is a hole where you shot them, and when you stab/slash at them with your machette their 
 is a blood mark across where ever you hit them. Another thing that made me go "ooohhhh-aaahhh" 
 was the blood affect (eg: the blood will drip down the wall if you shoot someone and they hang over 
 a wall, or if you kill them in water, it looks like the blood is real just because of the way it 
 floats) , and a very useful thing in the game was the physics, being able to shoot through wood 
 and thin surfaces. So this concludes my review, overall the game rocked, it had no flaws in my 
 view, so in return of Ubisoft spending all the time to make this great game, I am going to give 
 it a great score. 
  
  
  
  Now to tell you a little about multiplayer, only a few sentences cause you'll have to play it to 
 know what it's really like. The multiplayer was the funnest aspect of the game, it never gets old, 
 Never ever gets old. It has great run-and-gun gameplay. For those of you who are trigger happy, 
 and like a little twist in their gaming, I reccomend this game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  REVIEW STATUS: final concept
  
  FOREWORD
  
  Is there a person who doesnt yet know the name Far Cry? This game is part of the revolution that 
 slowly built itself up starting from 2002 and exploded in 2004. Far Cry is one of the first games 
 to lay down a new path in the jungle of graphics as well as gameplay. The release of this game 
 was the kind of historical moment that people wanted to be there when it happens.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game starts as Jack, an ex-marine (but of course) and a touring guide, is 
 approached by, seemingly, another tourist lady. When he brings her to her desired location, the 
 boat gets attacked and blown up sky high. Washed ashore with no tourist and no clue to what just 
 happened, Jack begins his journey through the island. Soon he finds someone who says hes a friend 
 and claims that he knows the location of the girl. Instead of looking for some food and means to 
 get off the island, Jack, as any true action character, sets off to get to the bottom of whats 
 happening.
  
  Although the story is linear, the freedom of the action in the game is so large, one feels like 
 breathing in deep. The open air maps in FC are huge. These maps are filled with life: birds, fish, 
 all kinds of greenery and mercenaries, of course. Moreover, the game comes with a map editor which 
 allows the player to build maps that are as big as their processor can handle. A noticeable feature 
 is the complicated physics. Stuff can be knocked over and FC also introduces chains that, from 
 their look, use some serious calculations.
  
  The islands are full of well-armed mercenaries. To get passed them the player must rely either 
 on stealth or the available weaponry arsenal. The arsenal includes weapons for every occasion, 
 from a pistol to a rocket launcher. 
  
  The AI of the game is probably the best Ive ever seen. Enemies are organized. They will patrol 
 their area, but once the danger is spotted they will run to your approximate location and then 
 slowly try to find you. They will have to because the foliage forms a great concealment. Mercenaries 
 will throw grenades from behind cover and they will sometimes call for reinforcements, which arrive 
 on the Blackhawk helicopters. The behavior of mercenaries and the setting makes them quite easy 
 to kill. Theres not much strategy needed. The distances are big enough that it takes a while for 
 the enemy to get to you. Once it closes in, it still has to find you, so you have a lot of time 
 and opportunity to take the enemy out. Later in the game enemies turn from smart tacticians into 
 violent brutes as the player is put against the monsters.
  
  The game comes with a multi-player. Cant have a quality shooter without a multi-player mode. The 
 player can also make his own custom missions with a mission editor. There are manuals for the editor 
 and its friendlier than some of the other editors the player mightve come across, but some things 
 are still very confusing. Fortunately there are many maps posted on-line by other players.
  
  VISUALS 
  
  Wellwhere do I begin? Far Cry set such a high visual standard for games to 
 follow that its hard to find whats not pretty about it. Playing FC is like traveling to a tropical 
 resort. Exotic fish is circling in the calm clear waters, contrasting against the white sand. The 
 scorching sun is cutting through the openings in the palms canopies, leaving interesting textures 
 on the objects below. The vegetation under the palms, by the way, is very diverse and plentiful. 
 A small shed, a fishing boatthe only thing missing is a glass of ice-cold soda. 
  
  The detail of models is remarkable. Faces are smooth to the last curve. Strong complex shadowing 
 is present, which we also see back in games like Doom 3. The game also features distortion effects 
 from heat and shock. All of these things combined produce an unforgettable experience.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is not too bad either. The ambience features different insects, birds and 
 other things to remind you where you are. The actors play well. Mercenaries talk to themselves 
 and to each other, showing their personality, which is a lot of fun to hear. The music, however, 
 holds back most of the time, and thats not necessarily harmful to the game because the music would 
 only steal the feel from the player that the other sounds provided him with. When the music is 
 present, its creepy and fits perfectly.
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  Well, of course, such awesome technology comes at a price. And Im not talking about the huge price 
 tag. Im talking about the 15-minute loading times. Im also talking about the high system requirements. 
 The game ran very choppy on a 2 GHz Pnetium 4 with a Radeon 9600 video card, even on medium to 
 minimum settings. That is still more than enough to enjoy the game, though.
  
  VERDICT
  
  Far Cry is a technological marvel. Its a trip that combines long-range sniping and close quarters 
 shoot outs. There are cool mercenaries and merciless monsters. There are babes and evil scientists. 
 The combination of everything done well is what makes this game so excellent. This beautiful, over 
 the top action game should be enough to keep even the most demanding gamer satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  To open this review I just want to say don't bother reading any further than this sentence, buy 
 this game and play it and enjoy what I think is one of the best FPS games on the market, even now.
 
  
  But if you want to know a little more about the game then read on. The first thing is that Far 
 Cry has just gone budget and can now be found for the bargain price of $17 which is great.
  
  I think that this game is on a par with Half Life 2, yes I really do. It is worth the full 
 price alone just to soak up the amazing landscapes and beautiful lush island that the game is set 
 on.
  
  But the main reason is the awesome AI of the enemy. They really do seem to work together to make 
 your life in the game as difficult as possible. It is amazing watching them interact and move around.
 
  
  So get this game, you have an even better reason as well now it is budget. You will not be disappointed, 
 I promise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  -Graphics-
  The graphics in this game are great but they really have out done themselves when it came to the 
 water affects and stuff, but in my game the light is soo bright that my eyes strain so i had to 
 quit in the middle of the story. Make sure you have decent graphics card that is not to old or 
 you won't be able to get much out of the game. The Animation in this game is ok not the best I've 
 seen because when you kill someone their body is like crooked and it looks wierd not that bad though.
 
  
  -Sound-
  The sound in this game is great but i hate the voices "I'm going to lay a smack down on you" or 
 some lame stuff like that but other then voices the sound that veciles make and the guns and just 
 about everything else is decent nothing sounds the same.
  
  -Gameplay-
  The AI after playing it on easy where running around and everthing not really shooting at me. The 
 story in this game is great their are really no like stupid parts or anything like that. if they 
 would've just polished some stuff -up a bit make it a better challenge this game would've deserved 
 a 10.
  
  -Value-
  9
  
  -Reviewer's Tilt-
  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  FAR CRY
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  Far cry is a pretty good FPS game ever but its tough due to its very intelligent A. I. The CRYengine 
 makes a very good environment in the game. The game has fabulous graphics! Truly outstanding!!! 
 This game gives you the realistic feeling. The game does not have a awesome story line but its 
 just OK.
  
  Gameplay:-
  
  Our protagonist, Jack Carver runs a charter boat service located south of Pacific. On one such 
 drop-off, his boat is blown up and he finds himself on an island. During this game youll get to 
 drive different vehicles. And for every mission you have several numbers of ways to finish it, 
 thats what I love in this game. You can almost go any where but however the level of interactivity 
 is low especially when compared with Half-Life 2. There is a breath meter which keeps decreasing 
 as you get tired while running or run out of breath while swimming. The mercenaries are tough and 
 will attack you with a strategy. The mercenaries and the mutants are real tough. So be careful 
 and youll have to use stealth at times rather than being RAMBO!! . The games A. I is horribly 
 tough and I doubt if any can finish the game in the last mode (There are Different modes of difficulty 
 in this game) its just something realistic. The Binoculars is very handy indeed because it helps 
 you to locate the position of your enemies and keep a track on them. isnt that great??? The game 
 has many cool guns all are good especially the MP5 and the sniper. The sniper fans wont be disappointed 
 .. Theyll be just be happier because you can zoom more when lie down or hold your breath or both 
 to take a nice head shot!!! 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The sceneries are awesome, youll love the surroundings but dont forget that you are not on a 
 HONEY MOON any ways the mercenaries wont let you have one. Its just one the best graphics game 
 ever or may be the BEST. Most of the graphics cards capabilities are tested on using this game.
 
  
  Sound:-
  
  The game has really good sounds and music effects. Its really good trust me!!!
  
  
  Conclusion:-
 
  
  The game has long but single loading screen during the start of every mission and remember that 
 there are no quick saves. its kinda good but still youll wish that you had it. Overall its awesome 
 game but its tough. But do your self a favor just get the game and start playing. go now!!
  
  Graphics -10/10
  
  Sound-10/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Story-Line-7/10
  
  Overall-9/10
 
  
  
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narasil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry was released in 2004, and exceeded all of the other game's gameplay, graphics, and physics. 
 It is about a man (Jack Carver) who is stuck on a tropical island with mercenaries patrolling around 
 every corner. He has to find a way to get off of the island... alive. Why is the island filled 
 with mercenaries? Is there a secret that is yet to be uncovered? You have to play the game to find 
 out.
  
  In terms of graphics this game is amazing. I played this game in late 2005 and I was still amazed. 
 I love just watching the gun as I turn and move. Its great!
  
  The gameplay of this game is really good also. The idea of making the aimer bigger as you shoot 
 was not origional, but the concept was put to great use. It was kind of hard to aim in this game 
 though. You had to be really precise. That wuz the only bad thing... but it wuz still fun. To keep 
 yourself alive you had to use stealth and surprise enemies.
  
  The AI wus kinda... too good. This game became extremely hard because the enemies just would'nt 
 miss. The AI, also, had very corny lines... well... maybe they werent corny, but they said the 
 lines in a very corny way.
  
  Overall I thought this game was very fun, but very frustrating. I ended up dieing many times because 
 the AI wus so good. You have to be very patient to beat the game, and if you are, i think you will 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is so cool i love the map editer the graf's are VERRY COOL
  I could not beleve how good it's looked, But the game play was so so just like the rest the game 
 plays out just like the rest Nothing new hear just defrent background Hummmm Well it was not all 
 a lose it's still fun to play But if and after you beet this game Dont just disgard it Make your 
 own maps
  I think that us as gamers can make better maps then some of the game makers do so with that sed 
 Lets talk a little about the game.
  
  Not a hard game to beet at all if you played doom 1 or 2 you can play this the only thing that 
 makes it cool is the graf's and the EZmade maps,
  I'm not shour how to rate this game?????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  Far cry is a game that has excellent graphics, excellent sounds, excellent gameplay!
  
  The storyline is well produced and it adds a interesting plot in the game!
  The gameplay is just 
 perfect! With no bugs or frustrating stuff!
  Actually when you begin the game, you will find your self lost in it's huge island and you'll start 
 searching the area and you're going to admire the graphics and the way the island is looking! You'll 
 feel that you're in the game!
  
  If you have a 5.1 sound system you'll enjoy it at it's finest! It's a different experience!
  
 
  The only thing that i was some kind of dissapointed was, that after a couple of steps through 
 the story you start playing in inside environments and not on the island! That's the only thing 
 that i was dissapointed!
  
  So if you haven't this game game yet you MUST buy it and enjoy it! It's a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnon1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok ! short and simple great game but hopfully when they release F. C. 2 they will tone down the 
 AI inteligence i know these guys are smart but to spot me walking in heavy foliage 200 yards away 
 and most of there shots hit me ???? give me a friggin break ! and why is it when i hit these guys 
 in the head sometimes i have to put a half a clip in them to bring then down the trigent creatures 
 are the same way ,which is understandable that they can take a little more punishment but if im 
 unloading a whole clip upside there head these bad boys should go down like a glass jawed washed 
 up boxer .
  
  The driving sequense's are something left to be disired, tough with a keyboard /mouse and at times 
 it seems that your looking upward to where your driving almost like your sitting to low in the 
 seat ,sometimes i thought it was easier just to drive as fast as i could to avoid trouble but your 
 control over a jeep at that speed is awfull and aiming the mounted machine gun is another story 
 i dont want to get into . It was a good addition to the game and it helped to break up the mostly 
 walking from point A to B routine but tough just the same ,although the boats were nice, easer to 
 handle and could be taken out rather easy .
  
  The levels were broken up nicely i went in thinking that it was mostly a, on the beach with swaying 
 palm trees carring my M-16 game but there were a lot of indoor levels, no compliants . The graphics 
 ,wow very nice this game is holding up nicely compared to some of these new games that came out 
 late 2005 your still need a good gfx card to run this baby my 6800GT ran this game great of coarse 
 you have to install the patches for it ,and overall deff. worth playing but it is a tough game, a 
 little bit of tweaking with the AI would of took the sting out of it i just wish the weapons would 
 of had a little more punch to them . In the end, a deffinite must buy!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevey_p7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is really enjoyable to play and i cant find many things wrong with it. In my opinion 
 it shows that graphics do actually improve the enjoyment of games
  
  I appreciate the detail that has gone into making this a highly detailed but also highly enjoyable 
 game to play. You find yourself going up to a rock and asking yourself ' is this real?'
  
  The only downfall i would bring up about this game is the AI function. Whenever you make too much 
 noise they do come after you but i see them getting stuck in buildings which is a very picky fault.
 
  Heck, i enjoy this game because its created its created a new idea to the envoronment of first-person 
 shooters throwing the idea of blood and gore out of the window.
  
  Bring on Farcry 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gohanmohan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  A great game and the sequels will nonetheless follow suit. It is a shame though that the game is 
 hampered by minor factors that could have really elevated its status even further. For e. g, the 
 voice acting is beyond a joke- it is so cheaply done and so immensly cheesy that a lot of the time 
 it really does spoil the immersive experience. Secondly, the last fight scenario where you havt 
 to fight those big craazy trigens or whatever, that seemed like such a cheap way to extend the 
 final moments of gameplay by making it ultra difficult and the fight with the last boss (no spoilers 
 don't worry) was such an underwhelming way to complete what is an otherwise great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  When I tried the demo I fell in love and went out and bought the full game. This is on game purchase 
 that I will never regret. It is also the only game that I will buy for the X-Box that I have a 
 PC version of. Simply put this game is to FPS what Tribes was to Multiplayer. With its open ended 
 maps, tunnel path scripting is mostly a think of the past. It kicks butt over half-life 2 in game 
 play and is on par equal to it in graphics. Oh the graphics of this game are so good that you feel 
 like your actually in the thick of the jungle. I have recommended this game since it release and 
 have talked many friends into buying it. it is really an exceptional game. One for the all time 
 best game awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopsfun
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  i love this game! you may have some trouble in the beginning, but as you go along, you really get 
 into it. the graphics are awesome, and the only technical problems were that my compooter couldn't 
 handle the graphics. this is a must have for all hardcore, or veterean gamers. and, it only costs 
 $20 at your local game store! this is definately worth your 4 hours working at burger king. i love 
 it, even though it is quite hard. i am diluting this review because i can't post it unless it has 
 at least 100 words, so this game rox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Farcry is perfect no doubt about it. From the start you realize this is going to be different the 
 any game you have played before. You are stranded on a beautiful research development island, and 
 have to word of mercenaries and strange mutants created there. The A. I. in this game is great they 
 never do the same thing twice which makes replay ability very high. The graphics are simply amazing 
 especially when you turn the HDR (High Dynamic Range lighting) on. The muliplayer is standard FPS 
 assault, death match there all here and the on-line play is very good. Farcry lasts about 20 hours 
 and the muliplayer will have you playing it for much longer. Not much else to say really the game 
 is perfect and I don't want to spoil any of the game's story which is great, so good and pick this 
 up immediately if you don't already own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite FPS game to date. The enviroments are wide open and visually stunning. The 
 game play is smooth and flowing. The enemy AI is top notch. Add all those things together and you 
 get Far Cry.
  
  My favorite part of the game had to be the visuals. Running and stalking through the jungle trying 
 to avoid being flanked was amazing. I swear I could feel the rain on my face and I think I really 
 got a few mosquito bites while playing. It's THAT immersive. 
  
  The weapons are plentiful. They also are very satisfying when you use them. The sound, the recoil, 
 the shriek of your ememy as you fill him with lead was all very enjoyable.
  
  Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonas__5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is just a great game overall. Great sound, great AI, great storyline, great environment and 
 above all, great graphics. 
  
  When I first started playing I was really impressed, this game is indeed one of the best first 
 person shooters since Half-Life. The game is a bit hard at times and it can be frustrating that 
 you cant quick save because of it but thats about it for the flaws.
  
  The environment is really fascinating, the jungles are huge and your enemies can be hiding almost 
 everywhere, so you will need your scope to scan an area before you continue onwards to it. 
  
  This game is a must buy for every first person shooter fan out there although it has its flaws 
 but theyre barely noticeable because most of the time youll be concentrating on the great graphics 
 and hardcore action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenermac
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  At least twice a week I find myself browsing through the PC game sections of numerous retail and 
 computer stores. Games such as Painkiller Black Edition and Quake 4 always stand out and present 
 a good appearance for quality and satisfaction. Time and time again, I just kept looking past Far 
 Cry because it just looked kinda hokie with the dude in a flowery shirt with an MP-5 complete with 
 tac-light and CCO on the front. Finally, I decided to pick it up and try it out. At the time, I 
 was knee-deep in F. E. A. R., Quake 4, and Doom3. Needless to say, I ended up devoting most of my 
 precious gaming time toward Far Cry! 
  The audio of the weapons is the most realistic I've heard in tons of FPS games I've played, (especially 
 the M-4 Carbine) . After hours and hours of play, the game has never frozen, stuttered, or prematurely 
 aborted. 
  I haven't finished the game as of yet, but I'm so overwhelmed by the quality of this game, that 
 I had to write a review. IF YOU HVEN'T PICKED THIS GAME UP YET, DO IT! YOU WILL NOT BE SORRY!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry seemed just like another average FPS coming to the PC. But Far Cry was so much more than 
 that. Far Cry definitely is made for the hardcore FPS gamer in min and it likely will frustrate 
 casual players when they start it off, simply because its somewhat challenging because of the amazing 
 A. I. Its quite remarkable that CryTek a small developer releasing its first title has created 
 such an instant hit. Far Cry is a huge game which has one of the best single player campaigns in 
 a FPS the single player is quite long and you will find yourself exploring the huge outdoor environments 
 which just look remarkable. And its also worth mentioning that Far Cry is one of the few FPS games 
 that are fun playing more than once.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay in Far Cry is just remarkable not only is the story quite engaging but the levels 
 themselves are just breathtaking. Shortly after starting the game you will find some huge outdoor 
 environments which will simply leave you speechless. The vast size of the environment makes the 
 game feel free as in you can accomplish a task any way you see it best. The game is so open ended 
 that it fully immerses you in the experience. The enemy A. I is also extremely impressive; the A. I 
 reacts to your every move. They also hide behind trees for cover, work together and sometimes even 
 sneak up to you when you dont notice. Overall Far Cry easily has the best A. I in a shooter at 
 its release. Far Cry also features several vehicles which fit perfectly in the game and are enjoyable 
 to drive. Overall Far Cry is easily one of the greatest experiences in a FPS, its extremely immersive, 
 fun and yet challenging.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  This is the category in which Far Cry easily goes above and beyond. If you have seen any screenshots 
 of Far Cry you will understand what I mean. The game is incredibly detailed, at the time of its 
 release Far Cry is the best looking game made. Everything in Far Cry looks phenomenal from the 
 dense foliage of the trees and plants in the jungles to its life like water that realistically 
 reflects the environment. Walking through the jungle you will see the shadows of the plants land 
 on your weapon; these small details just make the visual experience incredible. Then after you 
 arrive at the beach you notice how the water realistically reflects the sky and environment its 
 just breath taking to then go and swim under water and see the fishes swim around you air bubbles 
 as you are swimming to the Oceans floor. Everything in this game has an unparalleled amount of 
 detail which is just amazing to witness. Even the characters look incredible, they have lots of 
 detail and show facial expressions. Simply put Far Cry is spectacular visually, and if you want 
 to show of your PCs power than this is the game to get, talking about PC power Far Cry doesnt 
 require a monster rig to look incredible, even older machines can run the game at a tremendous 
 level of detail. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in Far Cry is also very well put together. The sound effects are extremely important 
 in the game. In a lot of places you will listen in to enemy chatter which can be useful and it 
 also enables you to know where the enemies are. The jungles of Far Cry also produce interesting 
 sounds from the insects buzzing to the birds chirping. The guns also have very realistic sounds, 
 they sound just like the real deal this is quite important in any FPS. Although there isnt enough 
 music in Far Cry which I thought was a slight downside, I would have wanted to see some kicking 
 butt song before I fight bad guys or a creepy song in a dark area. Also Far Cry benefits greatly 
 from a surround sound system, having one greatly increases the experience. 
  
  VALUE
  
  Far Cry is one of the few shooters that you can play through several times and still have a great 
 and unique experience. Going through the game again is still fun and you can see some things you 
 havent see the first time, you can also explore more. However, although Far Cry contains a multiplayer 
 component it is rather weak. The multiplayer part of the game is no where as enjoyable as the single 
 player. Although theres the usual Deathmatch, capture the flag, etc. it all feels dull and not 
 very exciting even with several people playing with you. However the story alone makes Far Crys 
 replay value extremely high and hopefully more maps and mods in the multiplayer will make it more 
 enjoyable in the future.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Without a doubt, Far Cry has impressed many with its unique approach in the FPS genre and it surprised 
 all of us who didnt expect much of this game and the company behind it Crytek. I can easily recommend 
 Far Cry to anyone because this game is extremely enjoyable and challenging. Far Cry is something 
 new and fascinating that truly takes the FPS genre to a new level. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a first-person shooter computer game developed by Crytek Studios and published by Ubisoft 
 on March 23, 2004. The game's story follows an ex-Special Forces man named Jack Carver, who is 
 stranded on a mysterious Pacific archipelago. He is searching for a female journalist he was escorting 
 after she went missing when their sailboat was destroyed by mercenaries.
  
  On April 7, 2004, CryTek announced Far Cry Instincts for Xbox and PS2 systems. The PS2 port was 
 later cancelled because the system was not powerful enough. Far Cry Instincts is now exclusive 
 to Xbox and was released to wide acclaim on September 27, 2005 in the 
  
  Graphics
  Crytek developed a new game engine called "CryENGINE" for Far Cry. Reportedly the game was born 
 out of a technology demo made by Crytek to showcase the capabilities of the nVidia GeForce 3. The 
 game features relatively long view or draw distance, similar to Operation Flashpoint, but has a 
 better rendering system for vegetation. Also, all of the level territory is accessible to the player 
 without loading pauses. The game engine features seamless transitions between indoor and outdoor 
 areas (that utilises slightly different lighting and rendering models) .
  
  Graphically, the game makes extensive use of pixel shaders. For example, water shaders are frequently 
 used throughout the levels and have a significant effect on visual quality.
  
  Character detail is also improved thanks to Crytek's Polybump normal mapping technology. These 
 effects are used extensively in both indoor and outdoor levels.
  The release of the 1.3 patch saw the introduction of HDR (High Dynamic Range) in the CryEngine. 
 When enabled (and running on a graphics card that supports the technology) , this allows for increased 
 graphical capabilities by simulating the opening and closing of the eye's iris, depending on the 
 amount of light seen at any given time. For example, staring directly at the sun and then looking 
 back at the beach would result in the beach appearing darker than normal for a few seconds, then 
 gradually returning to normal luminance after the "exposure" levels became normal once more. This 
 also means that in low-light conditions (such as a darkened passageway) , the player would notice 
 a greater viewing capability as the simulated iris would have widened to see greater details, but 
 the moment he or she exits back to the outside, the iris would narrow and hence the player would 
 notice a shift in brightness levels. HDR was only implemented in beta form in the CryEngine, and 
 several other games have more complete and convincing examples of the technology. Another example 
 of games using the High Dynamic Range rendering are Half-Life 2 (but only the Lost Coast Addon-map 
 that is free and downloadable over Steam) , Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory and Age of 
 Empires 3 (with shaders set to Very High/Max) . It is important to differ between Bloom and HDR-rendering 
 since Bloom was/is mostly used to simulate a true HDR implementation. Despite this fact, you might 
 find Bloom and HDR together in a game. Bloom adds some sort of blurry look, but might hide details.
 
  
  Artificial intelligence
  Human enemies in the game have advanced artificial intelligence (AI) , which favourably compared 
 with other shooters (though its capabilities made minor glitches more apparent) . The enemies are 
 capable of navigating the large levels, using vehicles when necessary. They are frequently visible 
 patrolling, chatting with each other (CryTek wrote a lot of humorous dialog for mercenaries that 
 provides a backstory, showing how players' actions affect the archipelago population (although 
 some people complained about the quality of the voice acting) ) , idling, fishing, fixing equipment, 
 etc. They can call for reinforcements and execute coordinated attacks, outflanking and surrounding 
 the player.
  
  The tropical jungle provides a lot of cover and the game allows the player to use it to hide from 
 the enemies. These enemies don't know the position of the player unless they see or hear him, but 
 notably, they can remember his last known position and go there to investigate. The enemy's actions 
 are generally not scripted, although scripts are used to time sequences, eg. spawning enemies to 
 populate a base when the player entered the area. After the start of a sequence, every enemy is 
 driven by its AI.
  
  AI movement area and cover are defined in the level design. Without this definition set by the 
 designer the enemies are far less effective against the player. They will also not move as realistically 
 as would otherwise be expected.
  
  Gameplay
  The game was notable for its open ended structure, providing a multitude of ways to complete a 
 given objective. It incorporates a good mix of arcade-like and realistic gameplay, forcing to the 
 player to effectively use cover while still allowing an upfront approach. For instance, there are 
 no forced stealth segments and setting off an alarm would not result in mission failure.
  
  However, many players found Far Cry to be poorly balanced. The difficulty increased sharply in 
 the later levels, causing much frustration when combined with the game's "checkpoint" saving system, 
 which eliminated manual saving. The increased difficulty changes the game, requiring more stealth 
 and precision to even up the odds against the player. An update patch released later added a quicksave 
 feature found in most single player first-person shooter games
  
  Multiplayer
  Multiplayer is available in 3 different modes.
  
  FFA or "Free For All" - score points by killing 
 other opponents 
  TDM or "Team Death Match" - score points by killing opponents in the other team 
  Assault - a 
 type of game where the attacking team must capture 3 enemy bases, one after another. The defending 
 team must repell the enemy until the timer runs out. Victory is awarded to the team who fullfilled 
 their mission. Note that in this mode it is important that there are not too many and not too few 
 players. If there are too many players the game will become a stalemate, the attacking team having 
 no chance to overpower the defending team (similar to WW1 trench warfare) . 
  [edit]
  Multiplayer classes
  Grunt: Has the most health and carries the biggest weapons.
  
  M249, 
 G36, XM-29 OICW, Pancor Jackhammer, P90, grenade, Machete and the Desert Eagle. 
  Sniper: This guy is best for taking out targets at long range.
  
  AW50 Sniper Rifle, Rocketlauncher, 
 Desert Eagle, smoke grenade, binocular and Machete. 
  Support/engineer: Builds stuff as well as blows stuff up. Can also carry medikits to heal wounded 
 teammates.
  
  M4 Carbine, medikits, explosives, grenades, Desert Eagle and the Machete. 
  
  Level Editor
  The game engine features a built-in real-time editor that makes creating large 
 outdoor levels easier, circumventing the need to load the game to test a custom level, or to see 
 the in-game effects of any changes. This enabled CryTek designers to add much detail to levels, 
 creating many different paths while reducing the time spent on level design. This allows the player 
 to choose more approaches to solving goals, providing a more open and non-linear experience
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendead
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the game never ends. This game is A-W-S-O-M-E!!!! I can't find any other word for this game. 
 Far Cry has the greatest Water Graphics I ever saw! It's so beautiful that you would look at it 
 all day. Anyway... Far Cry has some other stuff too. Like weapons. The weapons are great. Great 
 models and sounds effects..... Enemies are quite good too. Not easy to kill them ( only if you choose 
 Easy settings is easy) , but they're pretty good. Palms, sea, sand, beaches, weapons, killing, enemies, 
 ..... this is all I needed. 
  
  Far Cry has a SandBox Editor too. You can build your own island adn beaches or whatever you want. 
 I just can't imagine, what a beautiful word can computer do. That's why it never ends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so lets start with what I do like so we can get that out of the way quickly. The graphics 
 and settings are amazing. The islands are rendered beautifully with huge draw distances and lush 
 foliage. The gun fights are actually pretty frantic and the vehicles can be cool at times. The 
 game also has a pretty good length, one of the longest FPS games I have played in a while. There 
 is a good selection of weapons, and you are limited to four different guns which can add a bit 
 of strategy when you select what to take with you.
  
  Now on to what I dont like. First, whose idea was it to put a checkpoint save system in this game? 
 That person needs to be fired. Honestly, I can not think of a single pc game that has a good checkpoint 
 save system. It would have been bearable if the checkpoint system was at least done well, and offered 
 a generous amount of checkpoints. Instead, you get a bunch of checkpoints that mostly seem to be 
 placed at random. At least they generally give you a checkpoint before a large firefight, usually. 
 But there will be times where you will have to travel large distances over and over and over again.
 
  
  Next, up is the AI. Whats so bad about it you ask? Well, it cheats. There were many times when 
 they actually spotted me through solid walls. They can also hear the slightest noise from a mile 
 away, and instead of going to check out the sound, they usually go on full alert. The cheating 
 AI makes the stealth aspect of the game completely useless. There is no point in trying to hide 
 or be quiet with the slightest thing will set them off. There were times when I would creep around 
 a corner and as soon as I peak out, I would get a rocket in my face, even though there was no way 
 they could have possibly known I was there. The cheating AI and the checkpoint save system can 
 make the game extremely frustrating. Not to mention the cheap mutants later in the game with rocket 
 launchers for arms that can take you out in one or two hits, but take what seems like hundreds 
 of shots themselves to take down. It doesnt help that they also usually throw half a dozen of 
 them at you at a time, often in indoor levels where there is no where to maneuver.
  
  Then there is the vehicle physics, or should I say lack of realistic physics. Jeeps and the like 
 bounce around like crazy, making them almost impossible to control at high speeds. Then again, 
 you wont get too much use out of them as you cant even take them off road much due to the amount 
 of trees, rocks, and the rest that will get in your way.
  
  Of course, that didnt make me quit the game, I felt compelled to play until the end (no thanks 
 to the story, which is pretty bad) . I think Robert Coffey said it pretty well when he said, It 
 would be so easy to dismiss Far Cry and the devastating effects of its save system as just another 
 game disaster, but the truth is, the game does so many other things not just well but exceptionally, 
 that you almost hate the game more because it could be so great. If only they had spent more time 
 on the save system, and fixed the obvious cheating AI, the game could have been a lot more fun.
 
  
  Would I recommend the game? Yeah, its only $20 now, but I would highly suggest that if you have 
 an Xbox, pick up Far Cry: Instincts instead. From what I played in the demo, they fixed many of 
 the PC games problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructability
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  When you step into the world of FarCry you really feel like ur there. U can go where you want and 
 make whatever choices you want to take down ur enemies, sneak up and kill them or run in all guns 
 blazing, its your own choice.
  
  Though sometimes even on easy difficulty if u havent been playing a few fps' u may get stuck at 
 points trying to handle with the crowds of enemies as they have gd a. i. and work well in groups 
 or seperated.
  
  The part that really made me enjoy the game were the amazingly realistic in places ragdoll effects 
 where you can shoot someone and watch them fold down in a way that is specials to the gun ur using.
 
  
  But if this isnt what ur into there is also the brilliantly generated island which looks as if 
 it is real, birds fly through the gleaming skies and fish swim through the seemingly infinite waters 
 around the shimmering island, the effect even to my blood and gore loving eyes is still mouth wateringly 
 beautiful.
  
  Altogether though, even with all the hard bits in it, its a brilliant solid game that anyone who 
 loves shooters or just the beauty of games should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain awesome. The graphics are the best I have ever seen, I felt like I was 
 on the island! It really takes you right into the game, and walks you through while you learn. 
 The story was fun, and the game speed was great! I hate when the game speed is super fast for a 
 game that is supposed to be realistic. It was a good size, as in it left me wanting more. Most 
 games I never end up finishing because they get repetitive and boring. This game kept me on my 
 toes. FUN FUN FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy_rocker29
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Well this game plays great, looks great and sounds great. The weapons are very balanced and sound 
 very powerfull. The enviorments are damn near perfect.
  But i have one absolutley huge problem one little bug ruined the hole friggin' game. Yeah so what 
 happened is i look at about 45 different stratagy guides including the offical one. I grab all 
 my keys and everything. And the gad damn door won't open and my computer crashes everu time god 
 besdies that it was very good though. 
  
  yeah other wise it is great the shooting is a little generic but it is still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The games really awesome... the graphics are really cool and they have paid a lot of details to 
 the environment... Really cool story line and the games freedom is really good... there is no specific 
 way to finish the level unlike Doom or Quake where you have to clear enimies in a certain area 
 for a door to unlock or for a are a to open up etc. the game is also really big and there is also 
 a lot to look forward to to see how the story winds up... the levels are made t some difficulty 
 unlike Doom 3 where you can shoot the bad guys with your eyes closed.. so be ready to to reload 
 the game a few times... the game is really big so be ready to play it for some hours on end... 
 Be ready to play the final level a few times unlike Doom 3 where the final demon is so easy to 
 kill... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Far cry is not only pretty, it's also very revolutionary and fun. You choose how you want to play 
 the game, stealthy or just running right in the action and shooting everyone (never works) The 
 graphics are stunning for a first person shooter, even though everything looks a little cartoony. 
 The gameplay is flawless, but i give it a 9 because there are some problems with the mouse movement 
 responses. With a nice story included with a couple of twists nearing the end, Far cry is the ultimate 
 first person shooter. The multiplayer isn't what i expected, but still very interactive and wide 
 open- play the game in different ways.
  
  If you're into FPSs buy this game, if you aren't, it's still definately worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play_Stationz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is superb!!!! Firstly, this game is not complicated on his control unlike other Ubisoft 
 games like Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six. The game is very simple, just aim your gun 
 and shoot as many enemy as you can. One thing cool about this game is the diving water effect man..... is 
 very cool....... and its enviroment is like u are in a beach vacation. But one thing about this 
 game story line was not so cool, is like one of those classic movies such as James Bond classic. 
 Ok....... the graphic part that we always eager to see first on buying a game......... This game 
 graphic is very standard compare to other games like Quake and Doom or one of the game i like much 
 FEAR. For me, this game graphic suits me just fine. The CG movie for this game is top quality. Is 
 is really nice especially the human diving here and there. Well i will name this game let me see........... Outkast 
 perhaps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  Maybe only thing I hate in this game is happened in the beggining. I'm talking about installation 
 which will take you half of hour to finish. Well it is obviously beacuse the is too big. And it 
 really is. You are starting the game in some kind of cave. You don't know why are you there but 
 you know how you ended down there. Story is on you to explore. I will just tell you that you are 
 stupid if you don't follow the story in this game. You won't believe your eyes when you get out 
 from cave. This is the best graphics I have ever seen. Just look at the jungle, sea and mercenary 
 bases. It looks real. The eviorment is more beautiful than evey UNESCO protected place on this 
 world. The game is offering you a free exploring of the islands but you got your main mission. 
 AI of enemies is great. When they see you they are attacking you. They never walk alone. If they 
 have a problem with you they will call reinforcment which can be killed too and they can't come 
 again. You can drive too. There is a lot of weapons in the game. Sounds and musics are exellent. 
 You will need 20 hours to finish this game and than you will play it again for 3-4 months. Really 
 anybody can tell that this game is good. The most beautiful segment of the game is graphics which 
 is most important for most of peoples. And it is really fun too. Everyone will play this game. 
 It is better than Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deus_ex_2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to write a review months ago but waited till I played it on the right rig. To be honest, 
 I liked this game even when I played it on my old average pc. What I liked about this game ----
 
  1) Revolutionary graphics. The graphics engine is simply awesome. The depth of view is crazy if 
 u crank up the graphics. U can literally see small islands miles away.
  2) Gameplay. The sheer depth of it makes u wanna play it over and over again and try different 
 things each time. Apart from a few scripted scenes and sequences, everything revolves around what 
 u do.
  3) Sound. Let's face it, running multiple streams of sounds simultaneously is a master piece of 
 an idea. This game has some great battle music and great, scary eerie music as well. This adds 
 to the already  atmosphere.
  Apart from the above points, I have to mention a some frustrating ideas this game incorporates. 
 Firstly, there's only checkpoint saves. Some gamers like this challenge but a few new gamers who 
 are used to quicksaves won't like it, especially if u have spent 15-20 minutes quietly creeping 
 up to get a good shot and alerting the enemies because some birds got scared because of u. The 
 other thing is the vehicles. Though they are good, they feel very uncomfortable to drive because 
 of the camera angles.
  I can't say too much about the multiplayer though 'coz it's neither fast paced nor reflex qriented 
 slow paced.
  All in all, a game that will make u play it for 7 hours straight with deep interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Davila89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to 
 say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettlee01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  the gameplay is truly worth the upgrade for any die-hard FPS fan. While certain portions of Far 
 Cry do feature the option of being stealthy, the emphasis here is most decidedly on shooting things. 
 Almost every weapon, from the Sniper "Invisible-Hand-Of-God" Rifle, right down to the lowly pistol, 
 feels just as an instrument of death incarnate should  deadly, accurate, and powerful. You'll 
 need all this firepower, too  Far Cry features some of the most intense enemy AI since Half-Life. 
 Guards will attempt to flank, snipe, and wait out your character. Thankfully, when things get TOO 
 intense, you often have the choice to either flee or stay and fight, with increased firepower  
 Far Cry features an abundance of vehicles, all of which are armed to the teeth. 
  
  Far Cry has a competent multiplayer component, but the emphasis is squarely focused on the engaging 
 single player campaign. In spite of long load times at the start of each level and almost obscene 
 system requirements, Far Cry is an experience that all shooter fans should play as soon as humanly 
 (and financially) possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyBolt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Jack Carver just wants to have some fun on the islands, but all hell breaks loose. 
  
  It's a bit late for this review but Far Cry deserves it. In 2004, Far Cry was the best looking, 
 best playing FPS on the market. The sea stretched out as far as the eye could see, the environments 
 were just so beautiful and polished you knew it could never be real. The enemy intelligence was 
 beefy, and made even the most gruff shooters sack their pants. The story was rubbish overall, something 
 to do with a doctor mutating apes, but the action... oh the action. Me and my brother took turns 
 on my computer, it was fun as hell.
  
  If you haven't already, pick up this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlucky3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  This was one of my favorite games ever still there were some flaws.
  
  Gameplay
  At first i got veary happy when i first heard that i can control the vechiles but after a few seconds 
 of driving i found it to be more complex than fun. At first the game was easy and got hard a little 
 later which is normal but then there came some parts which were too easy and then some who where 
 too hard like the last level and i found myself trying to beat it more than 20 times.
  
  Graphics
  This is one of the best parts of the game but i was expecting alot more effects in 
 the game like when you get shot or die you get that blurry screen i wish this effect would been 
 used a lot more often but the overall graphics were great and the detail was great too
  
  Sound 
  it was great with the 5.1 surround support it sounded great you could sense from what 
 direction comes your enemy's voice/footsteps and the voice acting was pretty good.
  
  Value 
  It's just fun to throw rocks at your enemy, and there are a lot hidden vechiles which 
 you can find and a lot of hidden places since the maps are real big.
  
  Tilt
  It's really a fun game which anyone should check out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menfear
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  One of the best and a game that really reached our hearts is definitely Far Cry. This Is a wonderful 
 game from Ubisoft and that we dont forget also Crytec, We all should be thankful for the hard 
 work they deliver on this game. A game packed with full of action, fun playing and with outstanding 
 graphic deserves a place on the top of shooter games.
  
  You are playing as Jack Carver, a man who`s been hired to sail a mysterious woman around the Pacific. 
 However, his ship comes under attack, after that he finds him self on a tropical island. He hast 
 to find the mysterious woman that vanished somewhere. In outstanding look of the tropical island, 
 a army of skilled, armored mercenaries and some hell of a fights he will have to get through to 
 save her. When I first looked the game, its graphics I though wow, wow-is that possible and it 
 is in Far Cry, it just looks great so you have to play it when you see this wonder.
  
  No doubt that Far Cry uses a graphic machines that is so far in front of all other game, there 
 are few games that can mess with this games graphics. The characters just look so immersive, detailed 
 till the end. The enviorment its just amazing, trees, grass and bush are all perfect made. The 
 games graphics just runs well and I dont think that any person on the world would say that this 
 game has a graphics. The water, the sand, just everything is just so well made, my thoughts are 
 that this graphics will be hard to overcome.
  
  Lets skip to the campaign, all the game you will be guided by a man on the phone. He will tell 
 you what to do, that means he will give you your objectives and you will make them from A-B. The 
 mercenaries is all but dumb, the A. I in this game is fluent, the mercenaries will hide behind some 
 cover, shoot while running, so its not so easy to kill them and especially because they have a 
 body armor on. So shooting in the head will cause death. The physics in Far Cry are good, shooting 
 into corps will move them, they are not like stone, but still shooting into a crate will not brake 
 it. My opinion on that would be that all games that are should make theyr best for the physics, 
 because it play a big role in games. Yeah, Far Cry is a firs-person shooter what almost all shooter 
 are and that is well so, shooting easier with your four guns you can have at once. There are lots 
 of weapons which are all in real life
  
  The storyline just goes, you killing mercenaries to come forward, every time nearer to the mysterious 
 woman, lots of shooting, sneaking around-play a big role in the game, sneaking around the jungle 
 as quit as you can will make you possible to be Splinter Cell, but no you play as Jack Carver not 
 as Sam Fisher. You can through rock to disturb the mercenaries, that good-they follow the voice 
 so through the rock away from you. The thing that I came with up is that they just fire red alert 
 when they hear something, they really should investigate longer about what was the noise. And a 
 creepy thing in the Far Cry happens and by my opinion that thing was a bad thing for the game is 
 the mutants -- no all, but mercenaries turn into some mutants, creatures, were involved in an experiment, 
 and these creatures are all but nice. With a little-not paying attention-from you they kill you 
 easy so be aware of the danger. So the first thing when I saw these creatures was me thinking o 
 no, I thought this was this, killing mercenaries, what now because I really dont like some nasty 
 mutants. Yes, they need a story but this was the part when I started to play the game with less 
 fun. However, you still fight good, old friends mercenaries. I also like that you can swim, dive-this 
 can be a way of travel. The game offers some vehicles-jeeps, hang gliders, and boats-however, I 
 recommend not to use them often, the best way of travel is on foot, you are not that quick there, 
 but you are a lot safer than with a boat or a jeep that can be easy spotted.
  
  The save system here is like in Half-Life and any other games that load at checkpoints, means that 
 you cant save the progress manually If you die you will have to restart at your previous checkpoint, 
 sometimes this checkpoint can be far from each other so It can be frustrating to play that long 
 again to come to where you died. I think that this feature is not so good, maybe it is harder to 
 play games whit this kind of saving system but its a lot better if saving is a manual thing. Have 
 to say something about the sound too, its great-hearing helicopters come nearer and nearer, also 
 under water when you are nice swimming, hearing rockets behind you-cool. You can spy what are the 
 mercenaries taling about with the special scope that can track what are they talking about. Oh 
 and, you also know where every of your enemies are with just a look on you map you will se their 
 positions and also if they are red that means a red alert, if yellow they are in a middle-alert 
 and in green that is just normal. 
  
  The camping is around about fifteen hours, maybe more if you play on harder level and believe me 
 the hardest level is not a picnic. You will have to really be good if you want to make it on that 
 level. However the campaign half is just superb, no doubt so now im going to tell a little more 
 about the multiplayer mode that is not that quite good.
  
  This, multiplayer portion of the game could be the bad side of the game, one of few bad sides of 
 Far Cry. The first thing that is disappointing is that there are only three game modes -- free-for-all, 
 team deathmatch, and assault -- also a limited number of maps for every mode. The maps are large 
 in size so if playing with small group of player you will be hiding and seeking the most of the 
 time so in this point the sniper is a mighty weapon. One thing that is good is the heavy your weapons 
 is the slower you move, what is realistic and I like that. The weapons fell unbalance, for instance 
 the sniper-rifle is the weapons to overlord them all, the rocket launcher that just splatters the 
 enemies.
  
  If you dont have the proper hardware than you wont experience the whole potential of this game 
 and that would be sad, this game deserves a chance. If you have the right hardware you will have 
 a lot of fun, gaming and all the things that goes with this one of a kind games. Outstanding graphics, 
 sound and a good plot.
  
  Gameplay- Good playing, the developers never stop to surprise you with new challenges in the game
 
  
  Graphics- Though if you look the date that im writing this review, this game has the far best graphics 
 that I every saw.
  
  Sound- The enviorment is speaking with you when you crawl around, dont mention the mercenaries 
 that are speaking with you with heavy gun and you hear all just great.
  
  Value- Just a long campaign, really long and a multiplayer that can keep you busy for sometime.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lechrous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I know im quite late but I just cannot stop playing Far Cry. Although I don't have much of great 
 experience playing FPSs but after Half Life2 this is the game makes you say "really cool".
  The three most major things namely Gameplay, Graphics and AI (GGA) are the most important factors 
 for any game's success. All these things have been implemented so nicely in the game which makes 
 it a most AWSOME FPS around. The water, which is so much around you, is one of the best envoironment's 
 element that its nearly life like. if you havent experinced it yet turn the settings to the max 
 and have a look around.
  Besides graphics the gun shots are very real too. The sound and the the graphics make it look like 
 you fire a real gun. 
  Theres so much more to this title then I have mentioned, it will even make your caffine supplies 
 run out..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrainthegamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  When I saw this game, I thought it just an ordinary game just like I similar game I played. After 
 I bought it, it just shocking me with the graphic display although my graphic card is a bit low 
 (GF4 Ti4200) . The graphic shown in the game stunned me for a while. It amazingly great.
  
  Gameplay is just like other FPS game, not much different. It just add some action and can interact 
 with surrounding environment. Nothing much I think.
  
  The AI also good which much better than other game. The computer mostly can acting like human thinking 
 but not 100% perfect. The physics they applied in this game is awesome like when the body fall 
 to the ground when got shot, car bouncing on off road and many other related to physics theory.
 
  
  I think that's all I can write about this game. I hope it will get better in the next series. Just 
 play the game and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  it was great. the gameplay will make u satisfied. the graphics are really good. like really good. 
 watch the blood fly off em' as u stab em' as u hide in a bush. and when u shoot em' u will see a 
 bullet hole right where the shot was fired. hit em' the eye and they've lost an eye. sound will 
 get kinda annoying but nevertheless since the A. I. is really good u need to hear em'.
  now i think its cheaper but even at a $50 price tag its worth it. about an 8 or 9 should be this 
 games rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bthrustr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Now, I'm not a hard-core gamer since I only get to play about 3 shooter titles per year. And granted, 
 I have not played Half-Life 2 yet. But of all the shooters I have played, Far Cry easily tops them 
 all. 
  You've no doubt already read about the excellent graphics and the expansive environment that let's 
 you not only try many different strategies to achieve your goal, but also make some awesome long 
 range shots with sniper rifles and missile launchers. The enemy AI is very good. And best of all, 
 it's not one of those games where enemies are constantly jumping out of dark hiding places. In 
 most cases, you get the opportunity to access the situation with binoculars that signal the placement 
 of enemy forces and formulate your plan of attack.
  It's also a long game that gives you plenty of action and exploration. It never felt repetitive.
 
  The only thing that keeps Far Cry from a perfect score in my book was the inability to save the 
 game at any point. Now, I can see where this could actually be a plus, as constant game saving 
 can take away some of the importance of staying alive since you can restore yourself back to where 
 you had been 10 seconds prior. But there were a couple of save points in Far Cry that were a bit 
 too far removed from the fighting causing you to cover too much empty ground, or in one particular 
 case, flood a chamber and swim through a series of vents to reach the scene of a particularly tough 
 enemy.
  As an infrequent gamer, I have never felt compelled to play a game twice, but Far Cry will be an 
 exception. As soon as I can upgrade my system to a point where I can play the game at the high 
 graphics setting and really see
  this game in it's full glory, I'll be back in the islands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgoth22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  As former government agent Jack Carver, you go out on a boat trip holiday around some tropical 
 islands to get away from it all. Suddenly, your boat gets blown up by a rocket launcher, and you 
 get washed up in a cave on an island, that just happens to be home to a bunch of mercenaries, amongst 
 other nasties guarding a project to engineer a master race. Project Far Cry is getting out of control, 
 and there is only one man who can stop it...
  
  Before I go any further, it seems important to stress that this is an excellent game, utilising 
 beautiful graphics. Consequently, if you only just reach the minimum requirements, you may have 
 a somewhat different experience to me. My specs for reference are 3400+, 2 gigs pc3200, X800XT. 
 I play with all settings on max, 1280*1024, so my comments on the graphics will largely draw from 
 this experience. I used to have a geforce4mx, and of course, with this you miss out on the dx9 
 effects such as water reflections and shadows. Without further waffling therefore, here we go...
 
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  The graphics on this game are without doubt some of the best out there, and whilst it came out 
 many months ago, it is still able to easily rival newer key titles such as Doom 3 and Half Life 
 2. The tropical paradise setting is brilliantly crafted; grass wafts in the wind, palm trees are 
 immaculately detailed and waves lap up onto the realistic beaches. Not only is the vegetation good 
 looking, but it is also functional, as it will aid your quest to remain hidden from enemies. Gun 
 models are fairly well done, and the enemies you come across, ranging from mercenaries through 
 to mutated monkey "trigens" are also well detailed, even if the mercenaries do appear a little 
 'shiny' at times.
  
  Best viewed from the sky in a hang glider, the environments in Far Cry stretch into the far distances, 
 and give a real sense of scale to the levels. Though some of the indoor levels can be somewhat 
 dark, there is generally a good balance between enclosed areas with little lighting, and expansive 
 vistas of sheer beauty. For all the 6*** geforce owners out there, there is also the added bonus 
 of being able to apply High Dynamic Range lighting to the game, making the sun ultra bright, and 
 creating some visually brilliant shadow effects. Water is also stunning, with reflections and realistic 
 behaviour, it adds to the tropical feel. Therefore graphics are generally well polished, even closer 
 up, textures still don't get too bland.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Perhaps the most important facets of a game is how it plays, and though I have been compelled to 
 play through this game 3 times, there are still instances that frustrate me, leading to a lower 
 score. Firstly, Far Cry is far more tactical than most FPS's out there. To be successful, you will 
 need to use cover wisely, and on your HUD, there is a useful meter to show how visible you are. 
 Enemies are both the highlight, and the downfall of this game. AI is generally excellent, and mercenaries 
 in particular will attempt - mostly successfully - flanking maneuvers and attempt to use tactics, 
 rather than just running straight at you, though they sometimes do this in the indoor levels.
 
  
  Tactically, there are different ways to play this game, but with the ability to only carry 4 weapons 
 at once, you will have to make some choices about short, and long range weaponry, as well as availability 
 of ammo, which may often be in short supply. Despite the fact that you can only carry 4 weapons 
 at any one time, the variety of weapons is fairly extensive, and should keep the player interested 
 with alternate firing modes, such as grenades, and zoom features, such as on the OICW. The binoculars 
 will also prove a useful device for spotting enemies from afar.
  
  Use of vehicles is also very well utilised in the game - variety includes 4x4's, a buggy, patrol 
 boat, and fork lift truck amongst a few others. Many of these vehicles have mounted guns, and as 
 such it adds a fun factor to trekking through the jungle. Level design also means that there is 
 never a single linear way to an objective, especially on the outdoor levels. You may find that 
 flanking the enemy can be more beneficial than taking on the enemy camp head on, or may choose 
 to go in a ll guns blazing to cause a distraction. This, combined with the number of difficulty 
 levels (5 in all) really add to the replayability of the game, but more of that later...
  
  So with all this praise, why do I have to deduct points form a seemingly perfect system? Unfortunately, 
 the answer is due to the large amount of bugs, which none of the patches seem to fix. These mainly 
 consist of enemies getting stuck, or turning away from you, firing at no-one, and yet still hitting 
 you. I hoped that the patches would sort this out, but sadly they haven't, and take away from a 
 perfect score.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  Sound is generally well done, but the mercenary conversations can grate sometimes. Sound effects 
 are all good, with weapons sounding as they should, and plants rustling as you pass. However, the 
 voice acting on the part of the main characters is not carried off very well at all, and the attitude 
 of Jack Carver may sometimes leave you wondering why they had to spoil such a good game with poor 
 voice acting. Lip synching is fairly good, although more recent games are showing a greater grasp 
 of this aspect in games. Trigens however, do sound genuinely scary, and atmosphere is well done 
 in these levels.
  
  Story/Replayability - 9/10
  Without giving too much away, my introduction should give you some idea of how the story begins. 
 Despite my frustrations with the voice acting in cut scenes (through which the main parts of the 
 story are told) the story stands up quite well with a few good twists. That said, it is nothing 
 particularly revolutionary, yet solid nonetheless.
  
  Replayability is the best feature of this game though. Apart from the flaws that I have pointed 
 out earlier in the review, it is a thoroughly enjoyable game, even only considering the single 
 player campaign. The higher difficulty levels really do give a different gaming experience, and 
 the ability for the mercenaries to kill you in a short burst of rifle fire on the highest difficulty, 
 regardless of how much health you have will prove challenging to the most hardened of FPS veterans. 
 There is also to auto-balance the AI, which means the accuracy and damage that the enemies do will 
 adjust during the levels, depending on your progress.
  
  Whilst people have had some compatibility problems with multiplayer, once working correctly , this 
 part of the game is also extremely addictive with different game types to try your hand at. It 
 is no perhaps as popular as UT2004, but there are good severs out there. The real replay value 
 lies in the single player campaign, which is lengthy, varied and more importantly fun throughout.
 
  
  Overall, I give this 9/10 as it is a great game, that I would encourage every FPS fan, or even 
 those new to the genre to at least consider, especially now that it is down in price, yet it is 
 flawed in some aspects, steering me away from giving it a perfect score. Without the bugs and with 
 better voice acting, this would without doubt deserve a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance_8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Why could this game not be for me? 
  
  Well, for starters, this game is very hard, even the easy mode can be quite challenging. You really 
 have to relearn how to play games, you cannot run in with guns blazing. Each situation has a best 
 fitting solution. The indoor levels, for example, you could probably go in with guns blazing and 
 not get totally killed. But, the other levels require, at times, a great deal of caution and precision. 
 Also, the checkpoint system works, but manages to ask quite a bit from players who are desperately 
 trying to reach the next checkpoint alive. Not to discourage you from playing this game or anything, 
 but you have to be able to take on a challenge if you want to play through this game. Often levels 
 require you to play through them once or twice to figure out exactly how to go about doing them. 
 For example, take out the guys with the rocket launchers and sniper rifles first, then you can 
 sneak around, or kill everybody, your choice, and with practice, you will find the best way to 
 beat the level.
  
  Enough of that. Graphically this game's outdoor levels are amazing and manage to incorporate beauty 
 into a game, that is if you notice between killing mercenaries. The indoor levels, however, aren't 
 pretty, but they weren't meant to be pretty either. One complaint I do have is the pathetic voice 
 acting, but this is forgotten, and is seldom used throughout the game.
  
  Sound is pretty good the music and sound effects fit nicely, but not as well as they could have.
 
  
  Gameplay: A very fun, almost too realistic FPS. If you don't mind, or prefer a good challenge, 
 I would get this game.
  
  Value: If you enjoy it your first time through, there is no reason you won't enjoy it your second. 
 Also, different difficulty modes can keep you busy. And, the price has come down since it came 
 out. Give it a try.
  
  Want a real challenge: Play it on "realistic mode." Possible, but not very. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emy_vi
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is quite bored FYI...
  i use this game only for benchmarking purposes... i thpught it was fun but after buying it, then 
 only i knew that this is the most boring FPS on earth... only with fancy graphics...
  its gameplay isn't addictive as u all think... 
  and u will get dizzy easily when playing this 
 damn boring game... its AI CPUs are quite intelligent but do not behave very well... they only 
 can say "I heard something" and something boring like that...
  that's all i wanna say...
  if u have any intention of buying this game, u better just forget it or u will regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvsqvc
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the smoothest game i've ever played and great graphics. It runs perfectly so there 
 is no lag interrupting you single player game. I'm not saying you can use a old computer or anything. 
 The auto detect said i should play at low detail, but i put it at high and it still ran without 
 lag. 
  
  Playing against the A. I. in the game is actually fun. They hide, run, and even get out of the way 
 of grenades. So you can't find a group of Mercs and kill then with one grenade. If your a good 
 gamer you can use the A. I. auto balance. With this they will get used to your strategies and adjust 
 to your skill level. One thing i don't like is the fact that half the game your looking for some 
 chick. Somewhat lacks story line, but still it's really fun. 
  
  The sound is awesome if you have good sound system. Sounds like your really on an island. Also 
 you can use special binoculars so you can eves drop on conversation that mercs are having.
  
  All in all this game is fun and once you get half way threw it get war fun.
  
  This is 
 a game you really should get, if you know what good games are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabkicks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I finally got around to Purchasing FarCry after getting a new videocard. On my ATi X800 GTO the 
 game runs like a dream on very high settings and a resolution of 1280x1024. The game is almost 
 2 years old and it still looks amazing. At the pauses inbetween the intense gunfights i often find 
 myself just looking around, taking in the beautiful scenery. The AI are very lifelike on the harder 
 difficulties. Often you will be thrown into situations where you will have to think on your feet 
 in order to survive an incounter with them by using the environment and weapons available to your 
 advantage. 
  
  There's a limited amount of weapon slots so you can only carry a few guns at a time. Many of the 
 assault rifles allow you to switch between auto/burst or single shot, which comes in handy when 
 going for the long distance headshots. There are also flash, smoke and frag grenades, rpgs, and 
 turrets in the game.
  This game is a must buy at the $20 price tag in stores. Its pretty much as close to Rambo as you 
 can get in a video game.
  
  tested on:
  Athlon XP 3000+
  ATi Radeon X800GTO AGP 16pipes
  768mb PC2700 RAM
  Windows XP
  60gig 7200RPM hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pargo1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  This game is in a league of its own, it truly is a masterpiece. It takes the first person shooter 
 into new territory, through its graphics, its open ended gameplay and its AI. The gaming environments 
 on some levels are just so big, there are so many possible routes and approaches. I have completed 
 the game on most difficulty levels around about ten times in total and still find new areas to 
 explore. This is not to say the entire game follows this style, there are some quite linear levels 
 as well but they are no less entertaining than there counterparts. 
  
  On to the graphics and AI, both are stunning, the look of some of the outdoor environments with 
 the CryEngine are just stunning, on a high end machine the game is truly amazing, not to say that 
 it cant be playable on a more modest system. On to the AI and this too is of outstanding quality, 
 enemies flank you, call for reinforcements and sneak up on you, all very well done and makes for 
 some entertaining albeit tough gaming moments. Probably the only minor downside is the storyline 
 can be a little lame at times, but it doesnt detract from the gameplay at all.
  
  I just cant understand all the excitement over Half Life 2 being the greatest game ever, it just 
 cant compete. While HL2 is very good and has some very good sequences, its just too linear and 
 doesnt quite have the gameplay factor that FarCry holds over it. Overall this game is an absolute 
 must for any gamer who loves a good first person shooter, so do yourself a favour and purchase 
 this game, FarCry is pure class.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donkeymullet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Although I think that Far Cry is overall a great game, it is let down in a few areas. It is realistic 
 in the way that you can die from just one well placed bullet, likewise for your opposition. The 
 AI is very good also, much unlike some games where your opponents are stupid. The AI only has one 
 downside and that is if you get near a doorway, your opponent's IQ seems to half. That is to say, 
 they virtually give their life away by not shooting at you in a doorway.
  
  Also, your knife can become your best weapon because when you start to get close to your enemies, 
 they become extremely innaccurate for no apparrent reason.
  
  However, the positives of the game greatly outway the negatives, what is mentioned above does not 
 in any way detract from a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aimanrifhan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game was released when there was a lot of hype for the upcoming next generation FPS, Doom 
 3 and Half Life 2 and guess what; the next generation game has already arrived in the form of Far 
 Cry. The graphics are stunning and the water effects are simply amazing, in fact its the 
 best Ive ever seen in a game. The levels are huge and does not get repetitive at all as 
 the game progresses. The AI is also very smart. The enemies dont just rush at you blindly. 
 Instead they coordinate with each other when attacking you. Overall, this is one of the best ever 
 FPS ever made and its a game that youll keep coming back to, even after youve 
 completed in multiple times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flippr_NF
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  I always have a first-person-shooter and a racing game on my system at all times. So I've played 
 most of the shooters out there except for the very latest. My favourites have been Half-Life, both 
 No One Lives Forever titles, and Unreal Tournament. Far Cry definitely ranks up there as one of 
 the best I've ever played. As I said in my introduction, it's so good that I've even put up with 
 the many times I've been randomly dropped to my desktop or suddenly found my computer rebooting 
 for no apparant reason.
  
  Let me clarify the crashes. I have a 2.8 GHz Celeron machine with 512 MB ram and a GeForce 4 5200 
 card. Auto-detect places my system at Medium, but I dropped it down to Low in order to get better 
 performance. I missed the transparancy in the water, but the improved frame-rates were worth it. 
 Anyway, the game crashes out WAY too much. I've probably been dumped to the desktop or a reboot 
 a few dozen times. My frustration level was such that I would declare "That's the end of Far Cry 
 for me! No other game does this! I hate it!" Then after the reboot I'd load it up again. It's that 
 addictive.
  
  The story feels like some thought has gone into it, but the focus remains on the action. The computer 
 AI is great, with enemies behaving realistically for the most part. You can only carry 4 weapons 
 at a time, which lends SOME air of realism as you are forced to choose what to take and what to 
 drop. The sniper rifle is one of the best I've ever used, and the other weapons look, sound and 
 behave great too. Even on low resolution, the graphics are impressive, with the ability to view 
 enemies at a great distance. Basically, it's got all the right ingredients, and they are mixed 
 to perfection.
  
  By the way, once I disabled Norton Anti-Virus's AutoProtect feature, the crashes were greatly reduced. 
 I don't know if it was the problem or not, but now I routinely disable or exit almost everything 
 in my system tray before playing.
  
  Final word: The game is so good that I'm going to keep in on my hard drive so I can play it again 
 the next time I upgrade my system. With the graphics turned up to High or Very High, I'm guessing 
 this game will deliver a whole new level of fun. Highly recommended game, despite crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uranicus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Wallla oyun suber grafikler yapay zeka harika , oyunda quick save olsayd notum 10 olurdu. 
 oyunun  turk olmas da ayr bir gurur verici olay
 
  eer iyi bit fps ci deilseniz tavsiyem easy de oynaym nk quick save olmamas 
 byk problem. oyunda grafikler kusursuz zellikle byle bir su efekti hi bir oyunda yok. .Oyunun 
 konusu ksaca doctor monrou nun adas na benziyor, bir adada genetik aratrmalar 
 yapan bilim adamlar ve sonucunda insanlardan oluan mutantlar. oyunun balarnda 
 adadaki korumalarla mcadele ediyorsunuz. Balar zor olmasada iiniine mutanlar girince 
 oyun zorlaor. zellikle tahminim nemesisden esinlenilmi bir mutant tipi var grnce 
 frsat varsa kan. Pepee roketler atyor ve ve isabet aldnz 
 an lyorsunuz ve tabi ki save olmad iin al batan. Sonu olarak cray tek 
 ilerde ok daha iyi oyunlar yapacakdr, yeni bir id software olmamas iin bir neden 
 yok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baljot187
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Very rarely, a game comes along of such calibre, such intensity that we are immediately lost in 
 the splendor of gaming that is put before us. Some years ago, that game was called Half-Life. Now, 
 the game is called Far Cry, the very first attempt at a game by German studio Crytek, who absolutely 
 hit the whole-in-one with this one. 
  
  Far Cry is a rare shooter- it doesn't boast a very complex or fancy story, but keeps it relatively 
 simple. You are an ex-Special Forces man retired to a life at sea, jetting around rich folk in 
 your boat. A female reporter hires you one day and takes off while you are anchored off the coast 
 of an island chain. Minutes later, your boat is rocked by mortars and you are cast into the ocean. 
 Upon landing on the island, you are contacted by a man named Doyle, who apparently is the inside 
 man of the reporter, who is actually a CIA agent. Sound familiar folks? That's because you could 
 take this plot and make just about any B-movie you wanted. But therein lies the greatness of Far 
 Cry- rather than drag you down with a pretentious, worthless plot (Half-Life 2, anyone?) the game 
 puts the focus on gameplay, graphics and general atmosphere, while making sure you want to what 
 happens to the good and bad guys. 
  
  The graphics here are absolutely stunning- top notch, with oceans and jungle environments that 
 look photorealistic, indoor environments that seem grimy and unused (as they should be) and sunsets 
 that make you want to curl up and forget about the world- until your enemies start shooting at 
 you. 
  
  The sound here is also excellent- jungles noises like birds and monkeys really bring you into the 
 environment, and the combat noises, like guns and shouts from enemies really pull you in as well. 
 
  
  The 2 Best Parts
  1) The AI- Now, most people don't realize this, but in FPS's, the characters that they are playing 
 are near superheroes. They can do many things that their enemies can't do, like jump, crawl, go 
 prone, or something as simple as aiming a gun. I've been amazed in other games how ridiculously 
 bad shots the enemies were. Not in Far Cry- they did some real work with the AI and it shows. Not 
 often can you see a mercenary outfit you are fighting lay down a base of fire and advance under 
 it in any other game- but you can see that all the time in Far Cry. Enemies will launch coordinated 
 attacks, use vehicles to the best of their advantage (roadblocks, or using it as a ram) , call for 
 reinforcements (which include people in gunboats, supply choppers with more reinforcements or Blackhawks 
 with BIG guns) and use grenades as an effective "flushing out" method. They react to sound as much 
 as they do to sight, so stealth is a very important part of the game. Learning enemy movements, 
 patrol routines and their ability to see is an important part of the game. 
  
  2) The open environment- This is also very rare for an FPS- environments that literally stretch 
 for miles and miles. Example: the single player level "Boat" takes place over nearly 5 different 
 islands, which can be reached by boat or by swimming. This game WANTS you to go off the trail- 
 it's much easier to attack enemies this way, and it's much more fun; feels more rugged than taking 
 a trail. Vehicles can also be used for off-road puropses. If you ever get to a handglider- use 
 it! It's really fun. But the point is that in an outdoor single player level, you could roam for 
 an hour and not even bother to finish your objectives. Or you could find 3,4,5 different ways to 
 reach your objective- your choice really. 
  
  My only complaints? 
  The game is a little unforgiving on people new to the FPS genre or people who are to grounded with 
 traditional FPS's. This game forces you to think on your feet and rethink every strategy you've 
 ever used. 
  Also, the saving system is in checkpoint style, which gets a tad annoying. The checkpoints are 
 plenty, but sometimes, you might have to do the same bit twice or thrice. 
  
  Other than that, I give Far Cry a solid 9.5- one of my favorite games of all time, and definitely 
 my favorite FPS of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a long time and just got around to playing it. WOW, this is the best First 
 Person Shooter I have played in a very long time. The lush jungle looks amazing as does the water. 
 The story really sucked me in and gameplay is top notch. The last level was very challenging. After 
 dieing so many times I didn't think I would ever get past it. But it was very rewarding once completed. 
 I can't believe I waited so long to play this gem! The only regret I have is that the game has 
 very little replay value for me because I had a problem with the multiplayer. Actually, I never 
 got it to work. But, I am pretty sure the problem is my computer and not the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  I've never played a better first person shooter game. Far Cry is the best of them all. You want 
 some hard powerful action stuff? Then FC's the game you need.
  
  I like to play a game with nice graphics. But in FC I didn't get nice graphics, I got SUPERB graphics! 
 I have never seen a game with better graphics. All the designs are incredibly real! When a bomb 
 blasts the blast is so real!
  
  If you like a game with continous non stop bang-bang action then FC's your game. Far Cry is truly 
 the developer's cut.
  
  Happy Playing!!!!!
  
  ( useless  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePenguin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry can be found in alot of places for only $20Bux. A very good game and at only $20bux is 
 absolutly awesome. The graphics, stunning with full scale islands, with detailed trees, sand, water 
 and the lighting system is beautiful. Makes you want to go to Cancun. The sound, TERRIBLE voice 
 acting, but thats the only bad thing, good music with excellent gun sounds. The gameplay, good 
 solid controls both on foot, in a vehicle, in the air, and in the water. The value, for $20bux 
 and excellent find and any FPS fan with a good running computer should get it. Overall, a really, 
 really good and fun game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyco
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  What else could you expect to get from a shooter ?
  
  It gets you like hell and you don't want to stop playing it. Another and another chapter and one 
 more and it keeps you busy until you are exhauseted and your eyes wear off.
  
  The levels are so well designed that you keep playing them again and again even if you already 
 finshed the entire game - leveraging game's value to new heights.
  
  The game is so good that any sequel must be an inevitable disappointment. Perhaps Crytek should 
 do something entirely different.
  
  No other graphics is better, no other shooter is exciter so why the folks at GameSpot rank it at 
 only 9.2 ?
  
  (Maybe because it's not an American brand ???)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernaine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry came out at interesting time. The hyped of three of the largest shooters was growing to 
 a peak. Half-Life 2, Halo 2, and Doom 3 were all set to be the greatest shooters of all time. But 
 out of no where, and I mean no where, the game Far Cry came out. Delivering a world which gamers 
 had never seen before.
  
  Far Cry is set on a tropical island where you have escorted a journalist by boat. A journalist 
 right. You soon find your boat in flames and being hunted down by ruthless mercenaries. And it 
 is your duty to get you and your journalist friend off the island. Although the story isn't quite 
 as good as some other shooters out there it is still quite good and worth paying attention too. 
 Being that your on an island developers Crytek have created a huge amount of land to traverse. 
 Not only that but you can see for literally miles. This allows you to approach any situation as 
 you see fit. You could try to lure some mercenaries into an ambush, or snipe them from a mile away. 
 The combat is fairly realistic and you are not a perfect shot as your accuracy is determined by 
 which position you are in. The game also rewards you for headshots as, outside of a few enemies, 
 fall from one shot to the head. The high end graphics in the game are all most a necessity. They 
 add so much personality to the game and make you feel as if you are in this magical island of magic. 
 Far Cry's A. I. are also a great feature. They boast some of the best teamwork in a game and will 
 try to flank you and take you down to the best of their ability. It also features a fairly lengthy 
 campaign which seems to be rare in the fps genre.
  
  There are a few problems I did have with the game though. As good as the A. I. is I did have a few 
 problems with them. They seem to be able to spot you from a mile away. And it can detract from 
 the realism. Although some people may love it, there are only save points and no quick save feature. 
 Though they usually are placed well. I also found the sound to be okay at best. Many of the weapons 
 sounded very weak. Especially the desert eagle. The voice acting is good for the main characters, 
 but the mercenaries all sound like idiots and feature some of the worst one liners in a video game. 
 Seriously, "I'm gonna shoot you in the face!" is not intimidating.
  
  Overall I love this game because the freedom it gives you. Although with a bit more time spent 
 on things like sound it could have brought a game that I may have considered one of the best of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gt3xship
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. The graphics and sound are fantastic. The single player missions are great. 
 The multi-player levels are even more fun than the single player missions and with all the mods 
 and extra levels that are available for this game, it will provide hours and hours of fun. This 
 game is worth playing again and again. I have enjoyed this game far more than Doom 3 and Half Life 
 2. I love the tropical island settings in this game. There are a good variety of weapons in this 
 game (my favourite being the sniper rifle) and there are also a few different vehicles to drive 
 which all add to the enjoyment of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spin253
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  If you like control this is not a game for you it's not easy. So take your time and maybe find 
 a good cd instead . so you wont need a asprine later. Because it is so fun . Also hard to control 
 Jake . The graphics will keep you in your sets. So dont read book by it 's cover.
  
  Over all the game was fun and advanced ;but not as scary as doom 3 with all the wosh and zooms 
 and ahh , who!!! The , ohh may ! ahhh!!. have fun.
  with it lots of veachals to drive around . this game offers a lot to the player. 
  and lots of 
 guns yeah. In the demos the boat is great with the gun cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok heres the low down for this game in summary format:
  
  Graphics - Good but not brilliant.
  
  Sounds - RUBBISH voice acting, worse than an Arnold Schwarzenegger 
 Film. Other than that, its all average sound track wise etc.
  
  Multiplayer - its ok, nothing brilliant exactly.
  
  Basically this game is ok, i mean its not 
 exactly brilliant, I feel theres a HUGE stability problem within this game. Like frame rate problems 
 when your in a jeep or just plain old feeling that you feel your gonna fall through the map any 
 second.
  
  Its difficult so its challenging i guess, but it IS frustrating, the fact you cant quick save is 
 kind of horrible. Weapons are also.... not satisfying to fire, they dont give that satisfying chunky 
 feeling you get, unlike Quake 4's weapons which made you feel great when you blew someone away 
 with your machine gun or shotgun.
  
  But im not here to compare this game to any other, all in all the story line isn't brilliant either 
 and its just like one massive holly wood action movie cliche.
  
  Combine that with awful script and voice acting you kinda feel let down a bit. The only nice aspect 
 of it i guess is the whole feeling you have to sneak commando like through the place and try to 
 survive.
  
  All in all, dont believe the hype of this game, it isn't THAT brilliant.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  From a visual perspective, Far Cry may well be the single prettiest shooter I've ever seen. Yes, 
 you should read that sentence again, because it's not a statement I make lightly. It's just spectacular. 
 The jungles are gorgeous. The sky is breathtaking. The water is stunning. I could ramble like this 
 all day, but it's probably more useful to look at our screenshots. Nearly every shot looks like 
 a postcard. Part of this is thanks to the new graphical engine developed by CryTek, which provides 
 all the eye candy you could want -- lens flare, water effects, ragdoll physics -- but there's also 
 a great use of color and architecture that makes each level a joy just to stand in. Far Cry is, 
 unquestionably, stunningly beautiful to look at, and it's amazing to think that this is only CryTek's 
 first game. 
  
  The new graphics engine isn't just for show, either -- there's some gameplay tied into it as well. 
 In one section set in a cave, I could tell an enemy was coming because I could see his flashlight 
 shining on the way ahead of me. The second I turned on my flashlight, he spotted me and the fight 
 was on. In another section, I could tell enemies were nearby because I could see their shadows 
 approaching ahead of them through a doorway. An advanced physics model is also in place, complete 
 with ragdoll character physics and other nods to realism. 
  
  ATI Radeon owners seem to be enjoying better performance. Still, Far Cry ranks as maybe the most 
 technically demanding game I've installed on my system to date (and that includes the PC version 
 of Halo.) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thornpaw
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  The graphics were outstanding and the sound was great. I liked the weapons and their uses, I just 
 wish that there had been more use for the sniper rifle. The one thing that I am getting tired of 
 in games (since play Halo) is having three sided battles with one side being so over powering that 
 it is very difficult to beat them. There also started to be glitches in the game the further along 
 I got. Enemies getting shot but just standing there flopping from the waist up not going down. 
 On the lever when Val is to lead or follow she got stuck behind a table or desk and could not find 
 her way out so I had to restart from the last save point. Also, it seemed that the enemy AI was 
 slight off at times. They would run right at my, go by me and then turn around and shot and other 
 times it did not matter how quiet or stealthy I was they saw me even if they had their backs turned. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBill
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  No game out there can match the near utter perfection of the game that is Far Cry. While Unreal 
 Tournament 2004 is amazingly entertaining, Far Cry beats it out because of the amazing depth, vision 
 range, and environment. I have absolutely zero complaints with this game, save but one:
  
  One the difficulty setting "Realistic," you would think that you and your enemies (at least the 
 human ones) would die very quicly and easily, such as with head shots or heart shots, or a giant 
 machete to the back. However, this setting makes all of your enemies nearly invincible, apparently 
 with kevlar flesh and ceramic plated bones. I have no problem with a difficuly setting such as 
 this, but how about we call it "Extremely Hard," because it definitely was not realistic. This 
 game would be TONS of fun and a great challenge with a truly realistic setting, so hopefully someone 
 will patch one soon!
  
  Everything else about this game is just perfect. It looks better than anything you've ever played, 
 you see farther, it's unique, and it reels you in for the best gaming experience you can find. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hk-dude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The environment is very nice. The weapons are cool, I just wish I could carry 
 more. The FN 90 was may favorite. It was worth cheating just to ensure I had enough ammo for the 
 gun. The game play is diverse, indoors, outdoors, water, boats, vehicles. The story is revealed 
 as you play along. It seemed nice not to be just locked in some cavern or old castle. It was refreshing. 
 Every level did not seem to follow a formula, too many FPS do this. I find "boss battles" boring 
 and often frustrating. This game did not follow the formula. I really enjoyed the game. I have 
 re-played it numerous times. Worth every penny. Like to see more FPS like this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubersoldat2003
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, i'd like to ask anyone who can answer why people use Farcry as a benchmark to test their 
 graphics cards?
  
  I know that with my 7800 GTX things are supposed to run smoothly, but honestly even with all the 
 graphical options turned on and at maximum, I don't see what could make even a 6200 jerk!
  
  The graphics are horrible, from the blocky characters and objects to the angular water and 
 the nauseating contrast of colours and textures. The shadows aren't fantastic and I could've sworn 
 that grass brushes aside as you crawl/walk on it, not gradually disappear parallel to the direction 
 in which you're looking?
  
  Now as huge of a disappointment that the graphics were, I know that gameplay is more important, 
 so I continued to play hoping for a fantastic feeling of sniping/accurate AI co-ordination and 
 reactions, but no. Yet again I ended up being disappointed. Not only does Farcry feature a AI that 
 doesn't use any form of tactics or tries to survive (let's face it, the zombies in the Resident 
 Evil movies were more intelligent!) , but it also boasts a horrible camera (not as bad as DMC though) 
 and controls especially when using a vehicle. 
  
  The sounds weren't special in any way. I was expecting a game that takes place mainly in forests 
 to feature an immersive level of realism such as sounds of the wind moving plants, numerous animal 
 noises, and yet manage to create a big contrast between the calm of this natural environment and 
 the chaotic blasts of bullets spraying out of man-made weapons at phenomenal speeds. Again I was 
 to be let down.
  
  I'm not even going to continue with this review, BRING ON OBLIVION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  It does not get much better than this. I can't wait for the sequel. I have spent most of my time 
 playing the Historical Shooters and I thought I would take a chance on this one after reading the 
 Gamespot Review. I was not disappointed at all. It opened a whole new genre of games for me to 
 play.
  This game has minimal flaws. The story line is great. The characters are cool and the game plays 
 fantastic. Even the AI intelligence is great. The only problems I had were occasional lock ups 
 and managed to fix most if them myself with the patches and a video driver upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is an exquisite pc fps that is currently only available on pc, and there's also a downgraded 
 version on the xbox. This game is something that you can't pass up. For if you do pass up, you 
 pass up something that could keep you occupied for many a year. The graphics in this game are solid, 
 smooth, and beautiful, I just can't believe what I'm seeing. So life-like. When you move in the 
 water, the water makes small life-like waves. It looks and feels good. The gameplay is really a 
 time user. You'll be stranded on an island, killing monkey men and crazy soldiers in no time. You'll 
 feel so free, and you can go where ever you want to complete your objectives and get to the grand 
 finale`. The weapons are knida bold because most of them are just plain old M4A1s or M16A2s, but 
 that's not too bad. The sound is great, with the exception of the main character's bad voice acting. 
 I swear, he sounds like Mr. Superhero, and he's on the run for his life. Give me a break. There 
 are tons of vehicles you can just get your hands on and take off with. The online play is there, 
 and fun when you can play it, but it lags a ton, no matter how good your pc is. It just lags a 
 lot. So that's Far Cry. A terrific fps, that comes with a brand new style and bang that should 
 draw you in for a while. I highly reccommend the pc version though. The xbox version is a severely 
 downgraded port, and I will be reviewing it shortly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponge9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a hellavalot of fun but the trouble is, it is pretty damned similar to games like 
 Max Payne and Allied Assault -- it's just not fresh enough, retreading the same footprints of hundreds 
 of other spin-offs in the genre.
  
  I still give this game a 9 though coz it does what it set out to do pretty much perfectly: you've 
 got some cool dudes in the navy/army going around blowing each other's brains out in a lush jungle 
 adventure, riding jeeps and speedboats etc. The controls are responsive and you can crouch and 
 go into prone position, all meaning you can move how you might in real life.
  
  However, the one thing I dislike this game along with the rest in the genre, is the dude you control 
 is more like a robot than a human. Here are some ideas to improve on: Where is the emotional factor? 
 Wouldn't someone going about killing thousands of dudes have some downtime, like moaning to himself 
 on occasion, or moan to the guy on the receiver, or get scared or tired, or look in a mirror, or 
 wash.. I think eating is a good idea --after killing everyone on a ship, grab some food to keep 
 energy levels up. I think sleeping is a good idea too. Like he could kip out in the bush or something 
 and be woken by dogs or soldiers, and then have to save himself at a disadvantage -- without sleep 
 he would lose coordination etc. The goal here should be to give the guy more 'character'; someone 
 you care about and don't want to see dead -- make him more human. Going to the toilet might be 
 a bad idea, but adding some of the above may make us care for the guy more, and give it that human 
 element. He coud meet comrades along the way and they could fight together, and then meet up later 
 in the game -- camaraderie evokes wonderful feelings for the player. I just fnd the whole genre 
 a bit too cut-and-dry, and being alone makes one feel, well ... lonely. Why the hell is it all 
 about killing and nothing but (it gets tiring) how about assigments involving time out somewhere?
 
  
  Even with the settings set to lowest the game is immersive, but ala the above the realism in regards 
 to the human element could be taken further.
  
  L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gutshotshurt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I have played FarCry campaign many times and its a continuingly amazing experience. Farcry is an 
 excellent first person shooter, but its real attraction lies in the locations. The tropical island 
 settings are so beautiful and detailed and huge, its really feels like you are travelling through 
 an actual archipelago. The storyline, a sub Island of Dr Moreau plot reveals the horrors to Joe 
 Avergae as he goes through the game and soon the mercenary enemies are joined by some fearsome 
 creatures. Its gerat to spy on the mercs and listen in to their conversations as you plot a way 
 to circumvent them or take them out as there are many different paths to achieve the mission objectives. 
 There are a mix of levels and lots of indoor corridor bashing, but that only serves to emphasize 
 the awesome breath of scale and wonder of the vast open air levels. There is some excellent range 
 combat and you can pick enemies off at least 1km away on the next island with the sniper rifle!! 
 Its a tough game on default difficultly and you will replay some parts many times, but its always 
 thrilling. The animations are great and the AI very impressive. The environments are so cool that 
 its great just to get in a boat and zoom about or go swimming. Towards the end the enemies become 
 a bit cartoonish which spoils the game slightly. There are many levels and a good variety and its 
 very satidfying to work your way down a river, or trhough a swamp or from island to island creating 
 carnage.
  The only down side is that there are tough bosses at certain points, a familiar inclsuion in FPS 
 games- but one I dont like.
  To sum up; Farcry is surely the best FPS shooter to date adn I return to replay it again and again. 
 Its always on my hard disc.
  Available on budget now- best money you spent. Looks good on a meduim spec PC- on high spec must 
 look awesome. 
  Hats off to Crytec for creating such a brilliant, amazing and awesome game!
  Roll on Farcry 2! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthnaevus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Well, looks like Farcry is going down in price and going up in popularity..... That makes sense.... 
 Graphics can compete with Half-Life 2 and Doom 3..... THE WATER!!!! Fabulous pixel shader... But, 
 now let's taalk about the gameplay, which is also good. The point of the game is simple, sometimes 
 it gets a little bit linear but some good ol' fashioned shooting passes will get the point done. 
 AI is intelligent, it sneaks, hides and shoot behind you... Use every item you get, ESPECIALLY 
 the crygoggles.....
  
  
  I give it a 9.1 on 10 because of some flaws and sometimes hardware compatibilities. Be sure to 
 check your specs before buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerdsaw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Far Cry gameplay is great you are Jack Turner taking someone on a cruise through the 
 pacific until your yacht is attacked and you are stranded on an island filled with armed men and 
 a new deadly species.
  
  Graphics: Graphics can differ depending on your settings too high and you really lag, too low and 
 you just cant stand looking at the game. I keep mine on medium which is better then what I expected 
 from a medium level setting.
  
  Sound: The sounds in Far Cry are realistic and good but I reckon there could of been room for improvement.
 
  
  Value: This game is great an instant classic I reckon but shouldnt be worth any more than $60.
 
  
  Tilt: I say you must get this game if you like guns and first person shooters, This game is a Classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry came out at interesting time. The hyped of three of the largest shooters was growing to 
 a peak. Half-Life 2, Halo 2, and Doom 3 were all set to be the greatest shooters of all time. But 
 out of no where, and I mean no where, the game Far Cry came out. Delivering a world which gamers 
 had never seen before.
  
  Far Cry is set on a tropical island where you have escorted a journalist by boat. A journalist 
 right. You soon find your boat in flames and being hunted down by ruthless mercenaries. And it 
 is your duty to get you and your journalist friend off the island. Although the story isn't quite 
 as good as some other shooters out there it is still quite good and worth paying attention too. 
 Being that your on an island developers Crytek have created a huge amount of land to traverse. 
 Not only that but you can see for literally miles. This allows you to approach any situation as 
 you see fit. You could try to lure some mercenaries into an ambush, or snipe them from a mile away. 
 The combat is fairly realistic and you are not a perfect shot as your accuracy is determined by 
 which position you are in. The game also rewards you for headshots as, outside of a few enemies, 
 fall from one shot to the head. The high end graphics in the game are all most a necessity. They 
 add so much personality to the game and make you feel as if you are in this magical island of magic. 
 Far Cry's A. I. are also a great feature. They boast some of the best teamwork in a game and will 
 try to flank you and take you down to the best of their ability. It also features a fairly lengthy 
 campaign which seems to be rare in the fps genre.
  
  There are a few problems I did have with the game though. As good as the A. I. is I did have a few 
 problems with them. They seem to be able to spot you from a mile away. And it can detract from 
 the realism. Although some people may love it, there are only save points and no quick save feature. 
 Though they usually are placed well. I also found the sound to be okay at best. Many of the weapons 
 sounded very weak. Especially the desert eagle. The voice acting is good for the main characters, 
 but the mercenaries all sound like idiots and feature some of the worst one liners in a video game. 
 Seriously, "I'm gonna shoot you in the face!" is not intimidating.
  
  Overall I love this game because the freedom it gives you. Although with a bit more time spent 
 on things like sound it could have brought a game that I may have considered one of the best of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_slug
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:31 am PT
Review:  You put the disk into your drive, install the 4gbs of game in anticipation. And when you start 
 the game does it let you down? no, deffinately not. In the menu screen you have the camera looping 
 round the island, this is when you first drop your jaw and go "wow". Of course that is only witht 
 he graphics setting on medium. Go into to options and put the game on high, or even ultra high 
 if you reckon your PC can handle it. Of course graphics aren't everything. You might have doubts 
 thinking that the producers just concentrated on graphics thinking that is what makes it a good 
 game. Well no, this has a really gripping storyline like the Half-Life games do. Of course there 
 is no need for me to give ti away but it will keep you playing the game.
  
  So if you own a PC and are short of game, what are you waiting for!?!... go.... GO NOW!.... GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Far Cry has the most advanced graphics seen in any PC game to date. Everything 
 in this game looks amazing, and the level of verisimilitude is unprecedented. Jungles actually 
 feature dense foliage that consists of trees, plants, and tall grasses, and this foliage is filled 
 with birds and insects. Beaches have blinding-white sand, and the surf slowly laps ashore. The 
 character models are some of the best we've ever seen in such a game, and they're richly detailed 
 and animated. The game also incorporates real-time lighting and shading effects to a degree rarely 
 seen before, so when you walk in the jungle, you actually see the shadows of overhead leaves flickering 
 on your rifle. In some of the larger indoor levels, the shadows of oncoming opponents are projected 
 in larger-than-life form onto walls. Intense heat blur from lava streams distort the atmosphere. 
 And a near miss from an enemy rocket will black out your vision -- as if you got the wind knocked 
 out of you. You can't help but be pulled in by the sheer immersiveness of the game.
  
  During the many firefights in Far Cry, you'll go up against cunning opponents, such as mercenaries 
 who know how to use cover. They'll run between cover while shooting at you along the way. The lushness 
 of the jungle usually means that these engagements turn into cat-and-mouse affairs, where you slowly 
 stalk your prey. The jungle is so dense, however, that you often can't see your enemies until you're 
 practically right on top of them. Sound plays an important part in the game at these moments, because 
 you can track opponents by their sounds, and they can track you by yours. You can throw a rock 
 to create a distraction, and you can crawl around the jungle to make as little noise as possible. 
 Stealth can play a critical role in the game at times, and one of the few complaints we have about 
 it is that the enemy artificial intelligence seems to have a very low detection threshold. If you 
 make the slightest noise, all the bad guys in the vicinity go to full alert, rather than investigating 
 further 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csoprano
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 12:05 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is truly a great game. If your an FPS fan and overlooked it like I did, look again. This 
 is one of the first in a new wave of FPS games. It didn't have as much hype as Half-Life 2 or Doom 
 3 being it's Cyrytek's first game. They did an excellent job. I was mainly turned away from it 
 because it had a cheap sticker price and the cover on the box looks sort of retro, like a mid-90's 
 game. I read some reviews on it and decided to pick it up. I couldn't be happier. The graphics 
 are amazing, the sound is great, and the game takes about 20-30 hours to beat with lots of replay 
 value. It's pretty challenging too, even on normal. If you already have and beaten Doom 3, Quake 
 4, FEAR, Half-Life 2, SWAT 4 and so on, you need to get this game. Far Cry is basically a mix of 
 HL 2's wide open areas and vehicles, Doom 3's monsters, and FEARS gameplay. One drawback is that 
 the voice acting is kind of cheesy. Enemies will say things like, "I'm gonna lay the smack down 
 on you!" and "How'd you like those apples?" The AI is sort of ridiculous at times too. You can 
 snipe an enemy from a half mile away in perfect cover and the enemines will begin to shoot at you 
 and run to your position. Stiil a great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Great Sci-Fi FPS that most any FPS fan would love. The multiple weapon choices is what makes it 
 so great. The freedom to move around makes strategy key. The gamespot review does a great job of 
 explaining what you're getting yourself into. I chose this game because of the reduced price caused 
 by its sequel. This was still good fun if you can find the game for a moderate price. I would and 
 have recommended it to many.
  
  Other than that I don't really know what to say. If you have a high end computer and a larger budget, 
 go for the newer games. Otherwise, this will provide that needed break for In-Between Gaming. That's 
 when you're unsure what your next purchase will be, but you're sick of your current game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the few games to break the mold and offer something new in the tired out FPS 
 genre.
  
  Gameplay: A great mix of stealth and action. (8)
  
  Graphics: At the time it was released, it had the best graphics of any game out there. With PS3.0 
 and 64-bit support, it still as some of the best graphics today. (10)
  
  Sound: Excellent sound all around. Not quite as immersive as some games though. (8)
  
  Value: 
 Big missions and lots of mods give you good bang for your buck. (7)
  
  Tilt: One of the most entertaining games I've ever played, despite its flaws. (9)
  
  The Good: 
 Open ended levels for the most part. Lots of real-world weapons. Original setting and gameplay 
 for a shooter. Good editor.
  
  The Bad: Not enough enemy types. Incredibly hard; but Val is immortal? Dumb story. AI is way too 
 smart or totally stupid, depending on the situation. Left me wanting more.
  
  Bottom Line: If they had made Far Cry more like Boiling Point and given you free run of the archipelago, 
 it would have been a much better game.
  I hope they make FC2 like that. If there ever is such a thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: switch17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  I was a little scared about buying the game bought after i bought it i almost crapped my pants!!!!! it 
 was so fun and so cool!!!! The weapons are realistic and the graphics are awesome!!! the story isn't 
 that bad either!!!! If u love shooting games you HAVE to buy this game!!! it's just 20.00 $ and it's 
 worth it believe me!!!! The story line is good and playing against the cpu is cool, but playing 
 against other people online ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BOOM HEADSHOT
  !!!!! This game is much better then half life !!!!! If u are not sure if u want to buy this game 
 then just download it from gamespot!!!! I want to buy far cry instincts but i'm not sure yet!!! but 
 i know that far cry rules!!!!!! peace!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  By now you know the game, you know the graphics are great, the available level editor is spectacular, 
 the original use of vehicles is first rate.
  
  You can go on and on about just how great this game is, but there is still just one massive problem. 
 It's buggy. Even after patch upon patch upon patch. I can't play the game the whole way through. 
 It still fully crashes out on one level. And thats after a YEAR of release time.
  
  The fact is, this game far to early. Worse games from the same publisher seem to have the same 
 trend of get it out and if people like it, we'll address most of the bugs.
  
  Far Cry in great to look at, it's fun to play. The gameplay is varied and the ai is clever. This 
 game would easily be in the top 10 of my collection and would be one of those rare games that you'd 
 reload on to the next computer I built just so I could play it again with an even better graphics 
 setting.
  
  The game engine could easily be the starting point for a great third party shooter. The problem 
 is trust though. If users can't play the whole game through and known problems aren't addressed 
 in a timely manner, what developer would want to trust the engine for their game.
  
  If the developer can't fix their bugs, you can't trust it to build your vision either.
  
  But 
 it's also a violation of trust for the user. If you spend money on a game, you should be able to 
 play it all the way through. Maybe you can forgive the occassional crash to the desktop, but it's 
 harder to forgive a bugs that are so bad, that you have to use a cheat code to skip to the next 
 level just so you can continue playing.
  
  FarCry is a great looking, great sounding, unreliably playing game. Perhaps now that it's nearly 
 two years later, they'll get those last bugs fixed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  You are Jack Carver running your own boat charter business in beautiful Micronesia. With a past 
 best left behind you, you'll be focusing on your present assignment: escorting an ambitious journalist 
 named Valerie Cortez to the Island of Cabatu. It seems like a piece of cake, but you'll soon learn: 
 paradise can be hell.
  
  Far Cry is set in the near future that features exciting new elements and 3D worlds set in both 
 vast detailed outdoor and indoor areas. Far Cry will showcase the latest AI and physics technologies 
 to recreate the most believable character movements, as well as realtime 3D atmospheric sound rendering, 
 weapon bullets and footsteps as if you were there, in the game.
  
  GAME PLATFORM 
  PC CD-ROM, Microsoft X-BOX 
  
  TARGET AUDIENCE 
  All gamers! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer9965
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  Farcry is everything it says on the tin:
  
  "An Arsenal of cutting edge weaponry"
  "Beautiful Tropical Islands"
  "Innovative multiplayer modes"
  
  Oh yes, this game offers 
 alot of story and fun for the 25 you buy it for.
  
  To start with the graphical properties of this game, is immense. The water looks almost too real 
 and the whole islands are done professionally.
  
  The game offers many weapons such as Rocket Launchers which are alot of fun to use, however you 
 will have to use other cool weapons such as knifes to be able to see the awesomeness of this game.
 
  
  The game also has many vehicles such as boats and jeeps to mess around or use during the game. 
 These vehicles allow you to travle quickly but dangerously around the islands. I say dangerously 
 because they are big and easy to hit, even more fun!
  
  The story is quite weird though, the game starts with you on a tropical island, however the story 
 takes you to other weird palces such as dams fighting weird little grey monsters. (Cool or what)
 
  
  This game will run on any computer even low-spec ones, however to get the most out of it you will 
 need a computer with good specs to see the graphics how they were made to be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  Farcry is one of my most favorite 1st person shooters has great levels and Amazing AI. The graphics 
 in the game kick. The game is hard at 1st but after some practice the game becomes eaiser but always 
 remains fun with new surprises throughout the game! The game is enjoyable and you'll be on the 
 edge of your seat till the very end. The graphics in the game are amazing, it is the most realistic 
 game and most exciting since Halflife 2. The spund is great to as your hear sounds from all around 
 you. The enemies in the game are very intellegent as they run for cover and try to flank you as 
 you fire upon them. Do you have what it takes to survive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djarken
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  dont think for a start this is like most FPS, because it isnt. as you would normally go round blasting 
 everything in sight running around like a mad man you cant with Farcry and thats what gives it 
 the edge over all the other FPS ive played. the save points are spread out well and it can get 
 tense if your life is nearly over and you aint far from a save point so you end up sneaking around 
 so you dont get shot and some of the points on each level can take 5 to 10 attempts to do until 
 you know your way round. id thoroughly recommend this game to anyone as the game play, graphics, 
 sound and story are amazing, but the key point is it is tough even on easy mode and it will keep 
 you hooked for ages. bring on the next episode!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wej_accept_it
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  FarCry was described as, "Half Life meets Halo", and while its clear that the two of the best shooters 
 ever have had more then a passing influence on FC, its also clear that game stands head and shoulders 
 above them in every respect.
  
  In FC the player assumes the role of Jack Carver, a tough with a dark past who runs a charter boat 
 service through the south pacific. Hired by a mysterious journalist to explore a series of unknown 
 islands Jack has no idea what he is in for. In the brialliant opening cinematic the boat is attack 
 and the journalist captured while Jack washes up on shore in a small cave. Here the firts level 
 starts and things get exciting. The first level is in two parts, first the game hold your hand 
 and guides you through a tutroial, before leaving you strandard on your own to deal with a camp 
 of heabily armed mercs and afterwards some great vehicle scenes. But this is by no means the deep 
 end of FC, its just a tasts of the dozens of perfectly relised action sequences that await the 
 player in this simply sublime action game.
  
  The first thing you notice about FC are graphics. At the time of its release, FC is arguably the 
 best looking game ever. Even now, over a year on, its still mind blowing when you look at how good 
 this game is. Every big next gen graphics trick is here, bumpmapping, real time light and shadows, 
 high resoultions textutes, anti aliasing etc etc. And while this might make it seem like FC will 
 only run on top end machines, its not quite true. While you're missing out if you don't play this 
 on an abosulte beast of of a PC, I've played it through to the end on an aging P3 with a 9200 graphics 
 card. I had to turn all the graphics to minimum, but even then this is still great looking game. 
 Basically if you have a half decent PC for playin games, there is no reason as to why shouldn't 
 get this. Its just that good.
  
  The audio of FC is another ig thing. The music is similar to Splinter Cell's methond of changing 
 as the action goes up down. Creep along and the music drops, get into a gunfight, and the tempo 
 speeds up and the sound gets louder. Its a great affect and should been used in more shooters. 
 (Cough Halo 2 cough)
  The enemy mercs you encounter in the game also sput some good dialogue, its cheesy but its funny 
 at the same time. "Time for an ass-whumpin'" one guy yells when he sees me in the game. Always 
 good for a laugh.
  
  FC biggest drawcard though its great gameplay where you, the player, have so many options is mind 
 boggling. This is a result of several great features the game has. First the levels are mostly 
 set on tropical islands. Big islands. And I mean BIG. You can play the same level ove and over 
 and find new routes through and more enemies each time. The size of this game is simply insane 
 at times. 
  Next the AI is easily some of the best around, and while the mercs you face early on in the game 
 are the standard enemies most of the way through, trust me, they're just the tip of the iceberg.
 
  Finally FC can be played in so many different ways. Want to go all Splinter Cell and creep around 
 the levels using stealth and silenced weapons, sure thing. Or you can go crazy with an M4 blasting 
 in every thing in sight, both are fine ways to approach situations and both have equal pros and 
 cons. This really is a game that a huge numebr of people can get into because there is so much 
 choice and no matter the choice, its always great fun.
  
  Overall, it boils down to this: If you are an action fan and or a FPS fan, get FC. Its the best 
 FPS since Halo for Xbox, and the most insanely impressive socme the original Half Life. GET THIS 
 NOW!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  FARCRY its a very cool game
  a specialy when u can crowl on the ground and thats i never seen on a FPS
  cool graphic and very 
 good gameplay
  i think its one of the best games that i played
  and its allso cool cus its like you need to survive....
  u walking in the forest and u can allso 
 swim if u want...
  u can do what u want.... u can go where ever u wants 
  and this is realy cool... but its a little hard...
  cus ther are lots of shooting... and crazy 
 stuff...
  but i didn't loved when its becoming unreal its preaty ruend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katally
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I normally do not play first person shooters. But as I scanned the bargain aisle of the local Best 
 Buy store, I decided to give this one a try. That was a mistake. I should have paid full price 
 for it and got to playing this game much sooner. To begin with, the graphics are amazing. Lush 
 tropical foliage, unbelievably detailed bunkers and labs, and breathtaking views combine to make 
 this the most visually aesthetic game I have ever played. The sounds and voice acting within the 
 game are solid too. The dialogue is somewhat weak but it doesn't detract from the overall experience 
 of playing the game. The thing that impressed me the most was the AI. Gone are the days of being 
 able to pick an enemy off with little to no repercussions. The enemies in this game will flat out 
 kick your ass if you so much as look at them through the binocs wrong. The game is long but it 
 doesn't come across as repetitive. I completed it in about 40-50- hours. Overall, this game is 
 indeed a masterpiece. If you do not own a copy of this title, do yourself a favor and go out and 
 get one. And then get ready for an incredible ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlante70
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good, in my opinion better than Quake 2 or Return to Castle Wolfenstein - and 
 much better than Halo, which I think is overrated.
  
  It has a few memorable moments.
  
  As minor drawbacks, the story could be more solid, and I would prefer more adventure/puzzle 
 elements, like in Half-Life. Some have commented the bad control of road vehicles, I agree it could 
 be better but is not too bad either. The control of the water and air vehicles is flawless. I also 
 liked the musical score very much.
  
  Playing at a medium difficulty level, I thought it was not difficult at all, just right.
  
 
  Hopefully the sequel keeps the essence of the original and makes the story more interesting.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: longboard-kid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  this is a really really good game i usually play it on lan it is probrebly the best game for pc 
 that i have ever played it is a great game and is a MUST HAVE !! !! !! 
  so if you dont have it BUY IT !! !! !! !! !!
  the graphics are great everything is great about 
 that game so if you dont have it im not kidding buy buy buy it !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! 
 !! !! !! !!
  and while your ad it buy gow of war to that game is great too .
  ... im bored so dont mind the following and please agree.
  
  o hrkr hdfrberugdfn rfhgdrfnerkwfitg 
 fjwregjkfg due qw reurf bekfe dfkw agd kured jyghfde iwerjefnd eiwgrekre dowfdem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorickrieken
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  When i bought the game , i smashed the dvd in my dvd player , installed it and directly started 
 to play it.
  
  The first thing i thought was ; Damn what a nice graphics in here.
  
  When i started playing i got directly addicted to it. 
  It's so powerful and so really good.
 
  The online mode is even perfect!
  The single player is exactly long enough.
  
  The game isn't really difficult, but the difficulty was just ok.
  It's also superb that you can 
 drive lots of vehicles and go across the water with a boat.
  
  It's just a very good game that everyone should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagoofyfoot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  Somebody help me, I can't stop playing this game! This is one of the best single FPS I have played 
 to date, and I've pretty much played them all. Like a blockbuster action movie, you just can't 
 wait to see what happens next.
  
  This game is a MUST HAVE for any serious gamer , period. I love the way Crytek has really set the 
 bar with their graphics and AI. 
  
  I can't wait to see what they do next.... FarCry 2? I'll just have to wait and see what develops. 
 Doom 3 has got nothing on FarCry. I enjoyed this game way more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilum450
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  Before FarCry, my experience with FPS's have been at best is a good distraction; at worst just 
 plain bored. However when I first started this game and found that this is not a typical FPS limited 
 to corriordors with creatures jumping out of the dark. It required thought, strategy, and patience 
 as well as the fast twitch reflexes. There different approaches to the game and enjoyed testing 
 them.
  
  The storyline is good as well as the pacing of the story. The game moved you to different terrains 
 and settings. The targets range from mercs to monstronsities armed various armaments. Useable wepaons 
 and vehicles are outstanding. Every weapon has a use in a given situation. 
  
  This is the FPS game that got me to start to enjoy the FPS games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFmasterVII
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is freakin amazing. The game play is more user friendly than a guide dog and the graphics 
 are better looking than some photos. Little things like textures, great foilage everywhere, and 
 the fact that in the sniper rifle actually moves areound when you're in the scope, all make this 
 game one of the most realistic around, if not THE most realistic around. I have fallen in love 
 with this game and when im sittin at school i sit there and think, "holy crap i cant wait to get 
 home so that i can play Far Cry!" It is amazing. If you own it, go play it. If you don't own it, 
 go buy it and then, go play it. You WILL NOT regret it.
  
  P. S. - For a sample of what I'm talkin about, download the demo, its pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  Crytek hit a MAJOR homerun with this game.
  It has everything that an FPS should have,
  a: the ability to roam all over a map
  b: HUGE replayability ( I guarantee you won't see everything 
 the first time around)
  c: killer graphics
  d: a fairly good storyline (yes yes I know, it's a retelling of H. G. Wells' the Island of Dr. Moroeau)
 
  e: the weapons "felt" right when in use. 
  f: the AI, OH MY GOD! when the enemy mercs and creatures come at you, you had best be on your toes, 
 they will do EVERYTHING that they can to take you out. you could hear the mercs call orders, pull 
 flanking manuvers, take cover at the right times ........ on and on and on. They would even respond 
 to your -flashlight- if you used it at the wrong and worst possible time.
  
  There is just too much for me to say about this game to put here.
  I am so enthused about Farcry 
 that I can't wait until the sequel comes out.
  
  If you've not bought this game yet.......... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  Wow. Just simply wow. The single player experience is one of the best, if not THE best experience 
 I have ever had with a first person shooter. The story, though not completely unique, is engaging 
 and throws you for several loops. But the reason the gameplay is so amazing is not because of the 
 storyline, it is because of the open endedness of how you can complete your missions, and the sheer 
 massiveness of the levels you are thrown into.
  You have the option to go in guns blazing and create all the racket in the world, warning the entire 
 island of your presence. OR you could play in a way that I ABSOLUTELY LOVE!!!! Be the predator. 
 Using the sniper rifle, machette (which is hard to use because the AI seems too aware at times) , 
 or the MP5-SD, you can pick off the mercs one by one, causing others to not notice this, or see 
 their comrades fallen and freak out, and begin to patrol the area for you. Unfortunately, because 
 the AI seems to be able to see through all the bush, trees, and jungle and see you when you fire 
 the MP5-SD it makes it even more interesting. But if I have one gripe about the gameplay, it would 
 be that the AI can see TOO well at times through the brush, making my hunter mode difficult at 
 times :-D
  Graphics are a masterpiece. The dynamic shawdows, lightning, the HUGE, and I mean HUGE, draw distance, 
 to the detailed character models. Even the dynamic bullet holes in NPC's, which though tiny detail, 
 still adds up to make the graphics simply amazing.
  Sound is excellent, the voice acting is a little dry and sometimes silly from the mercs, but still 
 the sounds of the jungle are all around you. The ambience of the sound makes it excellent, but 
 not perfect.
  Value is superb because of the long and satisfying single player campaign, however, there is much 
 to be desired in the multiplayer. It is good, but seems a little mundane, and not original enough 
 like its single player mode.
  Overall an excellent game that any gamer who is even remotely interested in FPS should by. Amazing 
 gameplay, huge levels, great graphics, great sound, its all here. 9.7 baby yaaa!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:59 am PT
Review:  This was one of the more difficult games I have played. I enjoyed it as a first person shooter. 
 I think that it was an interesting story, which kept some of the fun in the game. What I liked 
 best about it, was that it was difficult. Some first person shooters, it takes me a while to complete 
 because it is a long game. This game was just difficult, because of the long time between saves, 
 and that at any point in time, you could get hit by an enemy that can kill you with one attack. 
 I think this is a solid game that you should spend the twenty bucks on. A few people ran into trouble 
 playing it on there DVD player, I never had a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  Only after you have completed a game such as Far Cry can you trully appreciate it to it's full 
 value. First thing that comes up in my mind is quality. There is quality everywhere you look, from 
 the look & feel of the game, to it's physics, sound, ambience, sceneries, interaction, usage of 
 vehicles. Everything is top notch. You can play this game 10 years from now, when we will all be 
 running 20Ghz PC's with 40GB ram, and still have a blast with this gem.
  
  When I first loaded the game I was sure it would not run well on my PC since it is not that strong. 
 But I was happily wrong and I managed to run it with shining colors. The first thing that amazed 
 me was the water. WOW, it makes you feel like going swimming, so real! Then, you look around, and 
 take a deep breath, the scenery overwhelmed me. The wind through the trees, the leaves all, correctly 
 swaying to the wind's movement. Fantastic.
  
  In this game, you have the privilege to fight much indoors as well as outdoors. I like outdoor 
 fighting much better than indoors as you are not confined to small places. Not that I am a claustrphobic 
 or something, but in small places, you cannot fulfill your true tactic-gamer capabilities. Outside, 
 you have this great freedom of sneaking and surprice attacking if you wish. Or simply scram and 
 get the hell out of there with things get grim...
  You will be facing many enemies here. From human to non human to boats, choppers, trucks, jeeps... 
 everything goes. You also, get to ride most of these vehicles. Super fun, I must say. You can drive 
 a around in your "brand new" hummer jeep, and shoot it's overtop machine gun or simply run over 
 the baddies. There are episodes where you have to use your nautical skills and conduct a boat.
 
  
  Your arsenal of weapons is also quite interestintg. Although in the game I found the old & trusty 
 M-16 the best weapon for medium ranged fights, which are the most common by the way, you also have 
 a shotgun, great for those nasty bryo's in small places, and the super-precise sniper rifle. You 
 are limited however to a few weapons each time, so don't count on carrying all of these...
  
  One thing that bothered me in the game is that enemies seemed to have a "second sight" and 
 they would see you from miles away. Also when I was hidden (proned) behind some leaves, they saw 
 me... and they are accurate man. They also have rocket launchers so you cannot stay out. Gotta 
 get out of there pronto!!
  The other thing was the crappy checkpoint system, which I HATE !!! You can go around it using a 
 cheat but we don't use cheats... Right ?
  
  This game is lllllllong. About 40+ hours of gaming, which is respectable indeed especially if you 
 would compare it to games like Half Life 2 (less than 20 hours) COD (less than 10...) F. E. A. R (less 
 than 10) . The game is really invested in every possible way you could imagine.
  
  I want to play this game again. I am just afraid of it's length. Due to lack of time, it took me 
 half a year to complete it (yeah, I can hear you giggle & chuckle now... :-) ) . Now, it will take 
 me even more.
  
  If you have not played it, then by all means go for it. This is a true FPS adventure that you do 
 not see anywhere. The game is engrossing & compelling from it's story to how everything else evolves 
 around it.
  
  Happy hunting !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnha778
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Far cry is a game that so suddenly came into my life. I saw the game at Walmart nd I looked at 
 the back of the game box and was pretty impressed with the graphics. So I bought it and started 
 playing it. I wasn't expecting a great shooter, I was just excited about the graphics. I had no 
 idea what i was going into.
  
  Many people here are probably familiar with Half life (my favorite game even though it may not 
 be as good as Far Cry or Half life 2) . Those who played it all the way back in 1998 know that indescribable 
 feeling of playing something that is beyond anything you've ever experienced before. Well I somehow 
 felt the same while playing this game. The level design (how it is SOOO big and not repetive) , 
 the weapons, and enemies are so well done. The level design is never repetive and shows you a whole 
 new place every \time it can (with great graphics this is actually noticeable) . Also the feel of 
 the weapons and the sound of the reload animations are great (although not as good as Riddick or 
 Call of duty) . The enemies are also great. people complain that they are too smart, but at the 
 easiest difficulty they'll be challenging yet able to be outsmarted my a human brain. Fighting 
 them is never old since the physics are some of the best in any game (on vehicles it sorta sucks 
 though) . When you shoot a merc with an M4, the result is so satisfying (the guy just slams into 
 the ground with lovely bullet marks on his corpse) . Also the mutants, while pretty tough, are super 
 fun to fight, Watching them reacting to your tactics (how those big scary dudes are scared of you; 
 you thought you were scared of them!!) is just beyond description in words. The music also top-notch 
 and the sound effects are nice. The value is also really good here not because of the multiplayer, 
 but because of the quality of single player game. It is one of the best games that I've ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Ah Far Cry now that is a hard game to describe. Sure it looks fantastic and has some really cool 
 moments but it has some nasty flaws that prevent me from recommending it non hardcore gamers. In 
 Far Cry you play as ex-marine Jack Carver. You sail to some tropical island with a reporter named 
 Valerie Constantine who wants to photograph some World War 2 wrecks. You are ambushed by some hired 
 goons and are blown out of your ship and Valeri is nowhere to be found. The story in Far Cry is 
 not to deep or to interesting and the voice work is downright terrible. 
  
  CryTech has made a very realistic and difficult game. I would say to realistic. For starters Jack 
 has quite the unsteady hand when zooming in with his guns. Many times you will have to crouch or 
 lie prone if you want to have decent accuracy and still you view will sway just a bit. I suck at 
 aiming and this sway effect really bothered me since you will want to shoot your enemies in the 
 head to kill them as fast as possible. You are out numbered and out gunned and most of your enemies 
 seem to be great at moving and shooting at you. 
  
  When you move your weapon accuracy goes down noticeably so most of the time you will want to stay 
 put and take out the opposition one by one. A good half of the game is spent outside here is were 
 the games graphics shine. You are on a gorgeous tropical island with lots of beaches, rainforests, 
 and enemy encampments, there are other places but I won't spoil them for you. The indoor levels 
 are quite a lot faster paced and are nothing to special. Medical labs, caves, you have all seen 
 this before. Character models look pretty good but are poorly animated particularly faces.
  
  Far Cry's environmental sounds fight the environments perfectly. Weapons sound some what subdued 
 and as mentioned before the voice work can be painful to listen to. Enemies repeat themselves and 
 sound dumb. The main character sounds dumber and whines a bit.
  
  Gameplay is were this game suffers the most. Your foes seem to pose super-human senses. They can 
 often hear or see you when you can not. Half of the time you will engage enemies at long range, 
 always outside and in close quarters indoors. Some enemies take ridiculous damage to kill and others 
 are just cheap in there in how easily they can kill you. There are vehicles in Far Cry but they 
 are hard to control and often leave you exposed to enemy fire. This game has no real easy mode.
 
  
  The biggest problem with Far Cry is there is no quick save/load instead you have to deal with checkpoints. 
 The developers are apparently adding this feature but the fact they did not include this when the 
 made the game makes some places hell to play through. All in all Far Cry is a good game but it 
 can be very frustrating to play. If you suck at fps's don't buy this game. Half-Life 2 is a much 
 more easier and fun game to play then this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmickey14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Awwww yeah Im chillin out on a sunny beach, birds chirping ocean waves crash on the sandy white 
 beaches. Then, I grab for my cool lemonade when BOOM! A greade blows up next to me. I run desperately 
 for cover while the enemies use their squad tactics to hunt me down.
  Yeah that right there can some it up for the graphics. Far Cry, publishes by a new founder Crytek, 
 has created one of the best FPS I have played in a while. This game simply looks amazing and it 
 still does after a year its been released. And still, no game has surpassed its water effects yet 
 and still wont for a while, it just looks that good.
  The gameplay is spot on while you battle out very smart AI enemies that hunt you down as a group 
 with squad tactics. The game kinda falls apart at the end though with all the "trigens" break out. 
 Yes they are fun to fight at first, but the game keeps throwing them at you. This is a nitpick 
 BTW.
  The sound is the most disappointing feature out of all of them. The Voice acting is bad to terrible 
 and the enemies spit out terrible one liners that make you laugh out loud with corniness. On the 
 plus side, The environmental effects sound great and so do the weapon sounds.
  Overall, all I can say about Far Cry is buying it even if your just remotely interested in the 
 FPS genre, and if not just get it for the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. I have not seen graphics like these ever before. The game play is great 
 and fun. You can take a stealth approach or a shoot any thing that moves approach to this game. 
 The graphics is the best part about the game. They are crystal clear and so details I do not know 
 how they pulled it off. I mean the water is so realistic if you take a screen shot of it and show 
 it to a friend who has not seen the game and they will probably believe it is the ocean. The detail 
 is down to each piece of grass .It is awesome. The sound is also great. The sounds of the guns 
 and people are realistic and cool. This is a great game with the best graphics I have ever seen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tocohara
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The island chain is really pretty to the eyes, and is unique to all other shooters I have played 
 so far. The developers did well simulating a deteriorating WW2 battlefield. There are so many places 
 you can swim to or trek your way through the forest. The problem is, the gameplay tends to have 
 that all-to-well-known linear approach. One beef I have is not all of the obects can be used to 
 your advantage (i. e. finding mounted machine guns & mortars only after you have eliminated the 
 opposition from afar using a sniper) . But that's not to say there is some cool vehicles you can 
 use, along with their mounted weapons!
  
  The other point I must pick on is the voice-overs. I can't stand it when the opposition uses really 
 cheesy lines when communicating with friend or foe. The one I heard over and over..... your a** 
 is grass..... Remember that one from 7th grade kiddies!!!
  
  One great element I found was that I feared the Trigons more than the mercenaries. They sounded 
 evil and could easily spook/surprise you! 
  
  Over all, I enjoyed this game, as it was beautifuland can be quite suspenseful at times. But I 
 doubt I will play this one again for awhile b/c I started to get the "been there done that" feeling. 
 However, don't pass this one up if you haven't gotten it yet. It is definitelya keeper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonslayer90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  I got this game when I got my new PC. I didnt think it would be much. I just thought it would be 
 an average shooter nothing big. But I was wrong.... very wrong. This game is incredible! The setting 
 of the game is very cool. Your on an island and have tons of ways to kill your enimies (when i say 
 that like hide from different places) . This game has everything you would want in a shooter. Driving 
 vehicles, awesome weapons, great AI, and great graphics. These graphics are perfect. The water 
 is so realistic. But this game does requires a high-end PC so watch out for that. Now there was 
 one problem with this game that I had. About half-way through the game these monstors come in the 
 game (earlier you were fighitng humans) that sort of ruined the game down for me. But not that 
 much. Now let me tell you this game is HARD i mean very hard so it will keep you playing for a 
 while. I still had a blast playing this game. Pick this game up if you have a high end PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Its so good i had to threaten you to be sure you woudl purchase it. The only reason this game took 
 a backseat in visibility in my opinion was because of doom 3 and Half life 2. 
  
  This game has some unique abilities. A danger sence so enemies didnt just attack what is directly 
 in sight, you could hide under cover.
  
  Fly gliders while taking in the KILOMETERS of beutiful scenery that the develpers created. Or take 
 a ride in the truck all teh whiel controling the cannon or machine gun on top blowing **** up! 
 
  
  All the while keep the story line moving until you cant get away from playing it. 
  
  Kill some scary ass mutants! PLAY in teh DARK! and feel like yoru going to die ever 2 seconds. 
 
  
  Wow, this game was worth teh 35 dollars on the re-buy rack. dont miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: son2603aan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game is so perfect made.
  The history is makes peoples wanna play the game again and again and again... It did it do me!!
 
  
  Grapichs:
  The grapich i amazing, noting over, nothing aside!!
  The physic is cool, peoples fly like crazy things when you toss a grenade over to them. 
  The 
 island looks like a paradize!!
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is new and is perfect told.
  You are running around, snapping up what other solidiers says and much more.
  The history fits 
 very well!
  
  Sound:
  Let me frase it short: FANTASTIC!!
  You can hear almost the birds singing, and you can recognize weapons when enemys shot at you!
 
  
  Value:
  Short: Perfect value, this game has cost me many many fantastic hours with my computer!
  
  
 I give the Reviewer's Tilt 10.0!
  I agree with the result!!
  
  Buy this game, and you will never get bored!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiefGarrett
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  If you're worried that Far Cry is a technical marvel with nothing much in the way of gameplay, 
 then you'll be pleased to know you're wrong. There's plenty of great level designs, and the combat 
 is some of the most intense you've seen in a shooter.
  This game looks absolutely breathtaking. It's tropical setting is a nice change from the usually 
 grim post-apocalyptic or slick alien corridor backdrops FPS fans have become accustomed to. There 
 are some interior levels, but the graphics shine best while sniping from a mountaintop and being 
 able to see enemies from what must be over 1000 metres, or while hang gliding over a chain of islands 
 as gunfire tries to bring you down. To complement the graphics engine, Far Cry has some fantastic 
 level designs. One level has you driving a speedboat down a river with enemy encampments lining 
 the banks. Another has you fighting on a pathway amongst the treetops. Many others have you sneaking 
 (or shooting, your choice) through lush jungles which all feel different. There are no levels that 
 feel like rehashes, which is a good thing, since there are a lot of levels here compared to your 
 standard shooter.
  The story is really the only average part of the game. You end up on an island surrounded by mercenaries, 
 and later mutants, and you need to fight your way to the man responsible for it all. The only saving 
 grace of the story are the cut scenes, which sport dialogue that's obviously not taking itself 
 seriously.
  The gameplay is well done. Your movement and weapons are pretty standard, but your enemies are 
 not. Prepare to be outsmarted by the AI when you play this game. In open areas you will be flanked. 
 In corridors you will be flushed out with grenades. Enemies will take cover and provide supporting 
 fire for each other. Prepare to be killed numerous times in certain levels.
  The music in this game, while nothing special, does seem to turn it up a notch in heated battles. 
 At the same time, it knows when to die down and let you focus on ambient sounds and dialogue around 
 you, which are all well done. The weapons all have really characteristic sounds, from the blast 
 of the shotgun to the hiss of the rockets, and hearing the growl of a group of mutants you can't 
 see will be enough to put you on edge.
  One of the great things about this game is the level of detail that has been put into it. Magazines 
 and posters litter the barracks. Conversations can be heard from afar with the binoculars. Fish 
 hang on hooks near the shore, and believe me when I say you'll know when a flashbang grenade backfires 
 on you.
  To be quite honest, the only problem I had with this game was its almost insane level of difficulty. 
 I played at the 3rd of 5 difficulty settings, and I still don't understand who thought it was a 
 good idea that the stronger mutants take 50 machine gun rounds to the head, at point blank range, 
 until they go down. At the same time, 2 hits from the first mutant I encountered ended my game. 
 If you want my advice, save yourself hours of frustration. Play Far Cry on the easy setting.
  Far Cry is both a technical marvel and a thrill to play. Anyone with an interest in shooters should 
 play it. It's every bit as important to the genre, and games in general, as any FPS out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STWELCH
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry amazed the gaming community in early 2004 with its jaw dropping graphics, immersive gameplay, 
 and a storyline filled with plot twists. If you have interest in First Person Shooters, pick this 
 one up now.
  
  The story starts off with Jack Carver, ex-special forces and an independent charter boat captain 
 operating in the Pacific Ocean. You have been hired to escort a sexy and mysterious female reporter 
 named Val who is hoping to take pictures of the ruins on the island. But your boat is shot with 
 an RPG and you must survive and try to rescue your passenger.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, with the extremely smart A. I. and wide variety of weapons and enemies. 
 You go from wide, expansive jungles to laboratories filled with genetically altered humans called 
 trigens. Those guys are tough, as is any enemy in the game. Be warned though, this game has NO 
 quick save feature, only a checkpoint system, so you really start to hate going back 10 miutes 
 to your last save. A minor problem though.
  
  The Graphics are some of the best in video game history. The jungles are seem like the real thing, 
 the water right out of a tropical paradise, and the characters beutifully rendered. You will be 
 astounded.
  
  Sound in this game is filled with freaky sounds and very good music. You hear a trigens growl, 
 or a mercenaries boast about killing you. The weapons have a very appealing sound when shot.
  
  This game takes around 25-30 hours to complete, and the levels are so expansive that you will 
 be playing through it again and again. Multiplayer is only so-so, so if you buy games only for 
 multiplayer, don't buy this. But the single player campaing more than makes up for it.
  
  All in All, Far Cry is a rariety in the FPS genre, and should not be missed because of it's minor 
 flaws. And it's only $20.00 American! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashimkhalifa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest game I have ever played
  the realism and AI that went into this game is awsome
  this one put Doom 3 to shame, as it give 
 you more of an adreadline rush then doom
  the graphic are insane so make sure you have a decent graphic card. 
  the detail in the game 
 is truly amazing.
  the game play make you like your are in the game. It the little things that mattered, the the aiming 
 and your own relfexes inside the game
  it was truly on of the best FPS after halo 1+2. 
  It's a better buy then doom 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LionQ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  There is no aspect at which Far Cry fails big time. This game well meets all reasonable requirements 
 you could set for a first-person shooter - also packing some adventure aspects every now and then. 
 The fact this game was born out a engine demo, obviously makes this game innovative. The CryENGINE 
 enables long draw distances and excellent model rendering with a lot of details. CryTek is working 
 efficiently, too: the game will rarely slow down because of all the eye candy seen on the tropical 
 archipelago or the beautiful jungle environments. Lighting and shading is also wonderfully adapted, 
 showing very realistic water reflections and creepy indoor shadows around the corner. The physics 
 are just right.
  
  So far for the engine graphics. The gameplay is superb: the engine brings a good AI around the 
 corner as well. Enemies will run from cover to cover, strafing while firing at you. They will spot 
 you when they see you and report your position to their mates. Making sound will also attract their 
 attention to your position, though you can, of course, use this as an advantage by throwing stones 
 somewhere else so you can sneak around the other way. The game continously let's you choose between 
 two different gameplay styles. You can either choose to go in as a Rambo, blowing anything from 
 your path. Though this might offer you a lot of fun on the lower difficulty levels, you won't succeed 
 this way on the higher ones. Your stealth-o-meter let's you take an entire different approach. 
 With this tool, you can go in unseen and thin the enemy ranks with your scope-and-snipe skills. 
 Of course this requires more time and patience, but you will come further ahead.
  
  The sound is great, too. The sound effects are just right, offering realistic noise coming from 
 your weapons. Also, your radar displays where the sounds come from, so you can perfectly track 
 the battles going on between your enemies - yes, betw&eacute;&eacute; n your enemies. The music 
 adds a lot as well. It offers you nice, soft audio tracks when you're wandering through the jungle 
 and will change to some kind of Indian style war music when your spotted or in the middle of a 
 firefight. The music is adapted to the environments as well. You will hear quite different music 
 coming out of your speakers while you are in close quarters, adding volume spikes when you turn 
 around the corner in a system of creepy alleyways.
  
  There are some vehicles around as well, but they play a minor role - though you can't do without 
 them in some levels. There are a few land vehicles around and a few for on the water, but you can't 
 take off for flying. Mounted weapons are also not quite important, but there are some situations 
 where you wouldn't know what to do without that handy minigun or mortar placed there right for 
 you.
  
  Furthermore, you can carry four weapons at the same time. This will make you swap your sniper rifle 
 for a shotgun when entering close-quarters, for example. So there are some tactical decisions to 
 be made when switching environments. Unless, of course, you want to get sniping with a shotgun. 
 The overall weapon arsenal in the total game is well-designed. There's no weapon missing out. You 
 will have a machete and a pistol at start, but you will soon want to get rid of those in order 
 to get a nice P90, with an awesome rate of fire. You will acquire better weapons when proceeding 
 in the game. A shotgun comes around quite fast, but you'll have to wait longer in order to get 
 a replacement for your M4. Besides the assault rifles, there is a powerful sniper rifle with a 
 stunning zooming possibility; overmore, there is the rocket launcher, very useful against vehicles 
 or a concentrated group of enemies. And let's not forget speaking about the machinegun that you 
 will acquire late in the game. Don't worry though, you'll still get enough opportunities to wield 
 the power of this weapon on short distance.
  
  The game offers an autosaving-only system - though manual saving is later patched in. At some points 
 the save locations seem to be too far away from each other, but that's a quite rare occassion. 
 The save points usually follow up on each other real fast, so when you die, you usually will only 
 have to go back a little while. For the other part, there are 20 levels in the game, some very 
 distinct from the previous. When finishing the last level, you wil have encountered all kinds of 
 combat, ranging from scope-and-snipe headshots in the jungle to close-quarters combat with your 
 machinegun against Fat Boys and Tridgens. The plot is also just right: not awesome or something 
 near that, but just good; not kind of cheap in any way.
  
  Of course all the eye-candy and innovative features of the CryENGINE requires a lot from your rig. 
 But CryTek doesn't really makes a high-end system a necessicity. You can play this game on a lot 
 of older systems, but of course you won't be enjoying the innovatives that much then. The story, 
 gameplay and sounds will of course still come to you as they are meant.
  
  To conclude, Far Cry is a superb first-person shooter, combining great gameplay and a lot of value 
 with innovative graphics and decent sound. The game is also fairly balanced, with a nice weapon 
 and vehicle arsenal in the beautiful environments where you will play. For some players, the game 
 will seem to be draggin on, but actually this game has a lot of value due to its length and the 
 challenges it offers with the well-programmed AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I tried out several professions in an attempt to get a clear perspective of what the game offers. 
 In EVERY profession, I found a very limited and static amount of what many players call "Grinding", 
 where a character must perform a mundane and repetitive task in order to advance. At some point, 
 your character just plateaus, and then must jump through some very boring hoops. Eventually you 
 get through to bigger and better things. Overall, it is an experience that brings you back to the 
 game for more. There are many places to see, static quests to accomplish, creatures to fight. Many 
 try to become a Jedi of some kind, unlocking the elusive Force-Sensitive character. More grinding.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but the polygon count can get quite high. Invest in a nice pixel shader 
 card if you want to play this for very long. Your swap file will get punished unless you have at 
 least a gig of ram. There are great video settings, tho, that let you control MANY aspects of the 
 detail in the game, right down to which pixel shader version you will use.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soninlaw
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:23 am PT
Review:  Far Cry, a game I intensive played in 2004. Unbelievable stunning graphics made it a must have 
 for many. A paradise so beautifully made in a game, you wish you could step into your monitor and 
 take a swim in that beautiful water between the tropical fishes, or get into that fast speedboat 
 and shoot your enemies down at the shore. 
  
  Game play started great with good weapons, good sound and allot of realism, until.. I noticed 
 that in many cases I had to have a key card to open a door or use an elevator. This happened allot, 
 more then I wanted, it became a dull. 
  
  Also, the game began with great realistic enemies, but after a wile, this great game with one of 
 the best realistic looks ever started to became totally different then I expected. The beautiful 
 areas became dark cages and night missions with strange monsters who can kill you with 1 good strike. 
 Not that they cant be handled, but it was the last thing I was waiting for after such beauty and 
 realism. 
  
  If only Far Cry would have stayed realistic in this beautiful tropical scene with normal enemy 
 characters and a better story, it would still be on my hard drive. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbomzi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game so much, and I'm telling you this game is great!
  But the problem is the original version, therefore you have to install patch and the most popular 
 patch is v1.1! This game is a realy good training for peop le who are interested in shooting games. 
 It's related to CS so much, specially the keys. The good thing about this game is that you hve 
 to find the best paths to continue the game. As I said if you do not install the patch you are 
 going to have problems with bugs of the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wise_guyfhm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow.. just completed playing this marvelous technical accomplishment.
  FANATASTIC game and very hard but definately fun.
  this game got some of the hardest levels in 
 FPS history and never boring even couple very long but there is not a single moment when you feel 
 enough.
  This game offers according to me way more than what Half Life 2 gave us.
  means Half Life 2 was gr8 game but sometime you kinda get bored in between, atleast i do but this 
 one is hell of a ride.
  the characters have some look and feel , the jungle was amazing, the vehicles controls were difficult 
 but aint they FUN, mean you cant just go out wild in this game in foot have to be patient and mostly 
 lying down on ground but vehicles certainly changed the mood.
  just feel that the last stage was hell in the game means very difficult was very small but look 
 at those creatures how can one beat them even in easy mode.
  
  If you are FAN of FPS, or just like FPS or like simple gaming or just want to play good game NEVER 
 MISS THIS ONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  Far Cry comes out to be one of the best First Person Shooter gamesof the year. The game is very 
 well made. If you think normal mode is to easy, and hard is to hard, you can set the gameto adjust 
 to your level which makes it much more interesting. The game is action packed from the begining 
 to the end, and you must stay aware if you want to survive. Having the option of walking, driving, 
 or gliding also gives the game a good perspective, specially with all the great graphics it has. 
 The multiplayer mode is the best though. I have enjoyed it thoroughly. The only upset on it is 
 the need for at least 6 players Id say to get a good insight of the fun. But besides that, I love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callum_shand
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  this game is definately one of my favourite games. the includes brilliant graphics, great gameplay 
 and value for money, awesome visuals and a challenge into one game. you dont have to have a really 
 good pc to see the great visuals either! the only minor problems it has is that the character Jack 
 Carver sounds a bit lame when he talks because he sounds too mucho and manly for someone who has 
 come off a luxury yacht. the other problem is that towards the end, it begins to get a lot harder 
 than it was at the start, but if you have patience and skill to kill the mutants, then you'll be 
 fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  It's hard to describe just what it is that makes Far Cry such a great game, so I'll guess I'll 
 have to start with my own personal experiences. 
  
  I got this game for Christmas, and I knew it was from someone that didn't really know a lot about 
 the gaming world. They also forgot to take the price tag off. 
  
  The combination of a supposedly uninformed purchaser and a bargin bin price really made me leary 
 about the value of this game. Eventually I got around to installing it once all my other Christmas 
 games lost their glamour. 
  
  Turns out to be one of the most suprisingly good games I have played in my life. 
  
  I can't 
 really say anything more than all my other fellow reviewers have already said, so I will just say 
 this: I agreed, and you need to get this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Pros: The game is quite long, which is always a plus. There are cool vehicles and weapons 
 to keep you entertained. Sniping is very fun. Crawling through the jungle and ambushing enemies 
 is great.
  
  Gamepley Cons: The game is quite difficult, even on easy. You may be able to get very good an d 
 learn how to play the game, but you will still come across unfair sequences and enemies, but thats 
 what cheats are for. Also, i dont know if any one else encountered this but the tridgens could 
 still damgae you even if the ydidnt make contact (like if there on the other side of a fence.) 
 
  
  Graphics: the graphics are simply amazing, the draw distance is phenomanal, the world is beautiful 
 outside and in. The only bad things as far an graphics is some of the tridgens looked pretty 2-D 
 up close. Also some of the animations are mediocre.
  
  Sound: The sound is nothing special but nothing bad. Its pretty good overall. The only downside 
 to the sound is that during cinemas the people lipsync terribly.
  
  Value: I i said the game is long and its fun to play over and over. The multiplayer is nothing 
 specail until you get wild firefights and jeeps flying around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Having played all the major FPS games out there, I would have to say that Far Cry has the most realistic 
 and and satisfying game play. Maximum replay value does set it apart from the rest. Although it does 
 go linear in the last half of the levels it still pretty much adheres to the "2 F's", FUN and FLOW. Yes 
 it will automatically adjust player and opponent values during game play, (minimize splah damage, ignore 
 hits, even ignore the occasional head shot) , but you can still have a ton of fun. If you think it's 
 boring then walk up to a merc camp so you are seen and throw a rock or two at them and see how 
 boring it stays. The freaky part about this game is that most, or at least a significant amount of 
 the fun has been taken out of it, such as the red shirt (no blending with the natives here) , good 
 vehicles (very few roads or paths for them) , mini-gun placements in ineffective positions, ridiculous 
 scope drift and stamina, (a two pack a day smoker could run further) , the list goes on and I will 
 include all in my upcoming walkthrough or should I say, (expose') . However, for all of it's shortcomings 
 it is still the best game in town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhett3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was amazing. the graphics were superb everything looked so really you could 
 imagine yourself in the game. the game play was sweet too. unlike most first person shooters there 
 was more than one route to take. (except for parts in buildings but most is outdoors) in the long 
 run theres only one route they show you an island and its your next target attack it however you 
 choose i really liked the freedom it gave. really realistic as far as gameplay goes story line 
 was pretty far fetched but really good. parts got pretty scary (don't want to reveal anything --- 
 big monsters) a most have for pc gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvP-ClaN-ALIEN
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 12:45 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS 
  When I played Far Cry, the first thing that hit me was the graphics. Its superb. The distant spaces 
 are very good realised. We have real time shadows, and the water is the best one ive ever seen 
 in a PC game. (Even better than Half Life 2) . If you can afford to play this game on high detail 
 , you will be amased.
  
  SOUND
  The music in Far Cry is good. The voices are also cool. Try to listen 2 guards speaking to each 
 other. The dialogues are very funny. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  So much for good things about Far Cry. The game is clearly an arcade. No reality in Far Cry. The 
 main character is just a normal guy, the wrong man in the wrong place. He is not a special force 
 commando, he is not a mercenary, or a hired assasin, he is just a usual guy, who decided to have 
 a trip whit the boat. So i cant explain myself how can he fight all those men and all those creatures 
 with absolutely no help. I am starting to get tired of this ONE MAN ARMY concept. This John Craver 
 can endure lots of bullets and lots of damage, without wearing any protection. The health can be 
 restored compleatly, just by walking into a med kit. He can drive a vehicle and fire the atached 
 machine gun at the same time ( Amayzing isn't it?) . 
  But the thing that anoyed me the most was the mission when you are in a boat, that is about to 
 explode, and then you fight with a guy in a chopper. I think i fired 10 grenades with my grenade 
 launcher, and several rounds, i used up all of my amunition at all of the weapons ( yes John Craver 
 can cary many weapons) and i finaly make the chopper to retreat ! ! ! And i find out that the guy 
 i was shooting at for the last 30 minutes is not dead ! ! !
  Anyway i did to this game something that i didnt do to other popular games: I didnt finished it. 
 I just simply got anoyed at every 5 minutes. 
  
  STORYLINE
  As i said, i didnt finished it, but the story is interesting. But nothing original.
  
  Ive 
 expected more from thy Far Cry. Its not a bad game, for beginners it is a cool game , but for more 
 experienced players is just another FPS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most underrated, underappreciated shooters of 2004. And yet, it's one of the best 
 in my opinion.
  
  The gameplay is deep and pretty addicting. The huge environments make it a very non-linear game. The 
 eneemy A. I. is pretty impressive but sometimes it can be frustrating because they'll no your there 
 even if you make no noise.
  The weapons and vehicles are sweet but there's not much places to drive the ground vehicles.
 
  
  The graphics are outstanding. Best of any game in 2004 [and most in 2005] .
  You need a freakin powerful system to run it at highest quality.
  
  The sound is'nt very amazing. If 
 you listen in on the mercs conversations they often will say things that make no sense whatsoever 
 and sound really goofy.
  Besides that the weapons sound decent.
  
  FarCry is an awesome FPS, anyone who likes shooters should buy it. [20.00 in most places] , if you 
 have a fast enough comp to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazare
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay is very good. In this game you have a lot of weapons. This game have 20 long levels, first 
 five levels are only people then come monsters.
  You are only on the islands in this game : (.
  
  Graphic:
  
  Graphic are very good ( i play 
 this game on 800/600 and on medium) !!
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is good, but when man speaks is not very good.
  
  Value:
  
  This game is better than 
 of half life 2 and you must buy this game!!!!!!!!
  
  Tilt:
  
  Good gameplay, very good graphics, good sounds... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackPandemic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  For once a company has made a game in the most unlikely of places for a FPS, a tropical paradise. 
 
  
  I'll keep this review short and to the point.
  
  Graphics - Amazing with the addition of long range sight, the maps seem endless and the models 
 are excellently detailed as are the levels themselves. An amazing all around graphics package.
 
  Sound - This is alright, the music and sound effects were good but some attempts to "scare" the 
 player fell short and took away from the good gameplay.
  Gameplay - The perfect combination of run-'n'-gun and stealth. A great blend for the hardcore FPS 
 addict.
  
  Total Package - A great buy although I find the value after beating the single player portion to 
 be lacking. Definantly search for this game but don't expect too much from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvonsydow
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This is bar none the best in the FPS genre I have experienced. It combines stunning visuals with 
 extensive draw distance, an excellent soundtrack, an immersive and interesting plot, a new breed 
 of intelligent enemies, equally well-done stealth / action / teammate sequences, an engine that 
 draws indoor and outdoor environments equally well, and gameply that is challenging and fun.
  
  I haven't seen a game put together so well since Max Payne or Half Life. It combines so many 
 quality elements I can't help but play it over and over again. No two levels are quite the same, 
 and offer unique and innovative challenges. The vehicles are well done, and though easy to control, 
 feel real enough to put you in the driver's seat. The varying weapons and grenades you can collect 
 all have their tactical use, and only being able to carry four at a time makes me shed a tear every 
 time I have to let that sniper rifle go.
  
  The environments you battle in throuout this game are also unique and epic. A Japanese World War 
 II carrier, a treetop bridge system over a jungle infested with mutated apes, a sinking ship being 
 attacked by a helicopter, a huge domed labratory, and a research complex inside the crater of an 
 active volcano all make you feel like you're in a James Bond movie. All the while you are fighting 
 ruthless mercenaries and their genetic experiments. The villain and his head security chief are 
 memorable characters, and toy with the protagonist.
  
  This game is equal parts Island of Dr Moreau, James Bond, and Predator, and I must say it is an 
 excellent combo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I started up this game, not reading reviews, and when I started this up, it did look promising, 
 I seen couple vacationing, and I moaned Oh noooo, but when I started up, this game ended up being 
 AWESOME, it was wickedly good. gameplay was awesome, your enemies were pretty tough, strong AI. 
 a good sense of too, later on in the game you couldnt just run out in the open and shoot, you had 
 to plan where to go, hide behind objects etc. but what really won this game over for me.... THE 
 GRAPHICS, they were completely unbelievable, especially the environment. The surrounding were incredible, 
 some of the beach shots, and the jungle, like one you had to jump off a waterfall, looked so awesome! 
 and I have a bad graphic card, and I still loved it! I also liked the vehicles, like driving in 
 the buggy with the gun, it felt like Halo 2 and the humphee, but in Far Cry you can also shoot, 
 and flying through the jungle with a buggy shooting enemies was a unique and fun experience, Ive 
 never really played the multiplayer, but Ive seen it, and its just as good as the singleplayer 
 (if you can believe that!) so yes definately buy Far Cry, and now its like what? 20$ CAN at Walmart, 
 its awesome, great buy, GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apennismightier
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:24 am PT
Review:  Far Cry won me over with the stunning graphics, especially when they are all maxed out on an unbelievable 
 video card. I wasn't extremely impressed with the character models, but I've never seen water rendered 
 so beautifully in a game. I loved the fact that you could literally get lost in the levels. Gigantic 
 maps added that real feal that you were lost in a sea of jungle and trigents... Great game, great 
 story, can't wait for Instincts to be released on the PC, if ever.
  
  The only problem I had with the game was that regardless of your weapon, you could pick someone 
 off from 1000 yards away as long as the icon became red and you used controlled bursts of fire. 
 No real sense of realistic firing accuracy.
  
  Regardless, I find myself reloading this game time after to time and still enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casketfiller
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are stunning on medium to high setting.... if you have a rig to run it that high. This 
 game is one of the longest and most difficult games I've played in a long while. My advice is to 
 start with medium difficulty setting so you don't get frustrated and quit altogether. There's no 
 quick save option and you never know where the auto save will be. I would have liked to see some 
 hand to hand combat moves, but for the most part the action is steady and challenging. This ranks 
 right up there, but just behind Half-life 2 and SOF II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdojo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing FarCry and didn't really enjoy sneaking around. I left the game for about 
 3 weeks and came back to it (because I had nothing else to play) and really started to enjoy it. 
 The sneaking around puts enough of a twist on the FPS 'model' that it actually adds to the game 
 instead of just being annoying (which I thought at first) .
  
  The story line isn't the most in-depth one I've ever played, but is good enough to carry the game 
 and keep me interested.
  
  The only downfall to FarCry is the multiplayer. It is pretty sucky, but who cares..... I didn't 
 buy it for multiplayer anyways!!!
  
  If you don't have FarCry, do yourself a favor and go buy it!
  
  (Shoot, you can't get much 
 better than this for $20) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkraju
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. The first thing that astonished me after installing the game is the 
 amazingly clear graphics. The graphics are jst awesome. The gameplay is also very good. The forest 
 and all the other locations are excellently done and it is a shear pleasure to play this game. 
 The sound is also well done. I really liked the menu music on my creative sound blaster audio card. 
 The game extremely challenging, play it in toughest mode and the game will take incredibly long 
 time to finish as you will end up reloading the saved point several times as the enemy is too smart. 
 The setback that I had with this game is that it takes about 5 mins or more to load the game the 
 first time it is started on my Nvidia 6200 256 MB card which is surprising. Apart from this, the 
 game is truly amazing and a must have for all those who love action and FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackandWhite3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is set on a series of islands in the South Pacific, where you take control of Jack Carver, 
 a boat skipper with a mysterious past. Stroy starts with Jack dropping off a women near on of the 
 islands when his ship is destroyed by some mercenaries. He must now find his passager and uncover 
 the truth of the islands.
  
  On of the many great things you will notice is the graphics and how amzing the world looks. As 
 well as that the sound is just mindblowing but the one aspect that must be talk about is the AI. 
 The AI in this game isn't just "When I see you I will shoot at you" theme. It will use the jungle 
 to is advantage, This mean that you could be fight off two, three mercenaries but one has been 
 crawling up though the bush and then get you from behind. This gives them the advantage so you 
 must learn how to do the same, walking down the road and shooting everything that moves wont help 
 you here. You too must use the to sneak behind you threat and get them while there gaurd is down 
 or be fore they call for help.
  
  But there is a down side to the AI and thats that it notices you to esaily. This mean that you 
 will NEVER get a sneeky kill from behind. You good side of this it will give you the most intesnst 
 fighting of the game but he down side is that you will be given to many odds.
  
  Another flaw is the multiplayer. With only limited modes (Deathmatch, Team deathmatch and assult) 
 there is much to do. As well as that there are some blanceing issues such as it near impossible 
 to get out of the way of rockets and the play with the sniper WILL win the game. As well as that 
 the map are too big and you will spend most of the game looking for someone before getting killed 
 by the sniper. But all of this is forgivable because of the single player game.
  
  But with the slight AI flaws and awful multiplayer this is a great game that will join the PC shooting 
 elite with the "Doom", "Quake" and "Half Life" series. And if you love your shoters you will buy 
 this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  While I don't share the enthusiasm of Far Cry being the next Half-Life as claimed by some reviewers, 
 it does deserve recognition as an unknown developer surprising the whole gaming community. Far 
 Cry has huge expansive levels with lush vegetation and not many obvious barriers locking the player 
 in, giving a sense of freedom seldom found in virtually all video games. However, there are some 
 aspects of Far Cry that I really hated, and is the reason for the low score. It tries to be two 
 kinds of FPS at once; a run and gun Doom-esq shooter and a realistic tactical shooter, it sounds 
 interesting, but when you have to fight monsters that can kill you in one swipe, it gets very frustrating.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Far Cry is pretty much a classical shooter with 'realistic' elements, such as weapon capacities, 
 stamina, recoil, damage, recon equipment, stealth, etc. But you'll also be finding coloured keycards 
 for specific locks and are a one man army against an island full of mercenaries, mutated experiments 
 and incrementally tougher foes. Far Cry a run-of-the-mill shooter, through and through. Not that 
 it's a bad thing, but the parts I didn't like: the realistic damage system - you can be killed 
 very quickly and medpacks and (especially) armour is very sparse between mercenary outposts. A 
 lot of the time, you'll need to memorise where enemies are after they kill you so you can be better 
 prepared after loading the last save, which brings me onto my next major gripe: the saving system. 
 Why on Earth didn't they just give me my quicksave and be done with it? The saving system consists 
 of triggered save points along the way, but this can mean that you are unprepared when going through 
 one, eg: if you were all out of ammo and were reloading your weapons, you'll ned to reload them 
 all over again after loading, and if you forgot to pick up say, ammo or armour, you'll have to 
 do it again, not to mention repeating battles and journeys.
  
  My other complaint is the nannying factor, every button, wheel, vehicle or item you come across 
 gives a message saying "press the use key to use, enter, etc", way to kill the immersion by reminding 
 me to press my use key. Most games will only do this in the first level or a tutorial level, but 
 Far Cry does it from start to finish. Also, your path and tasks are literally given to you on a 
 platter, your radar displays an arrow and blip pinpointing where you need to go and even remembers 
 enemy positions and their alert status if you see them once with the binoculars.
  
  Now, I did previously mention that Far Cry felt non-linear, but underneath all that distant sea 
 is a very defind path that occasionally forks and meets, you can't really deviate off your path 
 much anyway before you meet a steep cliff and if you try to take a boat and head to the ocean, 
 Doyle will proptly warn you that they have radars and gunships, if you don't heed his warning, 
 a gunship will appear out of nowhere and shoot you dead in 2 seconds flat.
  
  Graphics:
  Pretty much the only selling point of the game, which almost masks Far Cry's other shortcomings. 
 It looks great even in the lower quality settings and runs relatively smooth on my craptastic P4 
 2.0GHz, 256MB RAM and a 9550SE. You can hit the screenshot button pretty much anywhere and have 
 a nice desktop wallpaper.
  
  Sound:
  The sound was done well, there are nice ambient sounds of a pacific island, but the voice acting 
 was poor and some of the weapons sounded bland and similar.
  
  Value:
  Far Cry was one of the longest games I've ever played and the multiplayer should also extend it's 
 installation life.
  
  Bottom line:
  If you hold graphics over gameplay and want to put your new beefy computer through it's paces, 
 then look no furthur because Far Cry would suit the bill perfectly, but if you're looking for a 
 consistently enjoyable game with a good storyline, and don't think graphics are everything, then 
 either steer clear of Far Cry or rummage in a bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaaskwast
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  Far cry is a fun game, and can be fun for a few hours, Though the computers AI was great, and the 
 levels very detailed, I had the feeling that the game missed something. The levels where fun but 
 have a little much all of the same. You would fight some new monsters and now and then you would 
 find a new gun, and altought the levels seemed variating, i thought it was a little much all of 
 the same. You are stuck on three levels fighting the same old monsters. With an occational human 
 unit that try's to hit you. But it all started just to bore me when I was playing a little longer. 
 
  
  Kaaskwast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the greatest first person shooters around. Period. I am not the greatest FPS 
 fan but I easely found my self getting deep into this game. It is just so much fun. Even on a slower 
 computer with a crap video card this games runs fast enough to enjoy it and even with all the graphics 
 goodies turned off it still looks good. However it is to be said that the game should have a somewhat 
 good graphics card to run well. (Geforce 5900 and up or a Radion 9600 or something along those 
 lines) Believe me that the game experence is much better off if you have the hardware to do it 
 right.
  
  However as I always say its not all good. The game can at times be very hard if your into the crazed 
 run and gun style of doom or half-life. You will get mowed down by some NPC in no time. However 
 this could be attributed to the idea that it is more of a thinking man's (or woman's) shooter requiring 
 planing before you run in guns a blazing. This however may kick the Learning curve up to an hour 
 or more, even if you learn the controls you wont experience anything requiring serious thought 
 until then. Although they aren't bad by any means the character models are looking a little old 
 when compared next to Doom 3 or Half-life 2. However with a insanely far draw distance you probably 
 won't notice unless you really are obsessed with every graphic detail.
  
  I like this game and give it two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  As I said earlier, this is a very difficult game. Picture playing Counter Strike. You only take 
 a few shots to die, right? Farcry is kinda like playing Counter Strike. You aren't some super powered 
 uber soldier with massive body armour.
  
  So, about the Graphics. Even though this game came out a year ago, the graphics still stack up 
 really well to Quake 4, HL2 and Doom 3. The effects in this game are top notch; the water, the 
 smoke and the lighting. Not to mention it uses shaders like no tomorow.
  
  http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v313/DUCKINGSWAN1/FarCry0002. jpg
  
  When you're playing the 
 game, you have what's called a stealth-o-meter. Basically what it means is as enemies spot you 
 the meter rises to let you know that you've blown your cover. Speaking of cover, the foliage in 
 this game is the best I've ever seen.
  
  http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v313/DUCKINGSWAN1/FarCry0006. jpg
  
  You can actually take 
 cover in it to hide from enemies and pick them off one by one. You can take the run and gun method 
 or the stealth aproach, and this game does both aspects perfectly. Basically what I'm saying is 
 you can play the next Splinter Cell, or just go ahead and play a Shooter where everyone gets pumped 
 full of lead.
  
  If You're reading about this game, you probably already know how great the A. I. is, so I'm not 
 gonna bother typing anything about it. Let's just say guys won't stand around when they're getting 
 sniped.
  
  And the price is just unbeatable. I got FarCry for only 25 dollars. That's one of the best deals 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  There's a crap load of stuff I could say about this game, but I'll say what matters. The graphics 
 are simply fantastic, the AI is challenging and realistic, and the freedom is very very very welcome. 
 
  The graphics alone easily balance out with anything seen in higher hyped games, and the AI is extremely 
 smart and cunning. Along with the vehicles, numerous weapons, story, and length this one of the 
 best games I've played in the longest time. I know a lot of people missed it because of Doom 3 
 and HL2, but this is definitly a winner. I'd love to see any game developers follow the path Crytek 
 took with this game, because it has a lot of elements that are worth noting. Trust me, you will 
 enjoy this game immensly! Go buy it and give it the play time it deserves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tron6691
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  Good -
  The graphics, the land scapes , the body physics , the graphics.
  Bad -
  Some gameplay, the cutscenes, the sounds.
  
  FarCry Review - 
  I first brought this game 
 when i got my first pc boy i had good times the games features are cool it lets you go any where 
 you like you can just swim for miles walk for miles, and the body physics are bloody cool.
  I really liked this game and its well worth your money, trust me if you own a good pc that can 
 handle doom 3 you gotta go this no lie..
  Any way the bad thing is online.. It sucks so much lag so much cheaters
  so much bad crap, But 
 it takes ages to complete so you will be playing it for ages before it goes back on the shelf..
 
  Any way i hope you like my review on this hell of a game and i hope this has encouraged you to 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gcf0413
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry has already been around for over a year, but no single player FPS has been released since 
 that can top it (no, not even Half-Life 2) . Crytek has really outdone themselves with this game; 
 between the game play, graphics, and AI, this game is simply fantastic. The Cryengine that is used 
 to power Far Cry is an amazing accomplishment and the lush environments that provide the background 
 for this paradise gone wrong are simply beautiful (even with the settings turned all the way down 
 it still looks great) . As for the game play I am almost at a loss for words, there's just so much 
 variety. I have played through this game 2 times and am now on my third play through and there 
 are some situations that have unfolded completely different every time. The AI is also worth mentioning. 
 It may not be perfect, as the enemies sometimes suffer apparent mental lapses and run directly 
 into gunfire, but they will also run for cover, flank, and even wave their arms to get their buddies 
 help from far away. All in all this is a game that should not be missed by anyone with a computer 
 that can run it and at $19.99 new this game is an absolute steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudFX9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 5, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game was quite interesting, you'd never expect the random plot twists that come along.... or 
 the tropical fun of killing mercenaries in the sun that suddenly morphs into a tropical island 
 filled with creatures that seem to pop out of Doom 3. So the game was actually really fun and the 
 graphics not bad at all... Though the trouble with AA on Nvidia cards was sort of a bummer, it was 
 all around quite nice. There were some glitches like all games, but people getting stuck in the 
 upright position after dying does get disturbing. The extreme difficulty of the game even on easy 
 was interesting as well... in any mode getting shot more than a few times was most often a death 
 knell. Especially the Trigens who refused to die, which I guess they have all the right to do, 
 because they were just born. The vehicles were also under a different set of laws concerning nature's 
 well known gravity, because they bounced like there was no tommorow. In addition their weapons 
 were quite dismal in the area of shooting radius, especially on the 4wd. Being shot while still 
 in a vehicle is quite comical since its hardly come along until now, it does start pissing you 
 off if you're used to the non-realistic but definite game cliche of vehicles being bulletproof. 
 The other aspects of the physics were also amusing as they did seem realistic seeing objects get 
 launched into the air after being blown to bits. However, it did seem quite impossible at times 
 when huge slabs of rock would go flying and land at the same place as an empty barrel. Overall, 
 even with its flaws it did live up to its hype and performed as realistically as a game with mutant 
 monkies going up against deadly mercenaries who all hate the guy in the red hawaiin shirt can perform. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I just finished playing this game at the medium setting. I found it to be quite enjoyable, 
 but not flawless. The physics modelling and weapons felt good. Explosions, gravity, dead enemies, 
 weapon accuracy and use; they were all good. The story relatively straight forward, I wasn't really 
 surprised by anything. That didn't bother me though. The AI was definitely a step up as far as 
 action games go, but I was not blown away. In outdoor areas, enemies tracked you if they saw you 
 and worked in groups. I could take out troops in camp's towers from far away and expect a recon 
 team to come after me. The AI didn't quite seem consistent though. Moving through indoor areas 
 seemed to cause problems for the enemy to track me. There were times when I could draw large groups 
 of enemies through a bottleneck and just pick them off one by one. All-in-all though, I thought 
 it was a good step forward in AI though. The other thing to mention are vehicles. The vehicles 
 were usefull for their firepower, but controlling them was a pain.
  
  Graphics: The graphics part of the engine was awesome. The view distances were great. The jungle 
 felt like jungle while moving through it. It was hard to see to far in front of you and you could 
 use it to your advantage. I really wish I had a better video card (GeForce 4) , but I had *no* problems 
 playing at 1024x768. People complain about indoors being too boring. I have no issue with the indoor 
 environments though. Laboratories, offices, and barracks are not all that exciting in real life 
 either.
  
  Sound: Sound was good. Explosions gave a deep base rumble and weapons effects were good. Voice 
 acting was average at best. Not bad, it didn't detract, but it wasn't great.
  
  Value, for $40 it's a pretty good deal. It took me a long time to make it through the game. The 
 AI was better than average and oh yeah, the game could get a little creepy when worrying about 
 being jumped by some less than human foes.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I gave an 8 for the tilt. I think it is an evolutionary step forward in gameplay. 
 Not huge, but decent. The story wasn't amazing and the AI got stupid every once in a while. I would 
 recommend this game if you like action FPS games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 23, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The first big game to fully harness the graphic potential of new pixel and vertex shader technolgies 
 on the new generation of graphic cards.
  
  Reflective water, an underwater world of corals, fish and swaying seaweed, and superb exoctic jungle 
 locations featuring complete undergrowth coverage and perfect real-time shadows of everything (even 
 the leaves on the trees) all combine to seduce the player with a visual feast. We are looking at 
 paradise.
  
  After twenty hours our so, when you've got into the single player game play, and have got used 
 to the fancy graphics, the fact remains that this is essentially a traditional first person shooter 
 that uses a level system and follows a linear structure, and has a pretty average plot.
  
  As you progress through the levels, you have to fight wave after wave of baddies and eventually 
 you wind up inside kind of Jurassic Park compound being attacked by series of increasingly powerful 
 and numerous monster mutant thingies.
  
  The AI is disturbing clever, however, and the single player is quite a challenge to complete. Unfortunately 
 a lot of it comes down to just sheer keyboard skill, which involves some swift mouse action and 
 hitting the keyboard repeatedly for hours on end. I perosnally got bored of this and did not bother 
 to complete it, but got hooked into the multiplayer instead. Multiplayer works well but due to 
 the nature of the game is pretty impersonal - you just drop in , stay for an hour or so, and then 
 leave, and again, lots of manic, frenzied killing, but good fun. Multiplayer allows you to choose 
 from several well designed maps and several multiplayer game types. Players can join and leave 
 games whenever they wish, and there's a lot of fun to be had if you're looking for far fetched 
 fun and quick thrills  la Quake III style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the most beautiful FPS games I've seen to date. The outdoor graphics are just 
 visually stunning and amazing to look at. I loved the look of the outdoor levels and the way the 
 looked so bright. I also enjoyed the mix if different environments and how you could go from swimming 
 in the water to hiding in the jungle. This is one of the first game to get jungle environments 
 right and make you actually feel like you are surrounded by foliage. The size of the levels was 
 also amazing. They gave you a lot of room to roam and a lot of different options when playing the 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is well done and exciting, but it is also tough as nails to play. In some ways it 
 is almost too tough. As much as I hate to admit it, I actually started over after playing several 
 levels on the middle setting because it got to where it was almost impossible. The bad guys were 
 too tough to kill. Even the easy setting was still a challenge. Challenging gameplay is good as 
 long as it stays fun and doesn't get irritating.
  
  The initial release of the game did't have an in game quick save, which was a huge mistake. If 
 there is one thing I can't stand, it is having to repeat levels again and again. Luckily, they 
 released a patch with a quicksave, but it still didn't work as smoothly as other games. The lack 
 of the quicksave is one of the biggest flaws of the game.
  
  Overall, I still enjoyed the game. It was great to look at and an exciting experience. I would 
 definitely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halvedlife
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a beautiful looking and great playing FPS. Visually it's a treat, eclipsed ony by the 
 more recent Doom 3 and Half Life 2. It still has the best looking water of any game even now. Its 
 a mission based shooter, but with entirely open gameplay. You can obtain your objective in a number 
 of different ways. 
  The enemy A. I. is by far the best of any shooter, don't believe the naysayers. Your opponents will 
 look everywhere for you, and theres dozens of great hiding spaces in the dense jungle landscapes. 
 On the realistic (most difficult) setting it can almost be TOO good. Even the slightest footstep 
 can alert them so learn to be stealthy.
  The story is the weakest part of the game, its rather corny but then again arent they all? 
  
 To sum it up, if you like a good mix of stealth and shooting with challenging opponents, nice visuals 
 and a long singe player campaign this is definately worth a pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesillycheez
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Imagine if you were minding your own business in some generic South Pacific archipelago when all-of-a-sudden, 
 hostile mercenaries blow up your yacht and leave you for dead on a jungle island. Sounds like fun, 
 huh? What would you do? Would you hide and try to escape? Would you turn yourself over to the mercs? 
 Would you end it right there and commit suicide? Ex-special forces Jack Carver chose to fight it 
 out and uncover the mystery.
  
  Back in early to mid 2004, there was a large debate over which game would be better: Half-Life 
 2 or Doom 3. Everyone knew that Doom 3 would be released in the summer, before Half-Life 2, so 
 Doom 3 had the initiative. But several months before Doom 3's scheduled release, an action game 
 came out of nowhere and blew everyone away. That game? Far Cry.
  
  Far Cry's plot is very simple and is actually reminiscent of multi-million dollar Hollywood action 
 films; put some muscular guys, a few beautiful women, and lots and lots of guns in a jungle and 
 throw in enough blood, gore, and language to make it rated "R." Far Cry is similar to these movies 
 in many respects but with one extremely large difference: this movie is 20 hours long and fun to 
 play, not just watch!
  
  Let us start with the skindeep appeal that all games these days must have: graphics. Far Cry's 
 graphics are on par with the best; this game will definitely help you show off your uber-rig. Though 
 it was released in March 2004 and subsequently is not optimized to fully take advantage of things 
 Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 can, Far Cry is no chump in the graphics department. The game runs smooth 
 and silky on the now-outdated ATI Radeon 9800 at max settings. 
  
  Now the gameplay. For the most part, the gameplay is run-of-the-mill run-and-gun, though not to 
 the extent of Doom 3. These enemies have actual AI and are damn smart, too. They'll flank, suppress, 
 maneuver, and take advantage of all the cover they have, as well as make you do the same.
  
  There are a wide selection of mostly generic weapons in the game, but there is a required strategy 
 to choosing them: you can only hold 4 weapons at a time. Which ones will you choose? Will you drop 
 the machete and hope you dont run out of ammo? Or will you pick up the sniper rifle, although you 
 only have 5 rounds for it? I found myself changing weapons frequently to suit my needs.
  
  There is also an excellent system for keeping tabs on your enemies: binoculars. When you sight 
 an enemy with the binocs, that enemy is added as a blip on your radar. You'll find yourself looking 
 through the binocs frequently to try to spot anyone camoflauged in the dense jungle.
  
  Which brings us to the environment. Most of the game's 20-or-so levels take place outdoors or are 
 set mostly outdoors with some indoor areas. The dense jungle becomes one of your greatest enemies 
 as you try to spot mercs before they spot you. The game has an 800-meter scaleable draw distance 
 and for the most part, if you can see it, you can go there. There are a set of claustrophobic indoor 
 environments reminiscent of Doom 3, with the rusted, steamy, industrial look used liberally. The 
 game holds up quite well and maintains all of it's graphical goodness, even in the massive outdoor 
 levels. Where Half-Life 2 looses a bit of graphical goodness in the outdoor sections, Far Cry was 
 designed to look good in every environment.
  
  If you're like me, you prefer to drive to work rather than walk several miles. Far Cry has you 
 covered. The large outdoor levels come equipped with enough armed vehicles to make your best movie 
 car chase fantasy come to life. The enemy will also use vehicles and they have a wider selection 
 at their disposal. You can only drive jeeps and boats. The enemy has total air supremacy with its 
 Black Hawk helicopters and Osprey transport craft. But don't fret. There are ways of taking them 
 out or avoiding them all together...
  
  The game sounds great. Every gun has a distinct sound and if you play Counter-Strike, you've likely 
 mastered the technique of knowing what weapon your enemy has before you even see him, just by the 
 sound it makes. The dialogue is well written and acted, though some of the generic merc phrases 
 get annoying after a while. Don't expect Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas or God of War here, folks. 
 It's tough, cheesy, and everything you know, love, and expect from a Hollywood action movie.
  
  The game's singleplayer campagin may be one of the greatest since the original Half-Life, but 
 its multiplayer is no Counter-Strike. There's no voice communication and the levels are massive 
 so there are plenty of snipers. If you buy this game, you're most likely buying it for the campaign.
 
  
  This game is great. It's full of enough action and just the right amount of stealth to please Unreal 
 Tournament and Tom Clancy fans alike. The story is there but not great and is sometimes just an 
 excuse to blow stuff up, not that I'm complaining! The controls are standard shooter WASD so even 
 the novice shooter fan can get into it. I love this game. My only problems are the lack of a decent 
 multiplayer and the difficulty. At Hard, the game is almost impossible and that's not even as high 
 as it goes! Medium will provide a challenge without being too brutal, just make sure to use those 
 binoculars!
  
  Bottom line: If you like shooters, you need to play this game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  At first this game doesn't look like much. Just another first-person shooter out there. Well I 
 decide to get this game and boy was I missing out. This game is just plain fun. It brought back 
 the old fun I had with good old shooters and the innovation they were back then. The environment 
 is amazing in how you use it to your advantage. What really got to me was when I was stalking my 
 enemies in the night through the jungle. The AI is actually something challenging. I guess they 
 have to be with a difficulty setting as realistic. They seem to know where you are ,but since you 
 shoot at them it gets there attention and they would have to be an idiot not to know where gun 
 fire is coming when you friend falls to the opposite direction of where they were shot from. Any 
 way this brings more of a challenge to the game which is good! A challenge can always be fun. The 
 amount of opportunities in this game are amazing. You could take the Rambo way and kill everything 
 with you running in like crazy, or take in a vehicle and run them over, or even take the stealthy 
 way in with your knife, and many other ways. This game has something for everyone. The story-line 
 isn't much that good ,but you aren't tortured by long cut-scenes. The longest cut-scene is around 
 1 minute. A great display of environments and great game-play will keep you going in this one. 
 The system requirements are a little steep ,but if you are able to run Doom 3 or Half-life 2 enough 
 to play them, then this game will run great. I highly recommend this game to anyone who is a first-person 
 shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry doesn't seem to have garnered the same media marketing hype as Doom 3 or Half-Life 2, yet 
 this first-person shooter from Crytek and Ubisoft easily fights toe-to-toe with those heavy hitters, 
 to deliver one hell of game experience.
  
  When I tried the demo, my jaw dropped. The tropical setting and cutting edge graphics engine combine 
 to create one of the most beautiful PC games ever released. If it weren't for the trigger happy 
 mercenaries and strange, vicious creatures, playing Far Cry would be akin to going on tropical 
 holiday.
  
  The full version certainly lives up the the demo's promise. I love the tense, slow pacing of each 
 sprawling outdoor and cramped indoor level. You can't run-and-gun and expect to prevail, let alone 
 survive. Methodical hunting of your target is the way to finish in one piece. Sniping and ambushing, 
 then running for your life to attack from another direction are the tactics that work in Far Cry. 
 I can't think of another game that presents solo combat this way. It can take hours to finish one 
 huge level, yet none of that time is wasted in boredom.
  
  I wish your character, Jack Carver, could carry more than four weapons, because the arsenal in 
 Fry Cry is excellent. Late in the game I had to make an "either-or" choice between an FN squad 
 automatic weapon (SAW machine gun) or OICW assault rifle (I didn't want to give up my Jackhammer 
 shotgun, sniper rifle or silenced sub-machine gun) . The OICW won, but I REALLY wanted that SAW 
 too.
  
  Another complaint is the game's limited, automatic save mechanic. There were some very tough battles 
 which could have been easier with a user-friendly quick-save feature.
  
  But don't let the game's difficulty deter you from buying Far Cry. In the years to come, you'll 
 want to return to Micronesia to kick ass again, and again. Far Cry is a first-class keeper in your 
 FPS collection.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo having seen one or two previews, and they all had good things to say about 
 it. And after playing the demo about 30 times over I understood why.
  
  There are a number of different methods and routes that you can take to accomplish your mission. 
 Want to go in guns blazing? Then off you go, and you can do so with a large armory at your disposal 
 (but you're only allowed to carry 4 weapons at time which adds to the game) . Perhaps you'd prefer 
 to sneak about and try taking out your enemies with your knife or try to avoid them? Then you can 
 also use that method (but it's just not as much fun) . Either way, it adds huge replayability to 
 the game.
  
  The enemy AI is very very in this game. They will group up on you and retreat for cover if under 
 fire, or will lean out from cover to shoot at you. On the more difficult settings they have a clinical 
 aim, and anyone who beats the game on the hardest level is one serious FPS gamer.
  
  The locations are a major plus in the game. Beautiful tropical islands are the main playing area, 
 and they do have to be seen to be believed. The graphics in the game are second to none. The islands, 
 the water, the enemy, the weapons, and the 'creatures' are all beautifully designed and modeled. 
 The missions where you are in caves or in enclosed areas are probably not as good as they could 
 be. Running around in a cave after experiencing the beauty of the 'outside' levels are a little 
 bit of a downer, but they are required as the game would be a little drawn out if there was nothing 
 but the levels on the islands.
  
  You get to drive jeeps, fly gliders, and also get to travel in speedboats. It would have been nice 
 to also be able to pilot one of the helicopters, but you can't have everything.
  
  The one area of the game that is a letdown is the storyline. While initially it is engaging, it 
 then takes a familiar spin and we're left with 'The Baddie' ending. Still, the games visuals and 
 game play mean that the plot doesn't really matter all that much, but a good story probably would 
 have made this the best FPS ever (yes, even better than Half-Life!) .
  
  Farcry is a game that is no to be missed by any gamer. It hits new highs in terms of graphics and 
 AI, and is a terrific experience. Like gaming? Then get Farcry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan87
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  First off, when Far Cry came out early last year it was easily the prettiest game on the block. 
 And it still stands up as one of the prettiest games out there. Alot of people were blown away 
 at how fun at the single-player campaign was and how "original" and "revolutionary" the gameplay 
 is. 
  
  I hate to say it, but everything Far Cry does has been done before in different games. The only 
 difference here is that Far Cry does it with some great A. I and simply repeats the process for 
 a 20+ hours.
  
  The game follows the exploits of Jack Carver. Your average action-hero set to save the world and 
 the girl, etc etc. B Grade movie stuff really. The plot is incredibly bad and so is the voice-acting 
 and everything else to do with the story. Except maybe some of the cutscenes. Anywho, the graphics 
 in this game are fantastic. When you first step outside and witness the massive landscape and all 
 the detail you'll be pretty impressed. I sure was when i fired up the demo for the first time. 
 
  
  The gameplay is that of your stealth-shooter stuff you find in games like Thief and No One Lives 
 Forever. Only in Far Cry the difficulty is ramped up to an incredibly hard state. The end of the 
 second level is perhaps one of the most ridiculously outnumbered and downright hard fights i've 
 hard in any FPS for a while, and for some thats a good thing. And it certainly was the first time 
 i played it. The only problem is that the rest of the game pretty much consists of these fights, 
 and after a good 20+ hours of that stuff the player can really begin to get bored out their skull. 
 I certainly did. It doesnt really help that A. I is also omniscent (E. g They can spot you in a jungle 
 from a mile away as your crawling on the ground, i'm not exaggerating either) which makes some 
 of the stealth aspects almost completely useless as at times there is almost no way you can avoid 
 detection. So take that as you may.
  
  It's also worth pointing out that one of the best aspects of the game is that it takes alot from 
 Half-Life when you get just about half-way through. Once you get fair into the game a third party 
 becomes involved and they begin warring against you and the mercenaries who control the island. 
 It makes for some great fun watching the A. I battle each other just like they did back in Half-Life 
 in '98. Only this time it involves better A. I, but unfortunately better A. I doesnt make it as intense 
 as Half-Life. Still you gotta admit its fun watching them take out each other as you just sit back 
 in a bush.
  
  The weapons in the game are great, and feature some really hi-tech and interesting weapons that 
 do alot of damage. You're only allowed to carry 4 weapons at a time, but the only weapons you really 
 need to complete the game are the Sniper Rifle, Bazooka, Silenced MP5 and the Shotgun. Which are 
 pretty much the same kinda thing you see in most games. Actually its almost identical to Operation 
 Flashpoint, which brings me to my next argument.
  
  This game is pretty much Operation Flashpoint in the jungle. Except substitute all the fantastically 
 tense moments from Operation Flashpoint, and swap them with mutant gorilla's and enemies that say 
 "I'm gonna get you mofo!". Far Cry is pretty much a B grade Operation Flashpoint except with better 
 graphics, and less memorable moments.
  
  In the end, this game is still pretty good. If you can get over the really really bad storyline 
 and the cheesy voice-acting, and if you're up to 20+ hours of sneaking around in bushes and hiding 
 from the all-seeing A. I in this game then you might have fun. Technically this is somewhat different 
 from your average FPS and yet it still isn't. Its a good challenge but it offers little variety 
 other then allowing you to go on a different route to get to the same objective. Nothing really 
 new, nothing really great, but something worthwhile if you're waiting for another big game to come 
 out.
  
  Rent it first, then buy it
  
  Pro's
  - Challenging
  - Very good length 
  - Good gameplay
  - Great A. I
  - Very good looking
  
  Con's
  - Incredibly bad storyline
 
  - Incredibly bad voice-acting
  - A. I is too sensitive and can hear you through walls even when they are talking to each other
 
  - Repetitive
  - Might be too hard for some.
  - Incredibly bad storyline (Really, its that bad) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dissipate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review:  2004 was claimed to be the year of the first person shooter and with so many notable first person 
 shooters scheduled for release it was desirable so. With the entire buzz around the two main big 
 names of Half Life 2 and Doom 3, Far Cry was the lesser-known underdog. An unknown German developer 
 Crytek developed Far Cry. Crytek came out the door first in 2004 and not only taking advantage 
 of new technology in video cards but also setting the standards for all first person shooters to 
 come out that year.
  
  In Far Cry you play the role of Jack Carver who has been hired to sail a woman around the Pacific 
 Ocean. Suddenly your ship becomes attacked and you are washed ashore on an island. The woman you 
 were hired to escort goes missing and its your job to find her and rescue her from a group of 
 mercenaries. In order to rescue the mysterious woman you will have to do battle, with not only 
 mercenaries but something far more terrifying, in the lush tropical environment of the island, 
 and dark corridors of research facilities.
  
  Graphically Far Cry was one of the best, if not the best, looking game at its release. It took 
 advantage of many of the new features graphic card companies integrated into their latest cards. 
 What really makes Far Cry stand out is the lush jungle setting. The foliage is dense and comprised 
 of grass, small plants, and trees. It not only serves as eye candy but plays a role in the gameplay 
 as well. The foliage can provide an excellent way to move around undetected, or lose an enemy in 
 a battle. The character models are also top notch with excellent detail and fluid animation. One 
 of the new features that the latest video cards allow for is real time lightning. You will be able 
 to see the shadows cast by trees, buildings, and characters all in real time. Other nice touches 
 are the effects of a rocket exploding near you, and the heat waves that distort your view. Much 
 like what Call of Duty did when a grenade explodes neat to you, Far Cry has its own twist. These 
 details help to become immersed in the world of Far Cry. 
  
  Far Cry just doesnt rely on its graphics; it also boasts some of the most impressive AI I have 
 ever seen. The mercenaries you will encounter will take cover, and move from one point to another 
 while shooting at you. As I have mentioned before, the environment can be used to your advantage. 
 Instead of going balls out and runs a blazing you can use the dense foliage to sneak up on your 
 enemies and take them out. However the foliage can be a disadvantage at times. The foliage can 
 make it extremely difficult to see and you may lose an enemy who may end up right on top of you. 
 The mercenaries as well as the other enemies you will encounter during your journey have sharp 
 hearing. The AI can and will pick up even the slightest sounds and if they do they will go on high 
 alert. Noise can play a significant part in gun battles and you can use noise to your advantage 
 by throwing a rock to distract your enemies.
  
  Sound just doesnt a part in gameplay but also helps to immerse you into the game. While making 
 your through the outdoor environments you will hear birds chirp, as well as helicopters overhead. 
 You are also given the option on eavesdropping on mercenaries by using your binoculars. These conversations 
 are a fun addition. The mercenaries talk about a wide array of subjects. You will hear them talk 
 about why they are there, what is going on, what they are worried them. Those conversations, like 
 those in the cut scenes are corny and over the top, much in the same way as the story. The problem 
 with this is that it takes itself seriously while at the same time being horribly clich. In the 
 indoor environments you will hear eerie, disturbing sounds from up ahead. 
  
  You wont just travel by foot as you make your way through the game; there will be a variety of 
 vehicles at your disposal, which will include jeeps and boats. Each will be fitted with hardware 
 that will mow down your enemies. Mini-guns are usually the choice weapon but at times jeeps and 
 boats will also have a rocket launcher. The jeeps provide some fantastic moments in Far Cry though 
 you wont use them all that often. Another vehicle you will come across and an unusual one at that 
 is the hang glider. These however are not the best way to make your way across the island because 
 they are susceptible to black hawk helicopters. 
  
  Vehicle use is sparingly throughout most of Far Cry so you wont be able to rely on the their firepower. 
 You will be able to carry a max of four weapons at a time and you can carry any four weapons. With 
 this system you will have to decide what weapons will suit you best as well as the amount of ammo 
 for each. You will have the chance to use a wide arrange of weapons which include the M4, MP5, 
 P90, sniper rifle, and rocket launcher. Many of these weapons also have a secondary fire that can 
 be useful in certain situations. Each weapon is unique in the way that they handle and requires 
 the player to take a little time to familiarize with each.
  
  Far Cry is broken up into 20 levels. Each only requires one loading time prior to the start of 
 the level. After that there are no breaks in the action. Far Cry incorporates the autosave system. 
 At specific times during each level the game will save your data. If you happen to die you will 
 start from the last autosave spot. This isnt too bad considering the autosaves are usually evenly 
 spaced out but can become a nuisance at times. Im not positive but the developers may have released 
 a patch, which allows the user to quick save at any time.
  
  Far Cry doesnt give you the exact amount you have played the game is it is hard to give the specific 
 length of the game but it will take you roughly 20 hours to beat the single player campaign. Thats 
 not all that Far Cry offers though. Its multiplayer though not as strong as the single player can 
 be fun. It offers three different modes with a limited number of maps.
  
  Far Cry is a horribly clich action adventure but it still has much to offer. With fun, action 
 oriented gameplay, amazing AI, and stunning graphics Far Cry help set the standard for many upcoming 
 first person shooters. Overall its a solid game that fans of the genre will enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  Well this game is kind of surprising. You are thinking that you're in Paradise but that's a real 
 funny thougt. You're not far from Hell. In the beginning it's quite cool and easy with a lot of 
 fun but after a while with all the naty Trigens around it's a lot more demanding of your skills 
 and nervs. 
  The graphics are splendid and the sound addictive. You're lucky that there's a lot of places where 
 you can hide and reload because the enemies are mean and villain. Your triggerfinger must always 
 ready and your eyes open. Special pieled when you're indoor.
  Good story but there is one mischief. Valerie does not doing much in some levels. You're really 
 better on your own, don't forget that at all!!!
  VERY WORTH PLAYING!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxup
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Amongst all the first person shooters of 2004 one could be forgiven for missing a game developed 
 by a relatively unknown German developer Crytek. Yet in doing so youd also miss one of the best 
 single player experience in the last 6 years of FPS gaming.
  
  In Far Cry you play as Jack Carver, a charter boat captain who is hired to sail a woman around 
 some mysterious islands. After approaching one of the islands the boat is attacked and you're separated 
 from your attractive customer, or at least that is what the opening video seems to indicate.
  
  The game wastes no time throwing you right into the action dumping you on an island with an 
 abnormally high population of well-armed mercenaries, and a Island of Doctor Moreau theme that 
 wasn't contrived by the local Jaycees.
  
  Like most FPS the plot in Far Cry often takes a back seat to the gaming. While many FPS seem to 
 struggle to tell a story that often interrupts the action that the gamer wishes to partake in, 
 Far Cry seems resigned to let the plot develop like a B grade action movie. The result is a story 
 that seems like it s certainly is light on content, but also doesn't get in your way.
  
  Even with a low content story Far Crys story does stand out in some ways. With the FPS genera 
 currently dominated by WWII, Space/Alien, and related shooter games, Far Cry (even with its monsters) 
 sets its self apart with a unique jungle island setting that seems like it will remain a unique 
 experience for quite some time.
  
  The AI and jungle setting in Far Cry present the gamer with some unique challenges. While the AI 
 isn't the revolutionary AI noted on the box, it is a much more aware and realistic AI compared 
 to other games. Typical FPS rules say that in most such games once you're close to the enemy undetected 
 you can just pop up, rush the enemy or group of enemies, and gun them down with little or no damage. 
 Such rules don't apply in Far Cry. 
  
  The enemy AI's seems to respond just as fast to sound as they do sight, and they can be quite good 
 shots. You're unlikely to be very successful if you to sneak right up to the shoelaces of your 
 opponent and engage him from there. Youll probably be spotted before you get that close, and even 
 if you manage take out your initial target you better find cover fast as other opponents will likely 
 take exception to your actions and will fire on you as quickly as you can fire on them.
  
  This more aware AI will likely require many FPS gamers to adjust their tactics more than they might 
 otherwise do so for a new FPS. Personally I found myself treating the AI more like a person than 
 I usually do for such games, and was surprised when the enemy would provide their maneuvering allies 
 (who are often trying to flank you) with covering fire from behind cover and even will fire into 
 your general area if they think a threat is near but can't quite see you. Rather than just rush 
 opponents one after another you'll want to plan the best way to approach your enemy and try not 
 to be exposed to too many opponents at once.
  
  Tactics such as sniping a few of the enemy with the sniper rifle before approaching always helps, 
 but most of all scouting your enemy position, picking a good spot to engage the enemy from and 
 them employing hit and run guerrilla style tactics is the best way to go. This is epically true 
 when the island mercenaries have finally had enough of you and start deploying helicopters.
  
  A hyper aware AI, the challenges of jungle warfare and harassing helicopters could make for 
 an exceptionally difficult and frustrating game. However, Far Cry does a good job providing you 
 tools and weapons along the way to combat various challenges you'll encounter. One of the most 
 useful tools is your feature laden binoculars. Just as normal binoculars they're quite useful with 
 a great zoom feature in the game allowing you to scout what is ahead.
  
  In fact the binoculars (and weapons with scopes) can see quite far in Far Cry providing you with 
 an incredibly long distance view of a fully rendered game. The developer claims that the game has 
 an astounding 1.2 kilometers draw distance, and after using the binoculars I see no reason to dispute 
 it. Even more impressive is that, with the exception of one or two incidents, the binoculars and 
 sniper scope zoom quickly with no performance impact.
  
  On top of a zoom feature the binoculars also have two extra features. One being a microphone that 
 can pickup sound at even the farthest reach of the binoculars zoom, and inexplicably even through 
 some walls. This can be helpful in identifying what if any enemies are in the area and also interjects 
 some humor as you can listen in on some interesting mercenary conversations.
  
  The last feature is the most helpful. As the game informs you everyone on the island is fitted 
 with a identification chip. When the binoculars pickup someone in their field of view it puts a 
 handy bracket around them, and adds them to a radar screen on your HUD. The radar screen is in 
 the lower right of your screen at all times and on top of indicating the location of your opponents, 
 and it also gives a you an indicator of how alert they are of your presence.
  
  While the binoculars might sound a bit unbalancing, they're not. Without them the AI would be overpowering 
 and the game would likely boil down to trial and error as you memorize the location of each enemy 
 and guess their moves. Also you're certainly not going to find everyone with the tools at your 
 disposal and there is always the threat of a surprise waiting behind the next tree (and there are 
 plenty of them) .
  
  Another tool used later in the game are a pair of goggles that use something called CryVision, 
 a version of night vision that turns the entire game black and white except for illuminating the 
 heat signature of your enemies, Mysteriously / conveniently it does not illuminate heat from vehicles 
 or explosions. CryVision, like the binoculars, does a great job of helping out when the enemy opposition 
 starts to turn up the pressure, and when you're involved in more night and poorly lit building 
 engagements.
  
  The weapons in Far Cry are nicely varied, with a pistol, a sniper rifle, rocket launcher, and several 
 versions of sub machine guns and assault rifles that you will find as you progress through the 
 game. As you can carry only four weapons at any one time, you'll need to regularly choose what 
 you want to carry and discard. Fortunately, even after dumping a weapon you hang onto the ammo 
 so if you find another later and want to swap it's no problem. The varied weapons serve well to 
 keep the game fresh as you play through a lengthy single player game of 20 to 25 hours. 
  
  Value of a long single player game is augmented by the fact that the game has a lot of replay value 
 due to the games most unique and probably most impressive achievement, the huge environment you 
 play in. The game takes place some on massive islands. While there are roads and a compass that 
 keep you from getting lost, the exact path you take from the start to the end of the level is entirely 
 up to you. When replaying you can often find areas of the islands, and opponents you never knew 
 existed. 
  
  There are no artificial walls to prevent you from doing what you want and can find yourself enjoying 
 exploring as much as engaging the enemy. The level design is truly outstanding and combined with 
 an AI who's not afraid to chase after you all over the island you'll likely find yourself in firefights 
 in new locations each time you play. This freedom and unexpended encounters with the enemy makes 
 for a immersive experience the second and even third time around.
  
  Of course you don't have to walk around the islands. Vehicles such boats, 4x4s, and even a very 
 fun hang glider are available to you. As you can imagine a vehicle such as a boat or 4x4 makes 
 a fair amount of nose, and while the mounted machine guns and even rocket launchers are handy, 
 they do attract a fair amount of attention. Vehicle combat is only a small portion of the game 
 considering driving is limited to the roads and beaches (as the jungle is thick with trees) there 
 will certainly be times you elect not to drive right up to the enemy's front door. In fact most 
 players will probably elect to limit themselves to just use of the boats and hang glider as the 
 4x4 vehicle can be a bit tricky to drive.
  
  Far Cry also features a checkpoint system where the game auto saves your progress as you pass various 
 points through the game, eliminating the need for you to remember (and inevitably forget) to save 
 your progress as you go. This is particularly handy for a game as intense as Far Cry can be. Those 
 fond of manual saves can still do so after installing patch provided by the developer.
  
  
  If there is a catch to all this fun it is that Far Cry takes a fairly powerful system to run. 
 While certainly you can run it on the lower end of the games settings you may find some performance 
 issues when zooming with the binoculars / sniper rifles, but the issues don't last much longer 
 than when your zoomed and most of the time shouldn't prevent you from landing a good shot.
  
  If you happen to be able to run Far Cry on a higher end system, the payoff is an outstanding 
 graphical experience. The shadows falling around you are incredibly realistically, and trees, bushes, 
 and grass on the ground sway gracefully in the wind. While there are impressive screen shots of 
 the game available, nothing matches seeing the game in action as many of touches are best seen 
 in action.
  
  On top of the system requirements a few other complaints can be made. One that the multi player 
 aspect of the game has some issues, first that the number of players allowed on a multiplayer is 
 fairly low (16 players) considering the massive size of the multiplayer maps, toping that issue 
 off is that some weapons such as the sniper rifle and rocket launcher are awfully unbalancing. 
 
  
  A second issue would be that the story isn't all that enthralling and perhaps doesn't provide the 
 most exciting of endings. However, if you take the B movie theme in account a grand ending might 
 have seemed a bit out of place, and in the end Far Crys story certainly isnt the focus of the 
 game anyway.
  
  The third issue is that the last couple levels are awfully difficult. The game's overall level 
 design provides tons of variety and fun, so it's odd how the last few levels feel like you're just 
 having gobs of enemies thrown at you just for the sake of increasing the difficulty rather than 
 begin provided a more tactical challenge. Fortunately, it is possible to prevail and considering 
 the size of the other levels and the length of the game it is only a small issue. While all these 
 complaints are valid, few impact the game in any large way. 
  
  In the end Far Cry provides an outstanding FPS experience, with massive environments to explore, 
 a challenging AI, and top of the line graphics Far Cry shouldn't be missed by FPS fans or even 
 those with just a passing interest in the genera.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying, this game looks good and sounds better. Far Cry really is a good game 
 in most ways. Smart AI (maybe too smart) , sounds that are absolutely perfect, impressive visuals... did 
 I mention that the sound is perfect?
  
  The graphics look great, with little to nothing in the way of bugs. The scenery is very believable 
 as a tropical island, with cool trees, lots of water and really nifty looking beaches. Also, you 
 will see a lot of neat WWII era wreckage about the islands. And the outside viewing distance is 
 just insane, you can see for miles it seems.... and pick off opponents at that distance too, if 
 you have the right weapons. No lag on my mid to high end machine, and good looks.
  
  The sound is just amazing... you can hear everything as you should. Mercs and such talking, footsteps, 
 explosions... you name it. Gunshots are very clear and crisp, and sound with authority. Motors 
 and engines doppler just like in the real world. Overall, I'd rate the sound as being the best 
 I've ever experienced in a PC game, bar none.
  
  The enemy AI are not dumb, they react to you. You pick off an enemy at a half mile range, his friends 
 will come looking for you... in a pack. And they can use that viewing distance mentioned earlier 
 against you as well, so expect to need to use stealth to get close or you'll be picked off at long 
 range by a particularly observant enemy soldier.
  
  In fact, the only weakness I've found in the game is the save function... namely there isn't any 
 that I can find. Far Cry uses a checkpoint system, such as one might expect on console games. Frankly, 
 this kills a lot of my enjoyment of the game, as I really hate checkpoint systems for saving. Inevitably, 
 I find myself retracing the same steps again and again and again... and again.... and again... 
 yadda yadda yadda. I despise that. If I had known that the game employed a checkpoint system, I 
 would not have purchased it at any price, I don't need the frustration and I swore after Project 
 IGI that I would never again by a game without a save function.
  
  Good game, very difficult, no saving. You makes your choices, you takes your chances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20599112981964978934275029017416-MaxTheriumJnr23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  The visuals are the games strongest point but backed up well in all the other departments.
  I got this game hoping that my system requirements would be sufficient. Happily it was, and I was 
 immediately immersed by it's awesome visuals. The game in my opinion caters for the hardcore FPS 
 gamer, reason being it may have a tendency to frustrate your casual type player from the outset.
 
  Visually it's a sight for sore eyes, so it may be demanding in regards to your running computer 
 specifications, so you might have to get an upgrade. I was amazed by what the developer Crytek 
 had achieved. Far Cry boasts cutting-edge technology and a heap of great visuals, and also has 
 an open map where you can roam around practically anywhere, far better than some of your standard 
 FPS games where you are designated to go through a particular path.
  Far Cry has 20 levels, with each level a large world of it's own that you can spend ages exploring 
 the surroundings.
  Far Cry is a tactical FPS set on a series of tropical islands. It has real-world weapons and physics 
 so you can't take to many bullets into you before you perish, so you need to be a strategist. In 
 the game you play as Jack Carver, a former Ocean Patrol who get's thrust into an uncharted island 
 where he discovers some disturbing events occurring, and not long after that he finds himself fighting 
 for his life.
  The island levels are designed intricately with multiple routes from one point to another, you'd 
 probably get lost if it was not for your compass which points you to your next objective, and you 
 also have a radar which helps track your enemy. I like the binoculars which have multiple zooms 
 and are able to highlight and listen in on your enemies.
  Once you get the hang of things, you'll be impressed with the AI of the enemy, you'll have your 
 enemy sounding alarms, notifying friends for help, they will charge at you and they will even get 
 in vehicles and chase you down. Basically the AI is excellent in my opinion and provides real tension 
 and great combat.
  Once again from a visual perspective it is spectacular, the sky takes your breath away, jungles 
 are awesome, the water effect is sublime, the weapons are detailed and the ragdoll physics are 
 revolutionary. Pure eye candy. I think someone posted that Far Cry is Developer Crytek's first 
 game. Not bad, Hey.
  Graphically the game is astonishing, so with that comes high system requirements. I have an Intel 
 Pentium 4 3.2 Ghz with 1 GB of Ram and an nVidia GeForce 6800 GT video card which runs fairly smoothly 
 at 1280x1024. I have used an ATI 9800 Pro with these specs and it works pretty good as well. So 
 I would recommend something similar to play it at this resolution with high end settings.
  There are some great pros for the game. A great graphics engine which produces some breathtaking 
 visuals with great AI and combat sequences. The cons of this game are that it can be frustrating 
 having to trial & error. High system requirements and can be tough controlling the jeep.
  Publisher: Ubisoft 
  Genre: FPS
  ESRB: Mature
  Developer: Crytek Studios 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morpheus09110
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  To start things off let me just say, this is one of the best looking first person shooters out 
 there. The environment just screams "lay down on the beach and stare in awe". While you stare though 
 you see something in the distance... it's a big burly man with a SMG. This is when things become 
 interesting. 
  
  As long as you don't rush into this game, guns blazing, it's pretty easy to take out the enemies. 
 Even though you just want to pull out your RPG and take them out, it's usually best to take the 
 path less traveled by.
  
  The only real annoyance for me is, the only way they make things harder as the game goes along 
 is they throw more big burly men at you... oh well, just gives you the excuse to pull out the big 
 guns ;) ... I know I said you shouldn't go in guns blazing. But I usually don't have the patience 
 for that either. 
  
  If you like FPS then you need to get your hans on this one. You wont be wasting your money.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  As of today I am rewriting this review. After playing Far Cry again, I remember why I stopped playing 
 it in the first place. 
  
  To begin with, The gameplay is completely.. forget it.
  Its pointless when you get so far into this game, you beat back the Trigen, you beat back the Mercs, 
 the bosses, everything, and you die from a freakin exploding airtank thats not even far away enough 
 to let you feel the wind from it. Its completely and utterly ridiculous. You dont have to fear 
 the Trigen, you have to fear the exploding AIR TANKS around you. The environmental hazards are 
 just fscking... FSCK. You die instantly from a broken gas line, a gas line. Not exploding, but 
 the gas itself. Its not nerve gas, its probably cooking gas. Sorry, Jack Carver is a sissy if you 
 ask me.
  
  The graphics are screwed. The only thing remarkable about the graphics is the water. Thats it. 
 Even then, your on a tropical island. Where the hell are the waves? The land graphics are blurry 
 until you get closer to them. The sky doesnt even move. The cutscenes look like theyre still in 
 wire frame mode. The level design is broken. You can get stuck on things that arent even there, 
 or things that are there, but are mapped wrongly so you get stuck on an edge thats not even an 
 edge. Places where you THINK you can go, you cant.
  
  The voice acting, terrible. It sounds like these two-bit actors should try another career path. 
 The gun sounds, nowhere near their real world counterparts. An MP5 is supposed to sound loud, I 
 dont think they make muzzles for MP5s either. The environment sounds, repetitive. That is, unless 
 you want to go ahead and end it by throwing yourself off that high cliff.
  
  Ive even tried using the cheatcodes to beat this game. And you know what? Theyre worthless. They 
 dont work. The codes at Gamespot, **** cheatvault, 1up, anywhere: they dont work. 
  
  Im tired of this game. Im uninstalling it right now. Its a good concept, really it is. But the 
 developers obviously didnt feel the need to put a REAL OUNCE of realism in a "realistic" shooter 
 like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machockey
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  Far Cry, considering when it was released to public and the time of this review the game still 
 looks simply phenominal. Amazingly, this game pushes my gaming rig: 3.4GHz EE cpu, X800XT PE, OCZ 
 PC3200 Platinum Rev. 2 to its limits. When I max out all special effects and crank up the resolution 
 to 1920x1080 with 4xAA and 8xAF, the game really starts chugging. Graphically, this game rocks, 
 if you've got a great gaming rig you'll really be treated to something special. 
  
  The gameplay is also a superb, not quite as great as the graphics, but not many games do look as 
 good as this one. It is hard, sometimes very hard, without a quick save option, sometimes, later 
 levels can become tediously difficult. But the great gameplay will get you to return and beat the 
 part that's beaten you. The A. I. is also worth mentioning, in a nut shell, it's fantastic. Guards 
 will convincingly stock you, hunt you, and seek you out if you make too much noise or fire a shot 
 that they hear. 
  
  The game also sounds great, really atmospheric sound that helps bring tension to already intence 
 situation.
  
  Value-long, really, really long. The campaign will easily take you 20-25 hours. Plus, the online 
 play is great, check it out.
  
  A superb game, deserving of its superb rating. Buy this game, it's only $20.00!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcnairy99
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2005 4:50 am PT
Review:  First of all, Far Cry should have won every award out there. Games like Half Life 2, and Doom 3 
 received all of the hype but Far Cry was better than both. The game has 20 very intense levels. 
 It is far more than a shoot 'em up, because you need to plan your advances. It's also pretty tough, 
 but that is what makes it so rewarding. It takes a while to master the weapons, vehicles, and nuances 
 of the game, but once you do, it is awesome. I became immersed into the game almost from the first 
 level on. Stealth is very important in this game. You can lie prone, or crouch and turn on your 
 night vision goggles, and pick off the enemy from a great distance, and he won't know what hit 
 him. The outdoor environments are the best I have seen to date. With a high end graphics card, 
 you can see about a mile. The tension is incredible. 
  Most games have at least one flaw in them, but I can say that Far Cry is flawless. It was also 
 bug free. The only slight complaint I had was that it did not have a quick save option, but you 
 can fine a code on the Net that allows you to quick save. The game has several preset save points 
 for each level, but that can be very frustrating if you just spent 45 minutes to an hour progressing 
 through, and you get killed. 
  In conclusion, if you loved Half Life 1 & 2, Deus Ex 1, or any first person shooter with a good 
 story, great action, and stealth elements, then do yourself a favor and go out and buy a copy of 
 this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  Where did this game come from? With the hype of Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 on the horizon, this game 
 came out of nowhere! The graphics sucked me in, and the game play wouldn't let me go until I collapsed 
 from exhaustion. The graphics are jaw dropping. The enemy AI is spooky! I mean what other game 
 has the enemy laying down suppressing fire while they are flanking you? The first time, no the 
 first several times, the AI did this to me caught me by complete surprise. The variety of weapons 
 and vehicles add to the game. Mods and maps posted on the internet keep the game fresh and add 
 to your enjoyment. EVERYONE that I have recommended this game to has come back and told me that 
 it was the best FPS they have ever played. I admit I got the most pleasure out of converting a 
 die hard Halo fan. Best FPS I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a game I was not aware of until I saw it in an EB Games store. I looked at the back 
 of the box and thought it looked cool. I couldn't have been more right. Far Cry is an amazing game. 
 The visuals are the games strongest point. In a word, breathtaking. Lush jungles, intimidating 
 mercenaries, big guns, blood, birds and bugs will fly by you, the trees and grass will sway in 
 the wind, water reflects the world, and the sun shines brilliantly on the Japanese islands. It's 
 simply stunning. One of my favorite aspects of the graphics is how far you can see! It's great! 
 The game also has great AI. Enemies will work together to flank you, they will take cover, and 
 use vehicles. The physics are good too. My only problem is that the bodies are too heavy. When 
 you kill a man he slams to the ground like he's carrying a bunch of cinder blocks. Otherwise it's 
 great. The open areas let you explore to your heart's content. My only criticism is the difficulty. 
 This is the hardest game I have ever played in my life. Towards the end of the game the enemies 
 carry so much armor and such big, powerful guns it's almost impossible. The number of times I died 
 is in the thousands (not really, but I did die a lot) . Between fighting giant monkey freaks with 
 rocket launchers and expertly trained mercenaries I swore so much it made Scarface wince. That's 
 a hell of a lot. Other than the difficulty, Far Cry is an incredible game that you will not be 
 able to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  FarCry is simply an excellent game. No, the concept isn't new. Yes, it seems to lift conveniently 
 from at least a few popular science fiction stories and Twilight Zone episodes. Yes, the storyline 
 is somewhat predictable (but not as much as you'd think) . And yes, the door is wide open for FarCry 
 2. With all of that said, it remains an incredibly entertaining game.
  
  Perhaps its greatest drawback is the limited and less than creative application of vehicles in 
 the game. With the possible exception of one stage (during which you arent driving) , the vehicles 
 are a waste of time though fun to drive and equipped with large weapons. Granted, that isnt much 
 of a drawback and that is among the reasons the game is so great.
  
  The visual setting is alarmingly deep while maintaining a comic book feel at some levels. The game 
 is thoroughly immersive  and something always seems to be changing. Toward the end of the game, 
 there seem to be some carrot-and-stick components but altogether this is a truly awesome game with 
 excellent graphics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JN_Fenrir
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the most disappointing games ever. On one hand, its presentation is amazing. 
 The graphics are nothing short of gorgeous, the levels are big and bold, and it does not let down 
 in the length category. However, it's also a game that's marred by some absurd enemy AI and an 
 overall lack of creativity, as well as being outrageously overhyped. The comparisons to Half-Life 
 are a travesty and borderline heresy.
  
  The reason for the hype is the graphics, which are indeed nothing short of amazing. If you go for 
 games with graphics, Far Cry will be right up your alley. The outdoor environments, though relying 
 mainly upon a handful of slick plug-in rendering tricks, do look fantastic. The eye is given a 
 treat indoors as well, and in my opinion, these portions look better than Doom 3.
  
  But beyond the visuals, the game falls flat. It presents itself as a very open game, when in fact, 
 it really isn't. Sure, you could enter that base from the obvious direction, but it really wouldn't 
 be a good idea. The game attempts to create the illusion of choice by channelling the player into 
 paths that go around the threat, and even then, one you piss off one guard, the rest of them are 
 going to hone in on you immediately anyway.
  
  The "groundbreaking AI" is actually Far Cry's greatest defficiency. The AI is certainly cunning, 
 but is also so overwhelmingly difficult that it seems unrealistic. Firing upon enemies across a 
 river from under the concealment of a bush will find you in their crosshairs quicker than you can 
 say "headshot". Often, in jungle firefights, you'll find yourself turning around for a split second, 
 only to turn back and discover an enemy that has magically appeared behind your location. These 
 sorts of AI annoyances make Far Cry frustratingly difficult, and do not make for a fun experience.
 
  
  As stated, the game has an awesome presentation that lives up to the best action movies. But when 
 it comes down to the bread and butter, all you get is something that's painfully tough to chew, 
 and doesn't do much to distinguish itself from other breads, aside from being a very large slice. 
 It's the perfect title for anyone who's easily-excitable and puts high priority on graphics. Other 
 than that, this game just doesn't have what's been said it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneHusky
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I must say I'm impressed, excellent AI, very smart even on medium difficulty level, extremely challenging 
 game, my best reference for 1st person shooter before FarCry was Return to Castle Wolfenstein, 
 Halo, UT2004.
  
  Now my standards are higher, when looking for a new game, I wouldn't want anything less complex/entertaining 
 than this. The game wraps you in a Rambo like environment, but full shoot outs are not the exact 
 answer to everything; also the enemies don't know where you are unles you tell them in some way.
 
  
  My only complaint would be the save system, but I can ignore that for the great game play and "realism" 
 applied to both the very physics of the game and the sheer beautiful scenarios all around.
  
  The only reason I didn't rate this game a full 10, was just because I think it needed a little 
 more music, any player who has the minimum requierements for this game would enjoy more than just 
 jungle sounds and sporadic melodies.
  
  I really think any 1st person shooter fan will love this game.
  
  I also believe this game 
 deserves a sequel or a expansion.
  
  Unfortunately I had to change my review a little after playing the multiplayer option a few times, 
 the multiplayer is nice and fun, problem was the lack of the M4 rifle (my fav in the game) and 
 the need to insert your cd-key every single time you want to play multiplayer.
  
  Even then some servers failed to accept my join request and the game said my cd-key was already 
 being used? The multiplayer could use some work to improve the play value and remove the few bugs 
 that how up then.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  Boy am I on run of great FPS!!! Far Cry makes you want to cry with its amazing graphics and feel. 
 The game immerses you in lush jungles, creepy ruins, and by the end of the game a volcano fortress. 
 The story begins well and advances at a nice pace, but ends in an absolute insane and abrupt crap 
 conclusion. However, the game is a BLAST to play.
  
  Lets begin with the graphics. A+!! The game starts on the beaches and waters of a lush tropical 
 island. Just trudging through the lush rain forests is fun. The leaves file away as you get closer 
 and closer. Imagine the experience of sneaking through the green to blast away at the mercs over 
 the hill. Well thats what you will be doing - a lot! The animations of explosions and gun fire 
 are amazing. The character models are fantastic and help to make the characters even more personable. 
 The graphics are what make this game tick.
  
  The audio in this game are also truly amazing. Each rub against shrubs, the water washing ashore, 
 the bullets whizzing by your head all act to put you in the action. You feel like Jack as he wanders 
 the island fighting for his life trying to find his way off. The music serves as nice ambience 
 and picks up when the action gets intense. Overall its a very nice fit for the game.
  
  The characters are all interesting, especially Jack. I mean any man who wears a red hawaiian shirt 
 while blasting mercs with his machine gun cant be wrong. There is also a CIA agent who has enlisted 
 your services unknown to you just to help her find your way to the bottom of the mysterious island 
 activities. Of course her only redeeming value is she is smoking hot and you get a gratuitious 
 bra and bikini shot as the game goes on. Other than that she just gets hersef captured a lot and 
 occassionally you have to shoot her just to get her to shut up. The other main character is a mysterious 
 man who helps you get around on the island via a cellular phone. He seems very helpful, but just 
 who is he and what are his motives. Overall these three characters are interesting and fun.
  
  The story as I said before is good, right up until the ending. As Jack an ex-special forces 
 member, you get enlisted unknowingly by a CIA agent who needs your help trying to unmask the evil 
 doings on the island. Yes the mercs arent the only thing lurking on the island and in fact they 
 are the least of your concerns. So as you guide Jack through the the jungle, ruins, bases, volcano 
 fotresses, you get more and more info on whats happening. Of course this leads to the ending. UGGHHH. 
 What a disappointment. I dont want to give away anything, oh wait there is nothing to give away. 
 The ending was as bad as the last Rocky. The game just sort of ends with no real explanation or 
 warning. Its really a shame, because everything else about the game is so awesome. Its really the 
 only downside to the game.
  
  The game features tons of weapons, some with secondary fire modes. You will get to drive gun toting 
 vehicles, blow up helicopters, man turrets and throw tons of grenades. Lots of death and destruction 
 variety help to make this game ceaseless fun.
  
  So in conclusion, this game rocks. Other than a crappy ending this game is tons of fun. You will 
 play it from start to finish with a smile on your face. The game features tons of difficulty levels 
 for all levels of game players. This game is a must own for all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberFreak81
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Since Its been a few months since I've played this game, I decided I'd finally give a short review. 
 Not to say I dont play it, because I dont like it. Its just time, you know.
  Anyway, One of my favorite aspects of this game are the huge levels. You can execute a mission 
 in almost any manner you would like, with common sense as a helper. Plenty of cover in the hills 
 and trees, and pretty much anything. There is never a moment of boredom, when you don't know what 
 to expect around the next corner. This game always has surprises. And start looking foreword to 
 an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatpepsi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2005 1:12 am PT
Review:  Far cry is a game which is remarkable in every sense. It has a great feel to it which can only 
 be appreciated by the player.
  
  You take the role of an ex marine ,who is abandoned on a paradise like archipelago with a female 
 journalist. Well they are not alone, just add another thousand mercenaries, and a couple of hundred 
 "enhanced humans" and there u go, u have the recipe for Far cry.
  not just one of the greatest games since Half life but also longest, and mind toughest as well.
 
  
  Game play : it is a typical first person shooter , with lot of emphasizing on using ur environment, 
 not only protect urself from line of fire but also to avoid detection.
  there are many weapons, but u could only carry 4 at a time which brings in the tactical part of 
 the game. you have grenades which i didnt feel the need of in the game. there are few vehicles as 
 well including jeep, buggie and even a hang glider.
  the best thing about farcry is that u really feel that u are shooting and unloading lead into enemies 
 unlike many games . it has a great feel to it, the feeling of response to ur each and every shot. u 
 really feel the FUN in shooting, it is sadistically satisfying. the AI is phenomenal, they will 
 bank u ,surround u and attack u as a team .most of the game u will be looking through ur mic cum 
 binoculars, there is a lot of long range fighting with sniper rifles and rocket launchers. Over 
 all the game play is phenomenal.... BUT mind u it is really really hard... try starting with EASY 
 first.... u wont regret it....
  
  Graphics : Well what can i say , this games graphics are .... well ahead of its time... u can call 
 this game the NEXT GEN of fps.... it has all the goodies... real time lighting and shadows.. HDR... awesome 
 sun reflections... great water effects. bump mapping... The game play in this game is what the FMV 
 movies used to be, i mean the cutscenes of earlier games. over all the graphics are a MILESTONE 
 which is waaaaaaay ahead of its time.
  
  Sound : Well the music of the game really plays a lot of role.. it has this firm old school war 
 movie theme to it, which really suites the situation of the game. technically the sound is also great 
 .the doppler effect in the game is also amazing, which really makes sniping fun... the opening theme 
 is very good
  
  Multiplayer : it has a typical fps multiplayer package... nothing special except that it has huge 
 maps... so u might as well call all ur buddies before booting farcry....
  
  this game is a great accomplishment... unlike many games which have either great gameplay or great 
 graphics... this game has it all...
  i would suggest u to upgrade ur PC hardware only to play this... this game has the potential to 
 bring the greatest of all hardware to their Knees..... now just imagine how good it is....
  
  NOW go get it !!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake-eater3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  Far Cry has it all, it has stealthy AI, the AI is very clever if one person can see you he will 
 call for backup and pull the alarm. The levels in farcry are big with very action full parts.
 
  The graphics are amazing you can see the shadow off you gun your holding, you can see the smoke 
 off a persons cigar. Its quite amazing. the sound is very great also but if you make the slightest 
 sound, the AI will hear you. Far Cry online is allot like counterstrick so its not noob friendly. The 
 guns in Far Cry are in real life so they must sound real which they do.
  overall FarCry is probably the best first person shooter out there on the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biohazard_CVC
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry... A 9.2 game at gamespot and hyped by many many gamers as being great. Why you ask am I 
 disappointed in this game? Well, It starts off really good making me believe the game was all it 
 had been projected to be. At high settings on my Geforce 6800 it looks amazingly beautiful, The 
 best graphics i've ever seen in a game to date. Well, Here's where the bad starts... After 3 or 
 4 short levels you meet up in this cave with these creatures called "Trigens". These are ape creatures 
 that were part of an experiment gone bad or some BS.. I wasn't following the story completely but 
 it is like a ripoff of "the Island of Dr. Moreau". Anyway, so you meet up with these really lame 
 trigens and the game takes this horrible turn where the game is this dreadful corridor crawl for 
 a large percentage of it. Why the hell did Crytek make such a interesting game only to ruin it 
 so quickly? It seems Crytek ran out of ideas and didn't include the syrup with this mess. There 
 are some intersting weapons, An m4 assault rifle, a 357. automag, an MP5, A sniper rifle, a large 
 blade, binoculars, grenades. All in all it isn't the worst game out there in this genre but for 
 the same price you can get a much, much better game like Call of Duty, Unreal Tournament 2004, 
 Painkiller, The Medal of Honor-War Chest package for instance. Also, Be warned... This game is VERY 
 buggy!!!! It made my sound card crash. I wouldn't play it without the latest patch. Take my advice 
 this game is just a borefest with a bunch of gloss slapped on it to impress the majority of naive 
 gamers out there that don't know any better. Save your money for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the best single player First Person Shooters I have played in a long while. It 
 follows the traditional formula and plot devices of a typical game, but in a lush tropical environment. 
 There is enough variation in the enemies and settings to keep anyone interested until the credits 
 roll. Far Cry sports a lengthy single player mode (16-24 hours) and has appropriate levels of difficulty. 
 For me, the mulitplayer aspect of the game was a bit of a letdown. I was rarely able to actually 
 join a server due to many bugs in UBI's ill contrived browser. The mulitplayer experience was decent, 
 but not quite worth the frustration of multiple attempts to get the game to work. However, if one 
 is looking for a good single player game, I would definately recommend Far Cry (you can pick it 
 up for around twenty dollars at any major retailer) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alf-Hazard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  Playing this game is seriously like going on a vacation. The landscapes are HUGE and the games 
 highly advanced engine allows for extreeme distance gun wars. The amount of polygons is stunning 
 and in many ways this game surpasses eaven the visuals of DOOM 3. The water effects are stunning 
 and the horizon line is always perfectly strainght! The game features excellent non-linnear levels 
 filled with some cuban terrorists (well, not really; just terrorists...) and genetically mutated 
 animals and humans. 
  
  The story is basically that a guy owns an island on which he manufactures monsters, blah blah blah, 
 and you end up on the island and you have to search for your hot girlfriend ( I seriously never 
 paid attentin and skipped most cutscenes) . The story is really straightforward wich makes it quite 
 easy to just focus on the gameplay. The game also has frequent checkpoint so you never have to 
 worry about saving.
  
  Gameplay 9/10:
  +Awesome guns
  -Crappy shotgun tho
  +Vehicles
  +Smart AI
  +Shoot things from far away, and get shot back!
  +Good physics
  -Not 
 the best online
  -weak story
  
  Graphics 10/10: 
  +Stunning landscapes
  +Amazing special effects
  +Highly detailed models with rich bump-mapped textures
  +Great lighting 
 effects
  -Some noticable repetition in the level design (just a little bit )
  
  Sound 10/10:
  +"Your ass is mine!","Suck on this!", are just some of the things that enemies 
 yell at you
  +Guns sound cool
  
  Value 9/10:
  +Long game 
  +Decent multiplayer
  -Kills your graphic card
  
  Well then, there you have it. A great game for a great price (unless 
 you need to upgrade your computer) .
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a pretty big accomplishment, but unfortunately for me, I didn't play it till nearly 
 a year after its release, but that still doesn't make a difference, it's still amazing, visually. 
 Even after playing through Half-Life 2, this game is still impressive, in a different way than 
 HL2 though.
  
  Far Cry is beautiful to look at, the tropical landscapes, beautiful beaches and dazzling water 
 make it a treat for the eyes. The character models are solid and realistic, like those of Doom 
 3. They do have slight rag doll physics, but they are not entirely as flemsy, but still, they are 
 rag dolled in a way.
  
  The gameplay aspect of Far Cry is pretty good, above average, incorporating several exciting vehicles, 
 hand gliders, boats and some others. These vehicles make it easier to navigate the enormous island 
 where the game takes place. From car chases between Hummer-like jeeps in the dense jungle, to diving 
 off cliffs about 1,000 feet in the air with a hand glider, very exciting.
  
  Now, we must look at the disturbingly bad side of the game, the voice acting, script, cutscenes, 
 plot and the overall generic feel that the game brings up cinmatically. The voices overs are decent, 
 but very subpar at the same time. The script is downright awful, full of corny b-movie quotes and 
 sad attempts of attitude and being cool. The cinematics are rigged with bugs and glitches, including 
 but not limited to limbs sticking through bodies, guns sticking through bodies, lack of blinking, 
 sometimes the models walk without moving there legs, etc.
  
  Far Cry is fun to play, but don't get it expecting an engaging story and a good plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnemo2k
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The year 2004 was defianatly the year of the first person shooter. We saw great games like Halo 
 2, Half Life 2, Doom 3 and the amazing FarCry. This is the first game that I have ever played that 
 the graphics engine and technological power of the game actualy improved gameplay. The areas are 
 absoluty massive in this game. Your thrown right in the middle of a massive tropical island with 
 every direction and location avaliable to explore. This translated into the most dynamic and non- 
 liniar gameplay Ive experineced in quite some time. Sure half life and doom may have looked a little 
 better. And sure they were both fun games but FarCry out muscles these two in the gameplay department. 
 And the gameplay department is were it really counts. Far Cry is an amazing game that will push 
 both the limitaions of your computer and your mind. It is my choice for game of the year in 2004. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 23, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Although Far Cry didn't get all the hype like Half Life 2, this is arguably the best shooter of 
 2004! The graphics are revolutionary- first rate and pushes your videocard to the limits. The dense 
 jungle setting is great and you can actually use the shrubbery as camoflage unlike many other games 
 in the past. Hide in the bushes and the AI will search for you, use flanking tactics, etc.... The 
 gameplay can be tough especially at the higher level settings but I believe it's realistic. You're 
 not on an exact "rail" and you can enter and complete each mission in MANY different ways. The 
 enemy AI is very tough but real. The sound is good, nothing spectacular though. Online is very 
 fun and addictive. You can also make your own maps and missions from scratch. Overall, this game 
 is one of the very best in 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is amazing. That is a very bold statement to make about a game but that one word clearly 
 identifies the essence of this game. Far Cry takes the story of The Island of Dr. Munroe and adds 
 a terror filled adventure of epic proportions. You are Jack Carver, you have escorted Valerie (a 
 journalist supposedly) , to a tropical island which she wishes to do a story on. After a hectic 
 sea journey your adventure begins to unfold and you find yourself face-to face with murderous mercenary 
 soldiers and genetically mutated apes and humans. From first glance the island looks like paradise, 
 but this is far from a vacation. You will need to pack a hefty arsenal to compete with the mercenaries 
 who will stop at nothing to kill you. Their role is simply to kill and to protect the islands 
 compounds. 
  
  You will find yourself brushing through jungle forests and color-filled beaches. Not only will 
 you be walking but you will also have access to a wide variety of transportation. You will storm 
 the beaches in small boats, fighter boats, buggies, armored vehicles, jeeps, trucks and hand-gliders. 
 The game offers a large arsenal of weapons that Jack will need to use to successfully protect his 
 hide. M4s, rocket launchers, grenades, snipers and shotguns are just a few of these life destroying 
 machines. Armor and health packages can be found all over the island and they are mandatory because 
 you will definitely need any spare health or armor protection. This is due to the games utter 
 difficulty. No matter what difficulty you play on, you will find yourself in a lot of trouble in 
 any situation. Enemies swarm around you and have very good eyes (after all they are trained soldiers) . 
 The creatures are not as intelligent as the soldiers but their built-in weapons and fearsome claws 
 can totally massacre you in a couple swipes.
  
  The further you get into the game the more information you will be given about what is really going 
 on here. The truth is that Dr. Krieger has a plan to speed up the evolution cycle of the human 
 species and aid it into becoming the ultimate fearsome warrior. His plans eventually go on the 
 wrong track when his genetically altered experiments escape from their holding cells and plan to 
 own the island. Without giving out the whole story line ill just say that Jacks situation at the 
 beginning of the game goes from bad to totally impossible. 
  
  The game is a lot of fun to play. If you are a player that likes to lurk in shadows like a ninja 
 and attempt to stealthily pick-off enemies then you may do so. But beware, these are professionally 
 trained soldiers so they will not stand around like limb creatures while you pick them off, they 
 will search for you an inevitably find you. The worst approach to this game, on any difficulty, 
 is the classic rush and hope for the best game tactic. This is obviously a method used by novice 
 first-person shooter gamers who wish to consume as much action and excitement in a minimal amount 
 of time. These players will defiantly die due to the collaborative effort that the mercenaries 
 will place upon Jack. The best way to approach this game is to try to kill as many enemies as possible 
 from a distance and only then rush their encampment and defeat all the foes nestled within. 
  
  Far cry is a game more suited for expert first-person shooter gamers. The game is very difficult 
 to play and novice gamers will totally get massacred by the onslaught of enemies unless a heavenly 
 miracle performs due process on your skills. The foes are very intelligent and are much more difficult 
 to kill later in the game due to shields and hefty body armor. The soldiers wear helmets and communicate 
 very well with their fellow comrades. Fortunately the guns that Jack is equipped with are fairly 
 strong and have good and strong accuracy poise. You will need to aim at the head to ensure your 
 life and to ensure that no other enemies are alerted of the impeding danger presented to them. 
 
  
  Many first-person shooters have repetitive scenes and missions that will find you doing the same 
 thing over and over. Far Cry does have some mission overlaps but generally delivers a very diverse 
 gaming experience that keeps you excited and intent on completing the goal assigned. Every location 
 that Jack travels to along his journey to defeat Krieger and his insanity is simply different. 
 You would be surprised how far and how diverse a simple jungle/beach atmosphere can take you according 
 to the developers at Crytek. The game is always different; you fight during various circumstances: 
 caves, beaches, islands, rivers, dusk, dawn, night, facilities, tree canopies, volcanos, cliffs, 
 mountains, trails and docks. You will rarely feel a sense of deja-vu when playing through others 
 missions.
  
  The game is very long. At least I found it very long. Perhaps the shear difficulty made me sometimes 
 put the game down and become frustrated with my inability to perform on the battlefield. However, 
 the game still brings you back and makes you wonder how you can overcome the next obstacle in the 
 adventure. As mentioned in the previous paragraph you will fight through a whole slew of varying 
 locations and you will need to find Valerie (you two get separated at the start) and together perform 
 various tasks which will lead to the destruction of the Krieger plan. The game took me a long time 
 to beat, perhaps that is why I believe the game is long, but I sincerely believe that this game 
 will take some time and effort to play. If you are looking for a quick-fix, Far Cry is not the 
 game for you. If you are not an expert first-person shooter you will probably get frustrated and 
 choose to perform various cheats to aid you along the way. I must say I was very tempted to do 
 the same but eventually refused to succumb to hackage. 
  
  Some additional features that Far Cry offers are Cryovision and a hefty amount of blood and gore. 
 Cryovision is basically a cool name to call thermal heat generating goggles. They allow you to 
 see movement and any alive individuals from a distance. This is helpful because the game is filled 
 with large foliage which at times may obscure your line of vision. The game is also packed with 
 very gruesome blood effects and gory images. After laying a clip into a mercenary you walk by his 
 dead body and see a pool of blood (the traditional sign of death in video games) . This game is 
 definitely not for younger audiences due to the evident gore and some foul language present at 
 times. Also younger individuals could possibly be afraid of the monsters and other blood stricken 
 images. 
  
  The game also offers an online function through the Ubisoft network. The game runs very well online 
 and looks just as good as its single player counterpart. If you like online gaming and you were 
 blown out of the water by Far Cry you will definitely be playing the online component for some 
 time to come. The online mode offers generally large maps and this allows for a wide variety of 
 players to successfully play their type of game (camping or rushing) . The online mode offers 
 all of the weapons and similar environments from the single player campaign. There are also a bunch 
 of custom maps created by the Far Cry community that also attribute to the online chaos. The online 
 mode offers a death-match, team death-match and a base assault. These are pretty straight forward 
 modes which every first-person shooter gamer knows and can relate too. If you have internet fallibility 
 in gaming you should at least watch someone play online to see how fun it can actually be to shoot 
 another individual half-way across the world. The online function is solid and the internet connection 
 (frequency/ping) varies depending on the server, but generally offers a playable and enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  The gameplay in Far Cry is very well done. Jack can crouch, crawl, sprint and walk his way into 
 danger. The guns are very responsive and have 2 firing modes which help you deliver some precise 
 aiming or additional grenade destruction. The game is very responsive from the keyboard and you 
 use the mouse to aim your crosshair at enemy heads, torsos and limbs. The game generally runs smooth 
 playing on a 1GHZ of RAM machine. The game has above average loading times but they are definitely 
 worth the experience that will follow when the loading line reaches the end of its journey. Overall 
 the game is very well done and allows for a high degree of exploration and it is a self-justification 
 of how fun first-person shooters should be.
  
  The graphics in Far Cry are actually perfect. Playing this game on modern 256MB cards must honestly 
 look stunning. I played the game on my 128MB card and had to resort to lower resolutions to satisfy 
 game performance. The game really does require a lot of power from your video card but what you 
 will view is honestly worth your V-Card purchase prior to buying the game. The water is glistering 
 blue, the tropical foliage is immense and visually appealing, the fish are very colorful, the characters 
 detail is realistic and the vehicles are very well done as well. The game is just a joy to watch 
 and a joy to play if you have the recommended specifications, or higher specifications, on your 
 PC. 
  
  The sound in Far Cry is great. You can use your binoculars to zoom in on impeding soldiers and 
 hear what they are conversing with the built in microphone on the binoculars. Foliage is heard 
 crackling under your feet and the explosions create a tremendous amount of noise which can scare 
 you half to death. The guns sound very authentic and the speech in the game is also well choreographed. 
 
  
  Overall Far Cry is an amazing accomplishment. It was released early last year and it definitely 
 set some elite standards for PC gaming and the graphic battle for supremacy. Crytek got the graphic 
 jig-saw moving and many other game develops and designers have followed in their footsteps. The 
 game is a solid experience throughout. Far Cry is an excellent game with an immersive story that 
 will keep you coming back for more action. There is a lot of sense in picking this game up, with 
 its definitely lowered price by now. The game is almost perfect and you will defiantly be playing 
 it for sometime due to the difficulty level attributed to the gameplay (at times can be too hard 
 though) . Far Cry is an excellent depiction of future graphic performance on the PC and it is a 
 testament to the never ending first person shooter genre on the personal computer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raleigh1231
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever made you can go across hundreds of chains of islands at your will and you can see 
 sooooo far. The story is 25 hours long and you will play it many times over. Also included is an 
 editor ive spent 300 hours editing maps it is sooo amazing. Way better graphics than half life 
 2 and way better story than halo2. It has the coolest feel to it when your playing its like an 
 evil scence to a paradise wow. mkix it up with hl2 with heaven wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow
  
  steep system require ments i recomend a
  
  1.5-3.0 ghz processor
  256-1gig ram
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: betelgeuse68
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game has two flaws. 
  
  1) It seems Germans (since CryTek is a German studio) have a very different notion of what "EASY" 
 means. Let me assure you, if you play this game at anything but the "EASY" difficulty you will 
 be incredibly frustrated. It go so bad for me midway that I started the game OVER. Mind you, I'm 
 used to play FPS games at above average difficulties. I played both HALO games on the XBox at "HEROIC" 
 difficulty and have been playing Half-Life2 on HARD. However, CryTek's notion of staggered difficulties 
 seems to largely non-existent. Even the AI auto balancing option seems to have no effect. So as 
 I replayed the game on EASY I reached this point in the game where your partner drives a jeep and 
 you get to main the gun. Think of a rail shooter sequence. I must have tried the sequence at least 
 a dozen times before finally being successful and when I did succeed I was practically dead.
  
  Enemies have an incredible ability to "hear" or "see" you. Thankfully that was one area where 
 I did notice a drop in the insanity. On my first go round it seemed that just merely existing in 
 the game was enough for the antagonsits to yell out "Did you see something?" or "Did you hear that?" 
 - I guess they were hearing my heart beat. 
  
  At another point in the game, where you meet an opponent dubbed FatBoys (based on a guide I read) , 
 it must have taken at least six shots at close range to bring him down. On EASY. There are certain 
 points of the game where there are MULTIPLE opponents of this type. Imagine that. And some, have 
 rocket launchers. This, on EASY.
  
  On EASY, the final sequence was so incredbly aggravating that I did not finish the game. I simply 
 went to RadGameTools (getting their movie player) so I could watch the final movie of the game. 
 I will not spoil it for you but the final guantlet (on EASY mind you) is just plain crazy. 
  
  2) The only other complaint I have is the ultra cheesy voice overs. But then perhaps that was 
 the direction the developers sought when the game was localized. A campy air. Dunno. It's just 
 that the gravity of the situation and very nice graphics juxtaposed with the voice overs did not 
 work for me.
  
  Casual players will be incredibly frustrated by FarCry. Rest assured. Outside of that, the jungle 
 sequences are pretty great. Particularly using the sniper rifle. The world detail is very impressive... 
 assuming you have the wares to run this game as it is meant to.
  
  -M
  
  PS: Hmmm.... seems the FarCry uninstall is done... once is enough... not interested in multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry was by far the most exciting first person shooter that I have played so far. The graphics 
 really impressed me the most. It was so detailed. I also love the rag doll dead body feature. Its 
 great, tossing their bodies all over the place. The difficulty is just right, although it was a 
 real tough game. The story, I thought, was okay. This game has surprises in every seen. Its a 
 must play for any fan of the first person shooter. This game is by far one of the best games that 
 I have ever played. Far Cry will surly keep you busy for it can be compared to Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halflifedave
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 9, 2005 2:05 am PT
Review:  Farcry is the greatest game that I didn't see coming and is probably better than any FPS out in 
 the market today. Just one thing to keep in mind. DO NOT expect this game to be easy to beat the 
 other FPS out. It is pretty hard, even on Easy.
  
  Graphics
  The only thing that nobody seems to disagree with. Farcry is an amazing advancement in technology. 
 The view distance is amazing, the areas are varied, and the Paradise render mode includes many 
 great effects such as light bloom and retina blur (if I have the terms correct) . If I have a little 
 complaint, it is that enemies are not visible when you are very far away. This doesn't hurt the 
 game since they show up as you zoom in on the binoculars or the scope, but it just ruins the realism 
 a little.
  
  Gameplay
  Farcry has the most open-ended gameplay out for FPS. There are almost always multiple solutions 
 to any mission in the game. The A. I. is the best to this date. One thing I really hate for others 
 to complain about is the checkpoint system. Maybe it is because I have mostly been in console games 
 earlier and I'm use to it, but it is a HORRIBLE reason to diss this game and a little childish. 
 If anything it make the gameplay more tense and immersive. You would panic so much more knowing 
 that a trigen is around the corner now than you would if you could simply quick save seconds before 
 this and every other tense moment in the game. Make no mistake, this game will change you from 
 a single player noob to a L337, and that is just on Easy difficulty. I have really considered giving 
 FC a 9/10 for gameplay for one reason, OF ALL THE GREAT AI IN THE WHOLE GAME THE FRIENDLY HAS TO 
 BE THE DUMB ONE. It is made painfully obvious why Val gets captured in the game. The odd thing 
 is if you make an evil val in Editor mode, she is just as badass as the other grunts.
  
  Sound
  I will be honest and say that I'm no sound/music expert. As long as something has a believable 
 sound, I am find with it. The music does get a little repetitive in the later missions, but the 
 real reason I didn't give sound a 10 is because the grunt lines are VERY LAME.
  
  Lasting Value
  Easy mode alone took me roughly 20 hours. Crytek also raises the bar in such a 
 perfect way with each difficulty that it will take relatively the same time when you play on the 
 next mode. The multiplayer doesn't offer too many modes, but there are servers on whenever I join. 
 If you are interested in Mapmaking, the Cryengine sandbox is a PERFECT start. It is very simple 
 if you follow information from the FC editor guide (you can explore the FC CD and find it or download 
 off the official site) Even to complete noobs for editing (like me) you can make mini-mods of the 
 whole single player game. Tired of having to be a one-man army in Fort? How bout spawning trigens 
 and val squads all over the place!
  
  Farcry is the best FPS PC game out there regardless of what fanboys say (and believe me, my name 
 has "half life" in it) It is worth every penny and is a shame if you don't have it on your computer 
 right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry was released several months before technology-wise similar games like Doom3 and Half-life 
 2. Crytek managed to transform a techdemo into a superb first person shooter.
  
  The graphics: Absolutely top notch. Huge levels, incredible water effects, particles, bumpmapping 
 etc. etc. The game looks absolutely stunning.
  
  The sound: Also great. Sound effects are just right. Atmospheric music.
  
  Overall: The huge 
 levels with their extremely open design make this game a blast to play. On one level I was supposed 
 to get from point "A" to "B". Here I had several options, I could swim around the whole island, 
 I could steal a car and drive, or I could steal a boat and drive that one around the island... or 
 I could just run through the jungle.
  
  Truly my best first person experience since Half-life 1.
  
  Multiplayer is fun. The assaultmode 
 is terrific. Otherwise there is basic deathmatch & Team DM.
  
  A must have for all firstperson lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Unreal-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  The PC is a gaming platform packed full of great first person shooters. One of the latest is from 
 German developer - Crytek. Far Cry is set on a tropical paradise island in the pacific called 'Cabatu'. 
 The main character who's shoes you will be filling, is Jack Carver, a boat owner who has been hired 
 to sail a woman reporter to the remote island. Jack knows little of this woman, and soon finds 
 his job becoming more than he bargained for after his boat is attacked by mercaneries and the girl 
 kidnapped. Jack must explore Cabatu, find the girl and get off the island and back to where he 
 belongs.
  
  Gameplay
  Far Cry's core gameplay is probably how you picture it from looking at the stunning screenshots 
 of the game. As Jack, you will find yourself left for dead in an old World War two bunker with 
 no weapons. The game eases you in by use of some on-screen messages telling you how to walk, jump 
 over some debris, and then duck under a broken piece of wall. You will find that some of Far Cry 
 is stealth based right from the very start. In fact, your very first kill in the game will be using 
 a machete as your only available weapon after sneaking through an old dimly lit control room.
 
  
  The artificial intelligence of the enemies in Far Cry is probably a little too tuned to hearing 
 sound as you will find out when trying to sneak around trhough the many bushes and leafy jungles 
 of the island. Enemies are tough and will work as a squad to hunt you down as soon as they see 
 you. The jungles are completely explorable and you can get to almost anywhere you can see on foot 
 or using any of the various vehicles in the game.
  
  Buggies, humvee's, gunboats and hangliders are to be found around the island and are all great 
 fun to drive. Mercs will also drive all but the hanglider and this makes for some really exciting 
 pursuites when you are driving alongside a humvee full of mercs, being shot at by one in the back 
 using a mounted machine gun. Even when it seems there is only a small number of mercs to gun down 
 in quick succesion, any one of them could drop a colored smoke grenade, signaling reinforcements 
 from a blackhawk helicopter, sailing down on ropes.
  
  The weapons are fairly standard here, from the trusty m4 carbine to the stealthy mp5. As mentioned 
 above, mercs use mounted turrets, but these same turrets can be used by you too. Turrets come in 
 mortar and machinegun form.
  
  Lushly vegetated jungles are not all you will be exploring in Far Cry. You will often find yourself 
 in well structured indoor bases and fortifications. The indoor levels are maybe not as fun as the 
 outdoor levels becuase of their more linear nature, although they do offer up some good firefights 
 and an excellent atmosphere.
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode with Far Cry, although it's not as good as it could have been. 
 Multiplayer modes are Assault and the standard Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch all with a maximum 
 of 16 players. Assault sees a defending team and an assaulting team fighting through a map of control 
 points. Engineers can use their wrench to construct pre-set gun emplacements, gates, walls and 
 bunkers. 
  
  Graphics
  If you are looking for a game to test your system's hardware then here it is. Far Cry has some 
 of the best graphics seen in any game ever. Water glistens, ripples, and a white and foamy tide 
 sweeps the sandy beaches. Jungles are lush with bushes of all kinds and look richly detailed. Birds 
 fly overhead at the sound of gunfire and trees cast shadows over your gun as you move. The overall 
 look of the game is stunning, giving a real sense of a tropical island with clear blue waters and 
 bright sands.
  
  The view distance is also notably impressive. You will often stand atop a hill overlooking a sheet 
 of treetops below you, with beaches and ocean behind it. And best of all, if you can see it, you 
 can go straight to it.
  
  Indoor buildings feature great lighting and add to the tense feeling. A great example comes from 
 the beginning of the game, inside a beached world war two ship that is rusted inside. You can actually 
 see the metal rusting and peeling, bubbled up and raised out from the wall. The game makes great 
 use of bump mapping and the rusted metal looks as if you could just stick your hand out and peel 
 it from the hull of the ship. There is no doubt Far Cry is a visually stunning game.
  
  Sound
  The sound effects in the game are good too. Guns all sound suitably beefy and powerfull. 
 Ambient sounds like tropical birds chirping as you run through dense forrests. Mercs will also 
 make lots of humerous comments on your efforts to take them down. Some of the funniest parts come 
 when eavesdropping on some conversations using the binoculars which are fitted with a directional 
 microphone. You will hear them talking about their commander, the island and other more personal 
 views. You will even hear them talking about a certain someone causing havok around their bases 
 and outposts (that someone being you of course.)
  
  Controls
  Jack controls as well as he should. You can adjust gun movement lag, which is seen when you move 
 your mouse and the gun moves a little later. There aren't many keys to memorise, in fat if you 
 have played any other first person shooter rescently, you should be able to get straight into the 
 game. The standard first person shooter key layout is set by Far Cry's default options, which is 
 the WASD layout. A sprint key is also used, as well as number keys to change weapons, although 
 only a few can be carried at any one time.
  
  Conclusion
  When it comes down to it, Far Cry is an outstanding game and is one of 2004's best first person 
 shooters. Far Cry may not be suited to anyone looking for a game to get them into first person 
 shooters as it's a pretty difficult game. The AI makes the game hard at times, but it's this same 
 AI that makes the gameplay so great. The graphics, sound and AI of the enemies all make for a very 
 immersive game. 
  A suprise hit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SystemShock2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This is an intense game. If you like halo, you'd probably like this. It is just amazing. First 
 off lets talk about physics. They are nice, especially since they were created without an already 
 existing engine. Many things like barrels and boxes fall realisticly and the ragdolls can be really 
 good. Although sometimes they clip, fall weird or are a bit floaty. Very good, better than doom 
 3's not as good as half life 2's
  Now onto the graphics. They are outstanding. You can select the rendering mode and there is a viewing 
 distance of 1.2 kilometers. The enemies are very detailed but sometimes look like clay. There are 
 some nice shadows and the foliage is beautiful. 
  A. I is very good. I would find myself being flanked, sniped, shot from behind a lot. It was amazing. 
 The indoor enemies didn't always know what to do, but they were still ok. Sometimes enemies would 
 run into walls though.
  For actually gameplay and story now. Gameplay is fun. Like i said, it's kind of like a more challenging, 
 more fun, more interesting Halo. You drive vehicles and you have to really think and strategize 
 before you go into battle. You'll find yourself dying a lot if you just run into the middle of 
 the battle. You get binoculars for tracking enemies, heat vision, and some pretty nice weapons 
 like the oicw. The story is a little cheesy as well as the voice acting, but it fits the game i 
 guess. There are some cool plot twists too. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME. Besides the few faults 
 i mention, THIS GAME IS PERFECT, if it's the type of game you like. It's very non linear and very 
 exciting as a result. It is better than doom 3 and halo and halo2, not as good as half life or 
 half life 2 at least in my opinion, it really depends on what type of cps you like, i happen to 
 like all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrizzie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is an almost 1-year old FPS wich sets you up as Jack Carver, a man hired by a woman named 
 Valerie to sail around some tropical islands. You get ambushed and wake up to find you're stranded 
 on one of those islands. The story sets you off having to find Valerie who has been kidnapped by 
 an army of heavily armed mercenaries.
  
  The first thing you notice about this game is the amazing enviroment. Everything is lushly detailed 
 and there lots of little details to give it a very, VERY realistic appearance. Hit lightbulbs dangle 
 above your head and give realistic, gorgeous light effects accordingly, many objects can be manipulated 
 with very realistic physics. For example you can push over a open closet full of pots and pans 
 and watch, with some pleasure, how the items realisticly hit the floor and scatter around. Everytime 
 you do this, it looks different because the objects have their own physics in the game. The watereffects 
 are still some of the best yet and when you do get above ground, you find yourself in a vast, huge, 
 massive, breathtaking tropical setting, with lots of high grass and palmtrees blowing in the wind 
 and lush beaches crackling under your feet. In short the detail, design and realistic physics of 
 this game are top notch. Enemies die with great ragdoll efects wich makes for great and sometimes 
 commical deathscenes. The textures and artwork haven't been coppied and pasted everywhere so appart 
 from looking great, it keeps the game looking original al the way through al the levels. The levels 
 are huge, by the way, and some have complete mountainranges in the middle of them, again giving 
 you that realistic feel of being in an completly different world. 
  
  And in that world you, Jack Carver, are hunted down relentlessly by highly trained mercanaries. 
 And when i say highly trained and relentlessly and i don't mean euphimisms, i mean the real deal. 
 This game is hard. The AI is the best in any FPS. Period. The end. Perhaps in any game. Mercenaries 
 have no fixed walking routes, only base positions to start from when you aproach them. The game 
 has a stealth-system wich allows for great cat and mouse like gameplay. Because the levels, especialy 
 outside, are so big, you can approach mercenaries and their encampments from several different 
 agles. Binoculars alow you to spot them and mark them on your map. Without these binoculars you 
 have no idea where they are, so it's a rewarding and tactical part to the game. Aquiring information 
 about you; re surroundings and then making a tactical plan gives a great thrill. Especialy when 
 the plan works. As said, the mercenaries are very smart and when they become aware of your presence, 
 they will approach you intelligently, call for back up and have several lethal team tactics to 
 dispose of you. They will seek cover and ask for air support in the form of blackhawk hrelicopters 
 to send men to you airborne. So no more laying low and picking them of one by one, they're just 
 too smart. If you're looking for an easy shootfrom the hip kinda FPS, you're at the wrong adress, 
 but that, in my opinion, makes the game so good ; it's rewarding to shoot somebody, because it 
 takes practise and planning to do it.
  
  There are some negatives, though. The game has a multiplayer mode, but it's not worth playing, 
 really. Other games have advanced much further in that field, leaving this game's multiplayermode 
 feeling a bit boring. There is no co-op, wich is a petty, because it would be a nice addition to 
 the single player type style wich the game presents so well.
  Also, you can't save mid-game. Atleast, not directly. There is a short cut wich requires some typing 
 and if you've got the hang of it, you can do save pretty quickly, but it's much more stressing 
 than just pushing the escape button and using a pause menu. Further more, the is very difficult 
 to master. Without this "save-trick", it's nearly impossible at second highest level, let alone 
 the hardest level. Damage is pretty realistic and you don't survive a full on assault for very 
 long. This can be off-puting. Particularly if you just love to run around and shoot your way through 
 everything.
  
  But on the whole this means almost nothing. A year after its release, Far Cry still has amazing 
 graphics, great special effects, like ragdoll-physics and realistic lighting, killer AI and realistic, 
 huge levels garantying 30 to 40 hours of fantastic gameplay, the likes of wich you won't find on 
 any other game. Far Cry doesn't just improve on the genre of FPS, it seems like it completly re-invents 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobshow
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  Pros: Amazing visuals; competent AI; sandbox style level design.
  Cons: Requires powerful computer; checkpoint save system.
  
  Lets face facts. Graphics matter. 
 Anyone who tells you otherwise is either a liar or has a really crappy computer that wont be able 
 to run Far Cry. Fortunately, X-Play has a monster machine capable of handling this baby in 
 all of its graphical glory. But this little beauty isnt just another pretty face. This one has 
 the personality and substance to match.
  
  Calling all Parrotheads
  
  The opening cinematic in Far Cry is fast-paced, stylish, and utterly incomprehensible. Near as 
 we can figure, the story goes something like this:
  
  You play Jack Carver, a man with a past and a penchant for Hawaiian shirts, and therefore, a likely 
 Jimmy Buffet fan. Quicker than you can say Margaritaville, Jacks peaceful, sea-faring ways are 
 interrupted by a gang of mercenaries with lots of weaponry. The beautiful woman who hired Jack 
 to take her to a remote island in Micronesia is missing. And his boat has sunk.
  
  Although bits of the storyline are revealed to you throughout the game, Far Cry doesnt slow 
 down for exposition much. Its really all about the shooting. But calling it a run-of-the-mill 
 shooter would not do it justice. Although its most definitely a first-person shooter, Far Cry 
 is wildly ambitious. Thats nothing new, but the fact that Far Cry does so many different things 
 well puts this game above and beyond other shooters out there.
  
  Whoring for graphics
  
  For starters, Far Cry is staggeringly beautiful. Not only that, the environments are absolutely 
 huge. The lush tropical setting is absolutely believable. Theres tons of vegetation, all swaying 
 gently in the breeze. The water gently laps against the shore. You can see for miles in any direction. 
 Look up and youll see flocks of birds. Look down at the water and youll see schools of fish.
 
  
  Buildings and vehicles also have an incredible attention to detail. Even places like hallways and 
 warehouses, that are usually boring, are teeming with variety. Nothing looks like it was just plopped 
 down in an afternoon of lazy programming. Everything from the flow of the levels, to the placement 
 of objects, to the dynamic lighting has been done for maximum effect.
  
  Far Cry uses a robust physics engine to ensure barrels and boxes teeter and tumble realistically 
 whether youre bumping into them, or shooting them. Toss a grenade into the jungle and watch the 
 trees sway violently when it explodes. Bad guys will slump over and go limp if you kill them. This 
 stuff just never gets old.
  
  Discretion is the better part of valor
  
  This isnt to say that the enemies youll encounter are a bunch of pushovers. They arent. Although 
 they will go down with a well-placed headshot, they arent shy about using team tactics to surround 
 you. The enemy AI is very believable and not entirely predictable. Like Halo, gunfights rarely 
 play out in the same way. There are just too many different ways the AI might approach the situation. 
 Itll definitely keep you on your toes.
  
  It may sound obvious, but getting shot in Far Cry hurts a lot. Getting caught out in the open 
 pretty much spells your doom. So discretion is definitely encouraged -- at least until you can 
 even the odds. To help you out, you have radar. Provided you did some reconnaissance with your 
 binoculars, this will help you keep track of the enemies and even let you know if youve been spotted. 
 Where so many other stealth games fail to give you the tools necessary to stay hidden, this system 
 just plain works.
  
  You do it your way; Ill do it my way
  
  The huge environments, good AI, and functional stealth elements come together to highlight what 
 is the game's best feature. You have extreme latitude in how to complete each objective. Theres 
 never just one way to accomplish something. You can try to take the enemy head on, or wander the 
 island in search of a hidden path. Or, you can initiate a confrontation with a couple of guards 
 in the hopes of stealing their buggy with a mounted machine gun.
  
  All of this plays out like a white-knuckle action movie. Even when youre lying prone in some tall 
 grass scoping out an enemy encampment, it never feels boring and it never feels routine. Sometimes 
 your plans will go off without a hitch. Other times, youll botch it and be left scrambling to 
 find cover, so you can regroup and form a new plan.
  
  Island paradise
  
  The multiplayer modes and incredibly powerfully map editor put "Far Cry" over the top. As great 
 as the graphics are, they're merely a compliment to the dynamic gameplay. Its a potent mixture 
 of everything -- visuals, AI, and level design -- that combine to make Far Cry an exquisite experience.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodycount611
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Far cry is one of the most technically advanced FPS's released, and fortunately it can back up 
 its amazing graphics with superb, entertaining gameplay.
  
  my only gripe with Far cry is the voice acting. Jack carver (the main character of this game) sounds 
 like the voice actor does not very much experience, but it's such a minor thing, you shouldn't 
 walk away from this game just for that, it's just a minor annoyance of mine.
  
  The game is quite lenghty for a FPS, it should take you a while to complete the game (15-18 hours 
 is about the average) plus there are more challenging difficulties to play on, and of course multiplayer. 
 (1-16 players) the multiplayer portion of far cry may not be the best to date, but it is definetly 
 entertaining for some time.
  
  AI in this game is absolutely stunning, it's quite possibly the best in any game out to date. the 
 story is decent enough.
  
  It's nice to see a relitevly new developer, Crytek, enter the business and enter with a bang. Crytek 
 has delivered something amazing, and anyone with a capable PC should definetly check out Far cry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeke129
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  For the longest time, I never had a computer powerful enough to play any decent first-person shooters. 
 When I finally upgraded, I downloaded the demo of Far Cry and almost immediately went and picked 
 up the retail version. Far Cry has a stunning graphical presentation and an excellent storyline 
 to justify it. 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER GAMEPLAY
  
  The single player campaign consists of missions on various islands. The story starts out with a 
 cut scene of two people out sailing near an island. Out of nowhere, a rocket hits your boat and 
 you set out to find the girl you were sailing with. (It didnt make it apparent if they were husband 
 and wife, or just friends)
  After a while, you get better ammo, face tougher opponents, and uncover the sinister secret of 
 this picturesque archipelago.
  The controls are the standard of any FPS, and the levels are huge  with amazing attention to detail 
 throughout. The artificial intelligence has various difficulty levels, ranging from easy to hard 
  and one setting even harder. But even on easy mode, the advanced AI will challenge you. They 
 hide behind shrubs, crawl in the grass, use flanking manoeuvres, and other strategies that will 
 keep you on your toes.
  
  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEPLAY
  
  Online play consists of an online and LAN mode. Online play requires you to register an account 
 on ubi. com, but that is painless and will have you up and playing in mere minutes. 
  Online modes are the standard Free-for-all and team deathmatch, and also a new mode exclusive to 
 Far Cry  assault mode. The goal of this mode is for one team to capture three objectives protected 
 by the other team in a set time limit. There are many maps for each of the game modes, and the 
 modding community is still creating more.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  There are many screenshots here on Gamespot that show off the amazing graphical achievements of 
 the developers. However, there are some slight problems that will affect almost everyone. The game 
 doesnt simulate fluid effects, so the foam on the beach and water in general will look slightly 
 quirky. There are no huge waves or weather effects either. Character models arent the greatest 
  especially online. Character movement is somewhat robotic online, but single player is much better. 
 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound effects of waves, birds, and wild animals will immerse you in the games huge jungles. 
 All the weapons sound great, and you can even hear the human opponents talking to each other about 
 happenings  mostly stuff youve blown up.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Far Cry is almost perfect. From the amazing graphics to the immersive game play, Far Cry will give 
 you a lot of replayability, as well as a growing community. Pick this one up now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary not only in it's technology, but also in how it implemts allowing for 
 a new gameplay experience.
  
  OK farcry isn't the perfect game, no game is. it suffers from some week design desitions, and a 
 few technical flaws. but what it presents you with something pretty fresh. what is there to love 
 about this game: great level design, wonderful graphics, some really good AI, great gameplay, some 
 particularly great animations for certian characters, some really good though limited use of physics. 
 what isn't so good: AI gliches, indoor levels, indoor levels, indoor levels, horrible story telling, 
 horrble cut scenes, horrible vioce acting, the occasionaly lame area in a level, checkpiont system, 
 some huge animation glitches, some flawed gameplay elements.
  
  ok now let me elaborate, the graphics in this game are intense on a high end system, like mine, 
 i played this game all the way through on my old computer, and it was fun, deffinately worth the 
 purchase, but when i bought my new gaming rig this game sines. i turn up everything and suffer 
 no slow downs, a very stable game in that department. Ok now your thinking "it looks good, but 
 that doesn't affect gameplay" you'd be totally wrong. this game allows for miles of lush jungles, 
 i mean these are the best outdoor enviroments you'll see on any game for the next couple years 
 i predict. and you know what you can actually hide in the lush jungle, crawl under a bush to evade 
 a persuing foe. the graphics in this game really drive the key gameplay. ok let me tell a true 
 story, i'm supposed to be assualting this base, so i'm sneaking along the beach, just on the edge 
 of the jungle, i 'm spotted, several of the enemy begin frontaly assaulting me, i dodge there bullets 
 and jump behind a boulder, returning sparadics m4 fire, keeping their heads down, yes this is right 
 you can suppress the enemy, the take cover when under fire, i then switch to my trusty awp, and 
 snipe three of them when the decide to poke out their heads, suddenly i hear the bushes back to 
 my right rushel and a merc decides to pop out successfully flanking and killing me. yeah the AI 
 uses suppressing fire as well, the will use fire and manuever tacktics and this game requires precise 
 tactics to survive the outdoor levels on the higher difficulties. now a few things are required 
 to make the gameplay experience worth while, don't use the silenced mp5, why, because the AI works 
 in two ways, by line of sight, and by niose, they can't hear the silence mp5, so it really screws 
 them up sometimes. like if you decide to snipe with the mp5, you could take an entire base without 
 the alarm going off. the MP5 is a great example of a horrible design decision, it exposes all of 
 the flaws in their programing. i don't know why they have it in the game. ok the enemy AI is really 
 great outside but when you get inside it really becomes rediculous, especially with the mp5, you 
 could run into a room and shoot a guy with the mp5 and he won't come after you when you retreat, 
 why i don't know, the AI inside just rushes you if you do anything, it's extremely lame. the indoor 
 levels look great, with some excelent lighting (not as good as Doom 3, but good) . ok if you have 
 a nvidia product before playing the game patch it because it doesn't texture things properly with 
 the nvidia drivers. the cutscenes in this game are atrotious, nothing more needs to be siad, the 
 story in this game is ultimately lame, the vioce acting is probably one of the worst i've heard 
 in a game. later in the game you are introduced to trygens, and their buddies, these things are 
 mutants, turns out your on the island of dr. moro all over agian. for the most part these things 
 aren't executed that well, except for the guys i call the locusts. they rock, they are humans that 
 are mutated, they jump like 200 ft. in the air, and wield guns. also when shot in they air weather 
 killed or not raggdoll physics takes over, so say one is flying at you last second shotgun him 
 in the foot, and he'll spin out of control, and preform quite the crash landing, taking damage, 
 but recovering to continue the attack, really these guys along with the higher level mercs are 
 what i play the game for, saddly there aren't enough of them in the game. playing the full 20 plus 
 hour single player campiagn is worth it for the one time you cap one of these guys when he is leap 
 frogging around you. these guys have great animations, since the jump like 200 ft in the air their 
 landings are just a little rough so often they'll smash into the ground and role, or totally wipe 
 out all together, this gives them a very really, and awsome feeling. like they don't truely know 
 how to use their new found strength. all in all about 60 % of this game is complete nirvana for 
 gamers, the rest isn't pianful, but it isn't really that much fun. why did i give it a 92 then, 
 well, it tried something knew and broke ground. this game engine should have been used for ghost 
 recon 2, but it wasn't darn. gameplay, gets a 9 because it is excelent except for the indoor levels, 
 graphics a specktacular 10 because this game is just cosmetic it truely uses the grahpics to propel 
 the gameplay, sound is a nine because sound in this game was great on my new speakers, it just 
 that horrible vioce acting, its so horrible, value, i go back and play my favorite levels over 
 and over agian, it's so much fun. reviewers tilt, well despite my gripes i loved this game. so 
 the final score is a 9.2
  
  the truely sad thing is that not a single mod has come out for this game in the year since its 
 release, and not a single other game is making use of the cryteck engine. but the best thing about 
 it is the genre deffining use of a new technology, all we need now for first person shooters is 
 totaly destructable enviroment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanelevy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  For years shooters were just shoot'em-ups, and then the tactical and squad based as well as those 
 that required stealth, came along to add to the variety. But now there is a game that blends tactics 
 with pure fun, stealth with powerful, heart-heartstopping realism, and the largest most detailed 
 and realistic environments ever, on any platform, with a open ended and highly replayable action 
 that pits you against some of the most intriguingly intelligent enemies ever. From the moment you 
 hear the distant helicopter's eerie clip, to jumping off cliffes and running for your life from 
 the terrible enemies you'll encounter, you'll feel the real world about you. The insects and birds, 
 the schools of fish and realisticly glassy water that laps on the islands shores, will enthrall 
 you with the sheer immensity of the production values and the dedication of the developers to create 
 a truly revolutionary game. Without spoiling anymore of the wonders you'll experience, ill say 
 that far cry imore than worth its money and i guarentee that unless you are blind or incapacitated 
 you will be keeping this game on your shelf and replaying it with new vigor. With such a range 
 of difficulty, any level player can enjoys this rollercoaster ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyok
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 12, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Excellent graphics , view distance that stretches for miles , best AI i have seen yet .There are 
 only really two complaints about this game , the same old monster / experiment story , and the 
 save system .You will need a fairly high spec system to run it properly , with the 1.3 patch and 
 HR lighting enabled , it can crawl , even on my system which is an animal . The game is long , 
 it will take about 20 hours to finish end to end if you never die , and you will die a lot , and 
 this game is hard , the enemies are very clever and take a few hits to take down , they wear body 
 and head armour in some cases ( humans ) , the monsters on the other hand , well I dont see why 
 this sort of story keeps getting rehashed , they should have left them as dinosaurs like they originally 
 intended which would have been a lot more fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Amazing graphics, the lush greenry, the water and the draw distances are amazing. I can snipe 
 a solider 20 miles away. 
  - Great Sound. Everything sounds realistic. The guns are loud like they should be. My subwoofer 
 is put to good use. 
  - Gameplay mechanics are perfect, simply perfect. There is a good selection of weapons that actually 
 make sense and are well balanced. AI is pretty smart.
  
  The Bad:
  - Multiplayer could use some work.
  - Story isnt wow material, but it isnt bad either. It 
 a decent story. I only mention this because I need to be picky about something.
  
  The Ugly:
  - You can get malaria from being in a lush jungle environment. Excessive sun can cause 
 wrinkling.
  - Ok I got nothing. This is an amazing game. 
  
  Comparative Analysis:
  Doom3 may look pretty, but Doom3 has nothing on Farcry. Half-live 2 is over-hyped but is quite 
 frankly an average game. Overall Farcry is a better game.
  
  Final words:
  The best first person shooter I have played in a long time. It sets a high bar for future games. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Retail, eBay or Never:
  Buy you cheap bastard. And dont borrow it from your friend or download or *ahem* educational purposes. 
 This is a MUST own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahoo91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the best first person shooter I have played since half-life 1 (I have not played half-life 
 2 yet) . The open ended means of accomplishing your objectives (e. g. paths allowed to take to get 
 to your endpoint, which enemies need to be taken out, etc) is unparalled, even compared to games 
 that tout this feature.
  
  Even better, this game was (and is) much more inexpensive than games of lesser quality, giving 
 this game an unbelievable value.
  
  Also, the graphics in this game are top-notch.
  
  This game is an all around winner and a must-play for anyone who enjoys this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  After finishing Far Cry, I have to say the experience in the game is great, duration is good (not 
 great) , the only thing I didn't like was the excessively difficult final level. Boss fights are 
 ok (although a bit old style) , but the restrictions and change in pace and maneuvrability in comparison 
 to the rest of the game are a small let-down in an otherwise excellent experience.
  
  This game is just so stunningly beautiful. It's incredible. The freedom you feel moving around, 
 looking at the water and the sun.
  
  Of course the bad news is that immersion comes just from that, great visuals. There are hardly 
 (2) characters that you talk to and then only in cut-scenes. The final levels were starting to 
 get to me, it was just taking a bit too long.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun and surprisingly challenging. Unlike most FPS games in which blasting 
 through with guns blazing is just as effective as stealth and finesse, in Far Cry if you don't 
 scope out the area and plan your assault you are practically guaranteeing your own destruction. 
 The need for stealth though is limited to your approach and planning stage. Once you fire the first 
 shot, everyone knows you're there. You can still duck and cover to prevent being mobbed, but they'll 
 be looking for you!
  
  The enemy AI is amazing. They sneak up on you, hiding in the grass and behind rocks and trees. 
 They call for back up. They lie in wait in buildings while you destroy everyone around them, and 
 then when you walk into the building with your gaurd down they blow your head off. The best part 
 about the AI in this game though is their reaction when they hear you, but they can't see you. 
 Too often in games that require stealth the first sound you make causes every enemy in the vicinity 
 to be drawn to your EXACT position, and you have no abilty to melt back into the shadows as any 
 move you make is mystically known by everybody - unrealistic and extremely frustrating. Alternatively, 
 you are able to hide again, and as soon as your stealth meter bottoms out the fact of your existance 
 is magically erased from everyones mind. Not in Far Cry. They know you're out there, but they aren't 
 sure where. They'll fan out and start hunting you down, and will call out to the others when they 
 see you. And they won't forget. They'll keep looking until they track you down.
  
  The graphics in this game are beautiful. Lots of detail and not a single seam in sight. The grass 
 grows thick and lush, not in sad little clumps. The trees blow in the wind. The water is clear 
 or muddied, depending where you are. Very nice.
  
  The use of sound is fantastic. You can hear enemies sneaking up on you (positioning your L & R 
 speakers wide and to the sides of your head is very helpful) . No more aiming left only to be attacked 
 from center (grrr) - the panning is accurate and crystal clear. If the sound came from left of 
 center, then that's where the enemy is. The insect noise in the swamp is a nice touch, and realistically 
 effects your abilty to detect approaching enemies. The music is unimposing and picks up a bit when 
 you've been detected. The trigen sound effects were great, really gave me the creeps a la Jurassic 
 Park. *shudder*
  
  There were a few minor bugs, nothing that hampered the enjoyment of the game. The most common one 
 was after a death the game would auto-load some random save point, the radar blacked out and the 
 stats would be missing. Easily solved by doing a proper load from the menu screen with no need 
 to restart the game. There were a few odd sound artifacts as well - a repeating rock fall from 
 when I tossed a rock (occured a few times) , and once a machine gun kept sounding after the death 
 of its handler. No big deal.
  
  The overall game is great, it doesn't get boring or frustrating despite the challenges. The single-player 
 campaign has 20 levels, all of them a good hour or so long (unless you like god-mode I guess) . 
 That's a big bonus for someone like myself who is not into the multiplayer thing. The battle with 
 Kreiger was surprisingly easy though after I'd heard it was among the more difficult and frustrating 
 boss battles. Perhaps I was just lucky.
  
  At the outset this game reminded me of Serious Sam. Must be the tropical local. Thankfully though 
 this game doesn't try to pull off the humour of Serious Sam. Which is good, because Serious Sam 
 was hilarious, and it would have really cheapened Far Cry to try to imitate that humour. But for 
 any one who is a fan of the movie Office Space, there's a great moment for you towards the end 
 of the game (in the Swamp level if memory serves) . I won't spoli it here - be sure to eavesdrop 
 regularly!
  
  I do think the game was really over-hyped though. While it's true that the graphics, sound, and 
 AI do raise the bar technically and the single player campaign is long enough to justlfy the expense 
 for those of us who don't play online, there is nothing that particulary stands out to me, nothing 
 really revolutionary or unique. It's kind of like a well aged wine - it's still made of grapes, 
 it just tastes better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2004 4:42 pm PT
Review:  i have to say that far cry is nearly as good as half life 2, its just an amazing game to play or 
 just to look at. When you first play the game you will notice the incredable graphics. Even on 
 my rubbish Geforce 4 mx its quite good looking. 
  Good points, great gameplay that mixes run and gun shooting with tactics. Be warned this game is 
 very hard and takes time before you can master it properly. Its a big game with 20 levels, the 
 first five you just shoot enemy soldier then after that theres a mix of soldiers and Strange big 
 mutant things with rocket launchers as arms. AI is brilliant the enemys use cover alot and use 
 tactics like scouts come up from behind and suprise you.
  
  The graphics are also amazing, some of the best on PC nearly as good as doom 3's and HAlf life 
 2's. You do need a good graphics card to run this game but even a geforce 4 mx can run it well. 
 The most incredable (sorry about some spelling mistakes) graphics are water effects that look amazing. 
 There is also a cool efect of wherever you shoot an enemy a realistic looking bullet hole appears 
 on them.
  
  Sound is great, from bullets to explosions, from dying soldiers to angry monsters its all good.
 
  
  Its also good value.
  
  Bad points, There arnt many bad points in this game in terms of gameplay except indoor levels are 
 usually boring and you always find youself wanting to just get out in the open. There is nothing 
 wrong with the graphics except you needing a good graphics card.
  
  overall this game rocks, its a great game with incredable graphics that takes time to complete 
 without cheats because its o hard.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2004 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I've only played a few "First Person Shooters" in my gaming life, mostly being drawn towards Flight 
 Sims so I went into "Far Cry" with little experience... I must though after playing and replaying 
 this game that is is certainly the best FPS I've ever done but it is also probably the best game 
 I've ever played thus far.
  
  Graphics:
  The first thing that grabs you is the graphics... I've a gaming rig I built July of '04 and I spared 
 no cost to make it as fast as possible at that time. 
  
  My current rig:
  AMD Athalon FX-53 Processor
  Asus A8V Deluxe Mobo
  HIS Excalibur X800 XT PE with IceQ II Cooling
 
  1 gig of OCZ 3500 Ram
  Twin Wester Digital 74 Gig Raptors in Raid 1
  Asus DVD
  Plextor DVD +/- RW 
  Coolermast WaveMaster Case
  Antec Neopower 480 PSU
  Sound Blaster Audigy 
 2Z Platinum 
  
  With the above I run Far Cry on the highest settings, flat out and the game looks absolutely stunning. 
 No cramped corridors, no dimly lit rooms (at least not many) here you see and play in beautifully 
 rendered wide open spaces and I just can't believe how beautiful it all looks. Groundbreaking graphics 
 as simple as that.
  
  Sound:
  Birds chirp, frogs croak, dragonflies buzz, the breeze rustle through the trees. You could almost 
 walk around like you're in a tropical paradise until you hear someone bellow "I'm gonna shoot you 
 in the face!". Sound and music here are almost as fantastic as the graphics but I don't know if 
 it's leaps and bounds above the rest but it impressed the heck outta me.
  
  Gameplay:
  I feel that this is where F. C. really shines. I've play "Call of Duty" and some other FPS and really 
 grew to dislike the scripted nature of the games. To "accomplish X you must do Y and get there 
 this way." While it's exciting the first couple of time you play the game it quickly becomes a 
 frightful bore. With F. C. you can play the same mission 10 times and find almost as many ways to 
 beat it. You can go "Rambo" you can use stealth, you can throw stones to lure opponents into traps 
 for ambush. There are a hundred ways to skin the cat. I love this game... 
  
  Multiplayer:
  I don't do this so I won't comment. 
  
  Story: 
  Nothing "original" but entertaining 
 nonetheless.
  
  Conclusion:
  Ground breakin graphics, adequate story, superior sound and marvelous gameplay adds up to one superb 
 game. 
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 18, 2004 2:26 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is easily one of the greatest games I've played and I'll ever play. From the storyline 
 to the graphics to the gameplay, this game is nearly perfect.
  
  After your ship was blown to shreds by a rocket, you find yourselft in a tropical island. Mercenaries 
 are everywhere. The woman you were escorting has been kidnapped. Ever had one of those days?
  
  The game is played from a first person perspective, but you just can't fire everyone in sight. 
 You need to go quietly, crouching, so the mercenaries can't catch you... even if they have a superpowerful 
 eye and ears. Well, that's what it seems, because they can see you AND hear you (even if you've 
 gone prone) from miles of distance.
  The game also feature vehicles. There are buggys, trucks, patrol boats and the like. 
  Also you 
 can take different routes to accomplish the objectives, which makes the whole experience even better.
 
  
  The enemy A. I is damn good. It isn't heavily scripted as in other games (Call of Duty comes inmediately 
 to my head) , instead they really take cover, strafe, run if you throw a grenade, call for backup, 
 work together... even on the easiest difficulty setting they really blow you a## off. Also there 
 is no quicksave system (this is supposed to be solved on a patch) , if you die, you need to start 
 from the last checkpoint, whice are very well placed on the levels, so it's not that bad.
  
  The graphics are one of the game's most impressive aspects, if not THE most impressive aspect. 
 The propietary CryEngine can render miles of terrain without slowing down. Talking about the terrain, 
 it's stunning. The islands are extremely well done. Everything in the game is very detailed. I 
 got killed many times because I was looking the environment.
  The characters also are pretty well done, so are the weapons. The game features pixel and vertex 
 shading (check out the water effect) and real time lightning (this one's really cool) .
  
  Sound effects are very good, the weapons, the voice acting (not considering the "I'm gonna shoot 
 you in da face!" dialog) and the music.
  
  I haven't checked out the multiplayer, but even without it there is a decent replay value. Try 
 playing in the "realistic" difficulty setting. Don't bother with the loading times, they are very 
 short. If you get killed, the game reloads inmediately, not as other games, like Painkiller.
  
  Overall, Far Cry reaches a new level of perfection. It's an absolute marterpiece in every possible 
 way. If you have the computer to handle it, go but it. It's worth it. CryTek really deserve some 
 support. It's their first game ever... and it's one of the best games of 2004.
  
  NOTE: I had some problems running it with my NVIDIA graphics card. If you see a "blue fog" (which 
 makes the game somewaht of unplayable) download the latest patch (v1.1 it's enough to get the game 
 running) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2004 4:19 am PT
Review:  I was an avid gamer in the 1980's and early 1990's and use to dream of games like this. The graphics 
 are awesome. The sound is great on my 5.1's. The game seems to last forever so it is a good value. 
 The story may be a little weak. I prefer FPS's with more realistic story lines as compared to those 
 with mutants or insects, but hey, the object is to shoot whatever moves and this game is great 
 for that. The gameplay itself seemed a litlle cumbersome at times. At first I seemed to always 
 have trouble trying to descend ladders but I eventually got the hang of it. All in all, this is 
 an excellent game and well worth having in your collection., 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosword
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2004 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has been out since the begining of the year and I'm just now getting my hands on it, 
 so if you're like me and have waited this long to get it, read this review. The story isn't all 
 to complicated but it is pretty in depth. You were hired to protect this girl, but are ambushed 
 by mercenaries hiding out on an island working on a secret mission. Your objective in the beinging 
 of the game is to find the girl your protecting and get off the island alive. Easier said than 
 done. The enemy AI is really good, and it's just plain hard. Hard, but fun. The graphics are some 
 of the best you can find. The island is well done and looks so realistic you can practically feel 
 the bushes brushing by you as you walk through them and the sun beating down on your head. Not 
 much more can really be said but this is an outstanding graphical achievment and real fun to play, 
 despite the difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesker017
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2004 6:12 am PT
Review:  Simply put, Far Cry is one of the best games I have ever played. It is totally immersive and diverse. 
 There are many ways to do almost everything in the game, especially earlier on, that you can always 
 replay it and try a different path. You can be ultra sneaky and quite and try to crawl your way 
 through a level or you can do it the way I did the first time I played through, look for every 
 enemy and kill them on site. I restarted it as soon as I beat it and on a harder difficulty. The 
 difficulty of the game is a draw back to some gamers because it has only autosave feature unless 
 you have the new 1.3 patch and there are many parts that will require you doing them over and over 
 again. Although most won't mind this because the game is so fun. Also in the diversity of it all 
 is the enemies which vary from basic soldier, to fully armored soldier, to creature that can leap 
 fifty feet and kill you with one swing, to creatures that can take whole clips from a jackhammer 
 to bring down, to even invisible enemies. There are also enough guns to take care of all situations 
 you encounter, just hope you carry the right ones cause you can only carry a max of four at a time. 
 The sound and graphics are superb and rivaled by few games, and I have never played in more massive 
 environments. With a multiplayer to boot, this game is for sure a must play for all pc gamers and 
 fps gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denisefr
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 5, 2004 12:04 am PT
Review:  Whatever appeal this game has for others is lost on me. Granted the graphics are pretty - if you 
 like jungles that appear to have escaped from an animated feature film.
  
  It had some potentially great ideas but somehow the whole thing just fell flat.
  
  The game 
 play is annoying - driving vehicles in first person means you can't see where you're going half 
 the time but if you choose instead third person the camera takes you into trees, cliffs and other 
 obsticles. Very aggravating.
  
  There is some attempt at a story line - driven with cut scenes where the main character appears 
 to be some amalagam of mercenary and surfer dude. Now, I know I'm probably so far out of their 
 projected demographic its not funny, but the female character, Val, if I'd been able to, she is 
 the first one I'd have filled full of lead. In some missions you have to keep her alive, but she 
 appears to do nothing to help with this goal except yell very unhelpful instructions at you.
  
  Its all been done before and better - the only plus for this game is it managed to get out 
 on the market first.
  
  If you want to run about shooting at mercenaries play Soldier of Fortune, if its mutants you like 
 to decimate try Red Faction - these games might be older and lack the advanced graphics of Far 
 Cry but in the end they provide a much more satisfying FPS experience.
  
  A final word - if you need to play a cutting edge FPS (and who doesn't?) - try out one of the big 
 releases of the year - Doom 3 or Half Life 2 - notwithstanding the hype they're still worth the 
 time and money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orkfreak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2004 6:02 am PT
Review:  A beatifull game because of it leveldisign and graphics and the sound is just amazing.
  for any fps fan this game is a must!
  
  Gameplay: great AI and beatifull in and outdoor levels 
 en it will keep you bussy for around twenty hours and then you still have the great multi-player.
 
  
  Graphics: the graphics are just AAA. there the best that I have seen in a while.
  
  Sound: the sound is also AAA because of the great theme and special effects.
  
  Value: a singleplayer 
 that keeps you bussy for twenty hours and then yhe great multi-player and the you still have the 
 a level cunstuction set that will keep you also bussy for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nohabs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2004 2:29 am PT
Review:  Here is a game that has it all. Great graphics, sound, AI and gameplay. It's downfall although minor 
 is that It could have been longer. The sniper rifle is unlike any seen to date, my fav. weapon, 
 the rocket launcher is no slouch either. The map is huge, with lots of room to move around for 
 the right spot to take on the bad guys . You get to ride boats and vehicles with machine guns. 
 Some say the jeep is hard to drive, well I can say it's not the best but the awsome machine gun 
 makes up for any poor mobility. The AI will keep you on your toes because they are very quick to 
 spot you and get you. The beautiful graphics and fun gameplay will make this a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2004 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best, if not the best looking game out for right now, being a week before 
 Doom 3 comes out Far Cry was released on March 23 of 2004 and has been awing fans ever since.
 
  
  Utilizing the CryEngine produced by Crytek, a company out of Germany, Far Cry is definitely the 
 most detailed, colorful engine out on the block today. The game's physics scream out to you when 
 you plug a mercenary in the head with a sniper rifle from 200 yards away and you watch his body 
 fall over the railing of his guard tower and tumble to the ground below. The smoothness of the 
 engine is a credit to the developers for making the game run even on my old comp which only had 
 a 600 MHz CPU with a Geforce 420MX with 384 MB Ram. That's a feat in itself. True, you don't see 
 the natural beauty this game portrays with that type of rig, but once I loaded it up on my new 
 system, I was sincerely amazed by the amount of jaw dropping graphics in this game from the first 
 level alone.
  
  The CryEngine also has great A. I. in itself and can been seen when you happen upon a group of mercenaries 
 for the first time. After they realize that you're around, they spread out and try to flank you. 
 They actually use strategic tactics to take you out. They act necessary to the situation, whatever 
 it may be. Whether they find a body or see that someone is missing on their guard duty.
  
  Throughout the game's 20 levels where you battle everything from an ordinary foot soldier to a 
 mutant that has a rocket for a hand reminiscent to the huge demon in Doom. You'll scream at your 
 monitor screen as you plug multiple clips into the beasts armor body as you wait for it to drop 
 before it decides to plug you with yet another rocket.
  
  The story of the game is done decently, nothing spectacular, but the cinematic movies in-between 
 mostly every level has a great amount of detail that will keep your eyes from blinking properly 
 because of the amount of realism.
  
  The level of difficultly has definitely gone up in games of the times. Far Cry, even though looking 
 like an ordinary first person shooter (FPS) , will have you repeatedly hitting the quickload button 
 to finish each mission. A new feature, not used by many FPS's is the unique saving feature which 
 saves only after you proceed through the mission enough. There isn't a quicksave feature which 
 has lead some fans to some annoyance, but it also keeps the difficulty level pretty high. I myself, 
 have known a few people to just skip the last level because of how difficult it truly is. A patch 
 known as version 1.1 has been released to fix up the few bugs that have been present after release 
 and a new patch labeled 1.2 has also been released to answer the quicksave feature among other 
 nice features, but it has been recently redrawn from the net stating that it has been hurting some 
 people's game because of graphical errors in Radeon series of graphics cards.
  
  But, there are always short-comings in games of course and this game has few. One could complain 
 about the end-cinematic movie being way too short for the amount of pain and tears that the player 
 has gone through during the game. Also, some people have found the difficulty too hard, even on 
 the easiest setting, but the other end of the spectrum could say, suck it up. So, for this game, 
 I give the following scores...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakerjack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2004 3:45 am PT
Review:  First things last. If you want to truly enjoy Far Cry make sure you have a top of the line gaming 
 machine. Also it might be a good idea to have proper airflow within your machine because this game 
 will tax your machine like no other game before it.
  
  Now to the game itself. WOW, WOW, and WOW. I hadnt heard of this game, or of Crytek until I read 
 a review about the game on Gamespot. Now they compared this game to Half Life, and thats a bold 
 statement, a very bold statement. But it is 100% true. This game really delivers on all facets 
 of what a game needs to be. Amazing graphics, extremely fun and challenging game play, killer sound, 
 good A. I, and a story good enough to keep you interested.
  
  The graphics in this game are unprecedented. This game did come out before Doom 3 and Half Life 
 2, and in my opinion, the graphics still beat both of those games. Doom 3 is too industrial looking, 
 and Half Life 2 just doesnt come close (HL2 does have better character models, however) . If your 
 system can handle it, make sure you put on the ultra effect for the water detail. It is simply 
 unbelievable how well the water is rendered. It is truly photo realistic. The character models 
 are good enough, and the world textures are perfectly done. The rag doll physics done on the enemies 
 is also phenomenal. Simply put, the graphics in this game are unequivocal.
  
  The gameplay in this game serves its purpose. It is very fun and challenging at the same time. 
 The later levels get to the point of impossibility but they are beatable. The game incorporates 
 vehicles as well, and while not as meshed as the vehicles in Halo, they serve their purpose.
  
  If your computer can handle it, you need to play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizeguy525
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2004 12:30 am PT
Review:  Outta nowhere one of the best FPS games ever arrived. I hadnt even heard of its developement or 
 any hype about this game, but yet when I saw an article on it I had to check it out and see for 
 myself what this game was all about. Let it be known this game delivers some of the BEST graphics 
 in a FPS ever! and the physics within the game are inspiring. I've played every FPS out there, 
 believe me, and this game engine beats them all. The single player storyline in this game is addicting. 
 I didn't want to stop playing until I finally beat the game. It took me awhile, im guessing about 
 15-20 hours to beat the game and it was self satisfying. THe multiplayer aspect of this game IMO 
 sucks. But, thats not why I bought this game, i had an idea that this wasnt meant to be a great 
 multiplayer FPS out of the box, I only wanted it for its single player aspect and to experience 
 this new engine. Also another thing to keep in mind is that you meet the recommended system minimums 
 AT LEAST, or better yet beat the minimums to get a truely awesome game expierence. I ran it with 
 an AMD 2500 XP and an ATI 9700 Pro just fine with max settings FYO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2004 1:57 am PT
Review:  ( yes, i own this game since march 2004, for your information )
  
  March 2004. The new technology of games is finally here. It's precusor, Far Cry, is by now the 
 beautifulest game before arrival of Doom 3 and Half-Life 2. Seriously, have you ever seen such 
 beautiful water and textures? With the right hardware, Far Cry is a marvel to behold. Not only 
 in terms of graphics, but everything else too.
  
  When you buy this game, it's surely for the single-player campaign. It's the most interesting aspect 
 of the game, and for some good reasons. The scenario is a classic, but still it keeps the game 
 interesting with attractive cut-scenes ( not in-engine ) .
  
  The A. I is a wonder in FC. When you shoot them, they'll come investigating the place where to bullets 
 came from, they will seek cover, call in reinforcements and kill you pretty efficiently. In fact, 
 the game is hard at the Easy setting. They are still some flaws in the A. I like when you stand 
 near a doorway and kill them one-by-one until you get a bunch of corpses.
  
  The action is very solid, tense and will always happen when you're in cover, then attack, cover 
 back, etc.. You can charge too even if I do not recommend it to you. If you are intelligent you 
 can go stealth with plenty of options. Throw rocks to distract your enemies, shoot then pass some 
 ways that were blocked, etc..
  
  A bit after the beginning, you will get a new challenge which will force you to change tactics 
 a bit. Even if some persons dislike those new enemies, I find them pretty amazing to fight. Wait 
 till the last level, you'll see they're hard.
  
  The vehicular action is very good too. Riding in the jungle in a buggy smashing guys and shoooting 
 other guys is pretty fun too. The deltaplane can be used to go stealth during some portions of 
 the game. These are the best vehicles I've ever drived in a shooter.
  
  One of the cool aspects of the game is the long range view of 1.2 km. This lets you see enemies 
 from afar, pick your favorite strategy , then go into battle. When you'll get the sniper rifle, 
 you'll see that shooting enemies from a kilometer is a very fun aspect.
  
  On the technology side, it's perfect. The graphics are wonderful, with beautiful water refractions, 
 bloom textures, lightning effects and bump-map. The sound adds to the tense level on some missions.
 
  
  The campaign lasts a big 20 hours easily and more since you'll likely do it much more than one 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarman7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2004 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Got it all- excellent graphics, storyline, playability- just a kick butt game. Watch what difficuly 
 level you set- cause it IS accurate. Try medium the fist time through- will challenge all but the 
 expert gamers. And, remember this line- "bleeping mutants!"- as your will find yourself using it 
 often. Just remember- if they dont see you they can be killed easily- if they do, you're in big 
 trouble. Use stealth as much as possible, as in this game, speed and impatience kills- and unless 
 you add cheats, you cant save your game at will. Avoid "realistic" setting at all costs and enjoy. 
 The graphics are just outstanding! Max out the settings ONLY if you have a top of the line card. 
 My ATI 9600xt could not handle above 1280x1040 without affecting gameplay, but my 9800pro handled 
 it well at that level. Couldnt go any higher as that was my LCD's maximum resolution, and it doesnt 
 handle any higher level without blurring. The story line moves quite well from level to level through 
 the jungle. Vehicles are easy to drive and shoot from, and the did I mention the graphics? This 
 game makes Unreal 2004 look like a 2d classic from the 90's. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2004 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics ever. The water is just amazing but you will need a good pc if 
 you wish to set it on the high graphic setting but you could have it on a low setting and its still 
 not bad. I like this game so much mainly because i like to look at the graphics and detail but 
 the gameplay is also amazing. It is a really fun first person shooter and i like this better than 
 Halflife 1. It is very easy if you set the difficulty to easy but if you have it on the hardest 
 you will have trouble finishing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game is great. #7 on my all-time favorite list. The Gameplay is fairly standard first person 
 war shooter.
  
  The game engine is incredible. Especially how it shows off the tropical atmosphere. Sometimes the 
 storyline gets dragged out, but overall you will enjoy the experience.
  
  The rag-doll physics are pretty cool. When you shoot things they get bullet wounds and move upon 
 impact.
  
  I truely hope that this tropical theme is utilized in many future games. The colorful environment 
 is gorgeous with abundant plant and even some animal life.
  
  Overall the game is straight forward. Though there are a few places along the way in which you 
 may find yourself reloading repeatedly. I only needed help from the game guide on the very last 
 level. (Forgot all about using the thermal vision to find hidden bad guys.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfschadowe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2004 6:08 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to love Far Cry. The graphics are outstanding and the AI of the mercenaries is 
 believable and surprising. It was exciting to have the AI try to out flank me and to use the terrain 
 for cover. It was also very nice not to have to worry about destroying crates to find power ups 
 and having to choose only 4 weapons to carry around added to the strategy. Often I wondered if 
 I should keep the MP5, or carry the Rocket Launcher instead. Half the time I reluctantly was forced 
 to drop a weapon that was out of ammo in trade for another weapon just so I had some rounds to 
 send toward the enemy. 
  So, what didnt I like about the game? Well, for one thing, LET ME SAVE WHERE I WANT TO SAVE! The 
 checkpoint save system is flawed. I would run down a short hallway and trigger 3 saves, only to 
 spend half an hour at a time trying to fight across a forested area without triggering a single 
 save point. The other thing that really got my goat, so to speak, was the very, very tired plotline 
 of genetically enhanced monsters that got out of control. 
  I like the idea of checkpoint saves, especially when I consider how often I forget to save, but 
 let me quick save wherever I want to. Its my game; let me play it my way. And a note to the publishers, 
 can we please have an original plot? Lets stay away from retired or amnesiatic ex-ubersoldiers 
 fighting mad scientists and their creations gone awry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tory66
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2004 2:53 pm PT
Review:  My copy of far cry came with my 6800 and first things were wrong but when i downloaded the patches 
 those problems were fixed. This is the longest first person shooting i have ever play, amazing 
 graphics, smart A. I., i never really played the multi player because i lost my cd key : (. But that 
 doesnt matter the single player is of da chain , i mean it is top notch. I said its the best i 
 have played but not for long because Half-Life 2 will be released in 2 days. Overall this is an 
 amazing game. UbiSoft is a great publisher they make lots of the best games. Beyond good and evil, 
 prince of persia, splinter cell pandora tomorrow. Love the game, hope for a secual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2004 11:30 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, it's hard for me to get through a full singleplayer FPS if there's just no story there 
 to drive me forward. Far Cry's story is pretty weak to say the least, and has the same predictable 
 twists that almost every FPS has come to endorse.
  
  There are definately great moments in the game, but it starts to get so repetative. The graphics 
 are beautiful, but it suffers from the same uninspired environment over and over. I guess there's 
 no way around that since it is on a jungle island. People will have you believe that there's a 
 lot of strategy and stealth involved, but you can pretty easily run and gun this game for the most 
 part. The stealth itself is kind of a joke, you can get spotted so easily that there's just no 
 point to it.
  
  It's a cool game, but for the most part I think it's carried by its graphics, and the fact that 
 this was the first of the new generation shooters to hit the market, beating out doom 3 and half 
 life 2, so it caught everyone a little off guard, and dazzled the PC gaming world.
  
  Definately worth playing, but overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2004 9:20 am PT
Review:  Its very rare these days for a game to come along and completely blow away any preconceived notion 
 of what you thought was the quintessential video game, especially one from a little known company 
 over in Europe known as Crytek. When someone says first person shooter some of the names that 
 quickly come to mind are iD, Valve, DOOM, Quake, Half-Life, or Counter-Strike. Far Cry will soon 
 make its way into the immediate vernacular, being a great game and a landmark title for the shooting 
 genre. In the year 2000 Crytek began laying the groundwork for their huge title Far Cry, which 
 many people thought would never even see the light of day, citing it as nothing more than a mere 
 tech demo, or simply vaporware. Ironically, it did begin as a tech demo, dubbed X-Isle and X-Isle 
 2, meant for demonstrating the advancing technologies of nVidia series of graphics cards. 
  
  Far Cry did see the light of day, on March 23rd, 2004. The hotly anticipated title clocked 
 in thousands upon thousands of downloads on its 2 demos from December 2003 to just prior to its 
 release. With the heavyweight titles Half-Life 2 and Doom 3 just lurking in the shadow awaiting 
 their releases later this year, much attention has been diverted off this diamond in the rough 
 game. This isnt just a game; its a sheer work of art that should not be overlooked. It is a precedent 
 for games of the future. Never before has a game hit the shelves in a version so stable that there 
 are little problems with the actual game itself other than some multiplayer issues and toolset 
 problems which is understandable seeing how there was no wide scale multiplayer test. The game 
 is even tailored to run pretty even on lower end systems, something that was not really touched 
 on before without seriously degrading the graphics or view distance. With an engine this detailed, 
 vivid and lifelike, that is quite a feat in itself. 
  
  As soon as you start going through the first level (which is preceded by an exceptional intro movie 
 that shows how Jack ended up on the island) you can tell just how different this game is. For starters, 
 a majority of the environment is interactive. Bump into a shelf, box, or gas tank, and they will 
 react upon the force with a simple wobble, or fall over. Previous games objects such as this were 
 static, and this REALLY adds a nice touch to the game. Fire at a lighting fixture and the impact 
 of the bullet will make the light react in a natural manner, with the source of the light very 
 realistically following the way one would if you shook your own lamp. This also creates sound and 
 can alert people in the area that something is awry. If an enemy sees that some shelves are overturned 
 or boxes cluttered, he will say Whats going on here?! and search the surrounding area, or call 
 for assistance. This is just one of the many features that makes Far Cry such a great game to play. 
 In some levels where ammo might not be readily available, you can use the surrounding areas to 
 think of ways to defeat foes. For instance, you can roll barrels down hill should they be provided, 
 taking out anyone in the path, or blow up flammable barrels and kill anyone in reach (or simply 
 use to distract enemies) . As far as distracting enemies for stealth purposes, Jack has an unlimited 
 supply of rocks to use and draw attention to somewhere else, a la Arnold Schwarzenegger in Predator 
 during the final hunt. It often works too. Using the brush or buildings as cover is necessary, 
 because getting one enemy alerted creates a ripple effect, and you do not want them to push an 
 alarm, because then more troops will come to the fight. To answer the problem of, well how do 
 I stay hidden but also know where the enemies are? Far Cry has a unique take on binoculars. When 
 used, if you spot an enemy, it will tag it on the radar and color code it. Green means they are 
 unaware of your presence, yellow means they are alerted to something (gunfire, or sound) , orange 
 and red mean you are in trouble and need to take aim. Coupled with the CryVision goggles later 
 on, this is an excellent way to plot your course through a level, plan ammo usage or make your 
 choices. As you play the game, you will find that you do have a lot of choices to make. 
  
  Another interesting feature of the CryEngine is that if you can see an area, it is real and you 
 can go to it. There are no tricks here. The game has a 2 kilometer range, so you can run, shoot, 
 and drive within the bounds that you see. The game is saved periodically throughout a map, usually 
 before and after difficult areas, although sometimes the auto-save may create some problems for 
 you, if it saves during a firefight. The game boasts around 20 maps, but they can take over an 
 hour and a half to complete for each. Sometimes it takes a little trial and error to complete a 
 certain area, and trying different routes can prove to be most successful than taking a straight 
 on approach, which is warned against. Staying on main paths will draw the most attention. 
  
  One of the most noticeable features other than the engine is the very detailed game physics. 
 As mentioned before, a majority of objects are interactive, but they do not just have one set way 
 of reacting. Force plays a part in how they react, giving it a very lifelike feel, so much to the 
 point that it draws you right into the video game. There hasnt been any real point in the game 
 where it seemed too unrealistic in terms of physics, Crytek really did their homework in this 
 area. Driving is very spot on, and fun to do. One instance of the great physics and environment 
 interactivity in particular is when you are working your way to the top of a shipwreck of a big 
 ocean liner. At the top there are two suspended bridges that span a large crack in the ship, held 
 up by ropes, much like at the end of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. Shoot or cut these ropes, 
 goodbye bridge. It falls just the way it should. Not straight down like in other games, but vivid 
 and lifelike, falling like a feather and quickly picking up speed. 
  
  The plot borrows from a lot of various sources like classic video games or movies. The game in 
 general is largely a cross between Contra (Nintendo) and the movie Jurassic Park. Comparisons to 
 Half-Life and the Doom series can also be made, as the main villain Dr. Krieger is creating mutants 
 and playing God. Trigens, as they are called, prove formidable foes with superhuman strength. The 
 Trigen soldiers have keen prowess and acrobatic abilities, sprawling, back flipping, and somersaulting 
 to avoid gunfire and reach higher ground; which provides for some amazing visuals to behold. 
 
  
  Its amazing just how the artificial intelligence plays out in the game; in fact it is breaking 
 new ground. The mercenaries react just like humans do. Make your presence known, and they will 
 flank out to surround you or call for backup. Reinforcements can come in via foot, mobile units, 
 or dropped in by helicopter. This is where doing recon with the binoculars will help Jack a lot, 
 as you can then track enemy movement. They are well armed and well equipped, and you will find 
 that simply firing at their torso area will not kill them easily. They wear flak jackets and bullet 
 proof vests, but a headshot will kill without a problem at all, naturally. The more elite guards 
 have even more armor and some carry riot shields to deflect bullets. Firing and taking cover is 
 not uncommon for you or the enemy, once they zero in on your position they will begin to crouch, 
 strafe and crawl to your location with the finger on the trigger. You will find yourself jumped, 
 from time to time, and utterly surprised at how well the AI plays against you. If you are spotted, 
 you can vacate the immediate area and the enemy will return to their post, which is more realistic 
 than everyone coming after you. After all, they do have orders, and they do have areas to guard. 
 They will be waiting for you when you return. 
  
  The weaponry is pretty standard for a shooter, with some exceptions. A pistol, machete, shotgun, 
 and rocket launchers are the old standby staples of most shooters, but other weapons such as the 
 OICW, a relatively new weapon in real life, make an appearance. You have other methods of dispatching 
 enemies such as grenades, tear gas, flash bangs or smoke grenades to provide cover. The MP5 comes 
 equipped with a silencer which makes it an invaluable weapon in the many stealth missions. An interesting 
 feature of the sniper rifle is that it can zoom a great distance away; however it is very loud 
 and will alert pretty much anyone in the surrounding area. Each weapon has a varying audible level, 
 so if you use the big guns expect to attract big attention. Sometimes the AI will even determine 
 where the shots are coming from, and order troops to that location. You do want to be choosy in 
 what you use in certain situations, lest you like the attention of Kriegers forces. You are limited 
 to carrying 4 weapons at any time of any size, so planning on carrying weapons that use different 
 types of ammo is a good idea so a slot is not wasted. Of course, different weapons work well against 
 different enemies and various situations, and thats up to you to figure out. When starting the 
 first mission, you will find that aiming handles a lot different in this game than others. 
  
  The game comes packaged with its very own revolutionary map creation tool called the Crytek 
 Sandbox. It is the same utility they used to create all the levels you see in the game, and features 
 a very intuitive drag and drop, WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) interface which is rendered 
 in real time and has a preview window showing exactly what will come out. This is a nifty feature 
 that will keep you from having to load into the game to see the progress on the map, as well as 
 offer all the inexperienced mappers a chance to have a working creation without knowing all the 
 ins and outs of design. Outdoor environment lighting is fairly simple, all you have to do is set 
 the direction of the sun and the level of light from it, the editor takes care of the rest. Planning 
 a night map is different however not that much more difficult. Most people will find this editor 
 extremely easy to work with versus the Radiant tool used with Quake 3 and DOOM 3. The source code 
 is also provided in the same manner making the game exceptionally easy to make modifications for, 
 many of which are already in development. In fact, there were modifications available for the demo 
 versions of Far Cry, quickly assembled by the rabid fan base. We can expect to see some killer 
 titles in the coming years powered by the CryEngine. 
  
  Hopefully other companies will do their homework and use this game as a design point of reference 
 in future projects, because it just doesnt get much better than Far Cry, folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokerij
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 13, 2004 4:51 am PT
Review:  Having problems with graphics, all the ground is blue, using Gforce 5500,. Basically gave up on 
 it. Have tried many help files, etc, but cant get the darn thing to work. Maybe it is just my graphics 
 card, but every other game i play seems to work just fine. Any help [ would be appreciated as I 
 think I just wasted a lot of $$$$. I have tried re installing over and over and still get a blue 
 screen for the floor, water, anything. The rest of the game looks great! But I cant play it like 
 this, so I think I give up. If you are running Gforce 5500, dont waste your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 10, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Give a guy an island and hell only then proceed to genetically modify monkeys and humans beans. 
 Well any-who that was the bloke from the pub told me so it must be true. He also told me there 
 was a guest appearance from Rod Stewart so I decided to check this resort out. 
  
  After a trip to the shops and an installation later I arrived at my dream holiday island only to 
 find them still building the place and rumours of monkeys stealing food from the tourists and pulling 
 peoples pants (trousers) down. 
  
  As I approached the resort a group of vain muscle men appeared to be pointing sticks at me from 
 the shore. Hello Im Sandy from England I shouted from my boat, Id hadnt quite made the beach 
 yet, hope some ones brewing up? Im parched! Now I am not one to get paranoid but I was thinking 
 I am not a welcome guest. Is this where Rod Stewart playing, hello! Now whilst I was mulling 
 over what Rod would be performing that night, (I hoped it would be his earlier stuff) before I 
 got a desired reply of yes certainly one lump or two, one of the cheeky buggers threw a cricket 
 ball right onto the deck of my yacht. Right! I thought, well there is no need for that and I went 
 to remove it. 
  
  Thats all I remember until I came to minutes later my yacht was in pieces, my polo shirt was ruined 
 by the bleaching properties of the salt water but lucky I was wearing my swim shorts (the ones 
 without the inner perishable lining, so technically I was going commando!) . Its not that my shirt 
 could not be replaced, it was the fact that I had purchased it in a sale and it was not refundable 
 and did they seem to care I dont think so. I would make them care, every last one of them
 
  
  From the beginning of the game you are placed amongst the jungle on a remote island miles from 
 anywhere. Your only means of communication comes from one of the islands resident under cover scientist, 
 who by chance (I think not) left his radio communicator lying around a deserted bunker. From this 
 point on you follow his instructions, shoot your way through 20 levels of carnage, with the main 
 aim of correcting the evil doings of some clever scientist who has begun a hobby of genetically 
 modifying apes and giving them shooting sticks (in my opinion he is just alienating himself but 
 each to his own) and then go home.
  
  Ahh but wait, yes its a first person shoot-em up I am not going to lie to you that they are basically 
 much the same but you really need to purchase this one. The graphics and sound are of the next 
 generation of gaming and really do improve the whole atmosphere of the game. Its tense, its blood 
 thirsty and it almost real. The island levels are glorious and are fun to play and the traditional 
 level styles of running around a base shooting monsters are there to. I found myself being unnerved 
 and edgy whilst playing and temporally took up smoking again. To break the tension however the 
 human soldiers use some of the most cheesy war crys such as Im a gunna tear you a new one or 
 something derogative about your person, which keeps you from going over the edge.
  
  The difficulty settings in the game are challenging and this draws me onto my only gripe. Some 
 areas toward the end of the game are just too hard to by completed by skill alone. You have to 
 resort to constantly loading your saved again until luck shines on you. (Im talking about the 
 big guy right near the end for those who have played) . 
  
  Overall a really good game which surprised me as didnt see this one coming. The team involved 
 to produce Far Cry obviously made a lot of effort to bring you this one, so hats off to them.
 
  
  Andrew Wray
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobarrigo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 10, 2004 6:15 am PT
Review:  It had been a while since I purchased a new computer game, so I recently bought Far Cry as a warm 
 up to Half-Life 2. I had no idea what I was in for! Far Cry is hands-down the best video game I 
 have played to date. The game is soooo much fun, the levels are gorgeous, the sounds are excellent, 
 and the experience is unforgetable. This game rocks!
  
  I had never, and I mean NEVER, played a FPS that made me feel like I was really the hero... that 
 is, until I played Far Cry. The level of skill I developed in this game, the intricate strategies 
 difficult situations induced me to formulate, and the excitement and shear terror of the battles 
 has left me stunned. I did not know gaming could be this fun! Throughout the game, I felt a cycle 
 of tension and release as the fervor of looming battle got my adreniline pumping for me to annihilate 
 the mercenaries so callously after my life. And I thought this was just another FPS!!!
  
  Despite having only a mid-range system, my rig ran Far Cry quite well. The 5.1 sound from my Audigy 
 2 was beautiful, and even at 1024x768 resolution (all setttings on high) , my Radeon 9700 cranked 
 out scene after stunning scene, with few slow-ups. However, this game makes me want to upgrade 
 my video card to play Far Cry in all its glory at 1600 x 1200, 4xAA, 8xAF, and all settings to 
 Ultra-High. I am normally very picky about playing games at resolutions below 1280 x 1024 (really, 
 1600 x 1200 is the only way to play) , but as I've been gushing about througout this review, the 
 graphics are incredible at even modest resolutions and settings. And it is precisely the CryEngine 
 (graphics engine) which allows all of the action to take place - the level of realism in the rendering 
 is a new milestone for PC gaming.
  
  The AI in this game is fantastic. For the first time in my long, often dull gaming career, I felt 
 as if I were truly engaging human oppenents in the single player campaign. My enemies were smart, 
 their tactics sharp, and their bullets true... luckily, as the game progressed, I became quite 
 good at picking off my enemies for a distance, plotting against them, setting up traps, and ambushing 
 their positions. Be sure that you play this game on a hard difficulty setting to get the full effect 
 of the AI. There is nothing else in gaming like the rush of being flanked by mercenaries, while 
 covering under sniper fire, with the ever lurking threat of a mutent Trigen looming in the ominous 
 woods for you.
  
  The game's story is good, though at times I was a bit lost as to what my goal was. This is not 
 to say that I ever felt lost, I did not. I knew what to do, but at times I wondered why I was doing 
 it. I think closer inspection shows the story to be quite interesting, but it seemed that the developers 
 were too worried about overloading the player with story when they only wanted action. This is 
 unfortunate because it creates the only flaw worth mentioning that I have found in this game.
 
  
  The bottom line: buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 6, 2004 11:35 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while I break out of my usual pattern of game-playing (adventure/RPG) and do one 
 of these turn-off-the-brain and kill first person shooters. I had a very good experience with Serious 
 Sam, so I continue to dip into this genre. While Far Cry was nowhere near as good as the Serious 
 Sam series, it still will not discourage me from making further time investments into highly rated 
 FPS.
  
  Why is Far Cry not as good as SS? Both games had ridiculous stories (in fact, Far Cry's story is 
 slightly more believable than the SS game) . However, in Serious Sam there were some levels that 
 had simply unbelievable numbers/types of monsters to destroy, and you could truly find yourself 
 turning off the brain and simply firing away at whatever moved, cycling between your various weapons 
 as they ran low on ammo and hoping for the best. Who will ever forget that place in SS 1 where 
 all those skeleton things came around the corner and there was barely anyplace to back up to? While 
 Far Cry is a nice game, it provided none of those sorts of unforgettable moments.
  
  The graphics of course are nice. But I don't really give a darn about graphics. The story is camp 
 (but that isn't necessarily a bad thing - after all, the best video game ever, Grim Fandango, could 
 not have been more campy) but moves along. The end-game is difficult, but I would say that the 
 end-game is the only time I felt completely challenged. I liked the mix of guns and other tools 
 (grenades etc) but overall I was left with a feeling of, "nice game, not great."
  
  This game did not have the turn-off-you-brain excitment of Serious Sam, nor the humor of games 
 like No One Lives Forever, nor a great story-line and yet, I had fun playing it. It had just enough 
 of the right elements to keep me involved, and diverse enough levels and challenges to mix things 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnwon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 5, 2004 6:33 am PT
Review:  Ok to start, the game looks very very good and that's taking it lightly the sound is good not the 
 best but good. The AI is very good, the game is fun not addictive but fun. I can't see why they 
 would give it a 9 it just not a 9 for me the story is ok. The game play sucks, it's the same old 
 same shot and shot some more, the zoom is so slow, you get shot five or more times before you zoom 
 in all the way. The game is worth playing just to see how good it looks but that about it. If you 
 love games like this then you should get it if not save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drive3r
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2004 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The basic storyline of the game is that you are this ex-CIA agent and you now give people tours 
 around really creepy islands and your stuck on one now and have to save yourself and a girl who 
 came along with you.
  Graphics:
  The best graphics i have ever seen in any PC Game especially the water detail. The downside to this 
 though is that you will most probably have to upgrade your systme to even think of playing it on 
 the high detail mode.
  Sound:
  Nothing too impressive. The basic sound of guns is quite good and overall the game sounds quite 
 nice keeping in mind the background music.
  Gameplay:
  Thankfully there isnt any lag in the mouse and evertyhing works well. Nothing too over the top 
 you have your standard gameplay mechanics.
  Overall:
  Although the game might be very fun to play and has a lot of eye candy it can sometimes be really 
 frustrating trying to kill something or someone. I mean you could fire two cartridges into a guys 
 chest but he would still be able to move around and shoot you. Also the later levels get really 
 tough with the really big monsters who all come in packs. But anyway, awsome game and anyone with 
 even the slightest interest in FPS games should give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosteratumd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 25, 2004 2:57 am PT
Review:  Far Cry has the most involved campaign mode since Half-life. The game puts you on a series of tropical 
 islands and loves to put you into outlandish scenarios. The game gives you a choice of four weapons, 
 gives you the ability to prone, duck, throw rocks and grenades, and look around trees for cover. 
 The AI is really smart. The enemies work together to take you down, but on the medium skill level 
 it never overpowers the player. There is an auto-balance mode for the AI, but I haven't tried it. 
 Basically, you are consistently given seemingly impossible situations, but you have a series of 
 techniques at your disposal. You'll die often, but whenever you make it through a ridiculous situation 
 of 30 mercenaries all firing MP5's at you with riot shields, you'll feel like Rambo. And the addition 
 of these techniques, combined with a limit on the amount of weapons makes for a very tactical shooter. 
 
  
  The graphics of Far Cry are visually inferior from Doom 3's, but technically superior, and most 
 often prettier. Where Doom kept you in dark areas and kept colors limited to enhance it's atmosphere, 
 Far Cry gives you colorful islands with realistic shadows and effects. You can see about a mile 
 ahead of you if you're on top of a mountain. The graphics also enhance the gameplay. You'll be 
 able to snipe mercs from huge distances. It's an exciting experience.
  
  There's a couple of minor flaws in the game. One is that the game's story seems more like a prelude 
 than an actual story, like Kill Bill Volume 1. Nothing is resolved. The second thing is that the 
 mercenaries are programmed to attack you before anything else. If they notice you, they will stop 
 what they are doing and shoot at you. Sure, this would make sense, but when mutants are attacking 
 them, and both parties stop hurting each other and turn to attack you, you'll wonder why you are 
 the first target. Fortunately you can usually sneak past them. The game can be frustratingly difficult 
 at times, largely because of the checkpoint feature. Usually, the checkpoints are spread nicely, 
 but there will be times where you will have 4 or 5 checkpoints during 1 mission spanning 2 or 3 
 islands. It gets old replaying those parts again and again, only to die right before the next checkpoint. 
 But like I said, once you finish the level, you will feel like an action film star. 
  
  Far Cry's single player campaign is excellent all around. I highly reccommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ninja
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 19, 2004 11:50 pm PT
Review:  First off I'm going to let you know that the story-line wasn't all up there but, they did a good 
 job with the gameplay, graphics, and enviroment. The multi-player was great and the single-player 
 was even better. I mean sure the story-line isn't so good but you got to admit the gameplay is fantastic. You 
 can mow down a group of guards with your rifle and than hide behind some bushes while their back 
 up arrives you take out you knife and you sneak up and slice them up.
  
  The multi-player is just as great but, is just not as good as single-player is. When you but this 
 game you'll want to play single-player instead.
  
  This game is a must own. I recommend that you get it and play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2004 8:32 pm PT
Review:  GP: 
  
  Far Cry is one of those games that you always wanted. It came from behind the likes of HL 2 and 
 Doom 3 to take the lead into the next generation of PC games. The gameplay in Far Cry is very solid, 
 the different difficulty modes, add a very hard challenge. Overall, even though it's linear in 
 sense of objectives. Sometimes there are multipal roads you can take to get there. The game is 
 viewed sometimes as a graphical showcase, which it is. But they made a decent attempt at a story 
 line and purpose to the mayham. Isn't the though of being Rambo on a tropical island full of mercenary's 
 a good vacation spot?
  
  GP: 
  
  Far Cry doesn't shy away in this at all, pushing everything that has ever been seen on the PC to 
 the next lvl as far as visuals go. Sometimes you'll find yourself just staring at the beauty of 
 island or the water lapping on the shore. Far Cry is on the for-front of technology with this break 
 through.
  
  SD: 
  
  All the sounds in the game seem great, there are a few gun noises that could have had more power 
 in them, but everything for the most part is done very well. Having surround sound with this game 
 is a diffenit plus.
  
  Value: 
  
  Far Cry is prolly one of those games that you won't trade in, even if you beat it, it's just a 
 great game. You'll diffently enjoy your first time through and may even be inticed to go through 
 it a second time. 
  
  MP: 
  
  Far Cry's mulitplayer isn't revolutionary, but its still fun. There are a few problems that have 
 been fixed since retail, and so this aspect of the game has improved. I found it fun to pick up 
 and play, but it's not something your going to stick with long. But it is good enough to enjoy 
 if your a hardcore fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 16, 2004 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry came out of no where to shock the FPS community. Rookie developers Crytek have brought 
 us one of the most beautiful looking game ever made.
  
  Lets start with graphics. At the time it was released it had the best graphics ever for any video 
 game ever made only to be topped by Doom 3 around 6 months later. While Doom 3 technically has 
 better graphics, Far Cry''s graphics are prettier and more colorful, very colorful in fact. The 
 graphics are very sharp you have the farthers draw distance ever in a game, I believe it is 1.2 
 km. You can look through your scope in your sniper rifle and see across the whole island in perfect 
 detail. The player models are very good and the foliage, water and trees make the island a paradise. 
 Great shadows and reflective surfaces. You got your bump maping and if you have one of the new 
 Nvidia Cards you can run Far Cry in pixel shader 3.0 which is something incredible to behold. You 
 need a heftly sytem to run Far Cry in all its glory but the game still looks great even at low 
 to medium settings. Even on low settings it looks better than any console game ever made except 
 maybe Riddick and Ninja Gaiden. On High settings you have the best looking game ever made save 
 for Doom 3.
  
  Gameplay: Now Far Cry seems to be a love it or hate it type game. I love it. The island is open 
 ended and you can go about your missions anyway you'd like. You are free to do what you want. For 
 example you can go guns blazing like Rambo and try to take everyone out real fast or you can go 
 about it in a tactical/stealth type of manner. You can crawl through the foliage of the jungle 
 and take out one soldier at a time with your sniper rifle. There are alternate routes to get to 
 your destiantion. Going straight ahead isnt working? Go in your jeep and flank around the island 
 and suprise your enemies from behind. Climb up the mountain and shoot rocket propelled grenades 
 down on your unsuspecting victims. The open ended gameplay and freedom is what sets Far Cry apart 
 from all other FPS's. It is also a very long game. It can take 20 - 30 hours to finish the game. 
 Other devs should take note what Far Cry and Doom 3 have done, that you can make a great FPS long.
 
  
  The AI is very intelligent, especially on higher difficulty levels. They will flank you and work 
 in tandem to take you down. They will take cover and give each other orders. You can actually ease 
 drop on them with your binoculars that can pick up converstations from a mile away. You can hear 
 their tactical plans. Very cool!
  
  Overall Far Cry may be the best single player FPS ever made. It may be topped when we get Half 
 Life 2 or maybe Fear released but right now Far Cry is the new king of single player FPS's with 
 its beautiful tropical island graphics and the open ended gameplay with terrific AI. A must have 
 for any self respecting FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2004 12:05 am PT
Review:  Released in march 2004, here comes the single-player oriented shooter that reset new standards, 
 and in that compound shall remains the leader for the genre this year. Even when considering Doom 
 III. Both have the best graphics engines, though not always a fluid flow & gameplay, their main 
 flaw next to the unsurpassed UT2004 - so there's a pick for everyone this year!
  
  The gameplay and graphics: the devs have done the best they could I think, we must admit here how 
 detailed is the Crytek engine for res, scaling, texturing. And still the best looking for the average 
 gamer ( especially the short-range textures, coloring, and long-range zooming ) . However all of 
 this comes at a price for the overall flow, sometimes laggy even on high-end machines like mine. 
 The implementation is professionally done, but the game's residual bugs at the release were a bit 
 more numerous than the competition.
  
  The levels and design: strong, logically integrated, varied, a good mix of tropical exteriors and 
 rusted interiors for an overall unique experience. The SP is long, both fun and dramatic. The ending 
 is lame, LIKE many games these years - It's sad to see the devs NOT investing more for good rewarding 
 endings - still when finishing it, the player can say: wow, it's worth the money.
  
  The audio: 10/10, very scarcely do I give high scores for sounds & music coding. It's generally 
 a weakier spot in many games. In Far Cry some weapons sounds may not be perfect for the ultra realistic 
 ( and ever whining ) hardcore fan, but what's amazing here is the highest standard of quality in 
 the coding in every voiceover, sounding, with no noticeable distorsion and noise.
  
  The MP maps online: well designed and that's all. Too laggy online, the mass of gamers just can't 
 support the high-tech engine. It's too easy for the camper to hide 5 minutes in the vegetation 
 without being involved in action, it's much worse than Battlefield. Just my 2 cents here.
  
  In the end Far Cry shows how a good AI coding and a great SP campaign are still memorable to 
 play. Hard, but not very hard since I can beat it at medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2004 11:29 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is probably one of the hardest games I have played epsecialy when increasing the difficulty 
 level. The reason for that is that the Crytek developers did an amazing job on creating a more 
 than decent enemy A. I. I must admit that it feels like no other game just by looking it from that 
 perspective. 
  
  Enemy soldiers tend to hide behind obstacles to avoid your bullets and also co-work together in 
 order to surround you and kill you. They seem to listen to noises too. You can actually hear them 
 talking and making plans how they will attack you. They also may call for reinforces. 
  
  Another great feature is the actual in game graphics. They are very detailed and colourful. In 
 high resolutions you can actually see fish swimming on the sea, birds flying and shadows. The whole 
 environment is just amazing.
  
  Finally, I liked a lot the strategic nature of the game. It's not a run and blast them all game 
 at all. In every level, you need to investigate the area (binocoulars are very handy) , track the 
 enemies, make a plan of action (choose the silent way) and then execute it. Just beautiful, and 
 doesnt apply to just bread-dead gamers. 
  
  The only thing I disliked was the alien/mutants. If it kept the enemies as only humans it would 
 be just great. I just hate fighting mutated crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houli252
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2004 4:01 am PT
Review:  Before i say anything, id like to wonder why you are reading this and not playing this game?
  
  
  Gameplay: This game is just fun. Plain and simple. Controls are all smooth, except for 
 the driving of any vehicles. Jack (character you play) runs at a good pace run, and you can make 
 him sprint if the situation calls for it.
  
  Graphics: Jaw-dropping! These graphics are the best. When walking through the jungle the shadows 
 are just amazing. There are shadows from the littlest leaf. The models look really good, especially 
 in the cutscenes. The neatest thing which im seeing in more games now is that after you shoot someone, 
 you can see where you shot them. When you go in the water you'll see all sorts of fishes and undersea 
 life. The guns look real and sound real good as well.
  
  Sound: Amazing. If you have surround sound for your computer, this game will be perfect for that. 
 You'll hear all sorts of animals around you as your fighting. The guns as i said before, sound 
 great! Nice and loud. 
  
  Some downsides of the game is you need a very, very good computer for this to run at the maximum 
 and for it to run smoothly. Even though the box says revolutionary AI the enemies tend to detect 
 you too easily which can get on your nerves but this game is still worth picking up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silv3rSt0rm82
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2004 11:59 pm PT
Review:  It was a sunny afternoon of past Spring, one of those where I needed to play a revolutionary game, 
 one where I was still waiting for Doom 3 to be released.
  
  When suddenly, I noticed a new release that looked appealing, named Farcry!
  It was made by Ubisoft, 
 I told myself:"What good shooters ubisoft ever made?"
  Junky names like No one lives forever and the likes came to my mind
  So I told myself again:"I 
 guess I won't be missing much not buying it!"
  Splinter cell of course is great but it can't be counted as a First person shooter...
  And I 
 didn't really liked the last rainbow sixs.
  But HELL was I wrong!!!
  
  I came back home and looked at some reviews.
  At first I didn't allowed much trust to the reviews 
 since not all of the reviewers are trustable. Then I saw the Demo, I decided to give it a try.
 
  At first I thought "WOW!!! Graphics are amazing!"
  Then the first time I got the oppotunity to shoot at the first bad guy came my first deception.
 
  
  I aimed carefully at his head.... BANG! ... miss! "Uh?!"
  Yes aiming is a bit tricky, there maybe a little offset, realistic recoil, headshots aren't recognized 
 exactly the way they should be.
  At first it pissed me off so much that I quit playing! (I was a CS fan and HS were an important 
 part of a shooter for me lol)
  
  Then the next day was a boring one too. I decided to give it a try again being a bit less picky!
 
  From this day on came my best FPS action I had in a lifetime!
  
  Graphics are simply amazing, environments are astonishing!
  Azure blue waters, Beaches, Caves, 
 labs, forests etc.
  Farcry sure has the BEST EVER variations in environments!
  (Easy to see when you compare to Halo, Doom 3, halflife, etc, where you get the feeling they use 
 the same textures over and over again)
  
  I began to like it sooooooo much that I always feared the end was near.
  I was hoping this game 
 would never end as it would've had amazed me forever!
  I eventually got through it but I was surprised to see how long this game can last though!
  I 
 got in this shooter hoping for 8 hours of gameplay or so and found myself playing it about 1-2 
 hours a day over 3 whole weeks! (Of course I died often, explored a lot) but I'd say, even if you 
 get through it straight from the beginning till the end you would get at least 15 hours of solid 
 gameplay!
  
  Final words, Farcry easily got on my top 10 best game ever list!
  *Alongsides FF7, Gran Turismo 3, Baldur's Gate 2, Starcraft and some more masterpieces!* (Oh and 
 doom 3 isn't amongst them...)
  
  I think that those who played it and didn't liked must have just judged it too fast (like I first 
 did) or they are plain bad at shooters and keep being owned by the AI! *lol*
  
  FARCRY IS THE GAME OF THE YEAR nothing short of it!
  It even had the guts to make shadows to 
 a game like doom 3, the most awaited game ever!
  Two thumbs up for Farcry's programmers, developpers, and everyone involved! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 31, 2004 12:34 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo a few months back, I finally decided on purchasing Far Cry. The storyline 
 isnt anything to brag about, not that its bad but dont expect anything mind blowing. The storyline 
 is based around a mad scientist who has been experimenting on mutation in order to create a new 
 and superior life form that would be the next step in human evolution. Its rather typical that 
 these experiments go wrong but in this case it was successful, a little too successful.
  
  The game starts off with a cut scene in which your boat is attacked while youre peacefully sailing 
 the open sea. You escape to nearest island and from there the game begins. At this point and onward, 
 you would be guided through missions by one of the scientist using a cell phone (I think its a 
 cell phone) . Youre given an overview of the mission at the point of entry. The game uses small 
 radar located to the left of the screen, which points you to the nearest objective. This comes 
 in really handy due to the large scale of the maps in the game. 
  
  The game is over 20 missions long that spans across many large fully exportable islands. Most of 
 the game is open ended, with just a few parts that realistically limits the gamers options. The 
 first thing you would notice when you play the game is the large amount of foliage. This can be 
 used to your advantage and could be a disadvantage at times. You can use the grass and bushes to 
 hide yourself from the enemy but the enemies can also do the same. As you progress in the game, 
 you would realize that the foliage is your friend, probably the only friend. The game allows you 
 to formulate your own strategies to accomplish the objectives, so there is rarely an occasion in 
 which youre forced to complete a mission a specific manner. 
  
  Depending on the strategy used, the physics implemented in the game can be of great use especially 
 in tight situations. Most of the rag doll effects in the game are believable, but there are always 
 moments where you see dead enemies positioned unnaturally. While the game allows you to pick your 
 own strategy in handling most situations, I have found that a hybrid of stealth with run and gun 
 to be the most effective, with stealth leading the way. The enemy AI in this game is very good 
 and excellent at times. Theyre able to re-group, hide, hold their ground, search, duck, roll, 
 call for help etc. When the AI is working how it should, battles are intense and fun, the other 
 times it just disappointing but those occasions are not frequent. 
  
  I am not an expert on weaponry but the weapons in the game felt and reacted realistically. Accuracy 
 decreased while moving and increases when you are standing still. Each weapon had its advantages 
 and disadvantages, so correct use strengthen your strategy. The weapons felt well balanced and 
 I also liked the carrying limit, which was done very well, so that you dont feel handicap by having 
 only two weapons nor do you feel overwhelmed by carrying an unrealistic number of weapons. In addition 
 to the manageable carry limit of weapons, it also forces you to plan your attacks.
  
  Lets talk about the games graphics. The game sports some of the best, well rounded and visually 
 appealing graphics in any FPS. The large scale of maps, the beautifully rendered water, pixel shading, 
 bump mapping, dynamic light, normal mapped characters and objects and self shadowing. Each level 
 is well polished with a lot attention to detail and makes each mission unique to the other. The 
 environments and places you visit are both interesting and visually appealing. All these graphical 
 goodies would cost you though. The game ran at a descent frame rate on my Athlon XP 2500, 1 GB 
 and 9700 Pro. The loading times were relatively long, but reloading of the levels was pretty fast.
 
  
  While the graphics looked great, there were sections that just seemed incomplete or rushed. After 
 seeing the crashing of the waves on the seashore, not seeing it in the later missions just seems 
 off or unfinished. Some of the textures at some locations were noticeable inferior to other parts 
 of the game. Another aspect, which isnt detrimental but did take away from the game, is the disappearing 
 body. Bodies tend to disappear after some time, making it a slightly difficult in finding dropped 
 weapons..
  
  With such large levels it is expected that there would be some form of transport besides your two 
 feet, the good news is that there is. The game has land, air and water vehicles. All of the vehicles 
 are nicely implemented except for the land vehicles. If you drive in the FPS its bad and if you 
 change to third person it can be the worst experience ever. This is probably the most flawed aspect 
 in the game. The land vehicles are incapable of stopping on a hill, for they always roll back, 
 its as if the vehicles lack a braking system. This problem intensifies in heated battles, leading 
 to frustration at times.
  
  Other issues in the game are being damage from very small falls but this tend to occur when youre 
 outside traversing the terrain on foot. Another issue is that some enemies are able to inflict 
 damage even when theyre out of range. There were moments in which the game destroys vehicles magically, 
 in order to maintain a certain level of difficulty, which also limited your strategy. The multiplayer 
 just lacked the fun factor that can be found in games like UT2k4, but I have only tried the multiplayer 
 once and it was for only an hour. Besides these few problems, the game is a worthy buy especially 
 at $40.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2004 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Often dubbed as the best single player experience since Half-Life, Far Cry definetly makes a mark 
 in the FPS genre by it's great single player, forget the lame multiplayer. Problem is, it's just 
 the flashy environments that give it the substance and catch. The gameplay is pretty simple, by 
 sneaking around in the incredably detailed jungles that reach as far as the eye can see you just 
 shoot marines and get to the location you are directed to. Later in the game you will fight some 
 frightful enemies that you certainly won't expect.
  
  The missions are fairly easy and decently creepy at times, there are many interesting vehicles 
 that you can control which are indeed very much fun but often give an equal amount of frustration. 
 The gameplay is simple fun but nothing revolutionary, nor is the plot. The most annoying aspect 
 of single player is the lack of quicksaving. There are only checkpoints which do come up often 
 but sometimes not often enough and force you to replay a painful battle.
  
  The lush jungles are definetly the game's selling point and will keep you in awe for a long time 
 but more amazing is the games great A. I. Once you fire some shots the enemies will not run right 
 at you (though sometimes they do) they will run around your position using bushes and tree's as 
 cover, they will also shout for back up and have helicopters drop in for support. My only complaint 
 is that unless shot in the head, the mercs usually can take almost a whole round of bullets in 
 their chest, sure there's body armor but these guys are too tought to kill at times.
  
  Also the A. I. can be a major pain in the ass when you have to load a checkpoint and fight them 
 from all angles, the helicopters never miss, their machine guns shoot directly at you with flawless 
 aim and the enemies often do too.
  
  The sound is every bit as engaging, the voices of the characters often sound similiar but that 
 is fine because background sounds such as water, natural sounds erupting from the jungle etc. support 
 the game and it doesn't hurt to have one catchy theme song.
  
  Though I am not completely through the game yet I imagine I am close and have spent less than 10 
 hours on the game. The game does support multiplayer but don't get your hopes up, it falls short 
 on every level. The characters are tough to kill and half the servers are v1.1 and the other half 
 1.2 which is no longer avaliable for download after gameplay problems. It's hectic.
  
  Overall, Far Cry remains a simply enjoyable single player game with great graphics and A. I. although 
 is often over-rated and said to be more than it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fib112
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2004 3:45 am PT
Review:  Far Cry came out of nowhere with an insane, beautiful FPS. Where did this company come from? I 
 couldn't believe the graphics engine, especially when it came to rendering water. Then came the 
 A. I. I could play the same scenes over and have the enemy come at me a different way. Plus, the 
 enemy comunicates with each other adds a level of realism I have not yet encountered playing games 
 like these. I found myself spending more time hiding in the bushes, deciding on an approriate stratagy 
 depending on the situation.
  Towards the end of the game, it became really difficult. I would find myself in situations that 
 required ten to twenty reloads, conserving as much ammo as possible. My only frustration was in 
 the inability to save whenever you want. There were times when I survived a really difficult scene, 
 only to be killed before a save point.
  The sound was equally engaging in the game, although the enemy typically shouts the same commands 
 when you engage him. As far as all other sounds, Far Cry did a great job of keeping my attention.
 
  I also would like to point out that this game came out way before Doom 3. I was running a GeForce 
 5600ultra for Far Cry and it looked great. I bought a GeForce 6800 for Doom 3. Now Doom 3 looks 
 great but it isn't leaps and bounds ahead of Far Cry. The fact that Ubisoft put out a game like 
 Far Cry without the hype Doom 3 has gotten is impressive. Actually, in some ways, Far Cry raised 
 the bar and lessened the graphical shock of Doom 3. I was expecting Doom 3 to be the first of these 
 ultra real games and it was not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -GMAN-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2004 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the best FPS games since, well nothing else, because there is nothing else like 
 it. The vast, wide open outdoor spaces are quite a change from the norm. Being able to zoom in 
 from such a far way away is incredable. Whether you listen in on conversations with your special 
 binoculars or of course use the ever popular sniper rifle. The visuals are nothing short of amazing 
 if you have the system to back it up. Although it is linear, as most FPS's are, there are still 
 many alternate roots to take to reach the same goal. The A. I. is very difficult to conquer if you 
 choose the appropriate setting. All in all a fun and involving game. It's long enough and replayable 
 enough to be in your collection if you have any interest whatsoever in FPS's. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigKr33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 28, 2004 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this game 2 weeks after it came out. Around that time I was still waiting for my computer 
 to be delivered so I couldn't play it right away. I'm running this game with a AMD64 3200+, 450watt 
 ps, sapphire 9800XT, 2x512 pc3200 dual channel, 2x36 western digital raptor 10k HD's. I have the 
 settings at very high with AA low and standard 1024x768 resolution with an average of 60-80 fps. 
 My first impression of this game was like WOW!, Far Cry is really detailed and I didn't think it 
 was going to look this good. To get to the point Far Cry has excellent A. I that you just can't 
 get enough of. Also the levels are huge and are freeroam frendily, but the only problem that I 
 didn't like about the levels were the outdoor levels graphically. The outdoor levels are big, but 
 lacked distant detail which didn't appeal to me. Still though the level design is excellent with 
 the indoor levels being my favorite. The indoor levels have AWSOME eye candy for instance, the 
 metalic shines from piping and steel walls just make you go wwoooww. The reflections are really 
 good to much better than any other pc game I've played. Now the enemies, the enemies in this game 
 are pretty good with the exception of the Fatboy trigen. I didn't mind fighting the trigens unless 
 you got to a Fatboy. The Fatboys just never die, it takes like 4 rockets to kill one and 10 shotgun 
 shells to the head... rediculious is all I have to say. The mercenaries put up a good fight too 
 with the superior A. I the mercinaries have and the awsome skill you have to develope to take a 
 squad out. All in all though this game is truly revolutionary and very innovative and far more 
 superior than any pc and or game console on the market. I would highly recommend this game to any 
 pc gamer who wants a truly immersive game with excellent detail and storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2004 5:55 am PT
Review:  I am comparing this gamespot review result with Doom 3. I have spent a lot of time playing both 
 and I really don't get the comparitive scores by both gamespot and users. 
  1. FarCry is really buggy and the Crytek cannot even patch it's own game after 2 months
  2. FarCry's 
 gameplay is unbalanced. Enemies are too strong and numerous. I like a challenge, but this is often 
 ridiculous
  3. Any PC game that saves like a console title should automatically lose a point in gameplay score. 
 If I wanted a console game, I would buy one.
  Far Cry gets a 9.2 and Doom 3 an 8.5. Doom 3 is a very tight game out of the box with none of the 
 technical issues found in FarCry. I have as much fun or more playing Doom 3, and it works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKingOfFuzz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 27, 2004 5:19 am PT
Review:  In case you were thinking about picking this one up, let me give you a quick heads:
  Before Farcrys release, German police raided Cryteks offices and, after causing some serious 
 six-figure damage, discovered that the company was in possession of pirated image creation software 
 valued somewhere around 100,000 Euro.
  
  Wow... that certainly does explain all those angry posts on the Farcry customer service forums. 
 Come to think of it, it also sheds an awful lot of light on things like the infamous 1.2 patch 
 recall. Trying to run this game on your PC might well be the greatest challenge the game presents... and 
 its a TOUGH game.
  
  You would think that after stealing design software and suffering hundreds of thousands of dollars 
 in damage Crytek might not have been able to get back on the horse and push Farcry to retail, but 
 somehow they did it. In all fairness, its a good looking game, as long as you can get it to run 
 properly. The visuals are, for the most part, top notch, although the exorbitant amount of praise 
 Farcry has received for its realistic graphics seem pretty baffling in the wake of Doom 3. Actually, 
 they were baffling before, too. The world of Farcry is actually pretty cartoonish. Still, whether 
 youre taking in the eerie, rusted interior of an old battleship or slinking through lush green 
 jungles, youre probably going to be impressed. Farcry definitely looks sharp, though its no Doom 
 3 and its likely not going to hold much of a candle to the imposing Source engine. Time will tell, 
 but by the time it does, youll probably playing Halflife 2.
  
  Speaking of Halflife, some of the later levels in Farcry are eerily reminiscent. After a few invigorating 
 strokes in the bizarre looking blue water that surrounds the island and a tough hike through some 
 thick tropical foliage, youll find yourself in a strange laboratory-type environment where youll 
 spend most of your time fighting weird, sci-fi-ish enemies and wondering if Crytek meant to rip 
 off The Island of Dr. Moreau or the Black Mesa compound. On the positive side, the indoor environments 
 are creepy as hell and the use of light and shadow (a happily growing trend in games like this) 
 helps fatten up the fright factor.
  
  In game play terms, Farcry doesnt offer a whole lot that you havent seen someplace before. Things 
 move fast, you shoot them, you duck for cover, you curse in frustration as you die. Dont get me 
 wrong, fast-paced death and lots of ammunition is as good a solution to a problem as Ive ever 
 heard in an FPS, but it gets frustrating when the enemies hear your every foot fall and pick you 
 out in every flitting shadow you find to hide in. Yes, its true: the much hyped superior AI 
 and harrowing challenges youve been hearing about isnt anything more than an excessive and 
 uninspired degree of difficulty. After a few skirmishes with the computer controlled enemies, the 
 masquerade will be over and so will the honeymoon in paradise. Anyone else tired of having developers 
 crank up the number of bullets in a game and then passing it off as a sophisticated challenge?
 
  
  It isnt all bad though. Farcry does throw in some pleasant tactical elements. You cant carry 
 more than four weapons at a time and you cant really drive a jeep through a dense jungle without 
 crashing into a tree and tipping off a horde of heavily armed guards. In the light of the hollow 
 challenge offered by the ridiculously overpowered enemy AI, the limited carrying capacity and 
 realistic vehicle terrain negotiation put some much needed meat on Farcrys otherwise bare bones. 
 
  
  The multiplayer isnt anything to shake a stick at, which is a shame given the enormous potential 
 of large levels with vehicles littered throughout. Of course, the large level part of that last 
 sentence really is the key thing to remember. Its disappointing when you cant run someone over 
 in the jeep because you cant find them. Unless three second periods of nerve-tearing excitement 
 between ten minute periods of complete and total boredom appeal to you, you probably shouldnt 
 worry about human opponents in this game. After all, you can get that same package deal from watching 
 major league baseball. In all seriousness, Farcry was clearly meant to shine in the single player 
 sense, so it probably wont bother most gamers that the multi is more of an exercise in futility 
 than in munitions discharge. 
  
  The sounds of Farcry do what they need to do: they flesh out the general creepiness that the strange 
 enemies, eerie environments and shiny visuals put on the table initially. In a game like this, 
 the sound is only really worth dwelling on if its done something wrong... Farcrys sound certainly 
 hasnt done that.
  
  All in all, despite some sharp visuals and fast action, Farcry is basically a let down. Its a 
 buggy game of questionable origin which, for many gamers, will offer more errors than excitement. 
 The much touted graphical realism of Farcry is are you ready for the pun?- a far cry from the 
 truth. In places, the world is frightening, detailed and fun to look at, but in many others, its 
 simply goofy. Theres better looking water in Morrowind. Theres even better looking water in Baldurs 
 Gate: Dark Alliance. As for challenging game play, if you define challenge in terms of frustration 
 and how quickly an enemy can kill you, Farcry is the game for you. If, on the other hand, your 
 idea of a challenge involves thinking or tactics, look elsewhere. 
  
  Farcry hit a sweet spot because it filled the niche that the delayed epics Doom 3 and Halflife 
 2 left open. I can applaud Crytek and Ubisoft for their timing, I just wish I could applaud them 
 for some serious quality. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatcat
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 17, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Farcry starts off great, it greets the player with amazing graphics, sound, and interactivity. 
 Initial levels utilize stealth with a nice mix of action. However about midway the game abandons 
 this for mindless shooting.
  Opponents have great tactics at long range, giving the player some very interesting battles, however 
 in later levels the cramped bases show that their AI do not handle close encounters very well. 
 Initial troops are fairly hearty and take a reasonable amount of hits before they go down, but 
 in later levels the "elite" non-mutant soldiers can survive several head shots and continue on. 
 
  The story is a modified version of "The Island of Doctor Moreau" where you play as a jock ex-soldier 
 who is dumb as a rock. Every main character is genius, except for you. You spout an endless stream 
 of annoying one-liners and stupid questions. 
  The game uses two very poor methods of making the game harder, one, they increase the distance 
 of auto-save points, two the hitpoints of the same opponents are increased as you progress. Both 
 add frustration, and take players out of the experience.
  Farcry tries to be a great game...
  But unfortunately fails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 25, 2004 5:58 am PT
Review:  If this hasn't already been beaten into you, allow me to hammer away. This is a very pretty game. 
 There are a ton of very nice touches like the foliage, sky, rocks, etc. Also I think this is the 
 first first-person shooter to really have realistic water and waves. The waves lapping up on the 
 shore look very nice. Up till now gamers like us have always had to forgive games of never getting 
 that quite right. No longer
  
  The sound is also very good. I love how the weapons all sound powerful (and they are) . There's 
 nothing I hate more than a weak sounding machine gun (i. e. half-life1, doom3, and some on Battlefield1942) . 
 
  
  This game is pretty but it's also HARD! I'm not sure who the beta testers were but they most be 
 like the best gamers ever because the game's version of "easy" basically kicks your butt. They 
 need an easier setting just because sometimes you don't feel like a challenge. Sometimes you just 
 want to dominate without a whole lot of effort on your part. This game doesn't have that. When 
 you play you really have to get your game face on. 
  
  Another thing I noticed about FC was about 3/4 the way through the game I was loosing desire to 
 play it. Since I paid $50 for it I forced myself to beat the game but it was more like a chore. 
 That probably doesn't happen to everyone, but it did to me. I cant exactly explain it. I think 
 I just got tired of getting my butt shot off and then having to start back at a checkpoint. You 
 think?...
  
  So since the game has been out a while I'd still recommend getting it. You just need to have a 
 good graphics card (128 MB at least) and dont expect to be able to play it lazily (ho-hum) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desol89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 25, 2004 12:28 am PT
Review:  Obviously this game is madly compared to Doom 3, which is why I had a decision on my hands, either 
 take a risk with Doom 3, or get a game of which I was able to play a demo of to see whether I would 
 like it or not. So I played a Far Cry demo and I was having a blast with it so much that I was 
 willing to think about getting this game also. I went to the store and as many people have been 
 disappointed in Doom 3's multiplayer, i decided to take it safe, and boy did it pay off for damn 
 sure. I bought this game without any clue of how truly amazing it is. This game will have you superglued 
 to your computer chair till your butt dissolves. I swear, the demo does about half justice to the 
 graphics. The game uses absolutely mind-boggling superb lighting, bump-mapping, and shadow effects. 
 Each blade of a leaf from every single f***ing tree casts a shadow on your gun in such detail. 
 The water really ripples and reflects images so realistically that at times you really feel as 
 if your soaked when you swim to shore to take on some mercenaries. 
  Did I mention that every single character in the game looks phenomenal? Well they certainly do, 
 and all the human NPC's don't look EXACTLY the same, some nuances are noticed in their faces. 
 
  Of course, none of this comes at a price, the gameplay stands up to all of this just as well. 
 I honestly wonder whether any other game will be able to provide such an equal balance between 
 rambo-action and stealth. Hiding in bushes while sniping mercs in the head and moving on covertly 
 is so intuitive and so fun that you really feel like you're making your way somewhere. Now a lot 
 of people complain at the difficuly of the enemy AI. But thats what makes this games single player 
 last longer and really shine. The mercs just act perfectly realistic. I mean come on, if someon 
 sees a rock coming from a bush, aren't they going to go investigate and spot you anyway? That's 
 why this game is really challenging is that your enemies know how to approach you and take you 
 out. Standing in a bush the whole time will only extend the time you have to live. Even monsters 
 aren't completely dumb-founded, which is how it should be, seeing as how they are also living organisms 
 that can feel, see, and hear. 
  So far I haven't spent enough time with the mulitplayer to make a solid verdict, but so far I have 
 been having quite a bit of fun nailing heads with bullets and ambushing people. The only reason 
 I bumped down the tilt is because all the servers I'VE encountered so far lag quite a bit and at 
 times make the game unplayable. Now I have cable but it's through a crappy Dell router of mine, 
 so you really might have a much better experience with the multiplayer than I have. Also I've tried 
 joining many games only to be instantly kicked out. I'm clueless of this, but maybe it'll smooth 
 out over time.
  The bottom line is, you have to get this game if you have a pretty darn good enough system to run 
 it. I'm not implying that you need a dream system to run it, I run it on a Dell Inspiron XPS and 
 I have no troubles with it, and I run it at the default resolution with ever setting at very high 
 and experience no hitches or lag, just a very unnoticeable clipping every now and then. This game 
 looks gorgeous, actually has a single player campaign that you can play a billion times and still 
 have fun with because of the many ways to complete objectives, and a very fun multiplayer, hitches 
 aside. Now I don't know whether you disagree with me or simply don't believe what I'm saying to 
 you, but you really shouldn't be even reading this review. You should be at some game store begging 
 for a copy of Far Cry. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm knock some mofo upside the head with a bullet 
 with his/her name on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDI7556
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing, from the start of the game to the near end it's a action packed adventure. 
 The enemy a. i. is possibly the best we can see today and the level deatails are just right for 
 the game. I'm on the 18th level so I haven't finished this game yet.
  
  Gameplay: Even though this has great graphics, it maintains a very good gameplay factor as well, 
 it's interesting as far as you go you try to understand what is actually going on, also the Mercenaries 
 are very smart, they use real life tactics to try and kill you, and they can even call in reinforcements. 
 The mutants known as tridgens in Farcry may creep you out, since they can rip you apart if they 
 get too close and the other mutants that carry rocket launchers on their arms are called fatboys, 
 they are dumb and slow but powerful. 
  
  Grpahics: This game has the best graphics I've seen in a game that I've played. The water is probably 
 the best detailed in Farcry, theres good lighting, shadowing and physics which make the game have 
 a very realistic enviroment, the game definately looks like paradise gone wrong.
  
  Sound: The sound is not the best part of this game though, but its done well. The voice acting 
 of the characters is done very well but not the best, some of it might seem weird concidering the 
 way Jack Carver talks because he doesn't really have much expression in his voice. The music is 
 pretty nice as well because some of it makes you feel scared like in areas where you fight tridgens 
 and some of the music goes into a military style with drums.
  
  Value: This game is worth getting definately for the singel player, but the mutiplayer isn't really 
 close the the quality of Farcry's single player, but the mods will probably fix that.
  
  Tilt: n/a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch-King
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 10:06 am PT
Review:  Farcry is a cool game do but I prefer a game like Half Life 2.
  It isnt really a good game to compare but I think games like Farcry should be fast and a lot of 
 fast shooting and actions. And first I liked Farcry and I still do but later in the game you just 
 go in dark places and shoot at monsters and crazy people. They should use more of the engine. With 
 open scenes and things like that.
  And the shouting is a little weird. When I shoot I have the feeling that Im waiting for the reaction 
 and than target again for an other 10 bullets. I want fast actions like Half-Life and Doom3.
  But the graphics make that just a little misery. Over all the game is cool to play and when there 
 are no enemys you should wonder the power of the engine!
  
  The game is fine!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 8:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Far Cry has a great combination of gameplay. Not only do you get to play in the wide open terrain 
 the game is known for but there are some excellent indoor environments that compliment these. This 
 change of environment keeps the gameplay fresh. Vehicles are found throughout the game and you'll 
 also see physics used to enhance the gameplay at quite a few points.
  
  The AI in Far Cry is strong, humans work in teams, take cover, use vehicles and try and defend 
 themselves against the mutants. The mutants use less tactics (as you'd expect) but still make pretty 
 formidable enemies.
  
  Excellent physics are applied to almost every object in the world and surpass all current games 
 and add another great aspect to the game.
  
  Far Cry also has a really great atmosphere, especially in some of the indoor levels - very creepy 
 with lights flickering and dead bodies lying on the floor.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Not too much to say here. They're just fantastic! Again, the indoor environments are extremely 
 impressive, something I was quite surprised with considering I thought Far Cry was all about the 
 beautiful outdoor terrain. DX9 features are put to use throughout, huge draw distances and the 
 best water I've ever seen make for an amazing looking game. Runs pretty well considering how good 
 it looks.
  
  Sound:
  
  All the weapons sounds pack a good punch and listening into the guard's conversations is pretty 
 neat.
  
  Value:
  
  Unfortunately an SDK for Far Cry has only just been released and many mod teams have moved to different 
 engines. The multiplayer is also pretty weak but the singleplayer campaign is a decent length and 
 will last you.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Great game! Excellent mix of gameplay, great graphics and quite creepy atmosphere. Good stuff =)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahyumifan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 7:23 am PT
Review:  UBI seriously did release a masterpiece of the game industry. Far Cry from Crytek is one of the 
 best single player FPS in this year yet. FPS is now a kind of a genre that people beginning to 
 get sick of due to lots of titles in this genre were released and will be release. That was the 
 first impression of the Far Cry, just another FPS; but after I played 5 minute, I just had to withdraw 
 my thought because this game is simply DIFFERENT!!!
  
  Lets talk about the graphics first. Graphic, i shall say.... gorgeous. The way they expressed trees, 
 beach, water... is just too realistic. Even if you have videocard that only can run the game with 
 60 FPS in lowest setting, you will just love the look of the game. Only thing that bothers me in 
 the game is that gun that enemy holds does not lay down after they drop it. It just stand after 
 landed, which it look pretty stupid, but makes easier to find gun in grass.
  
  Sound of the Far Cry is not revolutionary as graphics, but BGM makes sometimes build up your tention 
 in battle, makes you feel that you are in jungle. One thing that I dont like about in sound is 
 Gun. Gun sound do make you feel that you are shooting gun, but it is not loud, and its little simple 
 toned. But it will not bother the game much.
  
  Far cry's Value is one of the little issue in here, It is pretty long for the FPS, but multiplayer 
 section of the game is kinda bad... since weapon is unbalanced, players moving too slow, and having 
 same old game modes. So single player section of the game is what really matters. Thank god, Far 
 Cry is not really a game that you will throw out after first time you play, you probably want to 
 do the whole game again in different approach. You will know what I mean in next paragraph.
  
  OK, now is the most important part; The Gameplay. Gameplay part is one of the part that really 
 matters in FPS, and it is the part that breaked my stereotype of the FPS. One of the big difference 
 in Far Cry compare to other FPS, is that you are definitely not a superman. What I mean is, you 
 will die very quick if you are not careful. Even one soldier that you usually slaughtering throughout 
 the game can kill you by one mistake. In other FPS, you probably think about going through the 
 game with less damage, but in this game, you better not get any damage or else you will see yourself 
 lay on the floor. You can take little more bullet in the easiest difficulty, but it still will 
 kill you if you face 2~3 guys in point-blank range. Another thing that is revolutionary is covers 
 and draw distance of the graphic engine, it makes you to see very far with binoculars. So before 
 enemy even notice your existance, you can see the bare landscape and enemy's patrol route, so you 
 can plan out attack to obliterate all of them without damage. (or little damage...)
  
  Far Cry is just a too different, revolutionary FPS you will ever face. To say to truth, I find 
 Far Cry graphic more attractive than that of Doom 3. If you have not played this game, you MUST 
 play it, or you will regret it for your whole life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rollaster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 2:03 am PT
Review:  Far Cry has to be the best First Person Shooter out there. It has amazing graphics and music. The 
 sound effects are also amazing. i've played Doom 3 and I must say this is much better. The game 
 consist of 20 levels. Currently i'm on the 11th level and i've been playing it almost everyday. 
 There's five types of difficuilty. Currently i'm playing it at normal the seconed one. The A. I. 
 in this game is unbeliable. And does anything that you would expect it to do down to the last detail. 
 To classify this i would say it's a masterpiece. The only problem is the loading times which sometimes 
 can be a bit long. This is one of those rare games that's a must-buy, but read the system requirements 
 first. The game also includesa mulitplayer part, but i've decided to rate the single player part, 
 but the mulitplayer part is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:48 am PT
Review:  If beauty is only skin deep, then it can be said that many recent shooters have been admirably 
 atractive but ultimately lacking. Gamers have accused modern developers of focusing their efforts 
 more on advanced graphics engines than on thrilling gameplay, and in some cases, they are right. 
 Enter Far Cry, perhaps the most beautiful game ever created, and one of the most highly anticipated, 
 due in no small fact to several high quality demos released well in advance of the games release. 
 
  
  Make no mistake, Far Cry is gorgeous to look at, but to see it in all its glory, it takes a high-powered 
 rig. Fortunately, even at lower settings, there is plenty of eye candy to be had, the most impressive 
 of which is the incredible draw distance. The game takes place on a tropical archipelago, and the 
 environments are amazing, both because so much detail is visible from so far, and because even 
 at close range, environmental details such as full foliage and bright white beaches are breathtaking. 
 Additionally, real-time lighting and amazing, realistic shadows truly bring the Far Cry world to 
 life and this is a living, breathing world, in every sense. Birds fly through the air and perch 
 on trees, waves wash onto shore, and fish swim in the ocean, creating an immersive first impression 
 and an exciting sense of alternate reality. Thrillingly, other graphical elements live up to the 
 beautiful and dense environments, and Far Cry features top-notch character animation and models. 
 Other details, such as gasoline fumes blurring the air, underwater bubbles as you swim, and blackouts 
 when a rocket lands nearby, help make Far Cry one of the most graphically immersive shooters ever 
 created. Some minor clipping and environmental pop-ups as you draw closer to objects are easily 
 overlooked and practically unnoticeable as the player is drawn further in.
  
  Dismissing Far Cry as a showcase for current generation video cards would be a mistake, though, 
 for that level of detail carries into almost every element of the game. Your character, Jack Carver, 
 is tasked with rescuing a woman with whom he has been sailing the ocean. While at first it may 
 seem a standard rescue from human mercenaries, Jack soon discovers that in this paradise, there 
 is more than meets the eye, and the tale escalates with evidence of bizarre experiments gone wrong. 
 Gameplay is enhanced by a standard physics engine, although it isnt as complete as it could have 
 been. While you can use some objects to your advantage, such as freeing a metal barrel to crush 
 oncoming enemies, these moments are not common. You can move objects around, but they are generally 
 indestructible. You will alert adversaries to your presence by bumping into objects, but you cannot 
 manipulate them, although your undiminishing supply of rocks makes that a small quibble at best. 
 Furthermore, not only do the expansive settings allow for multiple solutions to missions, but there 
 are no artificial restrictions to exploration, such as invisible walls or impossibly steep hills.
 
  
  The huge outdoor environments and creepy indoor quarters take on a more sinister hue as Far Cry 
 progresses, and those areas provide ample opportunity for Cryteks showy AI to prove itself. Simply 
 put, Far Crys artificial intelligence is highly advanced and reacts mostly appropriately in a 
 variety of circumstances. Human enemies will flank you, call for help, and sound alarms, and when 
 overpowered, will not simply call for help, but run away until reinforcements arrive. Out of doors, 
 this makes the games pace complex, and requires careful action on the players part, as enemies 
 react to noise. You can distract them by throwing rocks, crawl amidst the foliage, or jump into 
 the ocean to avoid being noticed. Using stealth is almost a necessity, as a true balls-to-the-wall 
 approach results in sure death, more often than not. Far Cry is difficult, and survival means measured 
 action, particularly since the AI seems somewhat hypersensitive to your presence. Once mercenaries 
 are alerted, they will come searching full force, meaning a lot of hasty retreats until they have 
 given up, or an exciting but sometimes frustrating fight to the death. The AI does not have as 
 many chances to show off its capabilities indoors, but even then, mercenaries will use alternate 
 entrances into buildings, although those areas are noticeably easier than the more expansive open-air 
 environments. Raising difficulty settings will make enemies more accurate, but does not increase 
 difficulty by other artificial means, such as providing fewer health packs or adding more enemies. 
 Far Crys save system can also cause frustration, as progress is only saved at designated checkpoints. 
 This makes for quite a few replays, but fortunately, the checkpoints are frequent enough, and the 
 missions so open-ended, that it does not cause undue vexation. 
  
  Weapons are well-balanced. As in most shooters, the sniper rifle is a valuable commodity, but ammo 
 is sparse, meaning the player cannot rely on picking off distant enemies at will. The M4 has both 
 standard and single-shot modes, making it effective at long and medium ranges, and the silenced 
 SMG facilitates stealth, as enemies cannot hear it until they are rather close to you. You also 
 have a few different grenades available, and the flash and smoke grenades are rather handy for 
 sneaking away when things are getting tough, particularly against the largest non-human adversaries. 
 Vehicles are an integral part of Far Cry, although not as useful in offensive positions as in other 
 games, as they give away your position quickly. Fortunately, this can work to your advantage, as 
 your opponents give away their own locations in kind. Jeeps, for example, make you particular vulnerable, 
 as they offer no protection to the drivers upper half, although running over foes as you speed 
 across the beach is satisfying nonetheless. Vehicles can be maneuvered from both first- and third-person 
 views, and while the third-person view is easier to manipulate, vehicle control is not very tight. 
 Enemy vehicles, on the other hand, provide for some of the more exciting sequences, as helicopters 
 swoop overhead, mercenaries firing from the doorway, or dropping to the ground to hunt for you 
 on foot. 
  
  Sound is mostly excellent as well, and as detailed as the visuals. Ambient jungle sounds such as 
 chirping birds and buzzing mosquitoes make for a riveting atmosphere, and Crytek has made good 
 use of directional sound. You will hear soft rustling of enemies as they sneak through the foliage, 
 conversations between mercenaries that foreshadow coming events, and the whirring of helicopter 
 blades as it passes overhead. The music also heightens the cinematic feel of Far Cry, and increases 
 in ferocity as the action intensifies. The voice acting is serviceable but melodramatic, and mercenaries 
 cycle through the same one-liners often, such as I dont know what that was, and I dont care 
 when they hear you make slight noise. 
  
  Considering Far Crys impressive single-player campaign, the standard multiplayer is disappointing, 
 although certainly acceptable. There are several huge maps from which to choose, and three play 
 modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, and assault. Vehicles present the same problems here as in 
 the single-player game, and their control difficulties make travel on foot a more attractive option. 
 However, they can come in handy for simply crossing the map, if you only have a handful of players, 
 since the large maps mean you will be spending a lot of time searching for your adversaries. In 
 cases like these, the elements that make the games single-player game so satisfying, such as enormous 
 outdoor environments and run speeds that change on different terrain, are less successful in multiplayer. 
 The weapon balancing in the main campaign does not translate well in multiplayer either, making 
 some weapons woefully underpowered. While hardly an afterthought, Far Crys multiplay pales when 
 compared to the superior experiences found in games like UT2K4 or the Battlefield series. 
  
  Still, Crytek has developed a brilliant single-player game that would easily take most gamers 
 upwards of 25 hours to complete. Considering its price point at $10 less than most pc games, it 
 is an excellent value, and its several difficulty settings and multiple approaches to mission completion 
 make for uncommon replay value when compared to the average single-player shooter. Far Cry is the 
 finest single-player action experience in years, and belongs on the shelves of every serious pc 
 gamer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 18, 2004 5:34 am PT
Review:  Hello Gamespot Reviewer, I don't mean to sound well mean, but who payed you to give Far Cry a 9.2 
 rating. Did you forget there are no ingame saves, this is a PC game you know, we have hard drives, 
 what was Cry Tech thinking. The game is gorgeous that's for sure, but NO INGAME SAVE is unacceptable. 
 Playing the same 10 minute section of the game over and over isn't challenging or fun it's annoying. 
 Also you didn't notice Cry Tech's example of enemy A. I. you know the enemy can't see you or hear 
 you but knows exactly where you are. That's not called AI that's called ESP, also annoying and 
 unfair. Come on is there any gamer out there like me that cares about keeping the PC gaming Industry 
 going, because if we keep getting console like games like far cry with no in-game saves, because 
 the developers wanted to make it easier to port to the consoles then the PC Gaming will die off. 
 I know I got off the review alittle but I'm annoyed. Let's just say Far Cry sucks because of what 
 I said above. Without in-game saves, and a rebuilding of the ai code to make it more fair Far Cry 
 will continue to suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  Far Cry was one of the few shooters that caught me by surprise besides Painkiller and Chronicles 
 of Riddick. But unlike these games which kicked major a** Far Cry failed in becoming the next big 
 thing in first person shooters. It's setting is in a tropical paradise where former Special Ops 
 vetern Jack Carter was taking a photojournalist to a group of islands. Then she's gone missing 
 and it's up to you to find out what happened. After words you find yourself in the sewers and the 
 game starts. Then you finally made your escape out of the sewers but getting off the island and 
 finding the missing journalist is another challenge. Hopefully you'll beat the game in a matter 
 of months because it is so fricking hard!
  
  Gameplay: The controls are OK but what really gets to me is how hard the game is!
  Score: 7 out 
 of 10
  
  Graphics: Great graphics and the environments are interactive so you can go anywhere!
  Score: 
 10 out of 10
  
  Sound: Except for the voice acting the sound is pretty good.
  Score: 7 out of 10
  
  Value: It looks good, has a catchy title but it will aggravate you all 
 the way to the point where you stop and think "This sucks! I've wasted $40 for this peice of s**t!"
 
  Score: 3 out of 10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Beneath the game's difficulty level and crappy save feature there lies a good 
 possibly superb first person shooter. But sadly the developers forgot about the save system and 
 later p*ss offed gamers with this good looking but lacking shooter!
  Score: 3 out of 10
  
  Overall Score: 5.7
  
  THE PROS: incredible graphics engine, immersive backgrounds, interactive 
 environments.
  
  THE DOWNFALLS: Crappy controls, difficulty's annoying, you die very easily, uninspiring storyline 
 so far, the enemies are too smart.
  
  THE WORD: Great graphics and all but there's really nothing great about this game (graphics being 
 the exception) . 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrelambert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2004 11:04 am PT
Review:  Excellent game. If only people played it instead of a quick sarcastic first glance and then go 
 straight to crtiscism... High points: innovative graphics, tactical shooter, cool AI, nice scripts, 
 some physics, 7/10 characters, incredible ambient and Valery. Low points: merc voices (pretty much 
 the same thing being played over 20 levels) , few trigen types (could be more and more detailed) , 
 some of the physics are buggy (but overall more of a high point then a low) . 
  
  Play it on challenging and above, if you really want to experience the thrills and the need to 
 work some strategy. I respect half-life. This game is nothing short of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedi1641
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2004 5:23 am PT
Review:  ~This Is essentially a Doom 3/Far Cry Comparison~
  
  
  Hardware Guide:
  
  I have a Dell 8200 Series
  
  P4 2.4Ghz 533fsb
  
  1024mb RAM (4x256)
  
  Radeon 9700 
 Pro 128
  
  I can run Doom 3 @ ultra settings @ 800x600x32 and with balanced settings on the ati control panel. 
 Frame Rate ~30 and up. D3 rulez! I have to give Far Cry the 10 though just because of its vehicles 
 and it reminded me more of HL. Hope this helps, both games are great choices either way!
  
  P. S. GS wasn't kidding, play D3 on Veteran. As for the flash light issue, it doesn't bother me 
 too much. Its actually kind of immersive in a weird way. 5.1 sound is awesome, I had to use headfones 
 though because I only have 2.1 speakers. As fro a direct graphical comparison between Doom 3 and 
 Far Cry, I'd say Doom 3 is an incredible EXPERIENCE with extremely realistic looking characters 
 more so than environments, but only slightly. Far Cry tells a great story; its character models 
 look a bit "plasticy", but its tropical environments, water, and draw distance more than make up. 
 As stated above, either game is a great choice as long as your system can run it, feel free to 
 email me for more info on either game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arachnyd
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2004 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everyone raves so much about this game. Sure, the graphics are good (Doom's is 
 better) and the draw distance is impressive. Gameplay is generally good with a nice amount of diversity 
 in it. Story is fairly run of the mill, and the monsters look kind of stupid to me. They added 
 alot of useless crap like the hang glider (Which is rarely the best way to travel) .
  
  The main thing is how terrible the voice acting is. It really blows, especially Carver's voice. 
 I cannot fathom how Gamespot gave Far Cry's sound a 9 but Doom 3's an 8. Apparently weapon sounds 
 are the only thing that matters to Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPwnage
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2004 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The best FPS I have ever played. And I say that with confidence. Half Life and counterstrike are 
 nothing! The graphics are outstanding, even though I can't run everything on ultra-high. (yet) , 
 the lighting effects are the best their is, and the enemy AI is pretty smart, they'll spot you 
 from a mile away if you're not careful, they'll use cover, and so forth. Sometimes they'll appear 
 to be too smart. One neat little thing I noticed is when an enemy uses their scope, their lens 
 will flare, causing a bright light to appear in the distance, so you can see where that enemy sniper 
 is. And if you're the sniper, you gotta be on the move. The only minor complaint I have is some 
 enemies were extremely over powerful. And the auto save system is asinine, it just seems to have 
 the "save whenever I feel like it" thing going on. Multiplayer is pretty fun too, despite being 
 only 3 modes to play in, and not enough people playing it can get pretty insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidFerret
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  It's been said that Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 will blow away Far Cry, and if that's true, I can't 
 wait to see them. Far Cry, to me, is the best first-person shooter that I've had the pleasure to 
 play. I went from playing Medal of Honor to playing Far Cry, and it'll be difficult to go back 
 and finish up MOH. I'm totally spoiled.
  
  The graphics are of course top-notch. It seems that in past games, anything biological (people, 
 animals, plants, etc) didnt look up-to-par, but I think that Far Cry has almost got us past that. 
 The characters in the game look great, but what really got me was the plants. All different kinds 
 of plants with amazing detail all the way down to the leaf. It was the closest thing Ive seen 
 to the real outdoors in a video game.
  
  Yes, the graphics are amazing, but that isn't what makes this game in my opinion. It's the attention 
 to detail. I don't know how many times I've given away my location to the bad guys because I'm 
 too busy playing around with the environment (shooting cans off of tables, pushing over things, 
 etc) . Shoot holes in the outer hull of the beached submarine, and sunlight shines in. Watch mercenaries 
 scare birds out of the jungle when they walk through. Just sit back and check out the birds, fish, 
 dragonflies or the view from any of the cliffs. The detail is amazing. You feel like you're really 
 there.
  
  For anyone who considers him (her) self a sniper at heart, the distances from which you can take 
 shots at the bad guys are mind-boggling. The gameplay is loads of fun too. You can crawl around 
 in the bush and avoid fights or pick a fight with every merc, mutant or helicopter you come across. 
 The merc tracking system, binoculars with microphone, sound tracking equipment and stealth meter 
 are really nice touches.
  
  The AI is a big step up in this game, but I'm going to be picky and say that it still needs some 
 work. Very often the bad guys react intelligently, but sometimes they'll do some weird things (guns 
 blazing at the slightest noise, ignore someone getting shot up right in front of them, run straight 
 around a corner into your trap after two of their buddies just got turned into Swiss cheese in 
 the same spot, or (my favorite) jump out of a boat in the middle of a fire fight and doggy paddle 
 in the water while they get picked off) .
  
  Time to wrap this up. To anyone who stuck with this long review, go buy this game. Youll enjoy 
 playing it the first time and probably at least a second time in a year or two when you can afford 
 a fast enough system to play it at full resolution. Until Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 come out and show 
 me their stuff, Im going to put in my vote for Far Cry as the best game of 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Icon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2004 10:35 pm PT
Review:  A masterpiece FPS that is bound to carry the glory of Half life to a new level. As most people 
 said, the game feaures a reveloutionary graphics engine called the Cryengine, which generates life-like 
 lush destructable landscapes, Although they will become a bit repetative after a 5 to 6 hours of 
 playing. The gameplay is very enjoyable assisted by a terrific fool-proof AI. The game is full 
 of stealth action and intense combat moments bound to keep you on the PC for a couple of hours. 
 The game's diffuculty is not a con. There are frquent checkpoints pretty close to each other. These 
 close checkpoints help reduce the game's difficulty. The sounds are very lively and with a good 
 sound card and speakers, the sounds will make you feel like you're actually in the jungle. The 
 storyline is a bit ridiculous, but all the other excellent features contribute to cover this flaw 
 up. You will need to meet the requirments though.
  
  
  Ahmed Mahmoud 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 27, 2004 9:04 pm PT
Review:  First, as everyone with a brain has said, this game LOOKS marvelous. Until Doom 3, HL2, and the 
 first Unreal 3 engine games come out, this baby is the cutting edge. That said, if I wanted an 
 ocular massage I'd... uh... well lets leave that be. The point is that as one reviewer here said, 
 this game is more tech demo than game. It's environments ARE great, and it's fun just to explore 
 the island... but then you have to fight enemies and kill them, and that is just dull, repetitive, 
 and as some have mentioned, too difficult. Now, I'm a veteran gamer, and I did not actually have 
 trouble beating this game, so when I say "too difficult", I mean that as I played through, I noticed 
 that it simply presented more of a challenge in the arena of play balence, enemy fortitude, and 
 weapon power than I cared for. When I plug a guy with a half dozen assault rifle rounds in his 
 unarmoured chest I want him DOWN damn it! There are half a dozen game franchises that could use 
 the Far Cry engine for great effect... and A MMORPG in a Crytek Engine generated world would be 
 INSANE... but alas, all we have is a slog through soldiers who, while they have good A. I., are 
 still just an endless procession of the same. I crave the stealth action of Thief, or Splinter 
 Cell... the action pace of Counter Strike, the depth of combat of UT2K4, or the atmospherics of 
 a Doom3, or the full on story involvment of a Half Life... Far Cry is NOT IT.... that said, bring 
 on the mods! I bet there'll be some winners out there... unless Doom 3 and HL2 sap the modding 
 communities attention... which they might... tee hee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwonsoo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2004 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I just finished playing this game at the medium setting. I found it to be quite enjoyable, 
 but not flawless. The physics modelling and weapons felt good. Explosions, gravity, dead enemies, 
 weapon accuracy and use; they were all good. The story relatively straight forward, I wasn't really 
 surprised by anything. That didn't bother me though. The AI was definitely a step up as far as 
 action games go, but I was not blown away. In outdoor areas, enemies tracked you if they saw you 
 and worked in groups. I could take out troops in camp's towers from far away and expect a recon 
 team to come after me. The AI didn't quite seem consistent though. Moving through indoor areas 
 seemed to cause problems for the enemy to track me. There were times when I could draw large groups 
 of enemies through a bottleneck and just pick them off one by one. All-in-all though, I thought 
 it was a good step forward in AI though. The other thing to mention are vehicles. The vehicles 
 were usefull for their firepower, but controlling them was a pain.
  
  Graphics: The graphics part of the engine was awesome. The view distances were great. The jungle 
 felt like jungle while moving through it. It was hard to see to far in front of you and you could 
 use it to your advantage. I really wish I had a better video card (GeForce 4) , but I had *no* problems 
 playing at 1024x768. People complain about indoors being too boring. I have no issue with the indoor 
 environments though. Laboratories, offices, and barracks are not all that exciting in real life 
 either.
  
  Sound: Sound was good. Explosions gave a deep base rumble and weapons effects were good. Voice 
 acting was average at best. Not bad, it didn't detract, but it wasn't great.
  
  Value, for $40 it's a pretty good deal. It took me a long time to make it through the game. The 
 AI was better than average and oh yeah, the game could get a little creepy when worrying about 
 being jumped by some less than human foes.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I gave an 8 for the tilt. I think it is an evolutionary step forward in gameplay. 
 Not huge, but decent. The story wasn't amazing and the AI got stupid every once in a while. I would 
 recommend this game if you like action FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2004 4:22 am PT
Review:  This game seems to be just a little to hard for some. I find the AI a welcome surprise in the way 
 they work together "flank, call in reinforcements ect..."
  The last 2 posts are so way off about Gameplay that I felt compelled to post my take. There are 
 5 difficulty levels to choose from and don't let it fool you in thinking there all close to the 
 same in difficulty. Yes, even on the "easy" setting the game can be tough for a semi skilled FPS.
 
  
  I'm playing it on "Veteren" which is the 4th hardest difficulty. I'm on the 3rd to last level in 
 the single player campaign. I haven't used any cheats to get here either! You really have to use 
 a "stealth" approach to each new area. If you want a "Painkiller" type game experience then Far 
 Cry isn't for you. What really bugs me about these recent reviews is how they talk about the AI 
 having "ESP". This is so far off the truth! If you shoot from a certain area and stay there, yes, 
 the AI will pinpoint you and everyone will annialate you. You have to shoot and move to another 
 hidding place. (DUH) .
  
  I don't know what system "lordofmidnightx" and "nunyerbiz" is running FC on but it sounds like 
 a performance issue when he talks about mouse lag and jerking. It did take me a little while (30 
 min) to pickup on how the physics for the vehicles worked and I find when I can use a humvee, I 
 can do heavy damage from long distances without even being noticed by the AI. 
  
  The Keyboard/Mouse combo outdated?? You are playing a PC game! It sounds like your so used to your 
 gamepad on your console games that you have to pick apart the "BEST" way to play PC games! Funny 
 how you refered potential buyers to wait till it's on console LOL.
  
  About the AI. I hear players crying about how hard they are but then when they give away there 
 position ie:"Did you hear something?" your complaining. The other thing to realize is they do know 
 when there comrads have been shot. They'll say "Are You Ok?" and also when you do shoot at one, 
 they will back track most of the time to find cover behind a rock or tree.
  
  All in all, you can't take away the fact that with over 2300 reviews, FC is holding a 9.0 readers 
 review! And to say FC isnt Revolutionary tells me a lot about your credibility to review! NOTHING 
 comes close to FC in every aspect of the game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19923030556710661158582010183839-lordofmidnightx
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2004 5:39 am PT
Review:  Well, this is the first time I have been compelled to write a review for a game on Gamespot. 
 Id like to say its because the game in question, Far Cry for the PC, was a great experience. 
 Unfortunately I would be lying and not feeling like I had wasted hours of my life.
  
  First, the good Far Cry is an amazing technical achievement. The graphics of the character models 
 are some of the most lifelike I have ever seen. This was the first non-sports game I have ever 
 played where the characters looked so real. Not only that, but the way the water moved, soldiers 
 running from rolling fuel tanks and the richness of the visuals were awesome.
  
  The second thing about Far Cry that was terrific was the sound. The way bullets would ping 
 while you were being shot at underwater. The way you could tell the distance of the soldiers by 
 the closeness of their calls. The sounds of guns and explosives. Truly Far Cry IS a masterpiece 
 of SOME graphic and audio performances.
  
  However, as we all know graphics and sounds do not a game make, and the rest of Far Cry was a 
 terrible exercise in controls and game play.
  
  For as good as some of the graphics were, its obvious that some of the environments were neglected. 
 Most notable the insides of buildings and such structures. Also, some of the items placed in the 
 said environments looked as though they had been simply painted on. To me the graphics never really 
 gave me an impressive experience because they were so good sometimes and bad the others.
  
  The biggest bone of contention, and the main reason I gave this game a 6.0 is simply because it 
 was not fun at all to control or experience combat in. Jack Carver moved like a robot with the 
 tried-and-true but WAY OUTDATED keyboard/mouse combo. For Far Cry this simply isnt the way to 
 go and was one of the worst ways I have seen it implemented. The combat wasnt much better. The 
 guns all had a great look and sound to them, but sometimes they were ineffective. The aiming was 
 very unforgiving and often left you feeling like you were shooting at shadows. To hit even vehicles 
 and such at a distance where you wouldnt get killed immediately was a chore and inexcusable.
 
  
  Controlling the vehicles was quite possibly the absolute worst thing about this game. Trying to 
 drive or operate one of these things felt way too limited and cumbersome. To just stay on a path 
 was an exercise in futility, much less trying to perform combat at the same time. It was so bad 
 that I wish they had left the vehicles out altogether and simply made Jack a foot soldier.
  
  Far Cry was one of the newest games I have bought in a long time, paying the full retail 
 price. Heres a little piece of advice for anyone falling in love with all the reviews that say 
 how brilliant it is save your money! Either try a friends version that has it or wait for it 
 for a console and see if the controls are better down the road. If there is any way possible try 
 this game out first and whatever you do PLEASE just dont run out and buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2004 5:37 am PT
Review:  It's a beautiful FPS, but don't believe all the hype. 
  I'm sure everyone has already read the main Gamespot review and are somewhat familar with the story, 
 basics of gameplay, etc... so I'll just cut to the chase...
  
  Gameplay: Above average overall, but rarely great. I'm probably only about half way thru the single 
 player campaign, so I haven't seen it all. That being said, you have spotty AI, a complete joke 
 of a stealth system and a good amount of bland level design. The AI can be fun to watch and fight 
 but can also be pretty frustrating. The enemies have some form of ESP, as they detect you seemingly 
 on a whim, regardless of your "stealth meter". Not to forget that they have uncanny marksmanship 
 skills with automatic weapons. Sure, they use some decent squad tactics when aroused in mass... 
 but pick them off one at a time from long range and rarely do they notice their buddy 20 yards 
 away no longer has a complete skull. A lot of the encounters consist of the baddies hearing you 
 approaching from around the corner, so of course they loudly proclaim... "Did you hear something??!?", 
 instead of just lying in ambush. Many times you can just make some more noise, wait at a doorway 
 and waste at least some of them right off the bat. Of course, there is the almost-cliche AI routine 
 of trading a few bullets with a baddie, breifly walking away and then, of course, he completely 
 forgets you existed and shot at him 30 seconds earlier. Sure, none of this is new or even that 
 uncommon in most single player shooters. However it definately chips a few points away from the 
 9.2 hype-o-meter rating that this game is getting from everyone.
  
  Graphics: Great engine top to bottom. Yes, it will take some serious hardware to get it to run 
 smooth at the highest settings, but even on upper-mid range settings everything is beautiful. (Yes, 
 I have noticed the engine does seem to be a little sluggish with the mouse reposnse, but it hasn't 
 caused me any great headaches and is really only noticeable next to something like UT2004)
  
  Sound: Sound effects and surround performance are very well done, assuming you have a decent 
 5.1 rig to enjoy it with. Voice acting is solid for the most part, although never anything more 
 than that. Music is bland but it's just there for atomoshpere anyway, so no knock there. My only 
 complaint with the sound is the lack of positional sound for the baddies "Did you hear something?" 
 canned phrases. Can never really tell if it's around the corner, behind a closed door or whatever. 
 Not a big deal, but everytime you hear one of them, it sounds like he's right next to you. 
  
  Value: It's a long single player campaign for sure. I completed Call of Duty in the time that 
 it's taken me to get about half way thru Far Cry. There is alot to do and see, so no complaints 
 there. Multiplayer is just gravy and adds some value. Although Far Cry hasn't knocked UT2004 or 
 Call of Duty from my multiplayer rotation, I might give it a whirl once I'm done with singleplay.
 
  
  Tilt: This is definately an ambitious FPS entry from a relative unknown. Much like Half Life all 
 those years ago, this game does raise the bar in some areas. That being said, the overall accomplishment 
 is nowhere near as impressive or as substantial as Half Life. Nothing in terms of general gameplay, 
 AI or story is much of an improvement over it's 6 year old ancestor.
  This one is definately worth your $40, however. It provides a long and challenging single player 
 campaign with some great eye candy along for the ride. Just don't expect the next greatest thing 
 in FPS gaming. Far Cry is a solid evolutionary step, but apart from raw graphical capabilities, 
 never crosses over into revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedgeski
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2004 1:17 am PT
Review:  What a great game. Jason is spot-on to compare this game to Half-Life, since it is the closest 
 I have come to re-experiencing the pleasure of that (now very old) shooter. Truly mesmerising graphics 
 open up the tropical environments beautifully, full of life, animation, terrific bump and texture 
 effects and, most significantly, absolutely massive levels. Mid-way through the 'Fort' level you 
 get the opportunity to stand at the top of a hill and look back over the entire length of the level 
 you've just played - a whole island's worth; a few minutes later you're on a hang-glider soaring 
 hundreds of feet over the ocean looking out over a massive vista. These huge, wide-open spaces 
 are crucial to the level of immersion achieved by the game.
  
  The action is smooth and uncomplicated - just the way I like it - but on Normal difficulty, this 
 game is, make no mistake, rock hard. (Don't try it on Easy, since bad guys can stand ten feet from 
 you, plugging away, and not land a single shot.) The enemy have super-human senses, a great sense 
 of team work, and can take exactly the same amount of punishment as you can. Dashing from cover 
 to cover, flanking you in a scissor maneuver, or riddling you with bullets from a fixed position 
 500 yards away are all in a day's work for these guys. This is, at first, extremely frustrating. 
 The game invites you to push on at a fast pace but then punishes you with large groups of enemies, 
 half of which will advance on your position, while the rest hang back and plug you with Terminator-like 
 accuracy. Soon, you adjust your approach to a slower, more guerilla strategy, but you never stop 
 feeling like one mistake will mean a reload of the last checkpoint. This can be a good or bad thing, 
 depending on your point of view.
  
  Some of the vehicles also don't integrate 100% smoothly with the gameplay, being overly quick and 
 twitchy on the controls, while others (the gunboats in particular) are massive fun; all of them 
 add a welcome bit of variety to the game however. Particularly reminiscent of Half-Life is the 
 feeling of victory when you finally get the firepower to take some of those guys out - the Black 
 Hawks especially, against whom, before that point, you have to exhibit pin-point accuracy to kill 
 the gunners and force them into retreat.
  
  Other problems include some of the mediocre voice-work, occasional graphical glitches (ugly yellow 
 splotches sometimes pop up on my X800 Pro) , high loading times between 'chapters', and a few other 
 trivial matters, but they're nowhere near serious enough to sour the experience. Crytek have come 
 out of nowhere with cutting-edge technology and ultra-slick gameplay to plant their flag at or 
 near the top of the PC FPS pile, and it will be interesting to see how the likes of D3 and HL2 
 stack up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalOZ
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2004 10:23 am PT
Review:  Far Cry offers stunning graphics and good game play. This game does have one of the best atmospheres 
 of any game I have played in recent memory. The atmosphere is so good, it reminds me of the System 
 Shock series. There have been several moments where Ive been startled or felt spooked by the game. 
 This does not happen to me often with other games. 
  
  The game play is very good as well. I like the crouching and leaning abilities. I also like the 
 fact that you can sneak up on enemies in many cases. My only complaint about the game play is that 
 I am finding the game very challenging to complete now that I am more than half way through. I 
 am the first to admit I am not the best at FPS since I spend most of my time with turn based strategy 
 or RPGs. I may not finish the game, but I have fully enjoyed it nonetheless. At this point, I have 
 to reload frequently to advance in the game and Im starting to find this very tedious.
  
  The games graphics and sound effects are terrific. The graphics are gorgeous and must be making 
 Activision and Sierra sweat a bit considering how late they have been with Doom 3 and Half Life 
 2. Far Cry has risen the bar for FPS graphics. I also think that Far Crys sound effects are very 
 good and the music helps create the spooky atmosphere I was describing above. 
  
  Having the game take place on an island setting is unique from the FPSes that I have played. Ive 
 found the settings so visually compelling that I have almost as much fun just wandering around 
 after Ive cleared everyone as I do hunting down and killing the enemies. The flora on the island 
 offer many opportunities to spring out and surprise your enemy and the way they have implemented 
 it gives you the feeling of doing so.
  
  It is overall an exciting and rich game experience. I highly recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zacmaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2004 12:07 am PT
Review:  Far Cry pwns dood far cry pwns dood Far Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry 
 pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood 
 far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry 
 pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar 
 Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns 
 doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far 
 cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns 
 dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar 
 Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns 
 doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far 
 cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns 
 dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar 
 Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns 
 doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far 
 cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns 
 dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar Cry pwns dood far cry pwns doodFar 
 Cry pwns dood far cry pwns dood 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2004 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a great single player experience. It's relatively long, has great sound and graphics, 
 a good physics engine, and it's simply beautiful. The enemies are a bit unpredictable which is 
 a change, and every task seems to have a few ways to complete it.
  
  This game would totally be the best thing ever created however if it had co-op capabilities. Dual 
 crewed vehicles anyone? Ahh well.. maybe some day some developers will get a clue.
  
  Far Cry's story is alright. Slightly predictable, and quite stereotypical, but still fun to play 
 through. This game is just fun from the get go. You can expect about 8 hours out of it if you are 
 really good at FPS's, but you will want to replay it a couple times (unlike some other games) to 
 check out what other parts you didn't explore or see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2004 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game impresses on so many levels, graphical quality, level design, enemy AI, story... it is 
 just wonderful. Come equipped because if your machine is not up to snuff, the graphics degrade 
 quickly to something that just looks pretty cool. Turn them all up and you almost feel like you 
 are there. I love the environments. Every single environment had a very distinct feel. Outside 
 was just more jungle followed by more jungle, because though it was, they presented it differently 
 every time. Running around at night was breath taking. Okay, enough about the graphics. This story 
 was pretty darn good and it made everything you were doing in the game actually mean something. 
 Not just looking for an excuse to run from one end of the map to another, wiping everyone out. 
 In fact, between the story line and the level design, you become totally emersed. In every mission, 
 I discovered several alternate means of getting to where you are going as well as alternate routes. 
 Without ruining the game too much, the end sequence is very satisfying. Are there things to criticize 
 in this game? Absolutely. The save game system will frustrate you 'till no end at times. Instead 
 of save where you want, you have to reach a certain point in the mission. These check points are 
 generally layed out in a fair manner but every now and again you find yourself laboring through 
 the same few tedious sections just to get back to that one area that is giving you so much trouble. 
 In fact, I didn't play the game for 2 weeks because I just couldn't take failing at the same section. 
 I tended to become hasty in my attempts because each attempt was a good five minutes before I got 
 back to where I was stuck. Ultimately patience paid off and ultimately that lended to an even greater 
 sense of satisfaction when I finally comleted the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazztrumpet5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2004 9:37 pm PT
Review:  While Far Cry became the "killer app" that caused me to upgrade my video card, I feel that there 
 is a lot more going for this game than just its visuals. The enemy AI is probably the best I've 
 ever faced in a first-person-shooter, and the story (yeah, yeah, I know it's still a FPS with a 
 FPS story) kept me intrigued from star to finish. For the most part, I felt that the gameplay here 
 was very good, and I had to use my head to figure out how to get past some of the trickier sections, 
 which is always a good thing. The only complaints I can come up with are the difficult-to-master 
 (at least for me) vehicle controls and the grunts' scripts when they're engaging me in combat. 
 However, overall, I really have enjoyed playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -GunRunner-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2004 9:34 pm PT
Review:  A fun and engrossing game that will be remembered in the same vein as Half Life and the Quake series. 
 The draw distance is incredible, and the graphics are the best I've ever seen in a first person 
 shooter. The other high point is the AI, which is the smartest I've ever encountered. I'd probably 
 rather have spent the whole game fighting humans rather than mutants, but the monsters definitely 
 ramp up the difficulty quite a bit. The whole experience is almost ruined by a disastrous save 
 system (no quicksave, checkpoints only) ; I think some people will walk away from the game altogether 
 once they get to the more difficult stages. Luckily, there is a console command work around. Just 
 hit the ~ key to bring up the console and type save_game 1. When you want to load a quicksave, 
 hit load_game 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipaman711
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 21, 2004 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best PC First Person Shooters out. If you have a high end computer this is a 
 must.
  
  Gameplay- What can I say this game is just FUN! 
  
  Graphics- Whoever said that graphics doesn't matter is wrong in this case. IF you have an ATI 9600 
 or up get this game. Without one you dont get the full life outta the game. The shadows help you 
 on this. You need a highend graphics card to be able to get the shadows and stuff to help you in 
 hiding.
  
  Sound- This game sounds so real. The rifles sound so real. The reason it gets one point off is 
 because I didnt care for the voice acting. But overal its about a 9.5 so its almost there :) .
 
  
  Value- The Value is a 9 because of the average to poor multiplayer. It has replay value with the 
 Map Editor and downloadable maps. There are about 30 levels in the game (Without downloadable maps) . 
 So that saves it.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- This is on my top 5 first person shooters EVER! I love this game, its just so much 
 fun. If you are looking for some good times that will last about 10-25 hours get this thing!
  
  -Snipaman711 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choppy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2004 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good - where to begin, the graphics are awe inspiring, the AI is the best I have seen since 
 Halo, the story is engaging, if a little cliched at times and the physics engine is spot on. Talking 
 of the physics, I have played a few games where the engine has tried to mimic life, but few have 
 the feel of FarCry, the inertia of the vehicles, the recoil on the weapons the way an enemy will 
 drop when you hit the as they are moving, all breathtaking.
  The Bad - the story does seem low budget next the rest of the production values, the tridgens seemed 
 a bit uninspired as far as enemies go, the enemy dialogue got old very quickly, but these are only 
 minor complaints. My only real complaint about this game is the last two levels. I got through 
 the game using stealth and planning ahead to try and make the enemies fight on my terms rather 
 than charging in, then right at the end it turns round and puts you in a situation where you have 
 no choice but to blast away and more often than not having to rely on luck.
  But all said, FarCry is an outstanding game, that if it had ended as it had started would arguably 
 be the best in it's genre. As it stands though for me it takes a very respectable third place behind 
 Halo and Half Life. Not bad company to be in though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 6, 2004 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I cannot understand all of the hype about this game. Yes it looks great and the sounds are good 
 but that is where the fun ends. The AI is so unfair at times you just want to throw the game out 
 of the window. There are enemies so small that you need a magnifying lens to see yet they can blast 
 you while you are under a bush. Also they can absorb an amazing amount of my ammo. The save system 
 is terrible. You could spend twenty minutes playing and then be killed by a guy hiding overhead 
 and then have to replay the entire level. The game is all trial and error. You move forward, get 
 shot by a guy twenty miles away. Then you replay, avoiding him, and then get shot in the back by 
 some other guy. If you enjoy punishing unfair AI then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acepace
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2004 12:14 pm PT
Review:  These are my thoughts on Far Cry:
  
  First of all, I truly LOATH most FPS's, who give you nothing to do but run around shooting at EVERYTHING, 
 and Far Cry is part of that sub-genre, but this game, which I purchased based on other reviews, 
 changes that, the game is pure FUN.
  
  First of all, the graphics, even set only on High, are amazing, though they can kill systems.
 
  
  Audio is good, though I have lag with it, its still awesome.
  
  Value isn't that good, no good mods currently, and MP is practicly dead.
  
  Now to the intresting 
 part, gameplay, the gameplay is awesome, jungle and long range warfare has never been so fun, I 
 can't list all the awesome moments of the game, but from second 5 of the game you have awesome 
 action, fighting against everything from mercs to an abandoned carrier.
  Its not repetetive, and there are allways new ways to enjoy situations, the game is HARD, twitch 
 skills are useless here.
  
  
  I can't truly explain what playing the game is, the demo is far better then I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equals42
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 5, 2004 8:40 am PT
Review:  I know Far Cry continues to receive praise from reviewers and gamers alike, but I was thoroughly 
 disappointed. Not disappointed in the game engine itself, which is spectacular, but in the game 
 play.
  
  When I compare Far Cry against other first-person shooters like Call of Duty and the No One Lives 
 Forever series, I see mediocre level designs, a lack of attention to detail, especially in the 
 dialog between bad guys waiting for me to lay some smack down on them, and a terrific game engine 
 wasted.
  
  That is not to say that there arent some memorable levels in Far Cry, there are, but they are 
 few in number and separated by levels that made me cringe with their propensity for contrivances 
 and ploys implemented for the sole purpose of making sure you die. I have never been a fan of games 
 that force you to die to learn where the bad guys are so you can then, and only then, form a strategy 
 to survive the encounter.
  
  These ploys are especially shameless because of the inexplicable and asinine save system. One of 
 the reasons I play PC games rather than consoles is because I have more control over my PC. I should 
 be able to save anywhere and anytime I want. Not because it will make the game easier, but because, 
 if I am playing a good FPS, I will develop a tactical strategy and then implement it. At certain 
 points in that strategy I want to save my position. Many gamers like to play shooters with a run 
 and gun, jump around style  I play shooters deliberately and look for the best plan of attack. 
 A good game will allow you to choose either extreme or something in between. I dont like being 
 forced into a particular style.
  
  Overall, Far Cry comes across as a game specifically designed to sell the game engine. The level 
 design ranges from the isnt this cool  see this is a great engine to this is just a transition 
 level on your way to a cool level that will show you how great this game engine is. I am looking 
 forward to the mods that are sure to come. I think, then, we will see a game worthy of its powerful 
 underpinnings.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpaisley24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2004 9:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I really don't have much to complain about here. I really enjoy the different methods 
 you can utilize to complete each level - whether it's stealth or just high tailing it in a 4x4 
 to blow past the bad guys. The plot is a little weak though, and it hurts the immersiveness of 
 the game.
  
  Graphics: It's already been said by everyone. If you have the computing power, this game is gorgeous.
 
  
  Sound: Once again, very good with EAX enabled. I love the sounds of the bugs when you're creeping 
 through the jungle levels.
  
  Value: I scored this an 8 because I feel the multiplayer is a little weak at this point, so that 
 hurts the longevity of the game for me. But hopefully a couple of patches and user mods will improve 
 the game in this respect.
  
  Tilt: Without a doubt, my favorite game of the last 12 months (for single player at least) . Highly 
 recommended. But if you're looking for multiplayer only, I'd hold off for now, there are better 
 options out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: framplot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2004 4:56 am PT
Review:  To anyone who has been put off buying this game because of problems with the graphics - especially 
 in the second demo - where my Radeon 8500 seemed to be unable to cope - think again. I have now 
 purchased the game and it runs perfectly on my AMD 2800, 512 MB Ram, Audigy 1 soundcard, etc. In 
 the 2nd demo the large boulders on the beach at the start and various other objects would be "see-through" 
 but the full game runs perfectly. I have used the same settings - medium graphics - in the game, 
 and the Radeon still has the same driver, and the full game performance is stunning, so perhaps 
 the second demo has got its own problems. The Radeon 8500 is now somewhat long in the tooth and 
 obviously could do with an upgrade, but believe me, it copes very well with this game, so don't 
 believe reviewers who claim that you need an absolutely top of the range PC to play this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2004 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is the best First Person Shooter (FPS) in the single player vein to arrive on the market 
 since Half-Life. Far Cry exudes the sort of brilliant gameplay that would make any Half-Life fan 
 proud. Far Cry encourages exploration, and a lot of it. There seems to always be multiple ways 
 to solve the same problem in numerous situations. Do I grab a Jeep and take a drive through the 
 jungle to get to the boat? Or do I sneak along, either avoiding enemies or taking them out as I 
 move? These choices and more make Far Cry seem open ended when in fact it is linear in style. This 
 mask that has been placed over the linearity keeps gameplay concise while making the gamer feel 
 in control, both of which are a welcome change from recent FPS that have been released.
  
  The graphics engine used for Far Cry is, without a doubt, gorgeous. Shading effects used are top 
 notch, making beautiful games like Morrowind look boring and static. The water effects are the 
 best this reviewer has ever seen in any game. Textures used are also a nice touch, with proper 
 color choices to depict a lush tropical island filled with World War II structures and modern equipment 
 (not to mention mutated creatures) . Without a doubt, the graphics have to be the strongest point 
 of this game. There is really no flaw to the graphics engine other than the obvious point that 
 many gamers will have to upgrade their systems to be able to really get the full effect. I will 
 say right now, however, that the upgrade is well worth it to experience the beauty of Far Cry.
 
  
  The sound effects used are good enough to immerse the gamer, and the soundtrack gives a good atmosphere 
 to the evolving situation on this mysterious island. The voice acting is capable, although not 
 stellar. The voice acting is definitely not bad either, just not noteworthy. All in all, the sound 
 in Far Cry is beneficial to the overall experience of Far Cry.
  
  Far Cry has captivating gameplay, a good story that keeps the pace of the game moving along, and 
 great visuals that might very well get the gamer killed a few times for watching the scenery too 
 long (note: sometimes when you see a beautiful landscape and approaching danger, you might want 
 to just take a screenshot and move on) . This is one game that anyone who even had a passing interest 
 in FPS games would be grossly negligent in missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MervinBunter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay (10) : This is where Far Cry really shines. It strikes the perfect balance between action, 
 stealth, and just plain scaring-the-heck-out-of-you. Although all of the weapons feel right, not 
 all weapons are equally balanced. This is a good thing, as youll definitely need the powerful 
 tools to take down many of the later enemies. The A. I. is absolutely stunning! Enemies will call 
 for backup, flank you, flush you out with grenades, and sometimes simply fire blindly into the 
 foliage where youre hiding. Which brings up another really cool point: the A. I. doesnt cheat 
 (at least, I couldn't see an example of it) . That is to say, the enemies will not instinctively 
 know where you are. If an enemy spots you, hell approach the position where he last heard or saw 
 you. If you can slip away quietly (NOT an easy task, given all of their flanking and cooperative 
 tactics) theyll walk cautiously around the area looking for you. You can use this behavior to 
 your advantage by tossing rocks near enemies in order to draw them into your line of fire. Once, 
 while trying to get an enemy to move away from his position, I tossed a few rocks his way. He moved 
 a little bit, but then stopped when he got to the place where hed heard my rock. Despite tossing 
 a few more rocks, he wouldnt move anymore. Finally I heard him remark to himself, "I dont know 
 what that sound is, and I dont care!" I guess he knew he was being toyed with, and he decided 
 not to play along anymore. Brilliant!
  
  Graphics (9) : Yes, this is a phenomenal accomplishment in PC graphics. Yes, its the best outdoor 
 levels Ive ever seen. But no, the lighting and shadow effects are NOT as good as Splinter Cell. 
 Also, in order to achieve the incredible draw distances, many of the trees and bushes appear and 
 disappear, depending on how you look at them. Its not much, and I wouldnt normally even mention 
 it, except that Im leaving a little bit of room at the top for Half Life 2 or Doom 3. Since this 
 is my first review, I dont know if thats allowed, but like the Olympic judges, Im not going 
 to give the first game a ten unless its absolutely justified (see above for my Gameplay score) . 
 That said, its still beautiful, and when its combined with the phenomenal gameplay, it makes 
 for one incredible game.
  
  Sound (9) : I experienced a few audio hiccups while playing (mostly stuck sounds, like a dead enemys 
 machine gun) . But all-in-all, the sound is great. The voice acting needs a bit of work, especially 
 for the main character, but all of the enemies sound good. The weapons sound appropriate for their 
 power, and the ambient sound of the jungle (bugs, birds, waterfalls, mercenaries, slavering monsters, 
 etc.) is top-notch.
  
  Value (8) : {Single-Player Only} I dont play multiplayer games, so I can only rate the value by 
 judging the single-player component. Far Cry is one of the longest single-player first-person shooters 
 to come out in a long time. I docked it some points here for the lack of a quick-save feature, 
 which is just a stupid oversight in an otherwise fantastic game. Im not as willing to play the 
 game a second time when I know that I may be replaying the same area over and over again if I die 
 in the wrong place. Still when the game first came out, it retailed for $29.99, and thats some 
 pretty great value for a top-notch shooter. Still, with no quick-save, I almost gave this game 
 a pass, which would have been sad.
  
  Reviewers Tilt (7) : All-in-all, a wonderful game. I absolutely detest the missing quick-save feature, 
 but everything else is pretty close to perfect. Dont miss this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGrieger
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2004 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely the new bar for FPS games. 
  
  It's probably a good thing that Half Life 2 and Doom 3 have yet to come out since this gives Crytek 
 a chance to shine without direct comparisons. They also raised the bar in terms of graphics and 
 gameplay.
  
  Obviously, the graphics (I was on a P4 3.0Ghz 800Mhz FSB, 1GB PC3200 Corsair RAM, and an ATI Radeon 
 9800 XT so I maxed out the settings) were great. Textures and polygonal details were very good 
 but the stand outs were less the technical aspects and more the little details included. This has 
 to be the first game that actually bothered to add detail below water. Wow... a real lagoon! Also, 
 character detail, particle effects (like mists) and heat distortions were solid.
  
  Audio was generally good except for a bug that cropped up often. For whatever reason, I'm guessing 
 that it's tied to processing (since this often happened in scenes with a lot of enemies in close 
 proximity and thus a lot of gun and other sounds running at once... maybe the clean up routine missed 
 one) , machine gun audio would get stuck running until the enemy's body (if it sourced from an enemy) 
 was cleared from the map or until you pulled the trigger again (if it sourced from you) . I was 
 running EAX 2 audio on a Creative Audigy 2 board.
  
  Gameplay was great. While my expectations were high (they kept talking about being able to see 
 an island from miles away so I figured they wouldn't need loading screens) , the general flow of 
 maps was good in that it allowed you to choose your battles in many cases as well as the method 
 of attack. You could snipe from a distance, go all out with grenades or simply skip the battle, 
 depending on the objective. Vehicles play a decent role in the game as methods of getting around 
 (sometimes running was still too slow) and taking out enemies. The enemy AI IS definitely better 
 than most FPSs I've played though there are still flaws. I found enemies stuck running at a tree 
 plus at times the AI was rather forgiving. I could toss a grenade and create a disturbance near 
 a guard post and, as long as I stayed a distance away and didn't move, they would eventually just 
 give up and go back to their posts. I mean, you're a guard on the look out for me and you hear 
 a nade go off not too far away. You're heavily armed and you've got backup. Are you NOT going to 
 grab a couple guys and go check it out? But, there were some utterly sublime moments such as when 
 you actually DO get a squad of mercs attracted to a position you lobbed a nade at and surprise 
 them from behind after you crouched behind some bushes and they passed you. It feels a lot different 
 from other FPSs where you can trigger some box somewhere that attracts a stream of enemies along 
 the exact same path and you just pick off one by one. In this case, the game has them moving more 
 randomly and in most cases using cover and advancing from tree to tree to boulder, etc.
  
  Later in the game you're dealing with mutants (for me this was annoying but it did add an element 
 of Quake/Doom to the game... I'd rather hunt mercs though) and you get some inspired moments when 
 you either walk into a battle between mercs and mutants or have opportunities to off one or the 
 other using one of them. One interesting section has you dropped off on top of a high waterfall 
 with a single mutant and a rifle with five shots. You have enough to take the mutant out but that's 
 it. Oh yeah, and at the bottom of the waterfall and for the next quarter mile of map distance, 
 you have all sorts of mutants between you and a store of weapons. 
  
  Overall, this game definitely has all it needs to compete with a slew of games that are out and 
 are coming along. I didn't play multiplayer (I did beta the multiplayer but I don't know how it 
 plays now) so I can't comment on it. If you've got the rig to handle it (take my rig as a recommended 
 setup) or even if you don't (the X800 from ATI is out or coming out near you... expect 9800 XT prices 
 to drop soon) , this is definitely a game to have in the library. Whether you're waiting for Half 
 Life 2 or Doom 3 or whatever, you need to try this sucker out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upjoa
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2004 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Aside from a couple of drawbacks, this game is incredible. First, the bad news. The save points 
 are a pain, although most are adequately placed with only a few being too close together or too 
 far apart. It is a challenging game, until the very end when it gets ridiculously hard (even on 
 the 2nd skill level) . I agree with previous reviewers in that the enemy seemed to be overaccurate 
 at times and seemed to know where you are once you revealed yourself. However, I was able to sneak 
 around fairly well and noticed that after picking off one or two soldiers, if I stayed put, the 
 colored arrows would eventually go from the red or orange down to yellow and green. Also, driving 
 the jeep took some getting used to (the other vehicles were fairly easy to drive) . I have a GeForce2 
 64MB card with a 2.4G P4 and 512MB RAM and the game ran fine once I dumbed it down a bit. The good 
 news is that, even still, the graphics were amazing. The game was definitely worth the $50 as it 
 is a fairly long game-especially for an FPS. The story/plot was very good and I would not be surprised 
 if it spawns a movie. The coordinated tactics AI of the enemies was both wonderful and frustrating 
 (frustrating only because I'm used to "dumb" enemies in other games) . I was not expecting an epic 
 game when I bought it and was pleasantly surprised. I would definitely recommend this game to FPS 
 lovers, and caution those who do not play this style often, as it is a very challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2004 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Great game, fantastic graphics and engaging combats, the maps are vast, in some of the maps before 
 I go to combat I used to explore the environment and having fun as mush as I can, its really fun 
 to go round in the jungles or at the sea, the physics and graphics are astonishing and feels like 
 real. 
  
  The combat experience is one of the best I ever experienced, the animation and the challenging 
 of the non-script AI enemies will give you a very good fight. The story is good and the game is 
 not short, you will have hours of fighting, exploring and completing tasks in every way. 
  
  The down points of the game are few, for example, the enemies can spot you very easily, and 
 driving a car can be very hard because of the physics used, its like you are driving it on the 
 moon with less gravity, over all, Far Cry is one of the best first person shooter game in the market, 
 and it deserve it. Let me point out that my experience with Far Cry was on GeForce 3 with all graphics 
 set to low, I cannot wait to play it again with GeForce 6800, and specially with the new MOD Crytek 
 is developing to take advantage of the Shader 3.0 capabilities of the GeForce 6800.
  
  I got now the GeForce 6800 Ultra, this game over scores the 10 in graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubycon
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 21, 2004 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game has fantastic graphics - in fact they're probably the best out there at the moment, 
 while we all wait for Doom 3 and the ever-delayed Half-life 2. The sound is good also. It's very 
 atmospheric, there's lot's of ambient sounds, and although the voice over is fairly unexciting, 
 overall it hangs together well.
  
  So what's wrong with Far Cry? It's the enemy AI, and the stunning variations in what's considered 
 realistic. To start with, the AI is grossly uneven to the player. The bad guys have hugely unfair 
 shooting skill, and can easily take you out with an SMG at a distance when you cannot even see 
 them. The stealth system is pretty much a waste of time and really isn't helpful in the slightest. 
 Finally, the actual AI - despite claims by the publisher to the contrary - is very primitive. For 
 example, when you fire a shot, even if you are utterly camouflaged, they will all just hone in 
 your position - including those that did not even have a line of sight to your position. It's very 
 silly.
  
  And finally, the checkpoint save system is utter junk. Why do game developers continue to put this 
 into games? Everyone hates them. Let's hope they take it out in a forthcoming patch (although they 
 didn't in v1.1) .
  
  Overall, Far Cry is a good game. But it's not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceil
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 18, 2004 12:56 pm PT
Review:  What a great game! Probably one of the best first person shooters I have played in a long time. 
 The graphics are crystal clear and with great scenes, and the action is smooth which allows for 
 accurate shots, whether it is from the sniper rifle or the hand guns. The story line is fun, with 
 all the comments from our star. Ubisoft has outdone it self, with all of the above. I do hope they 
 have a sequel coming for I will be the first person to buy it. I did have to use a guide once in 
 a while, but found it to be confusing and decided I could do as well on my own. Pretty linear so 
 you won't get too lost, especially with the blinking guide light. Keep up the great work and I 
 look forward to Far Cry II. Ceil-Mystic, CT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorangriel
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2004 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is the first of a new generation of first person shooters. The developers brought in a 
 new engine and used it to its fullest. The bad-guy AI is much better than any other shooter that 
 I have ever played. They react appropriately to your presence or even the suggestion of your presence 
 in an area. They come looking for you and are not content to simply plod around on their own little 
 piece of turf. 
  The graphics are, to say the very least, incredible. Massive distances come into play and snipers 
 really come into their own in some of the outdoor maps of this game. The sound is not far behind 
 in quality, a low strumming when you are undetected, but picks up rapidly when enemies are close 
 by or when you are in a firefight with someone. The weapons sound distinct different and handle 
 differently. 
  This is a beautifully rendered game with awesome, fluid gameplay. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who loves first person shooters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: covenant130
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2004 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary. The overall game is only worse then one game, yep Halo (read my Xbox 
 Review!!) If you have a high-end machine i would highly highly recommend this game. It runs perfectly 
 on highest graphics on my Dimension XPS rig, with 2.8 G Pentium 4 processor, 512 MBRAM, and 128 
 MB ATI Radeon 9800 Pro. This game is excellent on average graphics, but the eye candy is amazing! 
 Put your gaming rig to the test with this game. Sure i know youve heard this game is tough, but 
 compare it to Ninja Gaiden and youve got one easy game. Far Cry only gets hard the last few levels 
 of the game, but when i mean hard, this game gets tough. It is a modern First Person shooter, but 
 this game offers quite a lot of scares once u find the mutants. The AI for this game is the best 
 in the buisness and with amazing graphics and sound, i recommend this game to anyone with a decen 
 gaming PC.
  
  XBOX AND PC RULE, Gamecube and PS2 dont even come close even to graphics, that means u especially 
 PS2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dstark9
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pure classic in the making!! The gameplay is excellent. Its very tense and the AI 
 is excellent.. yeah its very easy to trigger the mercenaries, but atleast its challenging, really 
 what do you expect? The sniping is realistic with crouching and laying prone to get a better shot 
 rather than standing. I also like the idea of how the games saves certain spots without allowing 
 you to save 50 times on one level. It gives you a better satisfation on getting to that next checkpoint 
 and proceeding to the next level. At first I was a little hesitant on that feature, but to really 
 enjoy a game its the best way to do it. The graphics in my opinion are the best I have ever seen 
 for a 1st person shooter hands down. The sound isn't the best, but for what this game has to offer 
 it makes up for it 10 folds. The value of the game is a nice touch... this game easily could have 
 sold for $60 because of how great it is. $39 is a bargain and well worth it!!!! I can also see 
 myself replaying this game due to alot of spots you can miss during the game. The downfall of the 
 game is vehicle control... I think it is alot easier walking instead of driving. Plus killing enemies 
 sometimes can be hard while you are driving due to the foliage and bumps in the road. Driving is 
 a option not a nescesity in the game. Also I would like to add the load times are very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben_Harper
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2004 9:00 pm PT
Review:  If your computer is not a gargantuan monstrosity that could eat Jeff Gerstmann for breakfast and 
 still have room for Greg Kasavin at lunch, stop reading this review right now and go read a book 
 or something. You play too many videogames anyway.
  
  So you've spent the money on a pimped-out gaming PC after seeing the Half-Life 2 vids at last year's 
 E3, and now you're sitting around playing Mindsweeper and waiting for Valve to get off their lazy 
 asses and release their videogame already. You're going to be waiting for a while, so hey, you 
 might as well buy this game because by the time Half-Life 2 is released your new rig won't be able 
 to run it. This game will work your system. It raped mine. 
  
  This game is no Half-Life. This game is no Medal of Honor. Honestly, this game isn't even that 
 good - I got sick of the whole one-man-against-the-world thing after running around with a squad 
 in Call of Duty and Halo - but it does look amazing. The palm trees, the water, the sunshine - 
 this is a tropical paradise. Believe dat, son. So I ignored the gameplay for a while and I took 
 in the world of Far Cry at maybe three frames a second. 
  
  That was cool, but it got old. Crytek threw some dark corridor levels at me after a while, and 
 then these weird jumping mutated animals showed up, and now I'm pretty much done with the game. 
 It's overhyped. I'm going to play some more Ninja Gaiden. But if you want a second-rate Half-Life 
 ripoff on the beach with some truly remarkable graphics, pick it up and see if I don't laugh in 
 your face when you realize it isn't nearly as good as you heard. And I will laugh in your face. 
 So watch out for that. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: __MACK__
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2004 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Farcry is an amazing game. I have never had such an enjoyable time in a First-Person Shooter game 
 for PC in a long long time, possibly since Dues Ex. This is one experience that you will never 
 forget.
  
  Gameplay: 9. From the very start you feel almost instantly immersed in this world. The pace of 
 the first mission starts you off with a feeling of awe, you get overwhelmed by the idea that you 
 can literally go anywhere on this island and there is little holding you back from exploring as 
 much of it as you want. 
  
  The control is intuitive and despite a few odd key placements for your flashlight and grenades 
 it was easy to fit into. The controls are also fully customizable and anyone looking for a better 
 setup can easily run into the menu and change it to their individual tastes, I got used to the 
 default scheme and fumbled through it for a while and now it is quite comfortable, but I do suggest 
 beginner PC gamers to change their layout to a tighter style so they arent burdened with looking 
 at the keyboard every few minutes to figure out where the H button is to change through grenade 
 types. 
  
  The vehicles, though not as imperative to the gameplay as they were in games such as Halo, are 
 still a nice addition to gameplay. Even though the vehicles were placed in abundance around the 
 environment I often felt the urge to walk to my future destination in order to take in everything 
 that was going on around me. 
  
  The difficulty in the game was my only complaint the AI is extremely smart; this can be both a 
 curse and a gift to some gamers. Even on the lowest difficulty setting the game presents a challenging 
 defense and without proper planning you will find yourself dying quickly, this could be frustrating 
 for gamers that have a more run and gun approach when they soon realize that throwing around 
 shells will get them killed quicker then running into the middle of a busy highway. On the positive 
 side having a more impressive AI system incorporated into the game makes for a more challenging 
 experience that some higher-skilled gamers might enjoy. Either way the AI is some of the best I 
 have seen in an Action title to date. 
  
  Graphics: 9. The Graphics in this game as you may already know are something to drool over. The 
 draw distance is amazing, the lush environments are immersive and the character design though comically 
 disproportionate at times is still refined and done with amazing detail. The water effects are 
 some of the best I have ever seen, they even include that important threshold of whitewash as the 
 water hits the sand, this game is really about details like that. Those little things coupled with 
 the scope and design of the levels make this title a graphical splendor. It was really hard to 
 pick apart the engine and come up with any downfalls but there are a few clipping issues that can 
 affect gameplay and though they are trivial they are still there and some might see these as bigger 
 issues in the multiplayer game where an arm through a door could get you killed. Besides these 
 small and forgettable issues that you may or may not even notice, the pros definitely outweigh 
 the cons and this is one of the best looking titles on the PC in the history of the platform.
 
  
  Sound: 8. The score in the game is really meant to add to the pace, the music is dramatic and changes 
 depending on a situation. The more exciting a situation the more climactic the score becomes. The 
 sound effects are impressive and convincing and though the voice acting is a little gamey at times 
 it is still produced well and personifies the action adventure core of the title. Also, it sounds 
 like only 1 guy is voice acting all the mercenaries! I would have liked a little more ambient noise 
 in the background since this is a tropical setting, but the music is enough to distract me from 
 this other small detail.
  
  Value: 9. Almost Everything about the game is completely well worth your money. There are also 
 downloadable maps, mods, and a Level Editor to keep you playing this game for a long time. The 
 multiplayer is the one that holds this back to 9 but it still pretty fun.
  
  Overall  9.2 out of 10 
  
  To close, the only issues I had with this game I had to look for 
 closely, not one of them I noticed because it interfered with gameplay in a direct way. 
  
  I would highly recommend this game. A seasoned gamer could get through this in about 20 hours but 
 with its huge environments and different approaches to certain situations the replayability is 
 great, not to mention there is a multiplayer mode that although is a little shallow on the surface 
 still adds hours to the overall game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2004 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I waited till the hype was down until i tried this. I played the demo and was very impressed however 
 I was skeptical because of all the hype and I was afraid my computer couldn't deliver as well as 
 I wanted to. I have a great comp with very high specs, so I bought the game because gamespot gave 
 it a high rating.
  Let me just say, I now understand what all the hype is about. This is an incredible game. I don't 
 like to give high scores but this definitley is one of the best FPS I have ever played. I don't 
 think its as good as Doom2 or Unreal when they came out, but this gives me the same feeling of 
 originality that i crave. The AI here is sweet.
  Graphics are to die for. UNFORTUNATELY they demand too high of a computer. I have to play this 
 on 1248 by 1024 with the graphics set at medium and high. That is very fustrating because i can 
 tell how much better it can be and its still a little choppy. But apart from that:
  Sounds amazing,
  the gameplay is gorgeous
  and overal i have to say that this game just blows 
 me away. its a definite BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2004 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry isn't just a game, it's a super game. This game can fly! It flew out of my CD drive and 
 it graced it's light across the land and if it was passed out to all the people across the world, it 
 would end world hunger! It can make trinkets and trolleies out of butter milk and dead cats. The 
 game is so good, it's the closest thing you will get to Half-Life 2. This game is better than sliced 
 bread. It is fun and the graphics look shiny and new, just like a virgin. This game is well worth 
 the price its asking for. Buy it, play it, love it, it's Far Cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbogle420
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2004 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I just can't help but agree with what so many other people have already said : "the best single-player 
 experience since Half-Life". I haven't been so totally absorbed by a game since then. If you own 
 a PC that's built to play games, you OWE it to yourself to play this game! The open-ended approach 
 makes the game very replayable.... it even gets pretty difficult on the easy settings! One warning 
 though...... make SURE you've got a good video card before you even install this game (unless of 
 course a new patch has FINALLY been released by the time you read this) , or be prepared for some 
 real frustration. The frame rates can get REALLY ugly at times, and can be a real hamper on the 
 experience (not to mention making it impossible to aim sometimes) . Otherwise this game is amazing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastof75
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 6, 2004 3:42 pm PT
Review:  First things firstthe graphics are simply amazing. No contest to that. Some of the best visuals, 
 Ive ever seen in a game, in a long time. But as for game play, almost border-line dull. The AI 
 is WAY too sensitive. Why they have a stealth meter in the game is beyond me. No anywhere saves, 
 who makes games without that nowadays? The only way to catch the dialogue the NPC use is by using 
 the binoculars over and over and over again. The plot is a been-there-done-that situation. Again, 
 like I stated before the graphics are amazing but looking at the same jungle setting becomes a 
 bit redundant. By the time I was nearing the end I wanted to just finish it and finally be done 
 with the whole thing. All I have to say is if youre looking for a FPS to tie you over till Doom 
 III and Half-Life 2, this game will fill you upand for $40 you really cant go wrong. Just dont 
 expect to go for seconds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zude
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2004 6:40 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that I have played in a long time.
  
  The single-player campaign held my interest and kept me up far too late - you can lose all track 
 of time playing it, it is so immersive. There are also many ways to get through a level - you can 
 rely on stealth, or try to blast your way through, and there are usually multiple paths you can 
 choose to completion.
  
  Multiplayer should be a big hit (I have not tried it) , and the game includes the CryEngine Sandbox 
 editor to create your own levels. I predict that there will be a number of player-created maps 
 and mods, although I don't think it will ever catch up to what's available for Unreal Tournament 
 and other FPS games.
  
  The graphics are excellent, but a bit much for most systems, I think. If you have a recent system 
 with a new, high-end video card will you be able to turn the graphics all the way up. Don't get 
 me wrong, it should still be very playable on lesser systems, and the graphics look great even 
 on the lower settings. Be sure to check out the requirements before you buy it, however. This game 
 will probably be used as a graphics card benchmark for quite awhile.
  
  Sound and music also contribute a lot to the immersion and gameplay. By listening carefully (with 
 your character's ears and the nifty binoculars) you can pick up a lot of details.
  
  Overall I feel that Far Cry is an excellent value for the money, and recommend it to anyone who 
 enjoys these kinds of action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroHelix85
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2004 2:35 am PT
Review:  This is the most beautiful game to be released to date. The nearly 1km view distance, the gorgeous 
 water, the amazing physics, and the fantastic lighting all add up to an underwear change.
  
  The AI is the best since Half-Life. They will flank you, take cover, throw grenades at you, 
 and make things generally unpleasant.
  
  The early portion of the game (before you find out what everyone is on this big dumb island for) 
 can be kind of tedious, but once you're about 1/3 through the game, the fun factor really ramps 
 up. Upi'll find out why if you play. ;) 
  
  If you can have a machine that can handle it, this is a MUST OWN. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigglyjon
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 5, 2004 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Good: Graphics are so beautiful that it is a good show-off for your new 9800. But sadly, not everyone 
 has the top of the line cards. Because of that, I dont think everyone will really appreciate the 
 rich detail and wonderful shodows in the game. 
  
  Bad: One thing I found when playing the game, is the incredible difficulty this game was, even 
 on the lowest level. I would hide in the bushes with the sniper rifle, and kill one guy. The rest 
 would immidiatly know where I am and start shooting with their rifle. There "increadible" accuracy 
 would kill me in a few hits. I thought the trees were there for protection. In the same way when 
 walking around the jungle and you hear shooting, you look around trying to find your attacker. 
 But because of all the good vegetation it is hard to see them. Could be good if it goes both ways.
 
  
  So I say get it if you get the got the hardware, but be ready for the a frustratingly hard time.... 
 I suggest god mode for a couple of hard parts. Otherwise good game that feels like the new step 
 in graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2004 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a real step up in technology on several fronts. Since there are so many other reviews 
 on Game Spot of Far Cry, I will just point out some specific game play action scenes that I found 
 engrossing and fun.
  
  There is a point in the Steam Chapter where the Brady Games game guide recommended I grab the 50 
 caliber on the Humvee and start eliminating the merc enemies in mass, however the A. I. was too 
 smart and after several failures due to being flanked into crossfire I had to try something else. 
 On a whim I decided to drive the vehicle into the hornets nest of enemies and see what would happen. 
 Of course I took heavy fire and was beginning to take hits. In a frenzied panic I drove over a 
 couple guys, jumped out of the Humvee at the docks, dove into the water just before a huge rocket 
 explosion, and swam to safety under water. I then climbed a hill, took out the sniper with a rocket 
 launcher, and finally wiped out most of the rest of the mercs in that area.
  
  Most FPS games I've played don't alow for such a variety of scenarios that this game has for each 
 and every action sequence. The levels are so large that you can launch multiple attacks and then 
 retreat to hiding places to regroup for another onslaught. However I have been circled by the enemies 
 and thus surprised by them. This is very good for preventing the gamer from reading the a. i. scripts 
 as just an attack and hide stratagy. The single advancement of having the mercs hunt and search 
 you down, either in combat or just from them being warned of your being in the vicinity, impresses 
 me the most. This makes you always have to scan around, not being sure of what the enemies going 
 to do. They also duck behind trees and due some other interesting things. 
  
  As far as graphics go its an eye-candy-orgy if your system can handle it. I just upgraded a couple 
 months ago to an Athlon 64/G-force FX 5900 system which is paying dividends. I still can't run 
 it completly maxed out on detail but it's showing enough DirectX 9 technology to justify the upgrades. 
 The water ripples are beautiful but blood in the water is really amazing. Of course the foliage 
 just keeps coming at you with new a varied tropical plants, all bending in the wind so peacefully. 
 The shadows are realtime, but the swinging lamps indoors are fantastic with light bouncing in rythum 
 to penduluming fixtures [like Doom 3] . Advanced physics although a little spotty are fun to play 
 with as well [rolling barrels] .
  
  I am currently on level 10 so I think I'll get back to the action. The game is hard but it encourages 
 purseverance so I don't mind dying a few times in the name of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2004 5:47 pm PT
Review:  First, I want to comment on those reviewers that rate a game low because it doesn't "play right 
 on their machines", especially when it seems to run fine on most everyone elses. These people always 
 start out by saying they have a "top of the line" machine and the game doesn't run on it. Boo Hoo.. I'm 
 sick of hearing it. My machine is not top of the line but the game runs great on it.. go figure. 
 Maybe the complainers should figure out whats wrong instead of blaming the game. Anyway, I love 
 Far Cry.. the graphics are great and the sound is too. The only thing I don't really like (personal 
 preference) is not have enough saving options. I think game programmers should make difficult settings 
 for those hardcores who want checkpoint saving and other settings for those who want to save more 
 often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfgang53
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2004 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I just got lucky this time, but the game works great, the sound is great, it's visually stunning 
 and I'm having a blast trying to get through it. This is the most fun I've had with a shooter since 
 Half-Life. Make no mistake, the game is hard. There's not much room fo error during the combat 
 sequences, but the binoculars, if used as designed make up some of the difference. This is the 
 most fun I've had with a shooter since Half-Life. I'm running it on a P42.2 witha Radeon 9600XT, 
 512 Mb of DDR and an Audigy Platinum sound card. I don't have the graphics maxed out, but I started 
 with everything on VERY HIGH and started turning things down a notch one item at a time. Maybe 
 a lot of restarts to get it configured, but now it looks and plays great. Great job Crytek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 22, 2004 6:30 pm PT
Review:  We thought it would never come but after months of waiting, the next generation of first-person 
 shooters is here with Farcry. Brought to us by German developer Crytek, the game features some 
 unsurpassed visuals from anything out in retail thus far, brutal enemy AI, and the best environments 
 and effects since Serious Sam. 
  
  You play the part of Jack Carver who is hired to sail a lady named Val around the ocean when an 
 explosion decimates the boat he's sailing. Jack lands on a nearby beach of a tropical island only 
 to find out that he's surrounded by an army of hostile mercenaries. After fending for yourself 
 for a little bit, you find a phone and hear a the voice of Harlan Doyle who says that he's going 
 to help you find Val and get you off of the island as quickly as possible. In a storyline not unlike 
 The Island of Dr. Moreau, Jack will not only have to find Val, but Doyle will lead him through 
 unraveling a mystery regarding some experiments being performed on the island. Granted, the story 
 starts off a little weak but this is an FPS we're talking about. It's all about the action! But 
 seriously, the game's story will eventually pick up and take you through a twist here and a turn 
 there. 
  
  Simply put, this game is hard. The enemy AI is definitely worth noting. Even on normal difficulty 
 enemy mercs will duck behind cover, dive out from behind barrels and trees, and run to get reinforcements. 
 Right off the bat the game tries to show you how to use stealth to your advantage, but it never 
 seemed to work. I always found myself stealth killing a guy just to have everyone in the surrounding 
 area spraying fire my way in a matter of seconds. 
  
  Control is standard FPS fare and is responsive to an extent. One drawback is that aiming seems 
 a little bit slow, making headshots on an oncoming enemy a tad bit difficult. You have an assortment 
 of weapons ranging from the standard pistol, shotgun and rocket launcher to the OICA assault rifle 
 and mini gun. The rocket launcher also has a sniper scope to tag far off guard towers with a well 
 placed blast. Though you're limited to only four weapons to carry, you'll quickly find your favorites 
 among the bunch. You'll also have a compliment of flash, smoke, and frag grenades. Loading times 
 aren't much of a burden, you'll have one long load at the beginning of each chapter and smooth 
 gameplay through the level after that, though with some short pauses for the game's auto save. 
 Speaking of which, the game is only saved at checkpoints throughout the levels, thus increasing 
 the games difficulty that much more. 
  
  The island you're trapped on is pretty expansive and some levels will require you to take control 
 of various vehicles like four-wheel drive buggies, semi trucks, boats and even hang gliders to 
 get across large canyons and valleys. The vehicle control can take some getting used to since the 
 controls seem to become overly sensitive while driving, especially in the case of the buggies, 
 so prepare to drive into lakes, trees, and off cliffs until you get the hang of it. 
  
  Unfortunately, the games innovation doesn't carry over into the multiplayer. You'll find the standard 
 game modes with a few of the game's vehicles. 
  
  As previously stated, the graphics in this game are above anything on the market now. You'll go 
 through some lush tropical environments filled with trees, tall grass, hanging vines, bushes, and 
 birds flying overhead. Perhaps the icing on the cake would be the game's water effects which are 
 the best seen in a game to date. You'll get realistic reflections and distortions coming off of 
 the surface and it's clear enough to see fish and plant life swimming and swaying beneath. The 
 effect is something to behold, if you have a good enough system that is. Either that or I'm just 
 a sucker for water effects. The game also features a physics system that was just a dream in the 
 Half-Life 2 E3 demo last year. You're able to roll barrels down hills and can even hit enemies 
 with them, push tables around, and knock all sorts of things over. If all of that isn't enough, 
 there are also destructible environments that will allow you to bring down certain huts with explosions, 
 shoot down bridges to detour oncoming mercs, and shoot out chains on precariously hanging storage 
 units to fall onto enemies below. The game also has some great lighting effects that will cast 
 the shadows of swaying leaves onto your gun and the ground below. Player and enemy models look 
 good, but they seem to be recycled a lot. To top it all off, the game also features some great 
 rag-doll physics where guys will fall limp over railings and will have individual bullet holes 
 appear in them. With the graphics turned down to a mixture of high and medium settings, the game 
 performed well and only got some moderate choppiness during big action sequences. 
  
  Sound also fares well. Each weapon sounds like it packs a wallop and speakers boom with every explosion. 
 Supporting characters like Dr. Krieger and Harlan Doyle are voiced well, but Jack's lines sound 
 awkward at times and pack a little too much emotion. Enemies are also voiced well, but repeat their 
 lines often. You'll get sick of hearing I'm going to lay the smack down! by the third chapter 
 of the game. Environments have their own ambient noises with some occasional music that plays when 
 there's trouble nearby. The music is unobtrusive leaving the ambient sound as the start of the 
 show and it's pulled off well, considering the game has support for up to eight speaker surround 
 sound. 
  
  Far Cry is, by far, the sleeper hit for PC of this year. With little to no hype surrounding it, 
 it's managed to beat out its FPS cousins Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 by months and has managed to produce 
 an entertaining, lengthy (about 12 large levels) and esthetically pleasing gameplay experience. 
 Any FPS fan would be happy with Far Cry, if not only to benchmark the new hardware they bought 
 for Doom and Half-Life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kastigador
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2004 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a good game. I won't say excellent because it had some flaws but overall it is a very 
 pleasant suprise in a FPS market dominated by overhyped failures. 
  
  First off, I want to rebute and also confirm some of the criticism I've ever heard:
  Yes, you 
 need a damn good machine to run this game. You need the very top of the line if you want to run 
 it with everything on. But that's fine, an impressive game should test a system's limits. When 
 I was 14 I got a new machine and I was pumped I could run Doom 2 with a room full of monsters without 
 a slow down. 
  Save points, while challenging, need to be seen as good. Everyone thinks the developer just didn't 
 take the time to implement a save system. Explain to me why the devmode (aka cheat mode) let's you 
 save and load. Checkpoints add suspense and challenge. If you can't hack it, then learn to play 
 better. Sorry you either suck as video games and/or you are too impatient to appreciate the demand 
 to formulate an approach before running into battle. There were challenging parts I had to play 
 over a couple times too many, but oh well. I died. Eventually you learn to play better.
  
  Great graphics, sound, fun AI and weapons. I like the huge maps. I've ran into some bugs and crashes, 
 but they seem to be gone since I put the 1.1 patch. I've seen some artifacts and sounds get stuck 
 occasionally. Probably my biggest peeve, and hence the 7 for gameplay, is the AI can be a little 
 too all knowing. I wish darkness and shadows secluded you. Also, they have subsonic hearing. The 
 story is lacking and the main character is cliche and generic. Seriously, give the people telling 
 the story a slight sense of ironic humor. 
  
  I'd buy it again. So 2 thumbs up.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 18, 2004 12:25 pm PT
Review:  For anyone thinking of buying this game - don't bother until several patches have been released 
 (the first one didn't solve much) .
  The graphics and sound are fine, the main issue is mouse lag. My system is top spec (3.2Ghz P4 
 + FX5950 Ultra) and I have never come across mouse lag in a game before - the level of mouse lag 
 in this game makes it unplayable. On the official tech support forum you will see many people complaining 
 about this issue, plus others such as being continously booted from servers due to their over-the-top 
 security system.
  Basically, this is a half-finished game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alestian
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2004 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay, if you are reading this review then it is probably because you are debating on buying "Far 
 Cry" but want to see what others think about it first. I can relate to that because I was in the 
 same situation before I purchased it myself. So, let me give you my honest opinion of the game 
 and hopefully that will help in your decision-making process.
  
  
  I'll be the first to tell you that the graphics in this game are really good. In fact, they are 
 a little bit too good. I don't mean that there aren't other games that have graphics of equal or 
 better value, because I think there probably are. What I mean is that the graphics are so polished 
 that they really require a massive computer system to render them as designed. Chances are better 
 than good that when you install the game and attempt to play it for the first time, the game will 
 set your graphics settings to "Medium". You can change the settings to "High" or above but here 
 is what will happen. At first, you will be exploring the island and thinking "This isn't so bad. 
 My video card seems to be working fine." Then, you will find yourself in a fight with three bad 
 guys and your computer will starting locking up, you'll move your weapon around trying to aim at 
 the bad guys but due to the slow rendering, your system will drag, you'll miss your targets, you'll 
 get hit, and may even have to restart the level. So, yes the game has great graphics. No, you may 
 not be able to see how great the graphics are unless your computer system is above excellent. In 
 other words, playing the game at the "Medium" level will make for a better gaming experience but 
 you will not see how great the graphics really are. I, personally, have a top notch Radeon video 
 card, 80GB hard drive, 512 SDRAM, and a 1.5GHZ Intel processor. I switched the default settings 
 from "Medium" to "High", thought it would be okay, and then experienced my system dragging during 
 battle sequences.
  
  On the other hand, if you do have the powerful gaming computer system then you will find that certain 
 visual elements of the game will help you conquer the game better than for those of us who do not 
 have such a powerful system. For example, you will be able to correctly see shadows as they reflect 
 off of metal, grass, etc. This can help alert you to incoming bad guys.
  
  
  As far as music is concerned, I have heard better in other games. The thing that this game does 
 have is the ability to hear the bad guys and what they are saying to one another. You will hear 
 them say "I found him!" or "He's over here!" When you hear those words, keep your guard up. 
  
  
  If you play the game on the "Medium" setting, so as to not experience slow system performance, 
 then you will not be as frustrated when you play. This alone will make for a better gaming experience. 
 Otherwords, the story is good, the ability to explore and experience any part of the island is 
 excellent, and the ability to basically do whatever you want is very cool. The only bad part is 
 that you do have checkpoints in the game, meaning that you have to fight your way from one point 
 to another point before the game is saved. So, if you are fighting through and expire just before 
 you reach your checkpoint, you will have to start that level all of over again. Talk about a very 
 bad idea for the game. 
  
  
  Do not pay $49.99 in the store for this game. Unless you have a computer system that makes Bill 
 Gates envious then you won't get the full value for your money. I would recommend looking on eBay, 
 seeing if you can get a used version for half the price, and then go from there. But seriously, 
 the game, unfortunately, was not designed for the average home gamer. It was designed so that you 
 run out and spend thousands of dollars on a new computer system.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2004 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the best gaming experiences of the few years. The graphics are simply wonderful, 
 particularly if you have a higher end, DirectX 9 capable card. However, the graphics are still 
 great even with a better DirectX 8 card. What makes the game though is the options you are given. 
 In nearly every situation, there is more than one path. Do you sneak through the woods, or attempt 
 to steal a patrol boat and circle the water? Do you take the hand glider off the mountain, walk 
 the path down, or take the deep dive into the water and swim? You are also forced to choose which 
 weapons best suit your playing style and location, as you can only carry four weapons at a time. 
 
  
  Two things make the game less then perfect. First, the game uses a checkpoint based save system. 
 In general, this is much better implemented, in terms of the frequency of the checkpoints, than 
 in some previous Ubi Soft games like XIII. But there are occasions where it can be frustrating. 
 The other potential problem is lock-ups. Like every high-end game, some people will have problem 
 playing the game. In some locations the game would freeze on me. Sometimes it would restore itself 
 and I could continue. Other times it would crash the system and restart the computer. These were 
 not frequent enough, but with the checkpoint save system, the crashes always seemed to happen at 
 the worst time.
  
  Far Cry is not one of the big name games that got a lot of attention at the start of the year. 
 But Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 have had the bar raised. These games will now have to be very good games 
 to measure up to Far Cry. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimhkramer
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 12, 2004 8:05 am PT
Review:  I had great expectations, the graphics are beautiful, the sound is in surround and stereo! The 
 game sits on the shelf because on the "easy" setting it is simply too difficult to enjoy unless 
 you like dying! Body armor is apparently destroyed by your own body odor, (kidding, but it seems 
 one shot takes it out) and the enemy rarely misses. With no "quick save" feature, you must make 
 it to "checkpoints" before the game automatically saves itself. I thought that went out with the 
 first Jedi Knight game and all the uproar it created. Anyway, unless Far Cry comes out with a patch 
 that makes "easy" actually an easy setting, many gamers will get frustrated and wish they hadn't 
 bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchick1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2004 9:14 am PT
Review:  "Where is he?!. I have just spent five, long, tense minutes sneaking up on the encampment. I think 
 I have finally been spotted. There are shouts of alarm from the enemy and I can hear them shouting 
 out flanking manuevers. I am frozen ... hunkered down prone under a large bush beside a boulder. 
 I can hear someone coming, the sounds of their boots on the grass grows louder. I turn my head 
 and localize the sound jus to the right of the boulder. Maybe I can get off a shot? or should I 
 wait?
  I hear the sounds of others off to the left. But, hidden from them... they are also hidden from 
 me. Suddenly, I can see the uniform showing briefly through the bush. I am hardly breathing and 
 dare not make a sound. THen the tension becomes overpowering and I quickly left off a quick burst 
 of fire into the stomach of my enemy. The blood splatters everywhere and I hear his scream of anguish. 
 Immediately I jump and run for the next nearest cover, my location now exposed. The shouts of the 
 dead mercenary's companions turns frantic and the jungle erupts into the sound of automatic weapons 
 fire. The bullets richochet all around me, the sound of their impacts into the foliage and tree 
 truncks envelopes my path. They have found thier target and range now, I dive prone behind another 
 rock but, too near the ledge, I slide into the lagoon. Now underwater, the frightened fish scatter 
 but the bullets I can also now clearly see pursuing me as I dive deeper. Can I make it to the beach? 
 I hope so...."
  
  Absolutly the best and most immersive interactive experience in many years. Thanks for the ride, 
 Crytek!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudvayne49
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2004 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I have just beaten this game like 20mins ago and I have to say this is one of the best shooters 
 i ever played second to Halo. It had really great game play and the story was casual like some fps. But 
 other then that the game was really fun to play but it was a challenge also. The graphics are awsome 
 the best I have ever seen so far for a pc game like how the water moves when u go thorough it. And 
 the shadows are really amazing. The AI is really a challenge i almost broke my mouse because the 
 ai really pissed me off in some points. But anyway if u are looking for a great shooter get Far 
 Cry one of the best fps today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohNNy_BraVo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2004 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a great single player game. The storyline and graphics are awesome. On a constructive critism 
 side, the mouse cursor feels spongie and not tight like a counter-strike or unreal tournament FPS. 
 I've tried every setting possible and the mouse just plan lags. The sound code must have a leak 
 because after player awhile the sound degrades to a crackling-echo piece of gizmo caca. 
  
  The Multiplayer is very fun, but the character movement in relation to the
  ground is very choppy 
 and unsmooth compared to the other FPS games on the market now. 
  
  Overall, this game is worth the money and hopefully the problems mentioned abouve will be patched. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I wrote a review when this came out and gave this game a 6.1. Read this first.
  
  I'm going to start this review by saying that Far Cry might very well be the best game I've ever 
 come across. I say 'might' because I really don't know. I've read all these tales of how fabulous 
 the graphics are and how realistic the AI is and how 'immersive' the gameplay is. I bought it with 
 great hope, in the absolute certainty that my 2.6Ghz, 1Gb RAM, GeForceFX system would truly show 
 off all the bells and whistles that this game has to offer. So you can imagine my confusion and 
 surprise when the game told me I only had an 'average' system and set the detail to medium. Even 
 at this level the game still chugs at times and I find myself unable to feel 'immersed' in the 
 action since I'm too busy trying to figure out which direction I'm facing as my machine struggles 
 to keep up with my mouse movement. I'd like to know what sort of a system you need to play this 
 game as every other game I have runs beautifully on the highest detail settings? Maybe I need to 
 put in a bid to the FBI for the machine they use to run the country?
  
  Apart from the system issues, there are others. The control is sluggish, particularly when using 
 vehicles. This isn't just down to the system struggling as the same thing happens when set on low 
 detail. A head shot appears to be luck at best with anything but a sniper rifle no matter how long 
 you line the shot up for. Jeeps go 0-60 in 0.1 seconds and continue to trundle along long after 
 you've taken your foot off the throttle (causing some seriously unwanted run-ins with enemy mercenaries!) 
 I won't complain too much about the save system as their is apparently a patch coming out to allow 
 quicksaves but in all fairness, when are gamemakers going to cop on and cut this 'checkpoint' save 
 system out altogether? You make a tough game with huge levels then spoil it by making us play through 
 them over and over because we can't save after the tough bits??
  
  On the positive side, the sound and graphics are gorgeous (even on medium) and the storyline is 
 solid (if a little confusing to start with - I had no idea what was going on with that opening 
 movie!) The enemy AI is excellent, hiding, taking cover etc., but if you alert them don't even 
 bother trying to hide, they will find you even if they could not possibly have seen where you went. 
 Dense jungle foliage and brick walls are no barrier to these guys' line of sight.
  
  I hate to write a bad review so to put a positive spin on this let me just say that Far Cry will 
 without a doubt be the best budget game ever released when you can pick it up for $10 because by 
 then most gamers should have a system that will run it as it should be run. Unfortunately Far Cry 
 is ahead of it's time, in more ways than one. 
  
  Ok? If you have an older machine, that review stands. Leave now. If you have recent machine then 
 this game is one you'll find hard to beat. Forget XBox 360 and PS3, the PC was doing all that long 
 before with Far Cry. Once I replayed this game on a more modern machine (3.2 Gig Athlon, 2Gb Ram, 
 Geforce 7600) it truly is a work of art. I won't go into an more detail than that, I'm sure you've 
 read all the reviews. Now that it's on budget if you recently upgraded your machine then this would 
 be one to make sure you haven't missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2004 1:44 am PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I have to say. Far Cry has raised the bar for everyone else now. Dramatically. 
 The graphics are gorgeous. The environments massive, open and immersive. The AI is efficient and 
 can be brutally cunning. The game is suspsenseful and thrilling. And add on top of that, the game 
 is more than 25 hours long, but doesn't get boring. In fact, the last four or five missions of 
 the game are some of the most thrilling not only in the game, but out of any first-person shooter 
 on the market.
  
  This game is hard. VERY hard. Sometimes frustrating, and almost impossible. But never quite. It's 
 challenging, but it's also very satisfying. The challenge adds an edge to the game that makes it 
 extraordinarily exciting when you are crawling through the bushes, hoping to God that you shoot 
 the last enemy before he shoots you, and praying that you find a health pack somewhere. 
  
  The game is about 2/3 outdoor areas and about 1/3 indoor areas. The outdoor areas are by far, the 
 strength of the game. They are so huge that it can take half an hour just to traverse across them. 
 They are lush jungles, full of beautiful and inviting rivers and lakes, trees, rocks, birds, and 
 lots of vegetation. The rocks and vegetation provide you with the cover that you will need to stay 
 alive. Far Cry is as much of a stealth game as it is an action game. Enemies are too tough to face 
 four or five at at time. You have to crawl slowly sometimes, sniping them from a distance, or ambushing 
 them while they comb the jungle looking for you.
  
  The indoor areas look nice and have a creepy atomspheric feel to them, but they are frustrating 
 to play through, and they feel like a ripoff of Half-Life. The monsters that you face are more 
 annoying than anything, and some of them can kill you with one or two hits. The middle part of 
 the game has lots of indoor, monster-filled areas and that is probably the weakness of the game.
 
  
  Far Cry rivals Halo for the best AI ever in a video game. The AI is not only great for stealth, 
 but for action as well. This is very rare. They are efficient at using cover and searching for 
 you when you are hiding. You can't just sit behind a rock a mile away and pick off guys by sniping 
 them. They will actually hunt you down. Sometimes they will even send a helicopter up to hunt for 
 you. When they find you, they will use cover and use grenades to flush you out. 
  
  PC games have seen a few technological innovatios in the past year or so. Dynamic lighting and 
 shadows, and realistic physics, to name a couple. Far Cry perfects these innovations, where other 
 games have struggled. The physics engine is excellent, and so is the lighting. In one area, I watched 
 in awe as a threw a grenade into the end of a crowded hallway, and watched as the explosion rocked 
 the light. The light swung back and forth wildly, causing all of the shadows in the hallway to 
 move in sync. Far Cry is loaded up with details like that. For instance, you can see the picture 
 in the lens of your sniper rifle, even when you aren't zoomed in. 
  
  The story for the game is sort of a disappointment. It's not really bad, but it would have been 
 nice to have a better story to connect all of the nail-biting action. The voice-acting isn't too 
 good either, except for a couple of the friendly characters that help you. Otherwise, the sound 
 for the game is excellent.
  
  Far Cry is such a pleasant surprise because it is not only full of technological innovations, but 
 it backs them up with a really, really fun game. And then instead of ending after 8 hours, it manages 
 to keep you hooked for 3 times longer. So once the "oooh" and "ahhh" factor of the game wears off, 
 your enjoyment of the game doesn't. If you can get over the near-impossible difficulty, then you 
 would be committing a crime against yourself by not playing this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hicklebird
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2004 12:18 am PT
Review:  Take the Crytek engine and Deus Ex and you would have a 10 score game. This review is from a 42 
 year old gamer. I do this becuase there are NO reviewers our age therefore I take on the task. 
 At our age we are using reading glasses to see the monitor our reflexes aren't up to a teenager's 
 but still we like a good action game as much as anyone else. All the reviewers these days are young 
 and can handle all the fast pace necessary to kill enemies to get through a level, we mature guys 
 have to use more strategy to get through a level. I'm not that fast with a mouse as I was before. 
 Therefore I look for ways to kill my enemies such as playing peek -a- boo. If your older remember 
 how tough it is to get by the two helipads after blowing up the power facility (Steam) ? Oh it can 
 be done with more strategy and you don't get killed. (Don't charge into it, let them come to you 
 and use the JackHammer (shotgun) .) Having said all that now you know why I think Deus Ex is a much 
 better FPS than Half-Life. And of course Half-Life is a great game also even for us older gamers. 
 Just takes us a little longer to get through it. 
  Now my review of Far Cry for us guys who help bring home the bacon and need some stress relief. 
 Far Cry has the best graphics in an FPS thus far released. IF you have the system to run it. (I'm 
 waiting for prices to drop. $500 dollars for a videocard? I don't pay that much for a CPU!!) But 
 not going with EAX 4.0 which has been available for almost 2 years now, I don't understand why 
 not go with the latest in a new engine unless of course it's the same story... money. Maybe an update 
 will come out for the CryTek engine soon incorporating EAX 4.0? 
  Story is obviously a spinoff from Half-Life.... this shows lack of creativity of the game's producers. 
 Good voice acting, not the best but still good script and acting. BUT the worst game intro I've 
 seen, makes no since unless you have read the introduction on an adverti****t somewhere. And Deus 
 Ex still has the best cut-scenes incorporating the actual area into the cut-scene, you never get 
 mentally seperated from playing the game. I don't know why these program guys haven't copied Deus 
 Ex's idea for cut-scenes it's the best yet. 
  Getting around, I'll agree with the Gamespot reviewer better to go on foot unless your on the level 
 with the treehouses, we older guys better grab a Humvee. I mostly use a vehicle to get around the 
 play area to go back and get armor or a medipac I purpously left somewhere. (BTW the hang-glider 
 is a joke unless your character is into pain! Even if you follow the game guides's flight plan.) 
 
  There is a long learning curb using stealth. Stealth works well in this game with some exceptions 
 which you will find out when playing the scenario getting through the carrier early in the game. 
 You can't crouch-sneak up the steps to a door leading into the carrier and as soon as you get into 
 the door using a slow-walk the bad guy hears you cause he's in the next room parallel to your position. 
 For the stealthiest position... lay prone. (No you can't get up steps lying prone.) Takes longer 
 to get around but worth the time. Another weak spot for stealth is at the top of a ladder. Once 
 again the programmers have taken on the challenge of their greatest obstacle.... THE LADDER. The 
 CryTek engine has the best ladder program I have seen in an FPS thus far BUT ALL programmers have 
 a long way to go in perfecting this obstacle. At the end of climbing a ladder ALL STEALTH is null 
 and void, in sourthern terms... There ain't none. 
  Word of warning for us older gamers. There are areas in the game where not much strategy can be 
 employed so be warned. An example is where a mercanary is using a gun to mow down tridgens in a 
 corridor. This is way after emerging from the ventilation shaft after blowing up the power facility. 
 You pretty much have to charge and hope for the best. 
  This leads me to the next bad part of this game for us older dedicated gamers. NO SAVES!! Okay 
 I get Cryteks's philosophy... no game plays the same. Meaning if you restore a checkpoint the AI 
 will vary. Therefore they dropped the saves. Okay that would take away the Quicksaves in a game, 
 but what after killing a herd of enemies and doing a FULL SAVE? Not even the official game guide 
 shows on their maps the checkpoints! There are many checkpoints but without exploring you won't 
 find them. And for us older guys that's about an hour's worth of killing then no checkpoint when 
 you need one and the wife is screaming for help or the kids are bugging you by now. 
  Overall this is a good game for us older guys just don't let it frustrate you, which it can if 
 you let it. Oh and remember if you need the game to be easier don't forget at the start to check 
 the block for AI Autobalance at the beginning cause if you don't and your like me it can get frustrating 
 even on easy level. (Sometimes I think I need to go into business making game guides for older 
 gamers. lol) Gameguides don't incorporate strategy just basically what's where and that's about 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2004 12:00 pm PT
Review:  There are a multitude of FPS games emerging now. I don't believe that any can hold a candle to 
 the shear beauty and awe of Far Cry. I was going to give the gameplay rating a lower score, but 
 I decided to upgrade a couple of components on my pc. I started with a NVidia Geforce 5950 Ultra 
 256MB video card, then an Athlon XP-3200 CPU. What a night and day difference. The detail and environment 
 was absolutely breathtaking. The lighting and textures was by far the best I had ever seen in a 
 game. The water was so real, I forgot that I was playing a game. Add an Audigy soundcard and you 
 are in business. Dolby Digital sound quality with awesome environmental detailed effects. The only 
 thing that prevented me giving a perfect 10 was the so-so multiplayer mode. I'm sure that will 
 change in the near future with an expansion pack. This game is a must buy, but make sure your system 
 can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a fantastic new game, it has everything a hard core gamer could ask for. The checkpoints 
 as a way to save the game could be a little bit closer together just for the sake of folks whom 
 are at work or perhaps babysitting
  what have you. Little things like being able to change the crosshair color are absent from the setup 
 menu though. There are no quick saves other than the check point saves, which are a bit of annoying 
 until one gets use to it. Cry Far's makers have perhaps taken this great game out of the reach of 
 many gamers with out a high end machine, as it haves 5 cd-roms just to install it!
  Again the cd-rom drives must be of high quality and speed. Also the game makers seem to be pitting 
 NVIDIA and ATI graphics company against one another in the graphics department. Sound is quite well 
 fit to the game, though again one must have a top quality sound card. The music is soso as far as 
 shooter tpe games go. The graphics are stunning, none more beautiful have I seen this year! The game, in 
 this womans view should have been polished more before its release, the multiplayer servers crash 
 constantly. The game has as many glichs as it offers
  excitementOnce UBI has polished the game play and the many glichs and graphic problems they may 
 have a contender for Call of Dutys game of the year! As I reviewed and played this wonderful game, but 
 as it stands the value thats is being charged for it is way to much. I will give this game a 4.5 
 rateing until ubi straightens the many problems out, which I am quite sure will not be long in forthcomeing. If 
 one does not have a high end gameing system do not waste your money on the first release of Far 
 Cry ! After many many reviews and shooter games its time to give FAr Cry its due and respect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigglou55
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2004 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I just picked the game up today, and all I can say is WOW. I also picked up an ATI Radeon 9800 
 pro, but Ill get to that in a minute. The game is simply spectacular. The sound effects (mainly 
 the weapon sounds) are very well done. The Graphics are SPECTACUALR, and the physics are second 
 to none. The AI is also pretty decent, and the view distance is quite amazing (no fog or distance 
 hazing) . I have yet to venture online to test out he Multiplayer, but thats not why I really 
 purchased the game.
  
  Now to the Radeon 9800 pro. I have an AMD Athlon 2500+ with 1gb of RAM. I also had a NVIDIA gForce 
 4 Ti 4200 8x 128. Ive been wanting to upgrade for a while now and decided that today was the day. 
 However, I did a little test before I installed the 9800. I played for a bit with my Ti, and everything 
 ran smoothly and I did not notice any framing. The only things that were noticeably different were 
 the water and the reflections/intense lighting, but it was still VERY playable. How different is 
 it? With a non-DX9 hardware supported Graphics card, the water is a little too milky. Its also 
 not nearly as crisp or clear. I would not suggest trying to play this game with anything below 
 a GF4 Ti4200 or R9000pro. Check the following article on Toms Hardware to see where you graphics 
 card rates: http://www. tomshardware. com/graphic/20031229/index. html.
  
  If you are worried about how your system will perform, here is a decent benchmark. If you AquaMark3 
 benchmark is around 15758 (CPU: 6154, GFX: 1818) or higher, then you will be just fine. If your 
 3DMark03 score is around 1500, then you should be ok too. If you are still worried that your card 
 will not perform well, simply download and play the demo. Now.. When I say OK, I mean that the 
 game will run with everything around medium. Just let the game query you system and set everything 
 for you. Once you do that, then start tweaking.
  
  Bottom line. This is one of the best FPS out there as far a single player action goes, and thats 
 what I enjoy. This score is based on the SINGLE player side of the game. I have tested the MP maps 
 and they are quite impressive. Plenty of cover, water and rolling terrain. Cant wait to give MP 
 a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindmagestic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2004 1:49 am PT
Review:  One word to say O U T S T A N D I N G !!!!
  
  I'm not a big fan of first person shooter rather a RTS game player, but i take more and more pleasure 
 to play it after buying freedom fighters that I find a great game. Then Far Cry comes.... I was 
 not very hot to buy it untill I saw the demo in a informatic shop. I was firstly astonished by 
 the quality of graphics in this "paradise island". Ok ok ok then try it, I bought it, and what 
 can I said... All my RTS games are Crying.
  
  I played a little bit in the campaign missions, and the most funny is when you can pilot, the 4x4, 
 boat, jeep in a very realistic way. The phisics is VERY well achieved and take you a bit more deeply 
 in the game. The campaign seems to be quiet long. 
  
  Multi-player. I had some problem that have been fixed thanks to the patch V1.1 
  26Mo downloading 
 : (, The problem here is in my opinion the little choice of maps (only 6) , but it is true that they 
 are very well polished and huge.
  There are nothing new if compared to others 1st person shooter. (And they are always Guys hidden 
 with sniper to kill you !!!!!!)
  
  In overall, multi or single style, you are completely imerged in the game thanks mostly to the 
 sounds, graphics, physics reality and some funny personnal touch of the game like Fish in a beautiful 
 blue water, birds that are flying every where in a blue sky in a paradise island context.
  
  Great job UBISOFT !!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2004 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Hey, I have played them all and this one is great!
  I have always been a big fan of the FPS, ever since Doom. Far Cry is what we should expect from 
 DOOM 3 and Half-Life 2. The graphics are gorgeous, considering the volume and detail that this 
 'Cry' engine renders. (Admittedly, I have a 3.4 P4, 1GB RAM, and 9700 Pro, and I don't crank up 
 all the setting past medium/high, otherwise frame rates suffer during intense action.) Demanding 
 requirements aside, this is one of those games you can't wait to play when you're forced to do 
 unimportant things, like work. 
  Graphical touches add realism, blades of tall grass cast individual shadows. The sound is awesome; 
 you can hear grass crunching under the feet of the mercenaries looking for you. There really are 
 only two minor complaints. The voice acting is a little corny and the vehicle controls are difficult 
 to manage.
  I play this game on realistic (highest difficulty level) because I dont mind second, or third 
 (or more) attempts at completing a section. You are forced to be cunning and stealthy, and most 
 of all, a great shot (head shots are strongly recommended against foes with body armor) . The physics 
 engine is the best I have seen yet. The save point system creates tension, and a feeling of accomplishment 
 when you survive the more difficult segments. Most of all, I simply savor the experience of playing 
 Far Cry.
  If you enjoy an immersive FPS, you should enjoy Far Cry. It truly has been a pleasant surprise 
 for those of us waiting (patiently) for Doom3 and HL2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 30, 2004 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry has lately been receiving a lot of very positive press. And yes, while the graphics are 
 among the most beautiful a $4000 gaming rig can buy, it is fraught with problems, both in terms 
 of gameplay and presentation. All in all, it's an overhyped and mediocre shooter at best.
  
  Far Cry focuses on Jack Carver, a pleaure boat captain who gets entangled in the ploys of a 
 mad scientist when his ship is attacked by mercenaries. Left stranded with countless questions, 
 and a thirst for vengeance, Carver sets out to get to the bottom of the diabolical mystery that 
 surrounds the tropical paradise he finds himself in. Of course, Jack has a friend or two, namely 
 a shadowy scientist named Doyle, who keeps in constant communication with Jack from a cell phone.
 
  
  So, let's get the most stunning part of Far Cry out of the way: yes, the game is gorgeous... that 
 is, if you have the rig to run it. At lower video quality settings, the game appears to lose much, 
 which is a shame, since very few gamers will possess the PC power to run it at max settings. Even 
 on my relatively-new fully tricked-out Alienware, Far Cry chugs when detail settings are cranked 
 above Medium. This means that for most, the game will be a far cry from what you were hoping to 
 see. In all actuality, though, the game just isn't that pretty when you stop to consider that the 
 outdoor environments all look the same, and the alternative is dark and drab interiors that all 
 pretty much look the same as one another.
  
  In the sound department, Far Cry is just so-so. The voice acting is decent, but not spectacular. 
 The enemies repeat the same token lines over and over. And, well, most of the game's sounds lack 
 a great deal of punch. While there are multiple settings for advanced audio options, none of these 
 really seem to come into play. After all, what place is there for EAX occlusion and reverb effects 
 when you're in a wide-open field? The music is competent, but ultimately, the score is forgettable.
 
  
  So, once you peel back the presentation, which is obviously the selling point, what do you have? 
 A loosely designed FPS that actually plays pretty poorly. It's not that you don't have adequate 
 firepower, and it's not that there isn't a bevy of options you can choose from to engage your enemy, 
 it's just that none of it is implemented fairly well.
  
  Case in point: the island is crawling with smart mercenaries who know how to use cover and attack 
 you in teams, a la the soldiers in Half-Life. You have the option for stealth, and even have a 
 stealth meter. But, the meter often goes from zero to full alert, as the mercenaries possess amazing 
 ESP that allows them to detect you from behind rocks, buildings, and trees when you make scarcely 
 a sound. Add to it that a well-hidden enemy with eagle eyes can spot you in the middle of thick 
 underbrush that completely obscures your vision, and you'll find that the stealth aspect is a complete 
 sham in this game.
  
  This wouldn't be so bad if you had the firepower to deal with them. Enemies in the game, even on 
 the easier settings, are snipers, and can take you out in no time. Furthermore, they can take a 
 great deal of punishment before they fall. When you get noticed -- and you will -- enemies swarm you 
 in a completely overwhelming manner that makes you feel less equal to the task than when you were 
 noticed in Thief.
  
  This is made worse by the fact that there is no quicksave, only ill-defined checkpoints (how could 
 they implement checkpoints on a wide-open island anyway?) . So, when you get blown away, expect 
 it to set you back a bit.
  
  The vehicle combat is an obvious tip of the hat to Halo. I thought the vehicles were clunky in 
 Halo, and you know what? They're clunky here, too. Furthermore, nothing attracts the attention 
 of the natives like jetting around on the roads, so if you're planning on taking some wheels, plan 
 on taking an overwhelming amount of punishment, too.
  
  The storyline is somewhat reminiscent of Half-Life. You're an ordinary man forced into a grim situation 
 that pits you against man and inhuman beasts. While this was groundbreaking 6 years ago, it just 
 seems derivative now.
  
  All in all, much of Far Cry's appeal lay in its presentation. Underneath it is a shooter that is 
 mediocre at best. If you're considering buying this game for the gameplay, be warned that there 
 is nothing but frustration to be had. If you're considering buying it for the pretty pictures, 
 be warned that you need a 3GHz system with a $500 video card just to enjoy it properly. But, Far 
 Cry is not a game that is ultimately worth upgrading your hardware.
  
  Disappointing at best... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harring11
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2004 8:30 am PT
Review:  I'm not quite sure how far (overall) I'm into the game yet - but - so far I am very extremely impressed 
 with the gameplay, graphics, sound etc.
  
  The only negative I have found has a little to do with how many times you have to shoot the computer 
 opposition and the target rate.
  
  Both of these - too me - are merely challenges of the game. Those aside this is the best FPS I've 
 played in quite some time. One thing's for sure, it will have you thinking about Half Life - different 
 but the same sort of story line.
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanslake2002
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2004 7:46 am PT
Review:  What to say, after purchasing so many disappointing games, what a pleasant surprise. The graphics 
 are killer, the sound is great, the controls are in the right place as they should be, unlike a 
 few to many other games they have not tried to re-invent that wheel. The AI is amazing, almost 
 to the point of hair pulling frustration and levels play out differently as you re-load checkpoints. 
 Also allowing you to approach objectives in different manners.
  I haven't finished or for that matter gotten very far in the game yet, but am thinking about a 
 tropical vacation already.
  Methinks the new releases of Halo, Half-life might be delayed because of this game, its that good, 
 they're going to have to do their homework to top this.
  I do have a newer computer with 2.6Ghz, 1.5 gigs of ram and a 9800 128 vid card with audigy2 ZS 
 sound and found that it runs jerky at the highest settings. So those of you with lower end systems 
 (not saying mine is high end) might find it difficult to play on your systems.
  All in all good value for your bucks in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivan_kavinski
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2004 4:28 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is hands-down the best single-player FPS experience single Half-life.
  The gameplay in Far Cry is generally quite well done. The controls are pretty standard for a FPS. 
 Ragdoll physics apply to much of the gameplay here, with barrels being able to be rolled into enemies, 
 or blowing away boxes enemies are using for cover. Vehicle use is sparse, but the controls work 
 out pretty well, especially since they can be used in first or thrid-person. Your character can 
 crawl, swim, jump, sprint and do various other things to interact within the spectacular environments. 
 Some of these actions such as jumping and sprinting are limited by a stamina meter which rechares 
 when you are either stopped or moving at normal speed.
  The graphics in Far Cry are pretty much the best today. Advanced pixel shading effects such as 
 reflective water, heat blur, and other cool things are used all over the place in Far Cry. The 
 levels are huge and wonderous to explore as well. Trees sway in the wind, shadows and lighting 
 effects are amazing as well.
  The sound is also well done. Music is good, and the voice acting is alright. Enemies have taunts 
 that are generally more amusing than anything, though the mutant's sounds are quite frightful.
 
  Right now, the multi-player is fairly boring, with Assault mode (Objective) being the most fun 
 to play. This is due mainly to the slow speed at which you move, as well as the designs of the 
 maps. However, the game ships with a powerful editor that seems fairly easy to use, so hopefully 
 some good mods with spring up soon.
  After playing through this game it is easy to say it is a must buy for any PC gamer with an adequate 
 system. The game is only 40 bucks anyway, so do yourselves a favor and pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 29, 2004 8:56 pm PT
Review:  MUCH BETTER THAN THE DEMO LEADS YOU TO BELIEVE. The demo was good to show off graphics and physics, 
 but the full game somehow is ALOT better. The game isn't your usual run and gun type game. You 
 can't go charing in guns blazing or you're dead meat. You have to take your time and plan alittle 
 strategy in your head. The fact that the game has headshots is great (I wonder why it's not required 
 in all FPS's.) Some of the levels remind me of Doom III, it gets really scary when these monsters 
 are everywhere, near impossible to kill, and there're no lights. The AI is so good sometimes it's 
 as if I were playing online. It could have been alittle bit better (like they could jump out of 
 the way of granades like in Halo,) but for the most part in large groups they will out flank you 
 and you'll end up running for your life. The fact that it doesn't have a quick save I find great. 
 Quick saves make the game to easy. Everytime you're in trouble, hide behind a corner and quick 
 save and keep playing over and over till you get lucky and kill everything, but without it you 
 have to accually use skill, and dying accually becomes a threat instead of something to just shrug 
 off, I enjoy more challenges in games. Well here's the rundown on why I gave it what I did:
  
  Gameplay 10: The game runs as it should, you have to be tactical, sparing with your ammo, and 
 the AI is amazing.
  
  Graphics 10: This seems to be the main focus of the game, but if you've played Max Payne 2, Deus 
 Ex Invisible War, or seen the Doom III Alpha leak you've seen alot of the indoor levels before, 
 but what you haven't seen is the shadows of leaves on your gun, huge outdoor levels that allow 
 you to use any strategy you'd like to out flank your enemies, and shooting someone up close with 
 the shotgun seems to have a different feel than in Max Payne 2. The First person perspecive lets 
 you see the little things you didn't get to see in Max. The water is the best I've seen in a game, 
 and replaces Morrowind as the #1 water graphics leader.
  
  Sound 10: Easily one of the most over looked aspects of the game. The sound the doors make (an 
 really erie sound, almost like a monster's scream,) adds alot when you're fleeing for your life. 
 The music also really suites the game, and helps you know when enemies have spotted you. The guns 
 sound 100% real and you hear the shells bouncing off of metal or whatever you're near by, it adds 
 to the realism.
  
  Value 9: I gave it a 9 because I beleive the multiplayer could have been better, but I'm not big 
 into Multiplayer unless the game's designed for it (UT2003/4)
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10: This game has alot to offer that no other game to date has. Extremely high 
 res textures, SOLID AI (Better than Halflife) , Fun to play, good sound (besides the main voice 
 acting) , and large levels to slink around and totally take your enemies by surprise. HL2 will have 
 a better story line, but will be more linear, less choices on how to go about attacking your foes. 
 Doom III once to be considered the way of the future, the graphics will probably take the lead 
 as the best ever, but seems VERY strait forward with a bad story line to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radialheadfx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2004 2:49 pm PT
Review:  System Specs: AMD64, 5950FX, 512Ram Avg. FPS around 45 in the 100s inside low 30s outside. 1024x765 
 all maxed to very high, including AA and 4x AF
  
  Graphics
  Absolutely the best out. The small details are every where (Fire Flies at dusk, fish, tropical 
 birds, and wild animals) . Some games require high-texture pack to be installed to achieve a polished 
 look. But not here. This game demands a very high performance rig to render these amazing bumpmaps 
 and shaders. I have never seen water effects and lighting on a playable PC game look so real. They 
 took all the cool demos that show off a new graphics card and merged them into huge outdoor maps. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  The maps all lead to the same load screen but how you get there is up to you. Fly, drive, use a 
 boat, run, crawl, or blast away. Go over the hills, along the beach, through the trees, or just 
 follow the dusty path. (Which does kick up dust if you sprint) The HUD is perfect for such huge 
 open maps so you never get lost. The AI is very responsive and nearly flawless. But what really 
 moves the gameplay long is the great story. Blowing up military units and monsters is always fun, 
 but has been played out hundreds of times before. So when a game like this throws in individualism 
 to each unit, its refreshing. They talk trash, act scared, scratch things, make jokes, and flip 
 each other off. They all respond different to conflicts too. Some come runn and gunn while others 
 call in for helicopter support. The only draw back no quick saves yet.
  
  Sound 
  Very high quality. You can hear the enemy cutting through the brush long before you see them. Some 
 levels have terrifying conflicts accruing just out of sight or on the other side off the door. 
 Adding huge tension to an already edgy moment. 
  
  Value 
  $39.99 Are you kidding! This game surpasses anything else out, and will easily compete with HL2 
 and Doom.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingboard
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2004 1:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the demo I knew I had to have this game. The graphics were th best I had seen 
 in any game to date. The perfect game to show off your shiny new video card. Gameplay is awesome. 
 The AI is really good, not perfect but better than other games. The long draw distance is awesome. 
 The ability to either run in guns blazing or sit back on a hill and snipe the baddies makes for 
 a lot of fun different ways to play the game. The vehicles aren't as fleshed out as I would like 
 them to be. Driving is clunky and the camera doesn't help matter. It is still fun to crash into 
 a base and run everyone over. Maybe they can tweak the driving controls and camera in a patch. 
 If they do that it would be almost perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sunni_Phono
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2004 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game is DAMN good. Probably the best since half-life. The AI is smart, you know they 
 are smart when you are sniping from a wooden tower and they creep up on you and shoot you from 
 under through the wood floor at you (the bullets fly through the wood) . Or when they sneak up on 
 you from behind. It's AMAZING, never seen that kind of stuff in a game before it felt SO DAMN REAL!!! 
 
  
  The player movement and guns feel so real too. Love it.
  
  Loving this game so far and it's a steal at 40 bucks IMO.
  
  Specs below:
  
  AMD Athlon 
 XP 2700+ 
  ATI RADEON 9500 Pro 
  ASUS A7N8X Motherboard 
  1GB Kingston HyperX PC2700 
  80GB Western Digital HD 
  19" NEC Diamondtron FE991sb 
  Audigy 2 ZS Platinum 
  Logitech Z-560 
 THX 4.1 
  Lite-On 16X DVD-ROM 
  Lite-On 52X32X52 CD-RW 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2004 9:43 pm PT
Review:  The single-player is great and actually gets MUCH better after a few levels. The early indoor levels 
 in Far Cry are small and short. The AI gets stuck on the doors on the indoor levels. The outdoor 
 levels are fantastic though, and worth the price of the game. The AI is much better outdoors and 
 they will try to flank you or hide. Cool stuff. 
  
  I got tired of the jungle foliage eventually but there's no denying it looks great. The outdoor 
 levels are HUGE with 1 mile of visibility. You can go in with guns blazing or choose to go stealthy 
 or a combo of both -- you really can stage the kinds of fighting you want. You can even use vehicles 
 or gun-mounted boats. You can't do anything remotely like that in Doom 3. 
  
  The original Half-Life has a better variety of non-human enemies than Far Cry. If there was one 
 thing lacking in Far Cry it is the lame non-human character models and the boring way they attack 
 you. Where are the dogs that attack with sonic are how about the headcrabs? In Far Cry you get 
 unimpressive angry apes. The human enemies are great combatants and mostly make up for the non-human 
 enemies.
  
  The story is just OK but nothing special. Story is where the first half-life and the first Deus 
 Ex really shined and Far Cry's story is instantly forgettable.
  
  The graphics and enemy AI still continue to impress me a year after its release. The level-design 
 on the exterior island levels is also really impressive and stands up there with the best PC games 
 like System Shock2, Deus Ex, and Half-Life.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caerid11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2004 5:33 pm PT
Review:  For all of its hype, Far Cry is still an excellent game. The grahpics... for lack of a better word, 
 are astounding. The distance you can see is incredible, and it is not just a backround. If you 
 can see it (like an island) you can go to it. The scale is enormous (though there are also close 
 quarters battles) . The vehicles are awesome. They handle quite realistically, have mounted weapons, 
 and are a blast to drive. The enemy AI is good so far. They will use vehicles when proper and dismount 
 them when traversing rough terrain or buildings as well as get reinforcements with the vehicles. 
 
  
  I feel this game is definitely worth the investment. I haven't tried multiplayer yet but I've heard 
 that it is also good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 26, 2004 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a very good game and on a rig that the game itself described as "very high" I can 
 turn everything up to maximum and it looks simply fabulous. Thw way the game looks undoubtedly 
 contributes to the sense of immersion, which the game achieves very nicely. However, I'm a bit 
 concerend that some elements may become a bit repetitive, such as the 2-3 stock phrases uttered 
 by every bad guy and worse, perhasp the worst crime that any developer can commit with an FPS is 
 to NOT INLCUDE A GAME SAVE OPTION. What a surprise - they're going to have to put it in on a patch 
 that they've announced on the day the game was released - so why not include it in the published 
 version? Even given the waypoint saves that the game does for you there are moments where even 
 1 interim save would stop the game from, frankly, becoming bloody annoying. At times one finds 
 oneself just going over and over the same ground. This isn't challenging, just tedious. Sadly I 
 think that this spoils what could otherwise have been one of the great FPS's. Shame, because otherwise 
 so far its fab. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2004 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely the best game I have played in my 30 plus years of existance.... yes.... the oddessy....... it's 
 simply amazing, and gives you a taste of what's to come..... I can't wait...... there's nothing close 
 to this game when it comes to graphics... and the control and game play is great... I can run the 
 retail game at 1280-1064... with all settings at very high and water ultra high.... with only minor 
 hic-ups here and there.... simply amazing the detail... gloss coated metals.... I've seen alot of 
 these effects in studio max.... wow....... I spent an hour searching cliffs to dive off..... problems 
 I have.... my system specs are.......
  
  athlon 3200+ This was the system used at the time...
  1.24 ddr400 single channel 
  ati 9800 
 pro 128
  audigy ls
  asus a7n8x-x
  xp pro svc pk1
  latest catalyst
  bio ver...1007
  430 watt ps
  5.1 digital surround spks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4tomsm4sher
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2004 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and visuial effects are great, of course, and the huge, explorable outdoor environments 
 give a lot of fun gameplay options. Physics are also terrific. On a midrange system (2Gig P4, 256MB 
 GeForce 5600, 512RAM, SoundBlaster Audigy Gamer) I can't get all the eye candy I want without a 
 sloppy framerate. The Enemy AI is very good, but something is missing from the overall "feel" of 
 the combat -- it feels a little slow (compared to, say, UT 2004 or Call of Duty, my current faves) . 
 Vehicles are fun to drive but a little awkward (Halo still has the best vehicles) . The voice acting 
 is cheesy and repetitive. For some reason people are still putting boring cutscenes into these 
 games, even though Half Life proved years ago there's a better way to tell a story. Overall, a 
 very fun game. I'm still holding out for HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2004 10:55 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game to get some basic entertainment while waiting for Half Life 2, and now I 
 realise I might have been waiting for the wrong game!
  
  Far Cry came out of the sky from nowhere to me. I just played the demo, and thought it was quite 
 nice, but after being immersed in the full version of the game I could simply not stop playing!
 
  
  So, what sets it apart from other shooters? Well, first of all, the graphics. It will give you 
 the most realistic shadows ever, reflections, bump mapping, lots of detail and even water refraction. 
 Not to mention one of the main features of the CryEngine, which is the ability to render huge outdoor 
 landscapes with lots of details like vegetation. Not only is the vegetation really dense, the individual 
 trees even casts accurate shadows on you as you pass under. You have heat blurring from hot substances 
 and in fact I could go on and on about the impressive details and special effects put into the 
 game, it is simply awesome and jaw dropping (note, I have a high end 3D card, which is what you 
 would want to enjoy all the features of the 3D engine) . 
  
  The main message is that it really gives you a sense of being there, and for the first time in 
 years I really jumped in my chair after being surprised by a monster sneaking up on me. This game 
 totally drags you in sometimes, not for the ones with weak hearts...
  
  The second next thing that impressed me with this game is the physics engine. Shoot a bad guy in 
 the stomach, and he will react accordingly. Seen that before? Ok, but how about finally being able 
 to use the physics for a purpose in the game? With some good timing you can roll barrels downhill 
 to take out powerful enemies, or you can shoot the chain holding a big container causing it to 
 fall down and crush whoever might be unlucky enough to be under it.
  
  With the tech talk out of the way, how about gameplay? It has some interesting new twitches, like 
 being able to fly a hangglider and lots of more traditional vehicles, like boats and trucks. The 
 biggest improvement over other shooters is the enemy AI. They are really quite clever, and will 
 use tactics to flank you and outsmart you. This has a huge impact on how you play the game, and 
 even though you sometimes have to start a mission from the same save point over and over sometimes, 
 the powerful AI will give you a new experience every time. It is really quite impressive, and even 
 in huge outdoor scenarios where you have lots of freedom to move around and escape, the enemy will 
 give you a real challenge.
  
  The story is perhaps the least polished in the game. It is quite predictable, and in many ways 
 a rip off from Halo and Half Life, but it does not really matter. It is better than the story in 
 most games anyway.
  
  This game surely lifts the bar quite a few steps, and is a slap in the face to the "ready when 
 it is done" policy many game companies give their fans. "When it is done" might be after a shining 
 star like Far Cry rises to the sky, and takes the lead, making everything else look obsolete. :)
 
  
  Happy gaming! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOLTOX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2004 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is indeed the first game to be truly innovative and revolutionary in almost every aspect. 
 Unfortunately, for the game to be truly immersive you must, I repeat, you must play it at full 
 settings and high resolution. The eye candy does play a big role in this game. The physics are 
 truly amazing. The nighttime maps are simply breathtaking! If you have a decent system this game 
 will put it to work for once. The plot seems bland at the beginning but later on the story really 
 develops. There are quite a lot of times where you will run for your life. The adrenaline will 
 pump in your blood as you go through this masterpiece! Yes masterpiece! There is barely anything 
 left for Half Life 2 to be truly innovative. Far Cry has it almost all! Multiplayer is the only 
 thing lacking but I am sure it will continue to grow. Multiplayer is still very fun to play with 
 all the lush vegetation. If you have a low end system you wont truly enjoy the greatness of this 
 game and have a right to complain. However, if you have the system to run it you will be in for 
 an amazing treat. UT2004 got a higher score in its own category! Far Cry belongs to a totally different 
 category! You deserve this game. Go buy it! What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2004 5:28 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING GAME. Unprecedented level sizes and graphics. The level designs are absolutely massive. 
 The scenery is very detailed, life-like and lush in color. The game also runs better than ANY other 
 high-end FPS ive played. You have a good shot at running this smoothly at 1280x1024 with all the 
 extra features turned on (lighting, etc.)
  
  Bottom line: The BEST FPS released in YEARS. Definitely the best FPS/action game of the year so 
 far (holding my breath for Doom III, HL2 and Halo 2 of course) . You will be stunned by how amazing 
 a sleeper hit this FPS is. If you are even a modest fan of the genre then buy this game. If you 
 HATE teh genre and have a fast computer, then BUY THIS GAME and end your hatred.
  
  What else can I say? A 9.2 is a great score for this game, but still a bit low for just how revolutionary 
 the game is in terms of combining the level sizes of Halo/Serious Sam (actually the levels are 
 many many times the size) and the playability of Halo/Half-Life.
  
  BUY BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 23, 2004 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty nice, although all that green foliage does look a bit boring after a while. 
 I don't think it's as pretty looking as Battlefield Vietnam, but there's certainly a lot of detail.
 
  
  The sound can get annoying with the enemy saying "Where is he" and "Where did he go" all the time, 
 and there isn't anything special about the sound itself.
  
  The thing which disappointed me most about this game, was underneath all the detailed environment 
 was a pretty boring game. For some people, realism in games can be boring, after all games are 
 an escape from reality. I think the movie Existenz gave some sort of hint of the day when game 
 graphics are truly photorealistic. The character played by Jude Law found reality to be boring 
 when jacking out of the game. The thing with FarCry, was I found myself wishing to leave the game 
 to play something else, but on the other hand others are going to eat up this realism and love 
 every moment of it. I'll personally be sticking with Unreal Tournament 2004 and Battlefield Vietnam, 
 both game look fantastic, but unlike FarCry are enjoyable to play.
  
  Now part of the reason those games are fun is due to playing real opponents, and the other being 
 that they are not realistic games. FarCry's main problem for me, is the AI exhibits Artificial 
 Intelligence in every sense of the term. The AI seems to have an amazing ability to know exactly 
 where you are, and prefers strafing to taking cover when being shot, and when being sniped like 
 to run away from their location instead of hitting the deck. This apparent ESP ability really ruins 
 this game for me, and while no game is going to be able to mimic human players I think FarCry is 
 really limited in this area compared with other games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
