-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Far Gate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fargate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.6, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 18 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microids
Developer: Super X Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 10, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In spite of the game's original qualities, there are just too many other, better choices available 
 to make it worthwhile for most real-time strategy game players. 

 "Venture into oblivion." That unfortunate tagline has been applied to Far Gate, a new 3D real-time 
 strategy title set in space from neophyte Seattle development house Super X Studios. The phrase 
 inadvertently sums up the experience of playing Far Gate -- the game's difficult interface, unmanageable 
 camera angles, and many technical problems all but overshadow Far Gate's various original qualities. 
           Far Gate features fully 3D battles, but unwieldy controls.    

  As with all strategy games featuring fully three-dimensional playing fields, Far Gate's success 
 or failure hinges on the usability of its interface. Letting the player quickly and effectively 
 maneuver ships in a 3D environment portrayed on a flat 2D monitor is a serious challenge for any 
 developer to overcome. Unfortunately, while Far Gate's interface seems both attractive and functional 
 at first glance -- courtesy of foldaway panels that keep track of current orders and handle the control 
 of individual units, squadrons, and special commands -- extended play uncovers a great many shortcomings 
 in its design. The panels, for instance, line all sides of the screen, making it easy to open them 
 up when you're actually just trying to scroll the camera. Locking them in an open position eliminates 
 the problem, though doing this obscures a good portion of the screen. (Freezing them in their folded-back 
 position would likely be a better option, were it available, as you can still read the information 
 on them in this state, and they don't get in the way as much.) Turning the interface off completely 
 and making do with hotkeys and the mouse is really the only way to proceed.   

  The camera perspective is equally tricky to operate. Zooming in and out with the mousewheel seems 
 to change the viewing plane, so attempting to get up close and personal with a vessel or structure 
 requires some additional fiddling, which isn't exactly conducive to guiding ships into the heat 
 of battle. Right-clicking on a unit or a squadron for a close-up is even more frustrating. One 
 click takes you in so tight that you can't see anything else (which is effective if you want to 
 watch a battle from the chase-mode camera) , and two clicks don't move you far enough back to get 
 a good look at the situation. Hitting the Tab key provides a tactical overview of the entire system, 
 but even this is relatively useless since you're placed so far away from everything that it's impossible 
 to see what's going on. Moving the cursor over individual units and obstacles such as planets and 
 asteroids brings up an telescope-like circle that reveals more of the map, though these bubbles 
 appear right on top of your vessels and thus cover more than they reveal. At any rate, most ships 
 are so tiny that you won't know that they're present at all unless you search for them with the 
 cursor. Maneuvering squadrons on this tactical screen is also trying because the left mouse button 
 both selects units and assigns them orders to move. As a result, you'll often select a new unit 
 by mistake when actually trying to move one.           The battles are waged between three rather 
 distinct races.    

  Frustrations caused by the interface will be worsened by Far Gate's general lack of technical polish. 
 Load times are extremely long when starting a mission, lasting a full minute or more, even on a 
 system that's well above the recommended minimum. This wouldn't be quite as bad if the game actually 
 loaded, as it frequently doesn't. While loading saved games in the solo campaign, the game regularly 
 crashes to the desktop without so much as an error message. Starting a new mission routinely required 
 two or more attempts, the first one almost always resulting in a crash to the Windows desktop. 
 Far Gate also crashes during regular gameplay. These bugs can crop up at any time, sending you 
 abruptly back to Windows with only a beta tester's log report to show for it.   

  That these issues are so troublesome is a real shame, since some of the core concepts behind Far 
 Gate are solid. The story is well told and there are three distinct playable factions in the game 
 that employ wholly disparate units and structures. In the 17 missions of the brief solo campaign, 
 you play as Jacob Viscero, a black marketeering space captain blackmailed into assisting with the 
 human colonization of the Proxima Centauri star system. No sooner are these efforts underway than 
 you're presented with some strange inconsistencies regarding why you're in the star system at all 
 and the trustworthiness of your own military. Making matters worse, a wormhole opens and you're 
 promptly under attack by the nue-guyen, squidlike creatures that treat deep space like an ocean. 
 The standard real-time strategy triumvirate of races is soon filled out by the entrodii, crystalline 
 beings that specialize in a sort of biokinetic energy weaponry. Over the course of the game, you 
 travel to different systems through wormholes in an effort to defeat the enemy and find a peaceful 
 home for the human colonists.    

 Each of the three races uses diversified technology, units, and structures that set it apart from 
 its rivals. Mechanically inclined terrans have diverse hardware that makes them jacks-of-all-trades. 
 Their ships balance speed, armor, and firepower in nearly every way. There is nothing surprising 
 in the human arsenal, which is made up of light fighters and gunboats at first and more powerful 
 ships such as carriers and bombers in the later stages. The same can't be said for the nue-guyen. 
 These rather disgusting aliens organically mimic technology with living "ships" such as the blood 
 worm, which sprays digestive acid onto enemies; the drakken, which can spit flammable gel; and 
 the sirocco, which breathes corrosive clouds of bacteria. All the nue-guyen are symbiotic, so their 
 individual attacks are more powerful when they're gathered in significant numbers. Eels, for example, 
 produce stronger electrical discharges when in packs. Nue-guyen are also generally quite agile 
 and tough, and concentrated fire is often required to take them out. Entrodii are stronger offensively 
 than the other two races, due to their use of potent energy weapons. Vessels like the shardikru 
 and the shrike are little more than plasma cannons capable of devastating foes with a single blast. 
 The drawback to this is a lack of maneuverability that makes them vulnerable.           The camera 
 angles are awkward, and get in the way of the combat.    

  All factions build bases in space that can be expanded with the addition of attached structures 
 designed for the construction or hatching of specific unit types. The terran prefab kit turns itself 
 into a destiny-class station hub that is the center of other buildings, such as pod bays, shipyards, 
 and hangars. Nue-guyen and entrodii bases are constructed in the same way, although they aren't 
 so much built as they are grown. Nue-guyen facilities revolve around a "heart," and they include 
 additions such as hives and hatcheries, while the entrodii start with an energy-producing spire 
 that can power the creation of offshoots like the precipitator and crystallizer. In all cases, 
 if the central hub unit is destroyed, everything attached to it goes up in flames. All three civilizations 
 gather the same resources from asteroids floating through the game's many planetary systems. This 
 is largely automated, so micromanagement isn't a concern. With the terrans, for example, all you 
 have to do is build a station hub and pod bay near an asteroid field. From there, pods automatically 
 collect the resources for you. Entrodii resource gathering is even more basic, as the collector 
 beams the material gathered directly to the race's spire.   

  These differences don't have as much of an effect on the solo game as you might expect. All sides 
 move at a sluggish pace. Ships move slowly and time cannot be accelerated, so you'll often wait 
 for minutes while vessels go about their patrolling or move to engage the enemy. Computer opponent 
 artificial intelligence is quite poor, as both the nue-guyen and the entrodii will often lack the 
 ability to properly react to your movements. As a result, the solo campaign missions are fully 
 scripted and laid out like puzzles that need to be solved. Many of the situations simply can't 
 be handled the first time through a mission. You'll need to replay most missions three or four 
 times in order to learn how to counter what the enemy is going to do. Learning what is about to 
 happen is really the only way to succeed in many of the assignments, especially after the first 
 third of the campaign.   

  It's easy to suspect that this deficient artificial intelligence was behind the unfortunate decision 
 to ship Far Gate without a skirmish mode. Although you can engage in single missions against the 
 computer, the only missions available are the ones that you've already completed in the course 
 of the campaign, and you can only play them on the terran side. Replayability is bolstered somewhat 
 by a campaign editor, six multiplayer-only maps, and matching service support through GameSpy and 
 Mplayer, but it's hard to imagine too many players going online without the initial enticement 
 provided by skirmishing against the computer.           At least the aliens are memorable.    

 
  Far Gate's inconsistent quality extends to its graphics and sound, although these elements are 
 generally quite good. Graphically, the game has a unique appearance that is both contemporary and 
 retro. Some aspects of the artwork are spectacular. Ship designs are fully evocative of the races 
 that use them. Terran vessels feature moving mechanical parts like recoiling cannons and rotating 
 sensor dishes, nue-guyen look like various octopi swimming through space, and the entrodii ships 
 glisten and radiate a powerful glow. Other components aren't quite so attractive. The background 
 is ablaze with hues that seem out of place. Colorful nebulae overwhelm both the blackness of space 
 and the stars, as do asteroids that shine like nuggets of gold and silver. Characters are represented 
 by cartoonish head-and-shoulder pictures that seem out of place.   

  The quality of the audio is also inconsistent. Atmospheric sounds include nice touches like the 
 thump of a terran cannon, the crackle of radio transmissions when you get close to a human hub, 
 and the dolphinlike squeal of a nue-guyen. Unfortunately, all this is weighed down with a musical 
 score that is absolutely bizarre. It's reminiscent of an old-school progressive rock instrumental, 
 filled with chiming bells, out-of-place horns, and lots of faux spooky notes from a recorder. It 
 deserves points for originality, though the overall effect is so jarring that it can distract you 
 from the actual game.   

  Judging Far Gate as the first effort from an independent developer, it can be seen as a successful 
 first step -- it features many promising elements that the developer can improve and expand on in 
 future endeavors. But judging Far Gate as a commercial product in the fiercely competitive real-time 
 strategy market doesn't give nearly as favorable of an impression. Ultimately, in spite of the 
 game's original qualities, there are just too many other, better choices available to make it worthwhile 
 for most real-time strategy game players to settle for Far Gate and its many problems.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hirogen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I agree with the previous reader review. This game, though lacking polish, has a wide variety of 
 fun to use units, balanced gameplay, and an interesting premise. Though old, it still has some 
 pretty visuals. Highly recommended.
  
  It has a relativly long campaign, and some pretty backgrounds and a sound presentation.
  
  
 Visuals are easy to look at. The game features 3 fully realized races, which is a real plus here. 
 Each one plays noticeably different from the other, as well as having a different art scheme and 
 general philosophy. The units are fun to use, functional, and have interesting qualities.
  
  The multiplayer is functional at best. Don't expect any complex multiplayer game types here; 
 as it seems to be designed mostly as a single player expierience. The multiplayer does play well 
 though, and offers a medium paced game.
  
  The space looks really nice in this game. For a game of 2001, the celestial spheres and planets 
 still look pretty, and nice colorful effects add to the fun.
  
  Controls will take around an hour to get fully used to. Once past that hour, you can expect decent 
 and effective control of your units and bases.
  
  Since this game is most likely not in production, its a good idea to download it wherever you can. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I haven't seen this game anywhere in the shops for years now. Its very sad, because this game, 
 despite its glitchyness, despite its horrendous soundtrack, is actually VERY original and VERY 
 fun, once you get it to load that is.
  
  The graphics are actually very good for their time. I think that they deserve some credit for putting 
 in the effort there. The sound is awful though, i often turn it off, the console woman is ghastly. 
 The story is superb and the unit design and variance is very VERY VERY good and i think that overall 
 this game should have been recognised more in its time. The game was orgininally discredited terribly 
 because of its horrendous glitches. Hardly anyone could get it to run at all, and those that did, 
 found it bad.
  
  Its a real shame, i'm the only person who knows what a "diamond in the rough" this game really 
 is. I also doubt anyone interested in giving it a go would be able to find it. Though Ebay might 
 be worth a shot, or just type it into google and see what comes up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
