-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Farscape: The Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/farscapethegame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.7, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 79 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: Red Lemon Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Aug 8, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Instead of drawing from the rich source material of the TV show, Farscape is a conventional action 
 game with a clunky interface and a dated engine. 

 The Sci-Fi Channel's successful series  Farscape  is currently in its fourth season and has built 
 up a loyal fan following. The ongoing story of a band of escaped prisoners in a pregnant space 
 whale named Moya is similar enough to  Star Trek  to be familiar -- it's your standard intergalactic 
 potpourri of characters traipsing from one adventure to another. But under the creative guidance 
 of the Jim Henson Company, it has enough of an exotic rogue element to feel fresh, with advanced 
 puppetry, elaborate makeup effects, distinctive production design, some controversial ongoing story 
 arcs, and lots of Australian accents. You'd think someone would be able to make a pretty interesting 
 game using this license. Unfortunately, you'd be wrong. Instead of drawing from the rich source 
 material of the TV show, Farscape is a conventional action game with a clunky interface and a dated 
 engine.           My name's John Crichton, and I'm trapped in a bad game.    

 The game jumps right into the  Farscape  universe without so much as a "how do you do." Start the 
 game and suddenly you're watching a barely comprehensible cutscene in which some people fly out 
 of a spaceship and crash-land on a planet. Then you're at the scene of the landing, where some 
 guy is calling some blue girl "Pip." They're engaging in witty repartee as if they'd known each 
 other for years, but if you're not a fan of the show, you may have no idea who they are. Before 
 you know it, you're being hit on all sides with references to Aeryn's Prowler, DRDs, Pilot, the 
 Nebari, the Authority, and Moya's baby. These references are great for fans of the show, but they'll 
 probably leave everyone else at least a bit confused.   

  The game's story is divided into acts, which are further divided into missions for one to three 
 of the show's characters. Your first several missions are, as you might have guessed, to get parts 
 to repair your ship. Then you run around and undertake more quests, one of which involves investigating 
 a forest. Literally. You find a forest, you investigate it. The game ends with (you may have seen 
 something like this in about a billion other sci-fi movies and TV shows) overheating a reactor 
 to blow up a base, which basically means that you walk around to different consoles while a Klaxon 
 blares half-heartedly in the background.   

  Farscape's gameplay is really basic. You control one character, and the computer controls everyone 
 else. Your job is basically to shoot stuff while following a purple arrow that guides you to your 
 next goal, whether it's another character, a key, an exit, a forest that needs investigating, or 
 whatever. There are two half-baked attempts at stealth missions, as well as a few instances when 
 characters have to separate to solve some painfully obvious puzzle, but these slight changes of 
 pace provide no consolation.   

  Farscape's combat interface is clunky at best. There's an automatic tracking system that locks 
 on to enemies for you, so your job is basically to hold down the fire button. You can move around 
 while you're shooting, but if you do, you're just going to confuse everything. The health system 
 is like Halo's, in which characters sustain damage to an automatically replenishing "vitality" 
 before losing actual hit points. This means that you can save your med kits by resting up between 
 battles. It's a good idea in theory, but in Farscape, it means there's a fair amount of waiting 
 around. The small variety of weapons is distinguished mainly by what type of damage they do. Different 
 weapons cause different amounts of damage to different enemies, but Farscape's inventory system 
 makes it all but impossible to swap weapons around on the fly. Ammo is limited, which leads to 
 some really tedious situations in which you'll have to run back and forth selling the stuff you've 
 gathered to replenish your ammo. It's a bit like Diablo, in which you had to constantly run back 
 to town to sell your loot. Farscape's inventory system is like that, but in a bad game.        
    Your typical alien planet.    

 For such a combat-oriented game, Farscape makes poor use of its characters. The most likely candidates 
 for combat, the warrior D'Argo and the commando Aeryn, don't come into the game until the end, 
 and even then their appearances are little more than cameos. At least D'Argo is presented with 
 his whip tongue and Qualta blade. Although Rygel has thrown bombs and drawn blood in the TV show, 
 for some reason he isn't allowed to use a weapon in the game. You'll have to replay a lot of missions 
 because his lack of speed and defenses gets him killed. The main candidate for pacifism in the 
 fiction of  Farscape  is the blue, bald, and buxom priestess Zhaan. However, except for one instance 
 in which she insists on trying to negotiate, she spends the game blithely blasting the living daylights 
 out of anything that moves.   

  Farscape has some interesting textures and color schemes. There's even an occasional sporting try 
 at interesting geometry. But the game's blocky, low-polygon graphics and stiff animation make the 
 game look extremely dated. The game's collision detection is extremely poor, so the combat looks 
 bad. The special effects look like rehashed effects from a thousand other games. Because the camera 
 wanders all over the place, objects and walls turn transparent with alarming frequency. The sound 
 consists of workaday engine humming, gun zapping, and combatant grunting, with the show's distinctive 
 soundtrack playing in the background.   

  Farscape's graphics engine adequately presents the aforementioned stereotypical alien planet, which 
 looks like almost every other alien planet since Half-Life's Xen. But it's really disappointing 
 when it tries to re-create the TV show's unique production design. When the game finally goes on 
 board the Moya, you'll find that it bears no resemblance to Rick Eyres' distinctive design (with 
 the possible exception of a glimpse of Pilot's station) . Instead, you mostly see murky textures, 
 blocky corridors, a few consoles, some crates, and some barrels.   

  Farscape really doesn't do justice to the original TV show, which is disappointing, since the developer 
 clearly had some idea of what the show is about. The game gets a lot of mileage out of the fact 
 that Rygel hates being sent into small spaces because of his size. The game even shows the basics 
 of how Crichton interacts with his alien friends. The snippets of dialogue (gamely recorded by 
 the actual cast) provide an inkling of  Farscape's  main appeal, namely the interaction among the 
 characters. But the game, and its slavish emphasis on shooting stuff, serves as a horrible showcase 
 for any sort of character interaction. It offers no insight into the rich universe of the TV show 
 and does nothing to reproduce the sense of watching an episode of  Farscape . Ultimately, this 
 game feels exactly like what it is: a throwaway licensing opportunity that really should have been 
 thrown away.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
