-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fate of the Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fateofthedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 158 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Object
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 14, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unless the historical Chinese context interests you, you'll find that Fate of the Dragon is just 
 another real-time strategy game with nothing really outstanding to recommend it. 

 In the early '90s, when turn-based strategy games were more popular, a Japanese developer called 
 Koei was well known for creating complex turn-based strategy games based on the epic Chinese work 
 of literature,  Romance of the Three Kingdoms , which detailed a key historical period in China, 
 nearly two millennia ago. However, as real-time strategy games became more prominent, the popularity 
 of Koei's Three Kingdoms games waned, and with it, so did interest in games based on the political 
 intrigue and heroic warfare of that particular setting. It's taken a while, but at last a developer 
 has revisited Three Kingdoms' themes and settings to make a real-time strategy game. The result 
 is Eidos and Overmax's Fate of the Dragon, a game that's reminiscent of Microsoft and Ensemble's 
 Age of Empires II but set during Three Kingdoms' historical period.           The buildings are 
 depicted to relatively accurate scale with the units    

 The Three Kingdoms period in China began around A. D. 220 when the Han Dynasty fell into ruin, giving 
 rise to a short but tumultuous period of warring kingdoms. After much fighting, the dozens of warlords 
 vying for power settled into three kingdoms: Shu, Wei, and Wu, led by the warlords Liu Bei, Cao 
 Cao, and Sun Quan, respectively. Although this time period lasted less than one hundred years, 
 it was so charged with chivalry and epic conflict that it remains the most celebrated era in Chinese 
 history.   

  Fate of the Dragon lets you play as any of the three warlords. In each of the three campaigns, 
 you control one of the warlord's armies and invariably end up fighting your two rivals, as well 
 as minor warlords and rebels. While the setting itself is rich with history, characters, and intrigue, 
 it only comes across in the scrolling text briefings and the bios of the various heroes you can 
 recruit in the game. There is so much to digest in the briefings that it is easy to become overwhelmed 
 by all the names and events -- and thus easy to ignore or miss the historical background. This is 
 a shame because it's the setting that gives this game its distinct appeal. A far better place to 
 inject the history lessons would have been in the game itself, with in-engine cutscenes and voice-overs, 
 but these are rare and even then aren't very well executed. The inconsistent voice acting is also 
 disappointing -- at times, it's annoying and too over the top. The missions themselves during the 
 campaigns are very straightforward for the most part. They mostly boil down to attacking a city 
 or killing a warlord. The computer opponent in the single-player game also doesn't appear to be 
 that creative, as it attacks with mostly frontal assaults.   

  The game supports multiplayer combat for up to eight players, as well as a skirmish mode against 
 the computer, though there is no random map feature. The maps also get monotonous and have little 
 variety because there's only one uniform look to all the maps. The graphics bear a passing resemblance 
 to those of Age of Empires II, with one noticeable difference. The buildings are huge in relation 
 to the units (even bigger than in Age of Empires II) , and they convey an even more convincing sense 
 of scale. Otherwise, the 2D graphics are adequate, if a bit familiar, despite the Chinese buildings 
 and units.           Your hero units are good in combat, and also have politcal power    

 Beyond the graphics and the basic game design, Fate of the Dragon makes a few departures from real-time 
 strategy conventions. For one thing, the two gameplay styles of combat and city management are 
 clearly delineated and distinct. The game has two map layers: the city level and the territory 
 level. In the bottom left corner of the screen is the minimap for your city, and in the bottom 
 right corner of the screen is the minimap for the territory level, where your city and opposing 
 warlords' cities lie. You can readily switch back and forth between the two. Inside your city view, 
 you do the same sort of base building as you do in any typical real-time strategy game. After you 
 amass your army, you have to send it out across the territory map to find neutral settlements and 
 enemy cities, which are represented on the territory map as great castles. Battles can take place 
 on the territory map, but invariably, you'll enter your enemy's city level and try to storm his 
 walls and lay waste to his buildings.   

  Combat itself is incredibly simple and at times dull. There are only three types of troops to build 
 in the game: pikemen, swordsmen, and archers. You can upgrade them and make them stronger, but 
 throughout the game, these are the only troop types you can command. There are more siege engines 
 than troop types, and they include catapults, a ballista, a portable ladder for scaling walls, 
 a kite that can fly troops over walls, and a supply wagon that keeps your troops healthy when they 
 are outside your own city walls. Horses do add a little more complexity to combat. You can create 
 them at stables and mount your troops and generals on them. Those units then gain a speed bonus 
 but are otherwise the same, except that when the mounted unit loses its hit points, its mount dies 
 instead of the mounted unit itself. Horses thus effectively double the unit's hit points. But otherwise, 
 fights in Fate of the Dragon always come down to mobs of troops hacking at each other. There are 
 no formation options in the game to lend any order to the combat.    

 It isn't the actual tactics of combat that are different in Fate of the Dragon -- it's the logistics. 
 Essentially, you need to keep your army constantly supplied. While in your own city, your troops 
 automatically heal their hit points and strength by consuming food and wine. But when you are in 
 the territory map or in an enemy city, your troops will not heal or regain strength until they 
 can rest in a deployed supply wagon, which when deployed turns into a camp. Supply wagons carry 
 only a small amount of food and wine, so for prolonged sieges, you must have laborers and horses 
 carry food and wine back and forth between your hometown and your frontline camps. However, you 
 aren't hamstrung by the supply factor. You can still win through mass attacks -- but the clever commander 
 who takes advantage of supply to pull back his wounded and replenish his armies will come out ahead. 
           You can research new combat and trade technology    

 The game's most interesting feature is actually its city management. As in most real-time strategy 
 games, you have to harvest various resources to construct buildings and buy units and upgrades. 
 However, some raw materials must also be turned into finished goods. You get timber and iron by 
 sending out workers to gather them, but corn and meat are harvested at farms. Once you build a 
 farm, you send laborers inside and task them as farmers or pig raisers. Farmers then automatically 
 plant fields, while pig raisers create pig farms. Workshops are then used to convert these into 
 wine and food. Thankfully, this process is all automated. Gold is the final resource and is gathered 
 through taxation, not by laborers.   

  Every minute or so in the game, you automatically gain gold from the people. The number of laborers 
 and soldiers you have actually has no relationship to the city population, which continues to grow 
 at a regular pace throughout the game. The rate of taxation can be adjusted to get you more gold 
 from your people, but doing so has consequences. If you tax the people too much, their morale will 
 drop, which may result in an exodus of your city or even a riot.   

  Like SimCity, Fate of the Dragon has natural disasters, which include plagues, droughts, locusts, 
 earthquakes, and banditry. These disasters have both direct and indirect consequences, like destroying 
 actual buildings and depleting resources or decreasing city morale. You can give relief to your 
 people in the form of gold and corn, or you can make sacrifices at the temple, which then ameliorate 
 the effects of the disasters. Sacrifices are another of the more distinctive features in Fate of 
 the Dragon: You can build temples and make sacrifices to the gods, thus gaining special bonuses 
 for brief periods. Other types of sacrifices can double production, heal the hit points of all 
 your troops in the game, increase food production, and more. However, to access these more powerful 
 benefits, you need to create a sacrifice officer.   

  Creating officers highlights another aspect of gameplay: heroes. No Three Kingdoms game would be 
 complete without a strong emphasis on the heroes of the time. Thus, in Fate of the Dragon, you 
 can recruit various famous generals for your cause. In combat, they act as elite troops and gain 
 more hit points, attack power, and special abilities, like the use of healing and defense spells 
 as they kill units and earn experience. And when they're not in combat, they can be appointed to 
 official positions. Much of the late-game abilities available in Fate of the Dragon can be accessed 
 only when you have the four various officers: science officer, public security officer, sacrifice 
 officer, and public affairs officer. For instance, to research the highest upgrades and siege engines, 
 you need to have a science officer. To keep your population stable and in line, you need to have 
 a public security officer. And to make diplomatic treaties with other warlords, you need a public 
 affairs officer. Heroes are important, but you have to keep their loyalty in check by rewarding 
 them. Each hero has a loyalty meter that can only be kept at 100 percent by giving them honorific 
 titles or money.           There are many resources and goods you'll need to keep track of    

 
 Fate of the Dragon stands out from other real-time strategy games with its greater emphasis on 
 its strategic layer. The added complexity in the resource gathering is interesting without being 
 overwhelming. The supply needs add an extra consideration to the combat. And the disasters, sacrifices, 
 and heroes are also interesting. However, the game still has its fair share of problems. The tactical 
 gameplay is pretty shallow, and despite the strategic considerations, most battles will devolve 
 into mob fights, as in many other real-time strategy games. Moreover, Fate of the Dragon does a 
 poor job of explaining some of the less obvious aspects of its gameplay. For instance, there is 
 no explanation in the manual, tutorial, or help files as to exactly how much food or wine each 
 unit consumes. While the tutorial does a fairly good job of teaching you the basics, it doesn't 
 go into how to appoint officers, exactly how to replenish troops when they're out of supply, and 
 so forth. You will definitely need to read the manual to get into Fate of the Dragon, and even 
 then, some questions will be left unanswered.   

  Ultimately, unless the historical Chinese context interests you, you'll find that Fate of the Dragon 
 is just another real-time strategy game with a few original features, but with nothing really outstanding 
 to recommend it. However, if you're interested in the old Romance of the Three Kingdoms games or 
 the time period itself, you'll likely enjoy the game -- mostly because it's one of the few of its 
 kind.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: winterwolfx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  "Open your eyes and you will see." (somebody very wise)
  
  That is what i thought when i saw and read the reviews. You can't compare FotD to Command and Conquer. 
 This is the second time i have to say that (because i'm new here, if i were old you'd be seen more 
 of this) .
  
  Don't! Don't be angry with me. I'm not doing this because it's funny, but because i want you to 
 see what your eyes can't. This happens all the time.
  
  First, the game is definitely, in the graphics part undeniable perfect (remember for a 2d game, 
 and with the time resources) , well researched history and buildings detail, it's not amazing to 
 deserve a 9 on rate, but well enough to deserve an 8. Seriously.
  
  Second, the gameplay is somehow innovative not revolutionary. The idea of having a new worker on 
 strategy games was always that you build them like a product, this game brings the idea of paying 
 for "create" a citizen, like studies, for him to enter your society and to know what you need him 
 to know (to cut a tree, to mine, to build) , things that we don't know until someone teaches us. 
 You might be thinking that this is idiot but is not. The idea of something automatic, you press 
 a button and a citizen comes from nowhere to you is absurd, but we are familiar with something 
 that weird so we won't question. So what this game did was to brake this line, this rule, and give 
 the user (player) something more realistic. I personally think that Game Designers should learn 
 this and implement on newer games, something like that can't pass without been given it's valor. 
 Another thing is the trade system, you could use a horse (an animal that is appreciated by most 
 humans, and can make a difference in a game) to take your resources to other places, that was fun, 
 really, if you never did this you really should. A third aspect was that your hero or even a simple 
 warrior could mount in the horse, that position gives credibility to that warrior, makes him special, 
 with an air of superiority (an the idea that that warrior was mine, wow that was cool) . The training 
 was nice too, because you could see your warrior training animation, and even if you turned him 
 into a normal worker again it would still remain something of the training, making it easier to 
 train him.
  
  The sound is good, very harmful, reasonable, not as good as let me see, wolfenstein3d, that could 
 make you go wild even if you were sick in the day, but just right.
  
  There is no doubt about the importance of this game in the games history, the ones who could not 
 see that, now you can. I could say more and more details of this game that could change the hole 
 system of ours, but for now it's good enough.
  
  Thank you for reading this humble text, that i bought to you with no other reason, that to open 
 your eyes. I hope this can be good for you, Sorry for my english, I'm still learning. Again thank 
 you.
  
  by WinterWolf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garysibs8
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  This was my very first PC game and at the time I thought it was cool until I came accross Age Of 
 Empires. Fate Of the Dragon is about Chinese history , its generals , leaders and so on. The gameplay 
 in this game gets very boring. All you do is build things like farms, houses and the usual stuff 
 to get your village growing in strength and its economy. Then comes the fighting. You control swordsman 
 to fight although you've got no control on how they move their sword they do it by themselves. 
 The sound of this game is poor it makes you want to sleep and its mysterious. As I think you have 
 seen I almost slept writing this review. Good luck to whoever buys this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 26, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  History can be fun to learn, but not in this case. Who would have thought that someone could make 
 such a large war such a borefest? The game is more about building your town that fighting. 
  
  Gameplay: typical RTS style, with a block that represents a city. The city and then the overworld 
 doesn't make sense. The cities are huge when you go in, but they look tiny from the outside. It 
 has a hero system similar to warcraft 3's, but it is poorly done with very limited spells that 
 aren't much of a help.
  
  Graphics: Its 2d, yet it lags. The units don't look very believable when they move. The menu looks 
 better than any other part of the game.
  
  Sound: The sound is okay. Some of the voice acting (there is a TON of dialogue between ancient 
 people you've never heard of) about plans to destroy a city are pretty horendous. The sound effects 
 are believable though. 
  
  Value: You'll play it and wondew why you ever bought it in the first place. 
  
  Tilt: I tilted 
 it to 5 because its boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Fate of the Dragon started off as a fun game. But about 1/3 of the way into the game and the challenge 
 and excitement all but disappeared. The story is about a tumultuous time in chinese history when 
 there were three kingdoms battling for control of all of China. Consequentially, this time was 
 called the "Time of the Three Kingdoms". You are basically one of three warlords fighting against 
 your rivals and other petty warlords to try and control China. Now for the confusing part and that 
 is the shear number of hero characters involved. The backstory behind most of them is very detailed 
 and points out their strengths and what they were doing at this time in Chinas history. Of course 
 reading the biography isn't necessary and the game can be played without it, but it definitely 
 adds something to the story of the game.
  Sadly, this is about all that is added. The RTS factor is very bland and boring. The buildings 
 and units are well designed but the actual gameplay is very bland. Building enough units and supplying 
 them requires that you have enough farms to maintain your army. You can purchase goods and sell 
 goods to the wandering merchant that stops by on certain days in the game. Gather resources like 
 wood, food (which is actually a very in depth process) , iron and Gold (by taxing, not mining) and 
 sell your extra to the merchant. The biggest problem to me was just the lack of unit selection 
 which I feal is a big problem for any RTS. Sure, if the units are well rounded and have some interesting 
 upgrades then it might have been fine to just use the units you were given in the game. But its 
 the standard "better sword" and "Better Bows" upgrades you always see.
  So to me, Fate of the Dragon is a very good RTS in the sense of the story and history that it details. 
 But for a really different RTS you will definitely need to find another game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
