-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fate: Undiscovered Realms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/fateundiscoveredrealms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of extra gameplay for a low price in the two new huge dungeons.
 Adds new monsters and frills, like extra pet transformation options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Off-kilter difficulty can spoil the fun.
 Lack of imagination and variety in dungeons.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 108 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: WildTangent
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It might not be creative, but Fate: Undiscovered Realms is a solid extension of the original hack-and-slash 
 role-playing game. 

  Fate: Undiscovered Realms adds a pair of new levels, a dead-is-dead option, and pretty much nothing 
 else to the original Fate. So expect this hack-and-slash role-playing stand-alone add-on to provide 
 you with a good dose of deja vu if you have any experience with the previous game released back 
 in early 2005. The simple charm of the core game design still looms large over this Diablo clone, 
 however, which gives its clickfest dungeon crawling the power to suck you in for many, many hours. 

  Undiscovered Realms is a continuation of the single-player story from the original Fate (there's 
 still no multiplayer) . After a long campaign against the forces of evil, your hero returns to the 
 town of Grove. Forget about any celebrations with beautiful elf maidens and grog, though. A mysterious 
 stranger soon arrives and cons you into opening portals into two new realms, a wooded world called 
 Druantia and an icy kingdom named Typhon. The cowled weirdo then reveals himself as some kind of 
 evil wizard and takes off, leaving you to head through these gates as well to stop his dastardly 
 machinations.  

           Bizarre creatures make up most of the monster mash in Fate: Undiscovered Realms.      
 

  Character design covers the same old ground. Development is exactly as it was in the first Fate. 
 There are no set character classes, so you craft your hero by assigning points to traits like strength 
 and dexterity and to skills such as swords and magic every time you gain enough experience to level 
 up. It's a smooth, elegant system that lets you effortlessly build a fighter, a mage, or a jack-of-all-trades. 
 Items are largely carried over from the original game. Monster drops feature a lot of the same 
 swords, axes, and armor as before -- albeit with the addition of some special items, such as the 
 swathe quest gear -- and the character spell list is identical. A pet dog or cat companion that levels 
 up automatically is still at your side helping to battle the monstrous hordes, although now there 
 are more transformation options available every time you feed Fido or Trixie one of the game's 
 magical fish. It's kind of hard to tell what's new, since you could already morph your pooch or 
 feline into a wide selection of giant spiders, unicorns, wyverns, and more.  

  Revival options after your character is killed remain unforgiving, with Fate himself appearing 
 to extort gold, experience points, and/or hero renown to resurrect you. Even then, the options 
 often aren't good. The most affordable choices tend to get you ported to a level that's a flight 
 or two down from your earlier position or a few levels up without any of your gold. A new hardcore 
 mode of play makes things even more challenging. On this setting, when you're dead, you're dead. 
 Don't even think about checking it out unless you're a serious Fate veteran, because it's murderously 
 tough.  

  Not a lot of imagination went into setting up your adventures into these new lands, but they get 
 the job done. Game structure here is also pretty similar to the original Fate and is based around 
 hubs leading to towns and the dungeons. Your hero (either a brand-new one or an import of your 
 character from the first game) starts off in the Temple of Fate hub, which features gates to Druantia 
 and Typhon. From there, you choose a town to enter and wind up in a secondary hub populated by 
 a motley crew of monsters who assign quests, sell goods, heal injuries, enchant items, and so forth. 
 Once you do business here, you head off down the nearby steps to slay monsters and solve problems 
 in pretty much limitless randomized dungeon levels.  

  Quests are mostly basic stuff. You get sent down to a dungeon level and must complete tasks such 
 as destroying an evil shrine, protecting a good shrine, killing a boss, locating a magical artifact, 
 or escorting a monster. As usual with hackfest RPGs, objectives don't seem to matter much. You 
 spend almost all of your time click-slaying packs of attacking monsters, so saving a shrine on 
 dungeon level two doesn't feel much different from killing a big minotaur on dungeon level 14. 
 Monster types seem more repetitive here than in the original Fate, which is in keeping with the 
 simple, recycled forest and ice backgrounds of the two new dungeons. Many of the new types pop 
 up over and over again across multiple dungeon levels. Some are extremely weird, at least. Druantia 
 is loaded with oddities like the death-cap walking mushroom and the big-brain floating mind, while 
 Typhon is stocked with creeps like the crystal crab and the dire walrus.  

           The Druantia dungeon is populated by eerie threats, such as the floating mind.      

 
  Unbalanced difficulty is a bigger problem than repetition, though. While the challenge does steadily 
 ramp up with each dungeon level you go down, you frequently get tossed into situations that are 
 virtually impossible to deal with at your current level. This hits you right off the bat. In level 
 two of Typhon, for instance, you're faced with the impossible task of destroying an evil shrine 
 protected by a horde of zombies and rats and a magic weapon that can kill you with a single shot. 
 The only way to deal with this job is to skip it and venture deeper into the dungeon. A lot of 
 experience points, artifacts, and gold are needed to properly take on this assignment, so forget 
 about handling it early in the game. Of course, going deeper can be a hassle since you occasionally 
 run into monsters with the ability to steamroll your hero. One moment you're cruising along taking 
 out frost orcs and broadwings, and the next you're getting smashed into a fine red powder by a 
 minotaur. Since you can never predict what sort of opposition you're going to face, you can easily 
 wind up in a fight you're unprepared for and get killed out of the blue. And because of the game's 
 harsh hero revival options, you can then find yourself stuck far below the surface in hostile territory, 
 getting killed over and over again until you luck out and manage to run for the stairs leading 
 up.  

  Though Fate: Undiscovered Realms is an add-on that is more about extending the original game than 
 expanding it, the fundamentals are strong enough to make it appealing. This is an addictive hack-and-slash 
 RPG, even if it isn't a very creative one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PrvtChurch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Fate: Undiscovered Realms is a basically a continuation of the first Fate game, in fact, you can 
 import your old Fate character and continue playing with all your stats and items.
  
  The Good:
  * Three times the game-play of the first game.
  * Almost Identical to the first 
 game making it easy to jump into it.
  * Catchy music
  * A fun waste of time
  
  The Bad:
  * A copy & paste job of the first game
  * Diablo II Rip-off in 'almost' every single 
 way
  * Diablo II for kids
  * STARS/SPARKLIES instead of blood (blood can be activated via in-game console)
  * Too cutesy
 
  
  The Ugly:
  * Graphics look like they are from 1998, they are bad even for a casual RPG/Adventure game
  * 
 Bad menu design
  * Should be rated E instead of E10
  
  Conclusion:
  Fate: Undiscovered Realms is a fun game to waste time with, but you can play Diablo II or the original 
 Fate and get the same experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdog90210
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay so here is how to fix the problem first go to options upon entering the game than go to screen 
 resolution go to 800 by 600 i think. its the one right below it. Then go to shadow graphics and 
 put it down to medium. On medium you can see some slowness on the mouse but mostly good. on low 
 you can see hardly any slowness it is pretty much good. anyway this game is almost a copy of diablo 
 2. So if you like this game i reccomend diablo 2. This is more of a kiddy game though. and less 
 items and armor than diablo 2. i rated it a 7.5 because graphics are good, but it gets old after 
 you beat it and continue going down the dungeons. And the good thing compared to diablo 2 is that 
 diablo has better magic and hits and stuff. So this is a pretty good game. Look out for the expansion 
 packs they are coming out in a couple months:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albrethsen26
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  If were like me when fate 1 came out, you would dislike the game because there was no variety, 
 only 1 dungeon to go thru the whole game, if other than that, you liked the original fate, u will 
 love this game, there fore 4 dungeons, all completely different, on is fire, one is ice, ect... as 
 far as i no, you CANNOT go back to the original place from fate 1, so i guess this is fate 2, (not 
 an expansion) . 
  The good: A great game the feels almost exactly like "Diablo", but with cool graphics.
  The bad: 
 even with 4 dungeons, it still may feel like it has no variety.
  
  Graphics: 8 (great cartoon graphics)
  
  Sound: 10 (sound is great, theres always a voice telling 
 u everything-very helpful)
  
  gameplay: 8 (reminds me of diablo)
  
  Balance: 9 (some enemies may seem to easy to kill, but u will still die sometimes)
  
  Overall: 
 8.7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srl2cool
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Just retired my 2nd character in fate undiscovered realms (2nd and 3rd difficulty) and i must say 
 this game hooked me like diablo, hellfire and diablo 2! It has everything that those games have 
 and basically that's it (nothing extra nothing spectacular) . If you like old school hack n slash 
 rpgs this is the game to get. You can import your characters from the un expansion-ed fate but 
 the only downsides are you have to have that wild tangent garbage on your computer and there is 
 no multiplayer at all unlike diablo and diablo 2 (which lets face it was the difference between 
 diablo being a great game from diablo being an AMAZING game) .
  
  Since I have bought this game I have hooked 3 of my friends back to there pc and off their xboxs 
 so hail pc hack n slash rpgs!
  
  I am a fan of this game and I would recommend it to all the hack n slash fans that need their diablo 
 fix. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
