-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/fate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun, easy-to-get-into hack-and-slash action.
 Great graphics will appeal both to kids and D&D nerds.
 Randomly generated levels and items offer significant replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of multiplayer is a noticeable omission.
 Can occasionally get difficult to the point of frustration.
 Sometimes feels too random.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.3, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: WildTangent
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     May 18, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a fully 3D action RPG that's like a combination of Diablo and its sequel, but with better graphics. 
 

  Though Diablo-style hack-and-slash role-playing games have proliferated on video game consoles 
 these past few years, for whatever reason, they've been scarcer on the PC. That being the case, 
 if you've been hankering for a good old-fashioned monster-and-treasure-filled dungeon crawl lately, 
 you should check out Fate. It's a fully 3D action RPG that's like a combination of Diablo and its 
 sequel, but with better graphics. It's got a storybook, family-friendly look and feel to it, and 
 it's shamelessly derivative of Blizzard's definitive action RPG series. But these qualities -- along 
 with its budget price -- turn out to be a big part of the draw.  

          Fate is a Diablo knockoff with a heart of gold... or something. Look, just try it. It's 
 good.     

  Diablo is probably one of the most influential games of the past 10 years, and its influence on 
 Fate isn't subtle. In fact, of all the games that have used Diablo as a template, Fate is one of 
 the most blatant in its attempts to directly reassemble Diablo's unique combination of qualities. 
 Fate sports similar gameplay, a similar structure, a similar interface, and any number of other 
 parts that could easily be traced back to Blizzard's series. Even some very specific details, like 
 some of the sound effects, seem like they came straight from Diablo. The main difference between 
 the two is that Fate has no multiplayer mode. But it's not just a straight rip-off, as Fate features 
 a number of clever innovations within the scope of this style of gaming.  

  We'll get to those in a second. In Fate, you play as a boy or a girl who ventures into the town 
 of Grove, along with his or her pet dog or cat. Grove is a quaint, little down that happens to 
 sit right next to an ominous dungeon gate. The dungeon, sure enough, consists of dozens of increasingly 
 challenging, randomly generated mazelike floors, each teeming with monsters and littered with treasure. 
 The structure of the game is simple: You go into the dungeon and fight your way deeper and deeper 
 into it, earning experience and loot as you go. Your motivation to press on will often come from 
 townspeople challenging you to accomplish certain quests, which typically involve whacking a boss 
 monster in part of the dungeon that's just one or two floors deeper than wherever you left off. 
 Sometimes you'll teleport back to town (by means of town portal spells -- what else?) to buy and 
 sell stuff and to deliver the good news of your missions accomplished. However, Fate mostly takes 
 place in the dungeon.  

  Though dungeon-crawling invariably requires some wandering around, it's the combat that's typically 
 the interesting part. Combat in Fate, much like in Diablo, is pretty straightforward, but it looks 
 great, has a solid feel to it, and is therefore quite satisfying. You see an enemy, and you click 
 on it to attack using either ranged or melee weapons. If your character has damage-dealing spells 
 equipped, you can also blast your foes that way. Enemies come in all shapes and sizes, and they 
 may have different resistances or special abilities of their own. So you shouldn't expect to rely 
 on just one set of tactics to get the job done. Still, combat is basically a slugfest, so be sure 
 to pack plenty of health potions, or mana potions if you're a caster. Expect to square off against 
 virtually every fantasy monster mainstay you can think of, from slimes to vampires to orcs. In 
 turn, many of them will drop useful (or at least valuable) magic items when defeated. So not only 
 can it be fun to look forward to whatever dangers are in store next, but also it's exciting to 
 find that perfect new weapon or armor piece to round out your abilities. Between that and the quest 
 system, Fate does a fine job of always tempting you with some other carrot on a stick.  

          A canine or feline companion will keep you company as you delve deeper into the multistory 
 dungeon.     

  As for the differences between Fate and Diablo, for one thing, Fate doesn't let you choose between 
 different character classes. Instead, you're free to develop your character however you see fit, 
 by bolstering his or her armed combat or magic skills or by whatever combination you like. This 
 system is perhaps a little intimidating for what's otherwise a breezy game, since right off the 
 bat, there are so many places where you could be spending the small number of skill points you 
 gain per level. And as tempting as it may be to spread your skill points across all the different 
 skills that sound interesting, you're probably better off specializing in a small number of compatible 
 abilities -- for example, swordfighting and critical strike or spellcasting and attack magic. If 
 you spread your points too far and wide, you'll probably just end up feeling like you're stuck 
 with a weak character. Still, this open-ended system ultimately works well, and the experience 
 of playing a fighter-type character is indeed quite different from playing as a caster. For what 
 it's worth, magic-oriented characters are probably the most interesting, since you can have up 
 to a dozen different spells mapped to your function keys. So you can be summoning creatures to 
 aid you while raining fire and lighting down on your foes. Meanwhile, a fighter character is limited 
 to whaling on his opponents with a weapon.     

  Then there's your pet, which serves as your faithful companion throughout the adventure. It's possible 
 to buy or catch fish (via a simple little minigame) that can transform your little doggy or kitty 
 into something more powerful, but either way, your pet will travel by your side, helping you to 
 attack foes and sometimes drawing their fire. Perhaps more importantly, your pet has its own inventory, 
 so it effectively serves as a pack mule. At the touch of a button, you can even make it automatically 
 run back to town to sell everything in its stash, saving you the trip. Again, you'll still need 
 to go back to town to resupply, or at least to cash in your quests and get new ones, but this pet 
 trick turns out to be a smart way to alleviate one of the more cumbersome aspects of games like 
 this.  

          Some of Fate's monsters are surprisingly big and mean-looking.     

  Fate pretty much goes on and on like this, with you and your foes growing more and more powerful. 
 There are an unlimited number of randomly generated items in the game, in addition to the ability 
 to customize equipment by augmenting it with magically imbued gems. Some of the magic items can 
 have what seems like an absurd number of different, sometimes contradictory, enchantments on them, 
 which betrays the random nature of the game design but also admittedly helps keep things interesting. 
 Additionally, you have a fame level that's independent of your experience level. Fame is gained 
 from completing quests and slaying boss monsters. Gaining fame levels gives you more skill points, 
 and the best equipment also has fame levels as part of the prerequisites. It's another arc to follow, 
 but it's not that big of a deal.  

  The game features four levels of difficulty, the open-ended character building system, and what 
 feels like quite a lot of different monsters, items, and spells. As a result, it can easily keep 
 you busy for a while. Still, the random nature of Fate eventually begins to yield diminishing returns 
 (especially once you get to higher levels and the leveling up slows down a lot) , the monsters and 
 levels start to look the same, and the combat gets a lot tougher. And the loading times between 
 dungeon floors don't get any shorter. When you run out of health in Fate, you're given several 
 choices, such as getting bumped back up three dungeon levels or restarting from the point you fell, 
 but at a significant cost to your fame and experience. This death system is interesting, but it 
 can feel surprisingly punitive in a game that's otherwise so easy on the senses.  

  Fate sure does look pretty, though, with its nicely lit and colorful, fully 3D caverns and catacombs. 
 Some of the monsters are surprisingly big, which makes it satisfying to see their bodies pile up 
 after a big skirmish. The game not only looks great but also runs smoothly, even on relatively 
 modest systems. A few nice touches are in there to help make the graphics as functional as they 
 are attractive, too. For example, if a wall is ever obscuring you or a monster, you'll still see 
 a colored icon so you won't get blindsided. The highlight of the game's audio is its soft-spoken 
 narrator, who has a few different phrases for moments like when you gain an experience level or 
 when you run out of health. The rest of the audio is good, though the Renaissance Faire-style town 
 music can start to get a little grating, as can some of the sound effects. We heartily recommend 
 choosing the dog instead of the cat as your pet, since the cat's incessant meowing will likely 
 cause you to send your furry companion back to town more often than necessary.  

          There hasn't been a better way to scratch that hack-and-slash itch on the PC in a while. 
     

  Fate is available for download from its  official Web site , which includes a free trial version. 
 Overall, this is a high-quality game that delivers well on a concept that isn't ambitious but is 
 well known for being fun and addictive. You may be surprised to learn that Fate was made by just 
 a small number of individuals, since many much larger projects don't come together nearly this 
 well. However, this is a game that clearly benefited from having a singular focus, and in turn, 
 you'll likely appreciate what it has to offer if you give it a shot.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: warhammer40k_1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I was going to write a huge review comparing this game to the Diablo series and other hack and 
 slash games in the genra. I know that anyone that is a gamer has already made the comparisons themselves, 
 i dont need to do that, but i can tell you what the game is missing.
  
  The game has a childish theme to it. The graphics arent bad but they're not dark like in diablo, 
 or darkstone. The game also lacks in an outside enviornment. The coolest feature i think the game 
 has is that when you die you get to make three choices of how to be resurected, you can take a 
 experiance hit and revive where you feel, you can take a temporary gold hit and be revived where 
 you feel, or you can be revived back in town and have to go back to where you were slain to pick 
 up your gold.
  
  I think the game is good enough to play but its a lot like a gateway drug if you liked it then 
 move on to the better, stronger stuff like D2 or the soon to be diablo 3 :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyRebel33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  It has a great feel and an interface that grows on you. the item varieties aren't just broken down 
 by type and composition, its broken down by type, style, composition, quality, magical properties 
 and color. you will be hard pressed to discover every weapon in the game and the magical qualities 
 vary greatly from item to item. the gameplay was quite challenging and it took a while to get through 
 without dying, my only wish/complaint is that all the quests and gameplay are limited to the dungeon 
 and the single town above, i think they could really have revolutionized PC RPGs by making an entire 
 world with quests above ground too, then it would have had an unprecedented depth to the game. 
 in any case there isn't much to complain of considering the developer and the fact that it runs 
 on the Wildtangent platform, rather the opposite, it has stunning graphics and animations considering. 
 this would be on my list of all-time underrated video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emofarmboy6B
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  great awsome great loved it awsome great i need a hundred words awsome awsome awsome great good 
 masterpiece wonderful lovely magnificent unbileavable cool kool very kool very cool kool-aid i 
 liked it alot cool addictive sweat funny characteristict creative fun boring fun cool awsome boring 
 those where the emotions that flew in and out of my mind so many times i puked, if you ever played 
 halo 3 you know whta i mean its addictive fate is addictive and wicked and so on, like the halo 
 series its so very awsome man i need a hundred words im just gonaa say gibberish now a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a thats enough a's 
 for now i just need few more words fat is cool i know your hooked i wish my other computer didnt 
 brake and that i didnt loose fate. fate rimes with what it is great. fate is great fate is great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slim_Pup
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I commonly divide the Role Playing Games class into three categories: Cute cartoon, Teen, and rated-M 
 morbid. Fate would reside somewhere between the first two categories. At first sight, you could 
 see a little short cartoony guy running around with this little dog pet. Obviously cute and childish 
 right? Hm, in a way, but not entirely. This is a simple single-player RPG to play, and better for 
 those who are not die-hard role players.
  The baseline story of Fate is quite simple and also quite clich: a dark evil something has taken 
 over a town, and conveniently he lies on the bottom of a dark dungeon filled with treasure and 
 riches. The goal of the game is to progress to the furthest level of the game to defeat him; however, 
 there are many small quests you can complete in between to gain experience, fame, and items. As 
 you move your way through the game there are also shrines that you can test your luck on: it can 
 either give you a valuable item, raise your stats, or it can lower your stats or summon a boss 
 monster. 
  Your pet has its own inventory where you can put items that you can't carry anymore. This is one 
 part that I like. The pet is easy to control, and if you are busy fighting, you can send your pet 
 back to town to sell all the items it isn't wearing. You can also feed it fish, which can transform 
 it into one of the various monsters in the game (it still fights for you) but with a big boost 
 in stats.
  In comparison to Flyff (free cute style MMORPG) the monsters in Fate are a little more threatening, 
 but not overpowering. This makes it better for single player play. The interface is easy to use, 
 pets are easy to control, and the skills/stats system isn't hard to figure out. It's just a good 
 game to ease you into the RPG world. There is no multiplayer option, which personally I believe 
 to be pretty important in a RPG, but it's still fun.
  Another thing I like is that you can make your character into whatever "class you want." As long 
 as you meet the requirements to wield a certain item, you can. However, I wouldn't suggest making 
 a character evenly distributed in talents, because you will be pretty weak in the long run. Pick 
 something you like and make your character strong in that area.
  The main problem with Fate is that it gets boring pretty quickly. After a while, you find yourself 
 repeating the same actions over and over, fighting countless monsters, completing the same kind 
 of quests over and over, finding items and defeating random bosses on random levels. There is only 
 one town, and by the fifth time you go back you can practically walk it with your eyes closed. 
 There are NPC who are stores, and then there are those who just walk around aimlessly until they 
 have a quest for you to do. There are 40-something levels to the great dungeon that lies underneath 
 the town, and those get old easily too. You basically can't fight monsters and see sunlight at 
 the same time. Each level of the dungeon is basically like a maze, and the areas you have explored 
 show up on your map. It can actually get pretty nasty  because the layout is random, sometimes 
 you'll find yourself traveling for 5 minutes exploring, only to find a dead end, meaning you have 
 to run all the way back to find more monsters. Each level is modeled after something: a prison, 
 an empty building (quite a large one) , a cave, or a lava cave. That's it basically. Every time 
 it goes down the levels have slightly different layouts and looks, but it's all just the same.
 
  After you get to level 10, moving up more levels seems impossible. Each monster will provide maybe 
 100 experience points, when you may have 100,000 more to go. It gets to be a grind sometimes. This 
 gets super frustrating when you visit a learning shrine and it turns on you and lowers a stat by 
 a few points, which means you have to fight forever to gain those points back. The main way you 
 get experience points is by completing quests. This gets to be a problem, because soon you will 
 be fighting monsters that are a higher level than you are.
  Despite all that, the graphics and sounds are pretty cool. There are a variety of items to choose 
 from, and if you don't get tired of repeating your actions, you may be able to enjoy collecting 
 items and testing them out.
  The last point I want to address is the observation that this game is like Diablo. This game is 
 NOT Diablo. It definitely is modeled after the award-winning RPG  it's a hack-and-slash game, 
 and even some of the sound effects are the same. However, if you have played any of the Diablo 
 series and are considering this game based on the assumption that it will be similar, you will 
 be very disappointed. The two games are from entirely different worlds, despite the attempt on 
 Fate to emulate Diablo.
  Overall, I would recommend this game only to those aren't entirely familiar with RPG games, or 
 those that just want a simple, single player experience that won't take its toll on the computer 
 technically. If you are familiar with RPG games, however, you'll probably be disappointed and get 
 tired of this game pretty quickly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarltheafro
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  This is my review on the pc game 'Fate'
  
  this game is set in a fantasy world with many strange and mysterius landscapes and environments.
 
  the landscapes are rendered pretty well but it is not a factor this game excells in.
  Aside from its occasionally frustrating landscapes they offer some but not visually clear tactical 
 advantages.
  
  At first look this may seem like a Diablo ripoff, and quite frankly, I wouldnt disagree untill 
 i complete both games twice.
  I don't like to compare in my reviews, but with this game I don't need to. diablo fans won't go 
 nuts for this game, I can assure you, somehow it seemed to impress neverwinter nights fans more. 
 I can't tell how that works, but I think it has to do with rendering, and some gameplay that seemed 
 frustrating there isn't here.
  It is overall a very stable game, the classes are decently balanced, and the game is fun to play.
 
  however i can't stress this enough:
  THE GAME STARTS GETTING FUN AFTER YOUR 4TH HOUR, SO DONT DRAW A CONCLUSION BEFORE YOU'VE PLAYED 
 IT FOR 5 HOURS THE LEAST.
  
  I hope this review will help you, this is definately a game worth checking out, but I dont think 
 it deserves much higher than a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernardofd
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  If there would be another name for FATE, that would be Random Diablo 3D. This game resumes itself 
 in pure click-'n'-slash action, and borrows a LOT of features presented in the Blizzard's dungeon 
 crawler game. Character stats, names of the weapons and of the magical properties that imbue them, 
 the companion system, random generated maps, weapons classes, all this fully inspired (to not say 
 copied) from the Diablo franchise. The few things that FATE managed to be fairly original are the 
 3D cartoonish graphics, the fully customizable character skills and class, and the way too random 
 nature of your items. For example, robes are the natural armors for heavy magic dependent classes, 
 but a little too frequently their properties matches of a tank warrior's armor. Or weapon. No kidding! 
 A "Magician" robe with increased weapon damage and plus points to fighting skills. No sense at 
 all.
  
  Even the quests are random, there's no plot or remarkable characters, just the same shop keepers/healers/quest 
 givers in the same town. The gameplay, as time passes by, tends to be repetitive: hack'n'slash 
 your way through the dungeon, make quest, get back to town, get rewards, sell unwanted items, get 
 new quests and get back to the dungeon's next level. Even the final quest is the same. If you want 
 to keep going, the game can turn into an infinite repetitive task. If not, you can retire, leaving 
 one of your items to an heir, which gets substantial improves on its stats, but that's it. And 
 your heir have to start all over again.
  
  On the technical side, the sound is all right, nothing that stands for. The music is coherent to 
 the game style, although it stops too often for no reason. I'd experienced some crashs and freezes 
 (that required reboots) , but nothing to fear, specially for that progress after a couple of hours 
 of gameplay, the game auto-saves every time you change levels or go back to the town.
  
  Resuming, FATE is a fun click'n'slash dungeon crawler with cute graphics and some obsession for 
 random numbers and events. It is a good casual game, but don't take it too serious, ot it will 
 rend you frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacob72993
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Good Things:
  Graphics
  
  Bad Things:
  It's way too similar to Diablo 2. After playing for about 10 minutes, I realized that it's gameplay 
 was just like Diablo. Now if you never played Diablo 2 before, you won't understand. But in my 
 terms, Diablo 2 is much better than Fate. Diablo 2 contains more monsters, quests, places, items, 
 classes, and unique attacks for each class. It seems like Diablo is an advanced version of Fate. 
 You can also play Multiplayer + Single player on Diablo 2. 
  
  In the End:
  I wouldn't suggest Fate, but I wouldn't not suggest Fate. Only because the fact; why would you 
 buy Fable. When you could buy Diablo? But Fate does have a few features more than Diablo. In Fate 
 you can fish, Diablo you can not. Fate is also easier then Diablo, so Fate would be better for 
 newcomers for gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swmeek
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Although the game lacks an assortment of different locales ( towns, lands and so forth) to visit 
 it still makes up for it in good old monster bashing fun.
  It does get a bit dry returning to the same town and talking to the same people over and over again 
 doing their "fetch this" or "kill that" missions.
  On another note doing all these things gets you money ,experience and fame which adds up to boost 
 your skills and levels.
  But if you like a game where you can explore various dungeons and kill a varied assortment of monsters 
 then this game is for you. A wide variety of weapons , spells and power ups also help in bashing 
 the various creatures to death.
  The fishing mini-game also helps you in finding various power-ups to add to your weapons attributes 
 as well as changing your pet cat or dog into several different creatures with different abilities.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxikyd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Love the game. Found it in the Walmart $10 section and it's well worth the price. It's perfect 
 for a casual hack-n-slasher as you can play for five minutes or five hours. I've been playing it 
 about 25 hours now, and my characters are now into the second generation of the family. 
  One of the features I like the most is that if your character retires it can pass one of its items 
 on to a descendant who will carry on the heroing tradition. This, in itself , makes the game different 
 from most others. As a descendant, the next character also gets bonus fame points, and thus bonus 
 skill points at the beginning of the game.
  
  Items are socketed and the gems can be removed (Destroyed) and replaced. This is especially good 
 as it keeps sockets from going to waste.
  
  Gameplay is simplistic. It's a basic hack and slash, and if you keep your left mouse button depressed, 
 your hero will simply move on to the next monster. 
  
  There is also fishing. Different fish have different capabilities. Feed them to your pet and it 
 will turn into different creatures for varying lengths of time. 
  
  It is possible to play this game with nothing more than a mouse and the shift key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miradwyn
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Fate help me passed only a few short hours. It is repetitive and shallow, seems like a restricted 
 demo for what should be a more expansive game. There is no exploring the world, finding interesting 
 places or things to do.
  
  Maybe young children playing their first hack and slash would find it more interesting. The somewhat 
 cutesy graphics enforce the feeling that you have stumbled into a game intended solely for children.
 
  
  You go to town and get a very limited number (3 I think it was) of quests then you go into the 
 maze like dungeon. Repeat until you uninstall. If you accidentally sell a quest item you are screwed, 
 there's no way to get it back or find another one, you have to delete the quest. Entering the dungeon 
 repeatedly get the townsfolk to offer you new quests is a nuisance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqldbaman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  First, I was a big Diablo fan... years back. And, this game definitely takes alot of Diablo ideas 
 and keeps them going in this fun and addictive game. Initially, I thought the box looks alittle 
 cartooney... but my wife wanted something to pass the time... something for a "casual gamer". Both 
 of us have active MMORP accounts on various games... but sometimes you just want something simple... 
 and this game seems to have fit the build.
  
  The cost is less than $20 which makes it a steal immediately. I have 5 systems at home... most 
 run XP (SP2) with one running Vista. This games easily run on all the system (no crashes) . Install 
 is easy... and there is a bonus download that you can get... actually two that do some tweaking 
 to the game and add in some additional things -- another plus!
  
  The 3D graphics is awesome... very colorful and impressive. Game play is equally quick and easy 
 to learn. You are wild open to what you want to do... which is basically heading down into the 
 dungeons... btw... did I say that there are over 2 million levels to explore!! Yeah, just a tad 
 play value here... tons of baddies, a trusty companion (dog or cat that you can alter to become 
 a stronger ally --- i. e. monster) , huge levels, quests, loot, gold, etc etc... yeah... you will 
 get hooked if you play it.
  
  Take the plung... for less than $20 it is worth it! Check out the forums for this game too... just 
 Google "fate the game".
  
  Good luck and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I just bought Fate for a few dollars. After a couple of hours, I'm not impressed. Why?
  
  Because I've played Diablo, and graphics aren't that important to me. 
  
  Fate doesn't 
 appear to have anything going for it that Diablo didn't... I might be missing something, but all 
 I could think of while playing Fate is 1) this game looks childish, 2) It's a clone and 3) I really 
 miss Diablo. 
  
  Now, it's not a bad thing to copy a game, and surely Diablo (or Diablo 2 to be specific) is a game 
 worth copying. But if you copy a game, have a new angle, or offer something additional to make 
 it worth playing. 
  
  From what I can tell so far, Fate doesn't deliver anything new. It has a lighter, softer feel than 
 the dark and cruel world of Diablo. But seriously... the gameplay is identical. 
  
  If you haven't played Diablo, and don't want to for some reason or can't, then by all means play 
 Fate and enjoy it. If Diablo didn't pre-exist Fate, then Fate would be a great game...
  
  But the bottom line is why play a copy of a great -- if not perfect -- game when the real deal is still 
 available?
  
  For me, playing Fate was like talking to a girl who kind of resembled an old girlfriend but simply 
 isn't for me. Sure, she's pretty, and nice, but in the end there is only enough there to remind 
 me of my first love and not begin a new relationship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Fate is a lot of fun. You create a character and stroll around a town collecting items, weapons, 
 money, and stuff, and then you go into a dungeon and battle monsters, enemies, and all sorts of 
 things. Medieval adventures have never been this fun, up to now.
  
  In the middle of the game, you can adjust your weaponry and your item stock with the click of a 
 mouse button. It's very easy to play your way - there are so many ways to customize your adventure. 
 The gameplay is easy to figure out, but the game itself gives a fresh challenge each time you play. 
 On top of that, eye-candy graphics and impressive sound only make the game better.
  
  It's a great game to invest in - it's well worth your time and money spent. I recommend it to everyone, 
 especially those who like adventure games. Simply stated, FATE stands for Fun Adventure Top-notch 
 Excitement. Ok, not exactly that, but it's a great game that will keep you busy for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbanker
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This game caught me by surprise. I have seen this game at my local WalMart for about a year 
 and a half in the bargain bin. I had picked it up a couple of times in the past, but always put 
 it back down. I checked the reviews here, and it had some positive feedback, so I decided to plunk 
 down the $20 and give it a shot.
  Much to my surprise, this game is really well done. First off, I like how after the game installs, 
 you don't have to ever insert the CD again. The game itself plays like a D2 clone, with beautiful 
 animated-style graphics. It reminds me alot of Fable: The Lost Chapters. You can pick a girl or 
 a boy, and you start off in a town, and have to go dungeon crawling to complete quests for the 
 locals.
  Please understand, that this game is not wide-open. You are limited to a single town, and a single 
 dungeon. You come to town to get quests, store your goods, sell your goods and buy new goods. Since 
 there is only 1 dungeon, it has many, many levels in it. It has like 50+ levels in it, each one 
 growing in difficulty and the loot progressively gets better along the way.
  Even though this game is designed without alot of exploration of world maps, it still delivers 
 for those that were hardcore fans of D2, Sacred and Titan Quest. I personally really enjoyed this 
 game, and got my son into it as well. He was a big fan of the Diablo series as well, and is also 
 having a great time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rndactsofbrocol
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Fate is a great game to play if you're not looking for something to immersing. This is the type 
 of game that you can play and watch TV without much trouble. There are lots of options in the game, 
 and you can either delve head long into it and push your way through it, or take your time and 
 really think about character attributes. One warning though, this game is terribly addictive!
 
  
  The game is further enhanced by the ability to enchant weapons to add attributes to them. However 
 this is a dual edged sword because it can give both positive or negative attributes to your weapons.
 
  
  If you're looking for a game to mindlessly pass time, this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Let's just say the weak point to get it out of the way... Graphics, and it's not that bad.
  
  This game is sooo cool! You literally cusomize almost everything about your character! You 
 even come with a super cool pet!
  
  Sound effects are probably the best part cuz they're just super! Everthing from voiceacting to 
 moving glass bottles will have you thinking that you live in this world! You even get to fish!
 
  
  Money's a drag though. There are weapons and equip that you would love to get your hands on, but 
 most of the time you can't. Prices are of f the wall and the gold you pick up are in the single 
 digits.
  otherwize... cool good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanLink
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  Fate is a game I wouldn't recommend for people who are impatient that doesn't have much of a plot. 
 Because of the fact that you can only go to two places which is the town and the dungeon and the 
 50 levels of the dungeon its not really that fun. You spend endless hours trying to kill the main 
 person that says it in the beginning it's just random killings and just trying to make your person 
 the best. The graphics were okay it was a in the middle kind of type because it was good yet was 
 bad in some situations. The sound does fit the game because theres different types of sounds you 
 hit a monster then it dies and it's not those types of repetitive sounds. Combat was okay as well 
 because you have to keep clicking on th monster and it's fun the first 4 hours but then it just 
 gets boring. Fate is a game I wouldn't recommend if you were like me because there isn't much of 
 a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sealbee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  I remember the old DOS games with the @ symbol for my character. They were fun, this is better. 
 The old games, when you died, you would have to fight your ghost when you got back down to that 
 spot. Your dog could turn on you, no fun at all. This is not a Diablo ripoff, I love Diablo and 
 D2 but they were the evolution of the old DOS games. To me, this is the old games with graphics, 
 fun but not Diablo style. So if you want a fun crawler I suggest you try this out. You can find 
 it fairly cheap now. I don't regret spending the money on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olzme
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The game is basically a Diablo clone, except aimed more at children (If you don't know what Diablo's 
 like, check the summary or reviews for Diablo) . The only thing is, each level is randomly generated. 
 And it isn't much of a map, more like a dungeon crawl space. You may be running endlessly into 
 a tunnel just to find it's a dead end! The only difference between this game and Diablo is the 
 appearance, random map generator, and pets (a Cat or a Dog, which you can later feed it so that 
 it becomes something else for a time) . Other than that, there isn't really much for this game.
 
  
  Just get Diablo if you're into the click+hack and slash 2.5D games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Lancelot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  It takes a lot for me to say i like a game, because i only enjoy a game as long as all aspects 
 are met (graphics, storyline, replay, etc.) and the only place this game falls short is storyline. 
 You basically just go down and do quests for people in one town and level up and do harder quests, 
 and so on. May sound boring but it quickly becomes fun, and it's not extremely fast pace, but it's 
 not so slow that it makes it boring. If i could describe this game in a couple of words, i'd say 
 It's just right. It's just an all-around great game, and as i have said, becoming one of my favorites, 
 and for a good reason. for 19.99 it's definetly a good value at the least, and anyone can play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mets24
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  with lots of weapons and plenty of monster it can keep you busy for a pretty long time but then 
 after you hit level 20 it just seems like your doing the same thing in the last quest but destroying 
 a different monster but on a higher level or finding a different item. The jewels that you can 
 place on your weapons is a great way to customize and add a wide ranging effects and the idea with 
 turning your pets into different creatures like spiders wolves and unicorns for periods of time 
 with fish you can catch is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I saw a couple of screenshots I knew I wanted to get my hands on Fate. And I was glad 
 that I did. As far as mindless dungeoncrawlers go, Fate nails most of the important points down 
 solidly.
  
  Graphics-wise, Fate is by far among the prettiest dungeoncrawlers out there, bar none. From character 
 and monster models, lighting, and spell effects, there's very little to find fault with. Also, 
 the palette is fairly strong, giving things a colourful look which manages to neatly avoid the 
 twin traps of looking drab on one hand or cartoony campy on the other. The only minor complaint 
 would be that at times, the overhead view gets obstructed by walls, making navigation through the 
 dungeon slightly tedious.
  
  For dungeoncrawlers arguably loot plays a very important role -- it's the main reason you'll be 
 repeatedly diving down there -- and I'm happy to say that Fate delivers, and delivers in spades! 
 High praise coming from me, and you know I usually manage to find fault in most RPG games because 
 they use a stupidly linear wood sword, stone sword, iron sword, steel sword progression. Fate can't 
 escape having a progressive base item system, but it shines in it's mods: instead of crappy +1 
 health low-end mods you see in almost all games of this genre, Fate sports generous 3% -30% and 
 even HIGHER modifiers! It's not uncommon to be sporting mods on your items that practically double 
 your base stats. And best of all, there are plenty of mods; dozens, hundreds. From linear +X mods 
 to +% mods, and for both stats AND skills (not to mention derived skills such as defense, which 
 itself is dependant on some other stats and skills too) .
  
  I cannot emphasise this enough: Fate's item mod system is where RPGs should be at. Enough with 
 the old-school +1, +2, +3 stupid lazy programming system. In those days computers didn't have much 
 in the way of storage (both memory and disk) , so it was understandable that early RPGs only had 
 a few basic items. But there is no excuse nowadays. A 3D model of a monster has WAY more data than 
 a simple array of item modifiers. You'll get tired of killing the same monster 100 times, but you'll 
 never get tired of getting a new item out of the 100. And in Fate, I'm talking about millions of 
 permutations.
  
  Yes, MILLIONS: remember Diablo and it's clones, which had a prefix (item) suffix style? So you 
 probably saw Strong Leather Armor of the Fox , where strong and fox were 2 mods? Well, in Fate, 
 each item can have DOZENS of mods. Yes, I've seen items which had so many mods you had to move 
 it to see them all. I sh! t you not. In short, Fate is the ultimate paradise for you item hoarders. 
 You'll go crazy upgrading your stuff, and this is GOOD, compared to most other weakass games of 
 this genre where you'll be wearing the same tired ol' armor for 10 levels before finding a better 
 one.
  
  The only drawback? It's a dungeoncrawler, period. There's practically no story whatsoever, the 
 randomly generated NPC quests are as random as they get, and even the main quest ends with thanks 
 from an NPC, same like the others. And there's no multiplayer, big ouch. It's like a huge, elaborate 
 game of Solitaire. Crazy fun as hell, but still Solitaire.
  
  The makers of MMOs and RPGs should learn from Fate's intricate item and mods system. Other than 
 that, Fate doesn't have too much going for it, unfortunately, so you'll most likely be playing 
 it between other heavier (as in, actually contain a story) RPGs. I would've rated it as masterpiece 
 or instant classic , however, as good as the item mod system is, it isn't really NEW. Fate just 
 polished it up, polished it up real good. For that, I'm giving it highly addictive and two thumbs 
 up, way up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sythy
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game features great graphics, nice interface, easy learning curve, fun in nearly every way.
 
  
  And even if you do get bored leveling up (no idea how that can happen) all ya got to do is use 
 some of the cheats on this site, and hit to the dungeon level where the main boss is, with good 
 armour and good weapons and skills, etc..
  And then try and kill him!
  So near impossible to kill!
  
  You also have a huge amount of skills to build (and stats!) 
 meaning huge unique powerness, build up your build as you need it!
  
  Give it a try! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonOtaku7
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I'm serious, I can't describe this game.
  
  Let me start sequentially.
  
  GOOD - Graphics : You can't expect amazing graphics, but the ones in the game, surprisingly enough 
 for its' size, are good o_o. You won't feel like in a kids' game downright, but you won't find 
 realism here either. Seven out of ten.
  
  Sounds : The drop sounds are good, and every weapon has a unique sound that plays when you attack. 
 Swords sort of SWISH, while spears slash sounds diffirent. The crushing of your axe into your foe 
 sounds lovely too. I have no complaints here. Six out of ten.
  
  Controls : Sweet! Simple, easy to get used to, and it's really a lot like Diablo 2's. Nothing else 
 to say here, but becase it's so easy to use, seven out of ten.
  
  Gameplay: Random generated dungeons are nice. EVen if you play no easy difficulty, the game will 
 get merciless with you around LV 35 and up, which is KIND OF annoying since we're on EASY, but 
 oh well XD. You can get into this game easily and play for hours, or just between breaks. Nine 
 out of ten.
  
  SPECIAL ITEM : Game size! - Astonishing. I don't know what version others use, but my game is around 
 30 megabytes in size! Yet, it offers acceptable graphics, pleasant sounds, a horrible backstory 
 and HOURS of fun. This is insane, if you think about it! Easy and fun to play, easy to get.. pure 
 genius. Ten out of ten!
  
  The BAD - I haven't noticed bad things I could add, ironically enough - and I'm usually against 
 bad games like DIablo 2 or / and Diablo 2 clones.. yet...
  
  Honor yourself and try atleast the demo! There's no risk if you don't like it that way, but you're 
 still simply bound to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Fate is much like Space Hack ... in the sense that it DOES grow on you but after playing Space 
 Hack (a Diabloesk game, taking place in space) I felt it was kind of a chore to play the game.. 
 yes it's fun.. but I just can't wrap my head around the kiddieness of the game... (Space Hack at 
 least had a milder kiddie factor to it) The pet is much like the mercs in Diablo 2.. But I fail 
 to see any innovation like there was in Sacred. Gamplay: is good.. plays pretty well.. no fighting 
 the camera or anything of the sort. Sound: Good, and well paced. Graphics: Very bright.. much like 
 Space Hack was.. which turned me kinda off like WoW (World of Warcraft) did. Honestly if I can't 
 find much wrong with it if you like to kill time but.. I just found myself bored.. It felt more 
 of the same.. much like Titan Quest did to me... Sacred didn't.. and Space Hack though good was 
 also pretty non-innovative. Though the setting was definately a switch. Value: replayable sure.. 
 but so was Diablo 1... and I found that game FAR more exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  An awesome fansy game it is.
  But it can only relax you from the hard-time of the RPGs and any other types of games.
  It has 
 a veeeeeeeeeeeeery funny fame system. You can both earn your fame and exp in you questes and after 
 defense the bosses.
  The pet system is also veeeeeeeeeery fun, it can transport the item, you don't need, into golds. 
 And even after feeding it the fish it can translate into the other type of creatrue, any you met 
 or you not met yet, enemies. It's too easy to rush from the 1st floor to the 20th floor. After 
 that, you will feel a bit hard. But it's a very little game, among those Diablo-like game, it's 
 the most fantansitc one!
  It's maps are very limited. And the only few things you can do is fishing, accepting quests, finishing 
 them, then killing creatures in the dieges, escaping, etc..
  It worth to try, but not worth to pay so much time in it, as the other little game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  i just completed Fate, and i must say, i am pleasantly surprised by the graphics and the overall 
 flow of the game. sure, there isnt much of a storyline, just quests and raiding of dungeons for 
 bigger and badder weapons. but its just the kind of game we need right now. 
  simple and easy to pick up, but so very hard to put down. a game that is suitable for both long 
 and short hours of play. heck, even half an hour of raiding a level or two in the game is sure 
 to perk anyone's day up.
  so try it ! you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  fate is better than fable it has a true inspiration of games i mean this games wont come out in 
 a million years or more and the graphics are awesome since fate really give a great graphics but 
 what really is greatabout the thing is that when you die its not going to be easy youve got to 
 pick a choice you know like take 400gp and let me return to my game or minus some of my heatlth 
 and let me return to the town of groove that is what makes it good
  
  the graphics let see yeah graphics are totaly awesome and i totaly love it because the graphics 
 are really solid and also colourfull its just plain fun i mean how great is this its very colourfull 
 thats why i give it a nine but what couldhad been better is they could had not made it to blur 
 in the graphics at certain time but there still solid 
  
  seriously you should buy my dad totaly baught it i mean i spent so much time that adsive it was 
 my brother since my charecter name is Briar Rose i copied it from the game called Fable yeah i 
 know its weird and my chrecter is a female actually well dosent metter you should totaly buy this 
 game it really rocks the hell out of you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomer
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Well this game started off to be a very nice Diablo/Diablo II combo, had the best of both games. 
 But it got old rather fast, after 20 levels under it just became the same thing over and over again, 
 which is sad since it was so fun starting off. 
  
  The biggest difference between this and Diablo is the story or in this case the lack of; it was 
 just one of those grab this quest ( using that word losely) go down complete the quest and turn 
 around and get a useless item and then send me back down to do again. No thanks, it was really 
 just too bland. 
  
  For $20 it is not too bad of a deal but I think a $10 price tag would be a better deal. At least 
 it can bring some joy for a night or two.
  
  Boomer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpalDragon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Not every dungeon-romp game is based on Diablo, as most game reviewers would have you believe. 
 In the case of Fate, it's based more closely on Diablo's precursor, Rogue. Predating most game 
 players by a decade, Rogue, a DOS ASCII based dungeon game (in various forms and by various names) 
 was a start in town-, buy the equipment-, delve the dungeon-, train the pet-, reach the bottom-, 
 kill the 'Foozel'- type game. And that is Fate in a nutshell. But if you dismiss Fate just based 
 on that statement, your missing out on some mighty fine game playing. How many times have you played 
 through D2? Come on fess up. And yet the game is almost the same every time. You need a new horizon. 
 Branch out, live a little.
  
  Fate shines with snappy graphics, solid game dynamics, tight controls, and a random dungeon generator 
 with varying tilesets and various game objectives that go beyond just trying to get to the boss 
 monster. Not a push over in time to complete, most dungeons will generate with more than 40 levels, 
 and the lower level monsters are no spring breeze, but by the time you can get your character down 
 there, he/she shouldn't be either. And that goes for your dog or cat too. Think the archer in Diablo 
 that you wish would just go away. Only in Fate, your going to need that pet. With proper training, 
 your Fido or Fefe, will be holding it's own against Liches and dragons. (That about kitty with 
 attitude.) Unlike old Rogue, you can't hit your own pet. (Rogue: don't piss off your pet, or your 
 in for a whole lot of pain ... your beginning character would be dog chow, if you hit your pet 
 by mistake. Ouch!)
  
  And as value goes, you get a lot of miles for your buck. Give it a try, you'll be pleasantly surprised. 
 Happy romping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 176gxt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Fun addictive rpg: gameplay formula reminiscent of diablo. Fate is backed by solid graphics & sound. 
 The "save-anywhere" feature means I can come back to this title at anytime and head straight back 
 into the action. Low minimum requirements means I can install it on my laptop for use as an excellent 
 time-filler in between those annoy train rides to work. An added bonus is the support for wide-screen 
 resolution (1280x800) which is surprising to find on a budget title. Only gripe I have is the lack 
 of a story line.. (so far) . But that isn't what Fate is about. If you're after an involving plot, 
 this isn't the game for you but for sheer "hack & slash" action you need not look any further. 
 WildTangent has outdone themselves with this title. I'm curious to see what they'll do next. For 
 now though, this is a highly recommend in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikeWake
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  Way back in the earliest days of computer gaming there was this game called "NetHack". Based on 
 an even older game named "Rouge, it was an almost infinite random dungeon crawl with ASCII graphics 
 (your character was represented by an "@") , no sound except for the occasional beep when you filled 
 up the input buffer, and a very unforgiving system that didn't allow you to load save games when 
 you got killed. Sounds like fun? It was, and still is! The amount of thought put in to this seemingly 
 simplistic game and its descendants is amazing. Almost anything you could think of doing was possible, 
 or at least possible to attempt. There was tons of jokes and obscure references built into the 
 game, and it was also highly addictive.
  What has all this to do with FATE, then? Well, the game gets compared a lot to DIablo, which is 
 inevitable I guess, but I really think that FATE is one of the better attempts to transfer some 
 of the magic of NetHack into the modern gaming world. This doesn't mean that FATE is anywhere near 
 as complex as NetHack or Angband or any of the other Rouge-clones, but I immediately got the familiar 
 "Just another level"-feeling I used to get playing NetHack. The fact that you get an animal companion 
 to escort you on your adventure, is another feature straight from NetHack.
  The graphics are good, if somewhat "cute". Unfortunately, detailed graphics isn't always a good 
 thing in this type of game. When you're in a fight with several creatures on both sides, targeting 
 can be hard, since all the critters tend to blur together.
  The sound is the only thing that I don't like about this game. The sound effects are extremely 
 repetitive and some of your animal companions make their characteristic noises so loudly and so 
 frequently that you'll probably want to turn it off immediately. A summoned pack of timber wolves 
 is probably nice to have around, but six of them howling all the time made me wish for summoned 
 moths or cotton balls...
  The random and open ended system gives the game great replay value, even though some skills and 
 attributes are so much more useful than the others that you might find that your characters at 
 least partly look a bit alike. The "main" quest is somewhat disappointing. The first time I finished 
 it i wouldn't even have noticed if it wasn't for the pop up dialog that told me so. Without giving 
 away too much I can say that there is a definite benefit of finishing the game, though, especially 
 if you want to create a new character and try again.
  Apart from the flaws mentioned above I would say that this is a really fun and entertaining game, 
 that I'll probably play a couple of hours now an then for quite some time. It's not NetHack - not 
 even close - but it's getting closer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcboogs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Fate is a mindless action RPG in the Diablo mold. It doesn't make any pretense of having a serious 
 plot or any real character or story depth. It is only an "RPG" because you gain levels and experience. 
 However, it sets out to do some things and does them very well. Random dungeons, lots of monsters, 
 lots of action, and lots of items. 
  
  It's very fun to play, running around in a dungeon and hacking away at monsters. The inclusion 
 of a pet, which serves as extra inventory space, as well as a partner in crime is excellent. The 
 fishing mini-game fits in well - you can fish at certain places, and the fish you catch can be 
 fed to your pet to turn him into more powerful forms. Instead of a little dog, you might have a 
 wyvern fighting alongside you.
  
  There are various different ways to play through - melee, ranged, or spellcaster, but ultimately 
 the melee characters seem to be the most powerful in the long run. When you play the game, you 
 have one "primary" quest, and after it is completed you can retire your character whenever you 
 like. When your character is retired, one of your items can be passed down to your next of kin 
 as an heirloom that receives more magical enchantments, so you can pass down some of your hard 
 earned powers to your next generation... to play through the game again, probably at a higher difficulty.
 
  
  Overall, a great diversion. You can eat a lot of hours playing this game, hunting for loot and 
 killing baddies. And at $20 and being available for purchase online, I think it is a value that 
 can't be beat. 
  
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  We're all probably familiar with the feeling of a compelling game that we can't put down because 
 we want to finish this or that quest, or because we can't save until we reach a certain area. We 
 all know how frustrating this can be too, when we end up not having the time to complete that quest 
 or reach that safe spot.
  
  Fate comes as the solution for the problem. Very similar in look and feel to the style of Neverwinter 
 Nights, Fate is an action/adventure RPG that is basically your typical hack and slash dungeon crawler. 
 What sets it apart is the fact that you can save and quit anywhere and whenever you feel like.
 
  
  Combining the goodness of great RPG titles with the convenience of casual gaming, Fate is the perfect 
 game for gamers who don't have much time to play but still want to enjoy something more than just 
 puzzle or quick card games.
  
  Alex St. John, Wild Tangent's CEO, stated that "With the introduction of Fate, we are ushering 
 in a new category of gaming and, for the first time, bringing together the best characteristics 
 of what has historically been two separate and distinct gaming markets." He added: "Fate provides 
 PC gamers with all the enjoyment of traditional PC retail titles, yet without the time commitment 
 and experience demands previously associated with games of this magnitude."
  
  In a matter of minutes, you can download, install and start playing. Creating a character takes 
 only a few clicks. Pick the sex, face, hairstyle and a pet cat or dog to accompany you in your 
 travels and give both a name. You then pick one of four difficulty levels (Page, Adventurer, Hero 
 and Legend) , and you're ready to go.
  
  The Town of Grove will be your home base. The NPCs here will give you quests, heal you, sell you 
 armor, weapons and magic items. You also have a deposit box where you can keep things for later 
 use. To find a quest, look for someone with an exclamation mark over their heads.
  
  You can have up to three active quests at a time in the quest menu. Once you have found the first 
 three, head out to the large gates and enter the dungeon. The dungeon is packed with monsters, 
 treasures and some magical artifacts that can give you stat bonuses, refill your HP or magic, treasure 
 or enchant your weapons.
  
  You will soon find out that your pet isn't just good for helping you fight. Since your inventory 
 space is pretty limited, you will want to move items over to your pet's inventory, especially things 
 you don't want. You can then send the pet to town, where it will sell all the items and bring you 
 back the respective amount of gold. Nifty trick, isn't it?
  
  You can also change your pet's appearance and stats temporarily by feeding him fish. You can find 
 fish as you kill monsters or open chests, but the best way is to purchase a fishing pole and find 
 bodies of water with fireflies around, both in town or in the dungeon levels. That means you have 
 a fishing spot there. Different fishes have different special properties that will transform your 
 pet into other creatures and give him stat boosts for the duration of the process. Quite handy!
 
  
  Pets can also equip a necklace and a pair of rings, so if you find some extra ones with bonuses, 
 instead of selling them, give them to your faithful companion.
  
  Items you find sometimes need to be identified, so it's a good idea to buy a book of identification 
 in town. Identifying an item will reveal its properties and increase its selling price. Keep in 
 mind that items with sockets mean you can attach different gems to them in order to increase their 
 properties. Enchanting items will give them an extra socket.
  
  As you progress through the dungeon and gain levels, you will notice that you have two kinds of 
 advancement: attributes and skills. Attributes are your stats (vitality, strength, dexterity and 
 magic) . Skills imply your proficiency with spells and weapons. Every level, you earn a number of 
 attributes and skill points to distribute amongst them.
  
  When your level is high enough to complete the main quest, you will then be given the option to 
 retire your character. This means you won't be able to play it anymore, but you will have a descendant 
 of that character to play with. Descendants have the advantage of gaining a level automatically 
 at the start of the game, and to gain extra fame based on their lineage. You can also pass down 
 one of your items to your descendent, like an inheritance, and that item will have a 25% improvement 
 rate when handed down.
  
  Fate is an original concept for a hack and slash action/RPG, with gameplay that will appeal to 
 both hardcore and casual gamers. Give it a try and download the demo at the official site.
  
  One town and a single dungeon spanning through infinite levels, no class restrictions, a simple 
 interface and the ability to save anywhere anytime make it a worthwhile experience for anyone who's 
 into a good dungeon crawler.
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=fate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  FATE is a very fun game. It is alot like Diablo and it has alot of quests and cool rewards. There 
 are alot of cool weapons and items and I also like the fact that you choose the type of character 
 you want to be by the skills you spend on him/her. The things I don't like are that really annoying 
 voice that it always saying things, the fact that it is TOO much like Diablo, and also that there 
 is no real environments. All there is is some dungeon that has like... what...50 levels i think? 
 In my opinion, there should be different areas or "zones" if you want to call them that. Also, 
 there is no online play. If this game included some online play it would be alot better. There 
 are lots of items and quests and if you could go along with someone and trade items or quest together 
 it would be quite enjoyable. 
  
  Overall this is a very good game but it does not have any online play which is bad. Also the environments 
 just plain suck. In the end, FATE is fun and very enjoyable for casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  I must admit it: when I first saw the main menu screen, and I watched at THAT kid and THAT dog 
 that were supposed to be me and my pet (!?!?!?!) , I thought this would be some kind of Diablo-like 
 RPG oriented for 6-10 years old kids. The gameplay prove me that I was wrong. Fate may seem the 
 usual hack-and-slash RPG, in a childish and saccharine mood; but it is really a very complex, addictive, 
 and immersing game.
  Yes, the first minutes of the game could suggest to any veteran player in the whole world the wrong 
 conclusion that Fate is just more of the same: you start your quest in a town, where you may cure 
 yourself, buy and sell equipment of all kinds, gather clues, accept quests, and claim rewards. 
 And you got the usual set of dungeons, going deeper and deeper, harder and harder. Like Diablo, 
 like the first edition of Dungeons and Dragons, like many others.
  But it's in the minor details of things where lies innovation. For example, the pet feature, though 
 a very mock-able thing at first, turned out to be a very great idea. It doesn't only attack your 
 enemies when they are near you, it also saves you the time and the burden of one of the most annoying 
 problems every RPG player always faces: returning to town only because you captured a bunch of 
 artifacts from the dungeon and your inventory got full. Instead of wasting a town portal spell 
 in doing so, you may send your pet; and it will accomplish the job of selling you newly earned 
 stuff and bringing you the resulting money. Also, you may want to transform your dog or cat into 
 another creature (spiders, tundra wolves, even dragons) just by feeding it with fish. Those special 
 fishes could be bought in the town... or could be fished in the very dungeons, in case you have 
 bought in the town a fishing pole!!! This transformation could be temporary or permanent, depending 
 on your cash availability or your luck in fishing.
  But the innovations could be found even in the game system and rules. For example, the level promotion 
 of your character is DOUBLE. On one side, you got the classical system of promotion by experience. 
 On the other, you got another system (I never heard anything like that) based on FAME POINTS. Every 
 time you perform an heroic deed, such as accomplishing a quest or killing a boss creature, you 
 earn experience AND fame points. These only tell how famous your character is, but in advanced 
 dungeons that become really important, since some really powerful objects may only be used if you 
 got a matching level on Fame. If you are a little low of fame, you may visit a bard in town, who 
 will sing songs about your deeds and take you to the next fame level --for a fee. And the best 
 of it: both promotion systems give you points to improve your skills and attributes!
  I could go on, and go on, and go on. I got bunch of things to tell you about how great this game 
 is. But I prefer that you discover them for yourself by playing Fate --this game is REALLY worth 
 it. Its length (nobody knows how many levels it has in total, but you must hack at least 40+ dungeons 
 to consider the job done) and replayability (it's powered by an engine that creates dungeons, artifacts 
 and quests by random everytime you begin a new game, like Diablo) will keep you hooked to your 
 PC for days and months --like it's happening to me right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilscallmedad
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  RPG games have come to a standstill. No games are coming and the ones which are-are boring and 
 add nothing to the genre which has become quite stale. Fate is one of these games a diablo ripoff 
 with no substance. The only quality the game possess are that it has good graphics otherwise the 
 game is just a waste of money. The game has no dialogues (spoken) and u have got about 10 characters 
 you can interact with u have 3 lines to say at the most. You are placed right at the gate of the 
 dungeon when the game starts. The dungeon has 50 levels with bosses at different levels-nothing 
 new. The game has a lacklustre feel to it and won't appeal to any kind of gamer. Casual gamers may 
 be able to withstand it for 3or4 hours but no more
  To sum it up this is definitely a waste of money and time, except the graphics the game has no 
 substance to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmarle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  The graphics are ok but who cares. I play to waste some time. I can go in and play an hour or so 
 to waste time. Sometimes it's hard to pry myself away. "Just one more level... one more dungeon." 
 It doesn't set any new standards but it does borrow a lot of the good ones. 
  My only major problem is the camera. It could use better angles and be allowed to turn the screen 
 around to see the action from different directions. You can tilt it back and forth but only if 
 you hold the key down. Can be frustrating in some of the skinny halls of the dungeons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 30, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly enough the PC has not seen a decent typical hack and slash dungeon crawler game after 
 Diablo. But now Fate is here.
  
  Fate does pretty well, but it is a budget game and it shows. I am tempted to believe the only reason 
 it makes a decent impact is because it simply is quite alone in the arena. When everyone seems 
 to make FPS games or RTS games, almmost anything flies in the other genres.
  
  I still consider Diablo a much superior game, despite it came out some ten years ago. Fate introduces 
 3D graphics, but whether this actually improves the graphics or makes it look more primitive compared 
 to the pre-rendered graphics in Diablo..? Hmm, not sure. And Fate lacks online play, which is one 
 of the most important reasons Diablo succeeded. 
  
  Also, I found Diablo to have considerably more atmosphere. Going from Diablo to Fate, is graphically 
 like going from Lords of the Rings to the Teletubbies. Not that there is anything wrong with lots 
 of colourful environments and effects, it is kind of refreshing.
  
  All in all, a fun little game that will keep your interest up for quite some time before it gets 
 too repetetive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joanis
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 21, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Played the demo - liked it so much i bought the game on-line. If u are a fan of the hack n slash 
 type game this was a great surprise. Great graphics and game play. Tons of items and a pet that 
 u feed so it can morph into different creatures permanently or for a set duration. Its strictly 
 a dungeon crawl but fun and addictive. If u are looking for a Diablo clone that gets it right this 
 is your ticket. I always wonder why more companies dont make games like this- seems simple -but 
 im always disappointed by other games that have tried to copy this style of play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lstr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I remember by friend Brian getting a free copy of Fate at E3. We all laughed when we saw Wild Tangent's 
 name on the box and dismissed it as an elaborate spyware scam. Well I saw some decent stuff written 
 about it on GameSpot so I downloaded it and tried the demo out. It's actually A LOT of fun and 
 it only costs $20.
  
  The gameplay is basically Diablo 2 (os so I've been told, I've never D2'd) . You make your way through 
 randomly generated dungeon levels killing beasties for phat lootz. You return to town to sell stuff, 
 upgrade gear and pick up quests then back to the dungeon with ye. Fate ups the ante on the d-crawl 
 genre with some nice refinements like the pet feature and the classless play. Not too shabby for 
 $20.
  
  Your pet (you can pick a cat or a dog) not only fights at your side, but it also serves as a pack 
 mule. You can also send it back to town to sell your loot while you continue to kick dungeon ass. 
 Even cooler, you can feed the pet fish (yes, there's fishing) to temporarily turn it into more 
 powerful creatures. So far, I've been able to turn my dog Zero into a giant fire beetle, a spider, 
 a wyvern and a unicorn. That's worth $20 alone!
  
  Like Dungeon Siege, there are no classes in Fate. As you level up you get stat points and skill 
 points you can assign to build up your character. This allows for some nice variety and customization 
 of your gameplay. Couple this with the randomly generated levels and you've got some great replay 
 value... all for, you guessed it, $20.
  
  So for only $20 it's gotta be pretty budget right? Wrong. The graphics, sound and overall production 
 values are quite high even when compared to some games at twice the price. Overall the game sports 
 a look similar to a cross between Fable and Priston Tale. The screens and movies on the game's 
 site don't really do the game justice. The music is also well done which is surprising to me for 
 an indie title. Insert clever (or not) $20 mention here.
  
  Which only leaves one real issue with Fate... Wild Tangent's reputation for installing spyware 
 on your machine. WT's Web Driver sends information regarding your system's specs and the amount 
 of time you spend playing their games back to Wild Tangent. It doesn't install malware, viruses 
 or pop ups on to your system. If you can live with WT having info regarding your system and how 
 much time you spend playing their games, awesome - go get you some Fate. Otherwise, there's no 
 way to play Fate without having your info sent to WT. There are ways to disable the reporting listed 
 on the game's forums but they aren't easy.
  
  When all is said and done, Fate's fun and easy to play. The dev team is small and they're really 
 active on the game's forums. The game is also modable and a number of people have started tweaking 
 it out. The only real gripe with the game itself is the lack of multiplayer. It's Fate, it's $20, 
 it's a lot of fun and highly recommended. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
