-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FBI Hostage Rescue
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fbihostagerescue/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 18, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.9
Critic Score: 3.4, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 3.0, 281 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Idol FX
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Feb 5, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FBI Hostage Rescue feels like a really bad amateur mod that was released before it was finished. 
 

  FBI Hostage Rescue is an unplayable mess of a game; it feels like a really bad amateur mod that 
 was released before it was finished. One of its many problems is that it can't decide what it wants 
 to be. Is it supposed to be a run-and-gun action game? Is it supposed to be a streamlined tactical 
 shooter? That lack of clear vision makes the game a muddle from the start, and from that first 
 misstep, things just go from bad to worse, adding up to more gameplay and technical problems than 
 you could possibly count. In fact, these problems are so bad that we were literally unable to get 
 past the very first mission of the game, despite numerous attempts.  

          You can choose from a few basic weapons, but why bother?     

  The game gives you a 
 series of 10 single-player missions with no alternative single-player modes, difficulty settings, 
 or multiplayer options. Your goal is to enter areas where hostages are being held, blast the bad 
 guys, and lead the hostages to safety. Before your mission, you read a briefing and view a schematic 
 of the area you'll enter. That perfunctory nod to realism is quickly forgotten when you find out 
 that, quite implausibly, you'll have to do all the fighting and rescuing on your own.  

  Worse still, you'll have to complete FBI Hostage Rescue's missions within strict time limits. Sneaking 
 into a building, slowly picking locks, locating terrorists, and escorting hostages within five 
 minutes, for example, is asking way too much. Making matters worse, even if you eliminate all the 
 terrorists, you still have to lead the hostages back to a rescue point within the time limit.  
 

  You do gain an extra two minutes each time you rescue a hostage, but that doesn't much matter. 
 The hostage artificial intelligence and pathfinding are so atrocious that you'll spend almost all 
 your time trying to shepherd the hostages around. You'll be tearing out your hair as hostages repeatedly 
 get stuck on objects, get stuck on thin air (seriously) , walk the wrong way, stroll right through 
 closed doors and seemingly vanish, and perform other idiotic or physically impossible acts.  

 
  In the first mission, one hostage decided to run up a fire escape instead of following us to safety. 
 We eventually found him trapped on the roof, where he couldn't navigate his way down. Playing the 
 mission again, a hostage got stuck under a platform, and it took a few minutes of fiddling -- with 
 the mission timer ticking all the while -- to get him out. Then a second hostage got irretrievably 
 stuck somewhere else. Playing again, we tried rescuing just one hostage at a time instead of two 
 or three at once, but the first hostage kept walking in the wrong direction or disappearing through 
 closed doors, forcing us to chase all over after him. Despite our best efforts, we could never 
 get him to exit the building to safety. These sorts of problems occurred over and over, making 
 the mission impossible to finish.  

  To add insult to injury, further gameplay problems crop up everywhere you look. There's no way 
 to tone down the high mouse sensitivity. Unlocked doors sometimes open on their own accord and 
 sometimes don't. They'll frequently open partway, pushing you backward from the doorway every time 
 you get near; then they close and repeat the process ad nauseam. This makes the simple task of 
 walking through a doorway a slow, arduous task. If it weren't so pathetic, it would be funny. Even 
 when there's no object blocking you, it's easy to get permanently stuck in place on scenery, requiring 
 you to restart your mission. Sometimes the game will crash to the desktop for good measure.  

 
  Assuming everything is more or less working properly for a moment, you get to fight using a small 
 variety of generic weapons that you select before each mission. Where most semirealistic shooters 
 would add strategic depth by making you carefully choose just one main weapon before each mission, 
 here you can easily lug around a shotgun, submachine gun, and sniper rifle all at once. You also 
 get to use smoke and flashbang grenades, implying that there's some sort of tactical subtlety to 
 be had here.  

  From our ill-fated experiences, that's not the case. The tiny time limit means running and gunning 
 seems to be the only real option. Charging right up to enemies and blasting them in the face is 
 apparently the order of the day. You don't have to worry about hostage-takers outsmarting you since 
 they mainly just stand around and talk to themselves, giving away their positions.  

          This hostage decided to climb up to the roof and then refused to come down.     

  FBI 
 Hostage Rescue's presentation doesn't fare much better than the gameplay. Characters repeat the 
 same lines over and over, though the weapons at least sound acceptable, albeit generic. The visuals 
 are plain, ugly, or just plain ugly -- take your pick. Aesthetics aside, you'll also find that major 
 clipping problems abound, and your field of view is claustrophobically narrow with no way to adjust 
 it.  

  There's no reason at all to buy this game when you can play similar but vastly better games like 
 Counter-Strike, SWAT 3, or Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield. FBI Hostage Rescue feels amateurish, sloppy, 
 and incomplete. Avoid it unless you've really been hankering for a blue coaster that says "FBI" 
 on it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: metalmaster12
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  FBI Hostage Rescue is a terrible "game." The weapons are insanely boring to shoot, they look awful, 
 and the AI on both sides is bad but the hostage AI is disastrous. The guys who released this thing 
 evidently released it before it was finished. 
  
  Oh yeah about the AI. WORST AI EVER!!! You blast the bad guys. The hostage says "Get me out of 
 here" and he just stands there. When the AI does actually follow you, it doesn't last for long. 
 They get caught on objects, walk through walls and closed doors, and walk the wrong way. Once, 
 a hostage was lead into the hostage rescue point, which is like a square, and he wouldn't walk 
 into the square to be rescued. I tried to shove him in, but he didn't budge.
  
  Asking to rescue these insanely idiotic hostages in 5 minutes is an impossible feat. When you pick 
 a lock it takes a really long time, and the hostages are so stupid that things don't get much better.
 
  
  Overall, this "game" should be in the trash can, not in the disc tray of your computer. Spend your 
 money on better FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  How could gamespot possibly give a score that high to a game this bad? This game is so bad barely 
 anyone has even heard of it, while this game is one of the worst games ever, most of the gamespot 
 users are paying there sarcasm to big rigs when FBI : hostage rescue clearly deserves a little. 
 I guess it's a game that's just much harder to be sarcastic about, everyone knows this game is 
 bad and they won't bother trying to tell you how bad it is, unlike me.
  100 words are . . .
  go 
  go
  go
  go
  go
  go
  go
  lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2005 12:34 am PT
Review:  Let me just say this is the most smartest AI i have ever seen. You play as an FBI agent names Gorden 
 Freeman, and you have to rescue hostages from the Al-quida. You have 5 min to rescue them before 
 the bomb blows up. Every time you rescue a hostage the terrorists are so proud of you that they 
 give you more time. This game is intense and it made me sweat like hell. The hostages are so smart, 
 that they even think for themselves! Now thats realistic. For example some of them go up the roof 
 and wait for the chopper to pick them up. And sometimes they stay in one place, because they want 
 to sacrifice themselves for you. The Al-quida are very smart, they lurk in every corner. They are 
 very silent and fast so be carfeull. (they were trained by Osama Ben Ladin himself!) You are so 
 strong that you can carry up to 100 weapons at a time! Theres so much levels in this game, but 
 I didnt finish the first level because it was too intense for me.
  
  The graphics are so beautiful. It was so realistic that it made me feel like I was an FBI agent 
 who has to rescue the most smartest hostages ever.
  
  The value? Deffinetly worth it. It will make the perfect gift for christmas. Or wedding anniversary.
 
  
  Overall This game is fantastic, and very realistic. Im gonna go now and buy 50 copies of this game 
 instead of GTA: San Andreas. (they dont have more copies of FBI: Hostage Rescue, because its sold 
 out due to its popularity) . !!! GET IT NOW !!! support the company so that they will make another 
 FBI game. Like FBI: Terrorist Rescue.
  You still here? Go buy it alredy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
