-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Manager 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifamanager08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wealth of official licenses.
 Deeper than ever before.
 Use of widgets and custom soundtracks.
 Adjustable difficulty levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too many menus.
 Fewer teams than its contemporaries.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 459 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Bright Future GmbH
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Nov 02, 2007 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The third entry in EA's football management series is deeper than ever, although it can be difficult 
 to use. 

  While the football management genre has hit a peak of depth and realism, there's no doubt that 
 it remains a little daunting for beginners. FIFA Manager 08 aims to fill the gap between the hardcore 
 management simulations and such games as FIFA Soccer 08 with an approachable football management 
 game that has many different features to distinguish it. Most notably, the 3D match engine is more 
 visually engaging than similar features in other management games, plus the official license affords 
 a mountain of team logos and player photos to break up the stats. This year, the game is a deeper 
 experience than ever with revamps of the training, player interaction, and scouting elements. The 
 game struggles to present all the information coherently if you play at the hardest difficulty, 
 but otherwise, it's a decent, glossy alternative to other games in the genre.  

           The match engine isn't up to the visual standard of FIFA 08, but player likenesses are 
 impressive.      

  FIFA Manager 08 makes an excellent first impression. British gamers, in particular, will feel a 
 warm glow when the theme song from the Grandstand TV show kicks off the welcome screen, and high 
 production values are evident throughout the game. As with any management title, you start by choosing 
 the domestic or international club for which you want to work. If you choose to raise a team from 
 the ranks of the lower divisions, you'll have fewer resources and lower expectations, but if you 
 pick a world-class club, you'll have some very serious board expectations. However, FIFA Manager 
 08 helps you juggle the demands of whatever club you choose by allowing you to palm off certain 
 aspects of the running to your assistants. If your interest is in finding and cultivating talent 
 rather than wading through spreadsheets of numbers, then your finance team is there to take care 
 of it. Alongside this, FIFA Manager 08 places an emphasis on creating your manager rather than 
 being the manager. You're asked how you want to look, how big you want your family to be, and what 
 sort of hobbies you want to pursue. Learning a foreign language will help you secure a job in another 
 country, while playing golf may enamour you to the board members of another team.  

  Thankfully though, the developers have concentrated their efforts this year on improving the core 
 game. There's now a greater emphasis on player scouting, training, and motivation to the point 
 that the game feels completely refocussed on the players themselves. Aside from short-term considerations, 
 such as swapping substitutes or allowing talent to flow from your youth team, you also need to 
 cultivate star players by giving them pep talks -- and not just during matches.  

  While FIFA Manager 08 does a great job of easing you in, the interface can get messy very quickly 
 as you activate the more advanced options. While it can go spectacularly in-depth compared to last 
 year's relatively shallow offering, the resulting interface clutter needs to be addressed. There 
 are some useful additions for all players, though, such as the widget system that provides you 
 with access to everything from a notepad to an MP3 player in-game.  

  Training schedules can now be specified for each individual player and the overall team; thus, 
 making small changes can have a dramatic result on performance. The transfer system now works in 
 a much more realistic manner, with more in-depth negotiation between clubs and players, while the 
 scouting element is a minigame in itself. Foreign player statistics are now hidden by default, 
 and it's only when you send your scout to the region that you can differentiate from one player 
 to the next.  

           FIFA Manager 08 does everything it can to visually augment the graphs and statistics. 

  FIFA Manager 08's 3D match engine is something that sets it apart from other games in the genre. 
 Traditionally, matches have often been re-created using a mixture of text-based commentary and 
 a 2D engine to represent the players. This leaves more to the player's imagination while the computer 
 is spared more resources to compute likely scenarios. While FIFA Manager 08's match engine presents 
 a watchable game of football, it doesn't make the job of management any easier. The game does allow 
 you to play as one player on the pitch if you want to, but the lack of overall control means it's 
 more frustrating than helpful.  

  If you're a football fan, then you'll really get something out of the official licences. They permeate 
 the game, with a customised menu screen depending on the team you play, as well as mountains of 
 up-to-date player photos and stats for the majority of major teams. The licensing even stretches 
 to official newspaper reports from such publications as  The Sun , something that really taps into 
 the wider aspects of football. While the number of teams can't touch that of Football Manager, 
 the game still covers the major world clubs. It also now includes more English and Spanish leagues 
 than before.  

  It's clear that Bright Future has worked hard on updating and expanding its football management 
 sim. While it's not quite in the Premier League yet, there's plenty here for fans to enjoy. It's 
 a tremendously deep game that also manages to be welcoming to the novice while the official licenses 
 and overall polish will delight both types of player. Those playing at the advanced level are unlikely 
 to feel hamstrung by limited options this time around, but the way that all the information is 
 presented could definitely do with some work for next year. Most importantly, the game carves out 
 its own niche in the football management market, and although this time it falls short of greatness, 
 it shows plenty of promise for the future.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pavel_chekov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  An incredible game to play for a life-time. I had a social life before this game, but now it's 
 me, my computer and this amazing game!
  
  OK, I don't play THAT much, but this IS a very good game, what more can I say? Good graphics, good 
 performance, incredible game play... this game is a truly "sandbox" that never makes me feel tired. 
 I can't wait for the FIFA Manager 09!
  
  Now, the bad ones: the "non-famous" characters. Oh my, they don't look like the real players AT 
 ALL! They're horrible! That's very difficult to put the pictures of all the players, and I know, 
 this game don't sell in other countries enough copies to make worth all the efforts to do the brazilian 
 teams, or the 2nd division of the venezuela's league, but neither the players or the symbols of 
 the teams are correct! c'mon, I know that EA can do more than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v1nc3_15_c4rt3r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I have a great expectation with this game.. yet this is the best fifa manager game i've ever tried 
 for sure but I prefer football manager 2008... this game is kinda confusin for newbie, and sometimes 
 also experienced players. the gameplay is too complicated.. and also the transfer system is kinda 
 easy.. Trading ur player is just as easy as trading a card.. this is sucks.. the opponent seems very 
 easy too, not chalengging at all.. can u belive shevchenko scored 7 goals against arsenal.. that happened 
 to me..
  The graphics are better than FM08, but the gameplay is the worst thing.. if fifa manager graphics 
 and FM gameplay get combined, I would love that game.. and yet, another thing which is good is the 
 license is better.. It supports more teams than the previous game, more awards I think than FM08, and 
 best 3D match so far for soccer management game
  
  Rating: Graphics 9.0/10.0 
  Gameplay 6.0/10.0
  
  just buy FM08 for much more better gameplay.. Best thing to do with this 
 game is use the editor and create the best soccer team in the universe... that will be better for 
 sure.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspirini
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  If you really love managers then EA Fifa Manager sequel
  is for you. Very good statistics , very cool graphics and
  mostly addictive. Loads of things to 
 do as president or coach . You can buy , sell players , put them at teams , organise the tactics 
 at a game , train them accordingly
  to team needs and make them super stars. As coach u can
  hire scouts to find new players , hire extra people to help you with original or secondary team. 
 Also you can organise the whole standium , sign contracts with companies to advertise their products 
 , create youth clubs and even have your own family and house. For sure it is a worth playing game 
 which will make
  you stuck for days and even buy your team in the end
  and become president :)
  Good think is that EA keeps the good quality every year
  and makes 
 it even better as years pass. Sell tickets , 
  speak to fans , organise your team , motive them and lead
  them to the highest position of every 
 league :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertommy8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Product description 
  
  EA worked a lot on this FIFA Manager, this being one of the best game in the series, because it 
 makes you live a manager's life only by playing a few matches and testing all the facilities that 
 the game offers you. 
  FIFA Manager 2008 gives you full control over the management of a football club. You are responsible 
 for the line-up, the tactics and the training of your team  as well as for signing the right players, 
 improving the club facilities and the stadium. IN FIFA Manager 2008 you can choose to: control 
 your team from match to match, find your own club , and the "choose a team" option. 
  
  Line-up and Tactics
  
  Both easy to use, it gives you a lot of flexibility in choosing your 
 own system, because you can drag the position of a player wherever. Let's take a example, if you 
 want to move a defender near the goalkeeper ( something than nobody will do) you are free to do 
 it. One thing that I really want to mention at this part is the fact that you can choose how the 
 players are moving on the pitch in the defensive and offensive situation.
  
  3D Match
  
  The graphics are good ( Fifa's or EURO's graphics aren't better) because they allow you to see 
 the match very detailed. So you can easily notice when a player does not fit on a certain position 
 or doesn't have a good game, or even when your players are tired. 
  
  Text Mode
  
  The commentary mixed with the 3D view are very exciting and dynamic, especially when you're playing 
 the ECC's final and other important games. 
  
  Staff 
  
  The Staff feature includes many positions like coach, scout, etc . The manager has to keep the staff 
 happy by giving the team interesting jobs and challenges, as well, as to pay them competitive salaries. 
 A great atmosphere in the club is the key for the user to hire great talent and to give the players 
 the best possible support.
  
  Dressing Room Chemistry
  
  You can make lots of promises to the team and you can also talk to each player in particular, a 
 thing that is crucial in gaining the trust of your players.
  
  Audio and Music
  
  When you are setting your line-up or thinking of a new tactics, or transferring some players you 
 can listen to some music and if you don't like the music from the game there is no problem you 
 can go in the game directory and erase the songs that you do not like and replace them with others 
 that you like ( that is what I did) . 
  In conclusion this is something that you've got to have if you like this kind of games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  GAME:
  
  Very addictive to play. The menus are a bit confusing at first but once you have the hang of play, 
 you start to enjoy it. Loads of features and options to choose from in training, transfers, tactics, 
 lineups, etc etc. Probably the most thorough game in it's department. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Altough graphics doesn't really matter in a football management game, this game even has it's own 
 gaming engine. The models don't look as good as FIFA 08, but looks respectable and it's much more 
 fun to actually watch a 3D match than watching a 2D football field as in some other management 
 games. 
  
  DETAIL:
  
  Database is packed with the latest stats of all the players of the major football leagues, including 
 real photos of the actual players. It just makes the game more realistic and fun to play having 
 those stats pages around. 
  
  OTHER:
  
  What I also like about this game is the fact that you, as manager, has a personal life as well. 
 You can go play golf, sail a yacht, marry someone, have children, etc etc. You have your own biography 
 with your own stats of which clubs you have managed, what years, awards, etc etc. Great feature.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  
  FIFA Manager 08 is a great game for any football fan. I would classify it as the best in the business 
 right now, as it brings realistic football management as well as a bit of arcade-style management 
 together. Once you've mastered the menus, you won't stop playing.. trust me. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Fifa Manager 08 certainly is better than 07 in many various points like the new scouting sistem 
 , now you can really can call it scouting . The bigest improvement has to be the new stadium editor 
 and the simulated sistem.
  The worst point as always is the fixture pile-up which doesn't seem that hard to fix and often 
 red card + injury shortly after .Also i have seen many complains about the tactics which can be 
 the best or worst no matter what you do. The 3D match hasn't been improved at all in my opinion 
 and still looks like a cheap knock off fifa 2004-2005 but i was pleased about the other types of 
 matches except for the instant results (because of the red card + injury bug ,glitch or whatever) 
 .The new menu is also a big improvement but another problem is being able to buy any club with 
 0 $ (easy method)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacks252
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Be the ultimate manager with everything you need From Annoying Paparazzi to Cup Final match days, 
 but this game isn't all about managing 16 grown men to kick a football round in front of thousands 
 of people. it tests you how to keep everything balanced from a nagging wife to impressing your 
 boss with your golf skills, Managing money making sure your club has a future finance and helping 
 the youth rise. the game is ideal for any football loving person who want to be the next Jose Murinho 
 on there desktop.
  
  Its better than the Previous ones with no rip off add on what you have to buy a few months later 
 o_0... thats right this one is the real deal, Im not gonna reveal to much into the game but Im 
 telling you if you thought football manager was good you should rely give this game a try Fully 
 licensed by FIFA. with official players, kits, badges and pictures.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kezmovic007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  
  Fifa Manager 08 is one of the best soccer simulator of today, the game has a lot of detail and 
 the player can simulate day to day or simulate how many days you want. Freedom is the correct word 
 for this game, because you can choose what will train, the behavior when your team is attacking 
 or defending and you can control your club merchandising. You can hire your staff group and organize 
 what each will do. Personal life is another attraction of this game, you can make a family, buy 
 cars, a tropical island and why not a club. You can choose the music of the game, u can listen 
 the music of the game or u can put your favorite mp3. 
  The game don't have much news compared with FM 07 .Inside the grass field, you can watch the game 
 in 3D with graphic of Fifa 08 for PC, u can watch through message or simply make the instant result. 
 
  The negative point is the want of dynamic when you play and the poor AI. Fifa Manager 08 is an 
 excellent game, but is something that becomes repetitive along time and don't have the version 
 in Portuguese, what makes the game loose players in Brazil or Portugal.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 8.5
  Game play: 6.5
  Challenge: 9.0
  
  FINAL NOTE: 7.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: witzulu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  When I first installed this game I thought is is going to be just another sports simulator. So 
 I decided since it was Friday I'd give it a quick run through. Before I realised it it was Sunday, 
 I played the Whole weekend.
  
  This game is addictive, complex enough to ensure that you will be playing it for along time (not 
 like some games you clock withing 24h ... Halo 3 ... and then leave it on the stand) . I can see 
 myself playing this for the next 5 years.... or at least till the next version becomes available.
 
  
  Initially it can be a bit confusing to get the hang of the game. The manual is no help at all there 
 is a help in game but REAL MEN DON'T USE HELP :) .
  
  After getting used to all the screens and thier uses I simply cannot see any better way they could 
 do it. Then you are allowed to play a single player on match day giving you the unique feeling 
 of realism. Most football games allow you to control any player that has control of the game but 
 not this one. It is great to make sure your players is in the right position while the ball is 
 nowhere near him it gives you a sense of realism I have yet to see in any other sport game. 
  
  Well I'm off to try and avoid relegation now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Being a keen football fan (and a season ticket holder for many years at Ipswich Town FC) i have 
 been playing football sims for many years. This is without doubt the best i have ever played. 
 
  
  It is very very detailed. It has an enourmous database of players, in depth details about pretty 
 much every proffesional football club, and an accurate match engine. 
  
  The game allows you to vary how much or how little input you have, you can control eveything about 
 your club if you wish. Players react to your decisions, the finances are realistic, training is 
 more in depth, in fact everything about the day to day running of your club requires your input. 
 
  
  You get a real sense that you are in control and you have to make sure you dont overlook or forget 
 certain aspects or you will be punished. This game is not just about making your squad better, 
 it is about improving your club off the pitch too.
  
  There is so much content it can feel overwhelming at first and some of the menus can be confusing. 
 Also there are a few issues that can be a pain. One example is that i got a message from a player 
 asking for an extension to his contract, so i said i would offer him one. I went to the players 
 profile and tried to offer him a contract and i got a message saying "the player refuses to discuss 
 a contract extension at this time". A couple of days later i got a stroppy message asking why i 
 had not offered him a contract yet?!?!
  
  Other than a few issues such as this there is more than enough to keep any footy enthusiast entertained 
 season after season. A truly impressive management game compared to some of its rivals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubeyou
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  I had played this game for 2 days in my friend house. Overall it is good especially the game website 
 in the game, and can create own club. It's also included whole wide clubs and can change the music 
 to our favorites music. The goals rate also very balance and have some good trick inside the game. 
 But it is a waste of time, I spent most of the times just waiting for the game loading, loading 
 and loading. In two hours i only manages to pass 1 month if I skip it faster and faster. I don't 
 think this is my computer problem because i still can play Call Of Duty 4. I can feel the change 
 from 07 fifa manager to 08 fifa manager, it is good. If fifa manager 09 unveil, I hope they will 
 increase the game graphic, decrease loading speed, and others. Come on fifa, please show me your 
 true power! I want the best of the product! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schwarte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  EA's Fifa Manager series have been criticized as shallow, flashy and inaccessible and so much more, 
 but, at least for this entry, this has changed.
  
  You start out the game by making some choices about your own person, such as age, nationality, 
 looks, family and things such as your favorite team or player. Some of those choices will be more 
 and some less important, but all together they add to the feeling of personal involvement the game 
 tries to give you. From here on you have a few important choices to make, as you can choose whether 
 you want to just straight out choose a club to manage (and a national team if you like) or want 
 to start a realistic career.
  The latter can be rather displeasing and difficult, depending on where you choose to start. (Start 
 up your own club in the lowest leauge? Or do you want to start out with offers from first-league 
 clubs?) While I heard a lot of people complaining that this can be way too difficult, I would then 
 want you to realize that being the manager of a regional club that's usually found in the lower 
 positions of its league is not a dream job in reality, so don't expect it to be a walk in the park 
 here.
  The core game itself is not too much unlike other management sims. You can obviously play around 
 with your formation, your reserve team, youth teams and similar team-related stuff. This is all 
 pretty easy and opposing to the GS review I do have to say that the menus are in general not confusing 
 at all. The only exception I could think of are the trikot numbers which you'd probably expect 
 to change somewhere in the region of your formation-options, but which are actually found in the 
 merchandising area.
  Now on that point you might be interested to know that you have the option to take responsibility 
 for the clubs finances as well. Additionally you can create buildings and stuff surrounding your 
 stadium, expand your stadion and build youth camps all around the world.
  And obviously you can transfer players twice a year (Winter/Summer break) , to build the team of 
 your dreams. This can be rather surreal at some points, because of the "Player exchange" option, 
 which lets you give away players based on the value for other players. (Sometimes under the addition 
 of money) . This can greatly reduce the actual amount of money spent, which enables you to sometimes 
 have incredibly surreal transfer periods.
  As an example, playing as Werder Bremen you'll have Diego in your starting team. Now he may increase 
 his value to about 60 mio.  in the first season if he does really well and that's the value set 
 in his contract he can be bought for. Now he obviously did not want to change his contract, which 
 is why I just traded him in for Lionel Messi, effectivley paying an additional 5 mio. bucks. 
 
  This is just highly unlikely.
  
  But thats actually not what the game aspires to be in my opinion. EA Sports always made "fanboy-games", 
 which let you play with out-of-order teams if you played your cards right and let you just have 
 fun.
  And that's what the game delivers: Fun. Whether you buy excellent players, develop talents (which 
 will have their talent displayed in stars, to show how quickly they develop) or just hope your 
 current team gets strong enough on its own (bad option ;) ) , the game delivers what you want. 
 
  Also there's the possibility of offline-multiplayer, which lets up to 4 peeps take control of 
 a club and plays out like the usual career mostly. (With 4 players it often looses some of its 
 charm as you have to wait extremely long till your turn comes around)
  
  Options such as player careers and 3D-Mode are included and especially the 3D mode looks pretty 
 good, but honestly none of this is needed and I know only very few people that use the 3D mode 
 on a regular basis, not to mention the player career mode. The only not really necessary feature 
 you WILL enjoy is the option to choose your own music folder from which the game will then play 
 your mp3s.
  
  To wrap it up, I'd suggest you to get a hold of this game, which is highly addictive and delivers 
 a great long term experience. The game is so extensive that I probably missed half of the great 
 stuff it delivers in this review, but still it should hopefully have given you enough of an impression 
 to understand the great game EA created here.
  So if you are not interested in training the Bumbaluga Sharks or some creepy team nobody has ever 
 heard of and are interested in actually seeing the faces of the players at times, get FIFA manager. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MigGui
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  FIFA Manager 08 is, in my opinion, way better than its competition. The games are less random, 
 the gameplay is more engaging, the graphics are noticeably better... it has a vast database of 
 teams, badges, players and uniforms, up-to-date lineups, realistic atmosphere. It would be the 
 perfect football manager if it hadn't a few flaws:
  
  First of all, the biggest differential between FIFAM an FM is the 3D viewer: well, it stinks. It 
 really sucks. It's almost impossible to control the player you're supposed to control with the 
 ball for more than 2 seconds. If you choose to control a striker, well, you won't be shooting unless 
 you wait the ball a few feet from the goal. Not to mention the AI itself. It's the dumbest AI a 
 football game ever showed. The player's passing ability is so damn stupid that most attacks end 
 up with a at least 5-meter missed pass. When your team finally manage to shoot, it will probably 
 go nearer to the corner flag than the goal. Defending is no good also: players just give up tackling, 
 make an absurd fault, shoot the ball to the stands with no one actually pressing them (or even 
 receive the ball after a throw in and actually head the ball back outfield) .
  
  Luckily you may skip this mess and watch the games with the traditional Text Mode, which works 
 way better.
  
  Another frustrating flaw, mostly to South Americans like me, is the poor SA championships: Argentinian 
 Football has at most 5 complete teams, with real badges, uniforms and players. Brazilian is a little 
 better: EA managed to include Serie B, with real teams and all (Fluminense and Internacional didn't 
 sell their licenses and those teams are actually called 'Flu. Rio' and "Inter. Porto Alegre") . 
 But, brilliantly, they seemed to forget anything like promotion and relegation. So a Serie B team 
 will always be a Serie B team.
  
  To that, there is a painful solution: you can edit the whole database of the game, which I did, 
 adding this promotion/relegation rule, updating the squads to new year's rosters and trying to 
 make something at least near Fluminense's uniforms.
  
  Conclusion: it's a solid game, with forgivable flaws. I bought and recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ansley
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  this is the best football manager game i have been played
  the most interesting is the financial i just try it but this is great you could begin with a small 
 club you can be a player and manager too
  create you as player play in your favorite position then begin the match like be a pro in FIFA
 
  build your youth camp all over the world
  build your stadium
  and do everything you want
  this is really a good game
  The authenticity of the game, with 
 player pics and real stadium names, and the like, really help to create an immersive feeling when 
 you play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyes9arsenal
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  After playing Fifa Manager 07 and Football Manager 07 extensively last year, and finding that Fifa 
 Manager was severely limited in many respects in comparison to FM last year, i have come to be 
 pleasantly surprised by this year's offering. First up, tactical changes in the line up actually 
 correlate to what happens on the pitch, which is the main improvement I enjoyed. Another leap forward 
 was the increase in the level of feedback on your progress as a manager, with feedback on how well 
 your transfers went in comparison to others, and whether you are giving enough match time to players. 
 The youth system was also improved this time around, so rather than hopelessly crap youth players 
 coming through the youth system, you can unearth stars that can actually become part of you first 
 team plans. Another touch I loved was that players who were on form consistently, and played regularly 
 in the team, actually improved their stats, while ones you didnt play well, and were regularly 
 out of the team, didnt improve but worsened. As such, the game becomes much more competitive for 
 lower end teams, as they can purchase out of favour and youth players, and nurture them into superstars 
 (as what happens in real life) . This makes the game very entertaining, and fulfilling. For example, 
 after transferring in Thomas Sorenson on a free transfer to my team Fulham, and placing him as 
 a guaranteed first team player, he became over a few seasons one of the best keepers in the league, 
 worth 25mill, (from a rather lowly 2mill originally) . The authenticity of the game, with player 
 pics and real stadium names, and the like, really help to create an immersive feeling when you 
 play the game.
  
  However i have a few qualms with the game that were annoyances. The player exchange system, while 
 rarely used in real life, can be exploited repeatedly to land big names at a fraction of the cost, 
 and it seems no player is unexchangable as long as you have a half decent swap player and a few 
 mill. For example, i managed to exchange Steven Davis and 5 mill for Kaka!! Also, the loading times 
 are excessively long, especially between seasons and when you exit the game. Another major problem 
 was the layout of the interface, where some items take much searching to find, such as changing 
 player numbers, and is rather messy at places (such as the home screen) . Also, despite the improvement 
 in tactical depth, it is no FM, and struggles to emulate it, especially in the player movement 
 section, which is sloppy and ineffective. Nevertheless, Bright Future has managed to create an 
 immersive and extensive game, that deserves to be considered as a worthy and flashy alternative 
 to the less flashy, more gritty, FM experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesare313
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game is very addictive. I like all the new features and it is more challenging and fun than 
 the last few versions of the game. The only feature I think should be expanded on and improved 
 is the Stadium editor which seems to me to be quite difficult to use. 
  
  I like the scouting and the screens of interesting facts before the matches as well. The scouting 
 is more realistic and even with levels and stars on you won't see all the players stars and level. 
 To do that you must improve your scouting.
  
  The training is much harder this year than before and takes some time to get used to but can be 
 rewarding. It is more involved than before.
  
  The widgets in the game are cool and help a lot. There are 20 to so to choose from. They only becoming 
 available when you increase screen resolution though.
  
  The navigation is much better and has a modern look. The options has been expanded and easy to 
 use. The colour takes getting used to but is a step in the right direction. The screens on a whole 
 are much better.
  
  The transfer market is much better and more realistic with more realistic transfers fees unlike 
 the last few. For good to great players I was paying fair amounts for them. There are new things 
 like promises and final demand in the negotiation screen.
  
  One thing I like is you can actually sell your players this year. You have to think carefully about 
 promises you make to players as this really affects their trust in you. You must also have regular 
 player talks to keep up their morale. The tactics work much better in this game and you can see 
 the difference in the 3d match. 
  
  There are however a bug with individual orders when you play as 2 or more clubs in that your second 
 team even if you put it an all out attacking for some reason in individual orders they are on full 
 defend. There is a new feature with the tactics,. Your midfielders can man mark the opposition 
 and you can lock the orders you gave the players so it does not change if you change the tactics. 
 
  
  The 3d match engine looks much better now and even the generic stadiums look good. On a plus as 
 well there seems to be no throw in bug but there are a couple of goalkeeper bugs. It is advisable 
 you download gameplay patches for the game to improve the 3d match as the original one plays quite 
 a fast game and players have complained of too many long shots going in etc.
  
  The database has improved slightly and the editor has some improvements made to it and it looks 
 slightly better as well. There are more players and more player pictures this year and the league 
 structures have been improved however there is a backwards step regarding club names. Most of the 
 clubs in the game only have abbreviations of the names so you will have to edit the names. 
  
  Also a couple of leagues even have no existent clubs in there especially the South African 
 one. The 24 hour feature is good and the simulator looks good but has couple of problems as well. 
 There are some calendar bugs with people having 4 matches in 5 days. Yes there are errors in this 
 game but they are fewer than in the past and its a much better game for it. I recommend this game 
 or at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rootslanepangas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Fifa manager 08 hasn't got any new things, but it's still as attractive as it was last year.
  
  Basics are the same as last year. You can control club, national team, both of tem or you can 
 make your own new club. There can be up to 4 friends you can play with. After you all have chosen 
 the clubs you can start playing. Basically it's the same as last year. You take a look at your 
 players. You set your tactics, you put your player roles and you go to transfer market to search 
 if there are any good players on the market. You go to calendar and set your meetings and then 
 you skip to the next match. The soundtrack is the same as last year also. Put there are some good 
 things in that game too. First of all the menu is great. If you click to the club or somewhere 
 it opens the club things and everything else. So you don't need to open everything one by one. 
 Also if you move your mouse to left side of the screen, you can see your ranking, your league stats 
 and there are shortcuts to the newspaper and to the MAT. MAT is the same as last year. You can 
 use MAT to analyze matches. How the passes did go and who were your best players. Also you can 
 watch how your players moved on the field. There's nothing new in the newspaper but it's still 
 good. There are more faces in the game too. But some faces look really bad. Like Jaap Stam's face. 
 It looks like they picked the first picture they got from the Internet. The game modes are the 
 same as last year and they're quite good. You can use instant results if you are not interested 
 in that game or you can use 3D match if you really want to see it. The 3D match is quite good, 
 but i still don't get how the players can shoot so wide when they are in front of the goal. The 
 graphics are still quite good in it. The another thing is youth players. If you start in the lowest 
 league you can use your youth players, but if you are a top club the youth players are quite useless. 
 The players are in the groups like 17/18 year old players, 15/16 year old players, 13/14 year old 
 players and 11/12 year old players. The 11/12 year old players are quite pointless, because the 
 players must get to the 17/18 year old players group to get promoted to the main team. So it means 
 that you have to play about 6 seasons to get them into your main team and they might not be the 
 best players. Only new thing with the youth team is that you can set up youth camps all over the 
 world. The game play is pretty good, but sometimes it's a little bit strange. If you play with 
 a stronger team you often win, but if you play with the weaker team than you, you can loose. The 
 other thing is that the game is too easy. You have a lot of money at the beginning and the money 
 doesn't disappear. It comes more and more. There's another feature  you can deal with your personal 
 life. You can learn playing golf or learn how to sail. You can have your wife and kids. You can 
 buy your own stuff. Like cars, houses, billiard pools, sauna etc. But it's hard to deal with them 
 both. Your personal life and your club. So some people may get excited by buying new stuff and 
 get in trouble with their club. You'll get sucked in by this game but after you are in the top 
 you'll get bored sooner or later. The game is good, but it's almost the same as last year. The 
 thing with that game is that you have to play all the time, because if you leave there a pause 
 you'll forget your players and club special things. The new thing is also the prizes for you. If 
 you are a good manager you will get prizes, like golden Key to the city. There might not be a lot 
 of new stuff but there is a lot of updated things like even more leagues, players, competitions 
 (FIFA Confederations Cup, FIFA U-20 World Cup, plus various international club competitions) . Also 
 new thing is a large database containing more than 75,000 historical results from various leagues! 
 A powerful editor is included in the game. There's also a new stadium editor. It's an easy-to-use 
 stadium editor that uses a modular construction system with over 400 elements enables you to build 
 ultra-realistic stadiums. You can create absolutely unique dream stadiums in a matter of minutes. 
 There is a new screen resolution 1280x1024 for a better overview but also other resolutions are 
 also supported. The press conferences and interviews are still part of the game. Now there's a 
 sand clock which tells you how much time you have to answer. Your answer is important because it 
 has effect to your team motivation and to your media status. There is also a new scouting system, 
 which is better than last year. It's better because this year you really have to scout for players. 
 Otherwise the skills of the player you are scouting for are hidden. So scouting is good. Now you 
 can say to your player what you are planning for this season in the dressing-room. Like you can 
 say: "You're playing tomorrow! "And the player motivation increases, but if you don't put him in 
 the game tomorrow the players motivation will suffer. 
  
  So here are some of the new features: 
  Simulation mode (where you can simulate 20 seasons overnight) , 
 set up youth camps all over the world (simply choose the country and location) , a Hall of Fame 
 for top players, a 24-hour ticker for transfers at the last moment at the and of the transfer window, 
 test matches against your own amateur and youth teams, 20 personal prizes for you as manager (for 
 example the golden Key to the city) , new scouting system, dressing-room (Where you talk with your 
 players) . 
  
  
  The conclusion is that the game is good and very interesting for the new players, but for the players 
 who have played the last series the game might not be so attractive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietanh797
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  i have nothing to say about this game
  this is the best football manager game i have been played
  the most interesting is the financial 
 i just try it but this is great you could begin with a small club you can be a player and manager 
 too
  create you as player play in your favorite position then begin the match like be a pro in FIFA
 
  build your youth camp all over the world
  build your stadium
  and do everything you want
  this is really a god game
  if you don't think so i think you are 
 a nob
  the most different is the personal life you could have girl friend, wife, baby, buy something for 
 you learn golf and sailing
  i'd like have some baby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: islamthebest
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  the game looks differ in the look from any former fifa manager game and little better
  alot of improvements done in the 3d game u can feel it
  good sound tracks as usual containing 
 the last fifa manger 2007 and new tracks alot of new things added as room chemistry and much better 
 player pics and better informations than any former fifa manager
  the best : 1 of the greatest ever football manager game , new improvements that ea sports did and 
 they developed the game more than football manager of sega
  the bad : confusing sometimes with the new screens , small bugs in matches in 3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  been waiting for this one for some time. so far, i like most of the game. FIfa manager doesnt have 
 depth like football manager does, but it has 3d game engine, something football manager lucks. 
 and basically for me it does the trick. i been playing football manager for a few years, verry 
 udictive game, but evantually you get sick and tired of it. stil, you could spend a few months 
 playing it before it happens. and seems like, this game (FIFA MANAGER) also has same potential. 
 scary.
  in this game, you can create yourself as a player/manager, and play in a 3d game. or simply chose 
 one of the squad players, and play in an actual game s well. cool feature. you will be suprised 
 how challenging it is. if you get slow player, you wont be able to just pass defenders on the wing... 
 player with a good shot, wont shoot every shot on target..... basically there is lots of realism.
 
  game engine is very similar to FIFA soccer, just a bit more realistic... at least thats what i 
 think. looks like player stats realy matter in this one.
  
  i cant really find anything i didnt like about this game. its not to complicated, easy to get into.... and 
 fairly deep. i cant understand how same company can make 2 soccer games, but so different one from 
 enother... i mean one is crap the other, one of the best in the genre.
  if you like managing a football team, you should get this one..... it worth every penny of it. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
