-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA World Cup: Germany 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifaworldcupgermany2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent soundtrack and commentary.
 Fast-paced gameplay.
 Great player animations and TV-style presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sometimes inconsistent frame rate.
 Poor goalkeepers.
 Laggy online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 973 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Apr 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
2006 FIFA World Cup does a good job of re-creating the carnival atmosphere that surrounds the competition, 
 and it plays a good, fast-paced game of soccer to boot. 

  A little over three weeks from now, the 2006 FIFA World Cup will kick off in Munich when the tournament's 
 German hosts take on Costa Rica. Recent player injuries are already providing plenty of pretournament 
 drama, but if you really want to get your experience under way ahead of time, you can claim the 
 FIFA World Cup Trophy for your country in EA Sports' 2006 FIFA World Cup. EA Canada's latest soccer 
 offering does a good job of re-creating the carnival atmosphere that surrounds every World Cup 
 competition and boasts a number of gameplay refinements over last year's FIFA 06.  

          The prematch presentation does a great job of setting the stage.     

  Gameplay options 
 in 2006 FIFA World Cup include quick matches, online play, practice sessions, and penalty shoot-outs. 
 In addition to those soccer game staples, you get global challenge scenarios, the excellent FIFA 
 Lounge mode that was absent from last year's PC game, and, of course, a chance to guide your favorite 
 international team through the World Cup competition. The World Cup mode will almost certainly 
 be your first port of call, and although its default settings see you assuming control of one of 
 the 32 teams that qualified for the finals, it's possible to play as any of around 125 different 
 teams from all over the world. Furthermore, you have the option to take your chosen team through 
 the relevant territory's qualification process or to jump straight to the last 32 teams using real 
 or randomly generated group information.  

  The presentation throughout the World Cup mode, and throughout the entire game, is great. Before 
 each match, you'll see a camera, which is positioned somewhere in orbit around the Earth, zoom 
 in on the appropriate German stadium, and you'll be treated to flybys of the grounds where it looks 
 like almost every supporter in the crowd came through the turnstiles armed with streamers, confetti, 
 and balloons. Also, you'll get to listen to one of the game's many licensed songs, which come from 
 an eclectic soundtrack spanning some 14 countries. Good prematch commentary replete with World 
 Cup trivia and anecdotes is the icing on the cake, and as your players line up on the pitch before 
 kickoff, you feel both excited and nervous at the same time -- exactly as you'd expect to before 
 a real match.  

  There have certainly been some improvements made to 2006 FIFA World Cup's gameplay over the already 
 superb FIFA 06 (which are most noticeable in the shooting and passing mechanics and in the very 
 dramatic penalty shoot-outs) , and the PC game doesn't suffer from nearly as much slowdown as its 
 PlayStation 2 and Xbox counterparts. The drops in frame rate that do occur are predictably most 
 common when there are a lot of players on the screen simultaneously, and they're generally not 
 too dramatic -- at least not when you're playing offline.  

  Slowdown issues aside, 2006 FIFA World Cup offers a soccer experience that, while not quite as 
 realistic as Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer (Winning Eleven in North America) games, is certainly 
 comparable in terms of quality. It's a lot easier to score goals in FIFA than it is in Pro Evo 
 (largely because FIFA's keepers aren't too clever) , but they can still be very satisfying. And 
 if you're playing on the correct difficulty level or against a suitable opponent, you'll inevitably 
 still have goalless draws from time to time. The player animations are uniformly excellent, and 
 although every player on the pitch has a handful of skill moves at his disposal, you'll find that 
 good use of the excellent first-touch controls, along with passes, through balls, and dummies, 
 are generally the best way to beat opponents. The controls are fully customizable, although those 
 of you with a penchant for the Pro Evolution Soccer setup will find that it's not possible to replicate 
 those controls exactly since, for example, the same button used for passing the ball has to be 
 used for switching players when you're on defensive duties.  

          The game's player animations are excellent.     

  As you progress through the World 
 Cup mode, you'll inevitably earn points by fulfilling some of the 200-plus objectives that the 
 game tracks for your profile. These objectives include beating certain teams, winning by a certain 
 number of goals, scoring at different stages of matches, winning streaks, and lots more. The points 
 that you're awarded can be spent at the game's store, which stocks more than 20 classic players, 
 25 different pairs of licensed boots, more than 20 Adidas balls, 10 classic strips, and five "AI 
 unlockables" -- those being additional options for perfect difficulty, invisible walls, no infringements, 
 slow motion, and turbo mode. The unlockables are a little disappointing, not only because the different 
 boots and balls are barely noticeable during gameplay, but also because the classic player and 
 classic strip options are so limited. The 10 classic strips, for example, include only two each 
 for five different European teams, and although the classic players all deserve their places in 
 the game, it's not hard to think of dozens more who are conspicuous by their absence.     

 
  You can also earn points to spend at the store by playing 2006 FIFA World Cup's global challenge 
 mode, which basically tasks you with matching or bettering memorable team performances from World 
 Cup history in 40 different scenarios. Your major objective might be to jump into a game with 30 
 minutes remaining and win by the same margin that the victors did in real life, for example. And 
 bonus objectives might include keeping a clean sheet, not having any players booked, or winning 
 by a larger margin. You'll be awarded a bronze, silver, or gold medal based on your performance 
 in each scenario, along with a corresponding number of points. The global challenge mode is a great 
 addition to the game, but it's unfortunate that none of the appropriate historical strips or players 
 are present, and also that the postscenario commentary invariably reflects upon the game as if 
 it were a 2006 match. One of the scenarios, for example, tasks you with taking control of Scotland 
 and beating the Netherlands by at least three goals in the group stage of the 1978 tournament to 
 progress to the second round. Scotland came home from Argentina early after managing only a 3-2 
 win in real life, but if you achieve that same result in the scenario, the players, the crowd, 
 and the commentary team will react as if you've just earned yourself a spot in the last 16, regardless 
 of the fact that you failed to fulfill any of the challenge's objectives.  

          The historical scenario games can only be played with current teams.     

  When you 
 feel like pitting your 2006 FIFA World Cup skills against a human opponent instead of the CPU, 
 your most obvious options are to play online or to get some friends over for a FIFA lounge session. 
 Like FIFA 06 before it, the game requires you either to pay a small fee or to hand over your e-mail 
 address so that you can be sent spam before you can play online. But if you already have an EA 
 account set up, the process is relatively painless. Once you get online, you'll find that 2006 
 FIFA World Cup uses an outdated and unwieldy lobby system, with rooms where you can, in theory, 
 find players who are from your region. In reality, at least based on our own experiences thus far, 
 the only way to get a match started is often to hang out in either the United Kingdom or Deutschland 
 lobbies (the others are empty for the most part) or to hit the "quick match" button, at which point 
 you'll automatically be taken through all of the lobbies until a match is found.  

  We saw a lot more of 2006 FIFA World Cup's "Connection with other player has been lost" and other 
 error screens than we'd like when attempting to get a match underway, but thankfully we never encountered 
 any such problems once we made it as far as the prematch squad-selection screen. Our online experiences 
 thus far have been anything but problem-free, though, because the wildly inconsistent frame rates 
 that we had to deal with in some matches basically made the game unplayable. In between those exercises 
 in frustration, we did manage to play a few decent matches, but they invariably suffered from lag 
 at some point (perhaps because the game advertises that you can play with a 56Kbps connection) 
 and so weren't nearly as enjoyable as those played offline.  

          FIFA is best played with friends, especially offline.     

  2006 FIFA World Cup's strongest 
 feature is undoubtedly its lounge mode, which supports up to eight players but can certainly be 
 enjoyed by just two or three. Like the lounge mode in FIFA 06, 2006 FIFA World Cup's lounge keeps 
 track of your performances against all of the other players in the room and gives you a number 
 of different options for determining who gets to play next when there is a large group. The mode 
 also retains the "cheap shots" feature, which gives you an opportunity to level the playing field 
 against opponents by using cheats that you've earned as a result of previous performances. You 
 can use up to three cheap shots ahead of each match, and they include things like giving yellow 
 cards to opposing players, benching star players, and setting the fatigue level of every opposing 
 player to 50 percent before the game has even kicked off. The system works just as well in 2006 
 FIFA World Cup as it did in last year's game, though it's unfortunate that you can only use cheap 
 shots when both players are using their favorite teams, because the mode's new Risk-style map feature 
 (where you can take control of countries on the map by winning games with them or against them) 
 does an excellent job of encouraging you to experiment with other squads.  

  Since its offline frame rate issues are far less pronounced than those on the PS2 and the Xbox, 
 the PC version of 2006 FIFA World Cup is the easiest to recommend. 2006 FIFA World Cup is well 
 worth a look even if you already have FIFA 06 in your collection, especially if you're in a position 
 to take advantage of the new FIFA Lounge mode. With better online play and a more stable frame 
 rate, 2006 FIFA World Cup on the PC could have been a spectacular goal, and as the game stands, 
 it's still a very satisfying one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I reviewed FIFA series all. I always put a negative manner towards FIFA and EA sports on this subject. 
 Why?
  
  EA Sports are working well. The games are all licensed and very easy to play. Everyone can play 
 any of the EA Sports games. This is one positive point.
  
  Another positive issue for EA Sports is that they are creating a fabaolous atmosphere to play. 
 The outside pitch is very colorfull. The cut scenes and the music are awesome.
  
  But.. all the same! All the game play are the same. As I get bored of playing FIFA 99, I feel the 
 same for the last game FIFA 09. There is no particular difference in satisfaction for me.
  
  
  For this game, I can only appreciate the music on the pitch. When you are playing agiasnt 
 England, the music from the spectators is worth to listen. I enjoyed it very much. Yes, the stadium 
 becomes a carnaval. I agree! 
  
  But still the game play is boring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  As it is used to be done, every year EA Sports, apart from its very popular FIFA series, releases 
 an additional soccer game, like the Euro, the Champions League, and in our case, the World Cup.
 
  
  The game offers all 32 teams to play with, driving them from the group stages of the tournament 
 to the final of Berlin. There is great authenticity in almost every roster which participates in 
 the competition, and the same is for the stadiums and other stuff which has to do with it.
  
  The game offers a fast-paced and valuable gameplay, very similar to the real matchups of such 
 a high competition. Furthermore, the players' animation is very realistic and the introduction 
 into the World Cup fixtures is so good that your temper and your andrenaline will rise to the highest 
 level. But it is a pity that the goalkeepers have not improved since FIFA 06.
  
  While playing a single-player game is good, the online play is definately not. Having many connection 
 and patching issue, the multiplayer mode will cut off your dreams of international glory.
  
  And what's more, the graphics are not improved, which means that the laggy and stucking graphics 
 machine still exists, resulting to a poor frame rate and a late cutscenes response. Note down that 
 all the above are not true for Windows Vista or high-performance XP systems. At least, the good 
 commentary and inspiring soundtrack we were used to still exist.
  
  The FIFA World Cup 2006 is a very good game to play and I recommend it to everyone who wants to 
 feel the realism of playing in this competition.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WKK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Although this game requires much more improvement on game play, graphics and AI, this game however, 
 pulls it off.
  
  The feeling of putting the ball at the back of the net gives you the feeling of World Cup Football. 
 The controls are pretty easy to get used to, and the players somewhat do look like the players 
 in reality.
  
  About the online game play, I haven't seem to mind online due to the fact that single player itself, 
 kept me up on hype, however, this game also has online which makes the game much more interesting.
 
  
  To sum this up, if you are a true football fan, you must get this game, if you are not, at least 
 try it and decide for yourself if you want to add this to your collection or not, but from my side, 
 it is a must.
  
  GRAPHICS: Could be improved, but it's alright.
  GAMEPLAY: Addicting, it will grow upon you.
  SOUND: The crowd screaming while you score a goal 
 places you in a position to say the sound is indeed, great.
  AI: Can be improved, but playing on World Class is a killer.
  Controls: EASY.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatpumba3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  Just the best! It's got nice simple controls that are superior to most other soccer games. (Definately 
 better than PSP soccer games)
  
  
  Soccer is the best game in the world and this makes it even better with tonnes of international 
 teams that cover even the most random countries.
  This game is so wonderful i can hardly beleive it. (Including my favourite countries Australia, Republic 
 of Ireland, Sweeden) The graphics are pretty good and its a great game with good graphics for a PC 
 game that only requires 1.3GHZ. You can also unlock classic players which is great. This the best 
 FIFA game ever all the other FIFA games are really bad. (not mentoning names FIFA 06!!)
  
  
  Theeeeeeeeeeeee Best!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  A good game bad with many problems and an easy gameplay.
  Visit My Website.
  Before tow years when i bought it i think that i would enjoy it bad i was wrong. Whith good graphics 
 bad problems in gamplay. The sound was good bad it was a very easy and boring game. I made goals 
 with the same moves. After a few days i threw it on my collection tabl and i never use it again. 
 Is good for the rookies because it is very easy to learn it and play it.
  Visit My Website
  ravage. thank fo your time. I am waiting you to my website. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  everything is really good except the stupid goal keepers and bad CPU defense they just run next 
 to you looking at the ball. the sound is really nice the crowd and drums the graphics are good 
 considering its pc very valuable considering a game like this comes every 4 years i like the game 
 cube version better but since i have it on pc and play it on my friends gc i wrote the review for 
 what i have god wut is up with the 100 words minimum BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This instalment of the game features the Germany FIFA Football World Cup.
  Choose your favorite football playing country and get ready to kick off your World Cup journey.
 
  
  It features one-on-one matches between two teams in a game type of your choice and also features 
 a great practice arena where you can sharpen your skills by playing practice matches. The game 
 then also features the FIFA World Cup where you must lead your selected team to World Cup Victory. 
 Its also got great multiplayer matches to be played.
  
  The game features the likenesses of all the players in their respective teams and also has some 
 of their trademark moves. But, the major obstacle to tackle is the art of learning to master the 
 way to play the game. The game requires a lot of practice, to get accustomed to all the various 
 that can be made by the players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Introduction EA Sports always brought great sports games live on the front of a screen for everyone 
 to enjoy. FIFA World Cup 2002, a highly anticipated event in the world, now contributes itself 
 into the PC itself for one's enjoyment. Now one can lead his/her own team into battle and strive 
 to qualify for the apex and the World Cup. Gameplay Gameplay is awesome. When a goal goes in, it's 
 almost as live that you can scream on the front of your screen and lead your team to win. They 
 got much better camera options and controller options are very good. You can get easily get excited 
 or grim when you score goals. It's also a great stress reliever if you just want to see guys pumping 
 goals in instantly in Beginner Mode. The levels are separated into 4 modes- Beginner, Amateur, 
 Professional, and World Class. I recommend beginner level to all who's trying out the game for 
 the first time. For others with experience from previous games, start from Amateur or Professional. 
 You can control the character by using special moves (E) , Shoot (D) , Pass (S) , and Lob (A) . There 
 are special options in which you can 1-2 Pass with the Space Bar. When you use Shoot, Pass, or 
 Lob, a Meter in the bottom left shows up. Higher you charge it up, the farther and stronger the 
 ball travels. Be sure to know when it's best to shoot and pass! There are more than 32 Teams you 
 can play as- France, England, USA, and the host nations South Korea and Japan. Each team has their 
 own abilities with their star players. Teams like Brazil, Italy, France, and South Korea boasts 
 Attack and Agility. Teams like Germany prefers defensive position and counterattack. Graphics The 
 graphics depend on your computer's availability, but overall, it's plain okay. It can't match GCN 
 or PS2's graphics, but it's still playable and you can see the players' expressions very clearly. 
 Sounds Simply beautiful and astounding. You can hear the crowd booing their opposing team, while 
 cheering when a goal is in. The beginning theme is awesome too, as well as the comments from the 
 announcer. You can hear him shouting ''That was nearly in!'' and ''You got to do better than that 
 to beat the goalkeeper!'' Controls The controls can take time to get used to, but overall, it's 
 fine. Make sure that you know what button is to Shoot and Pass! Conclusion Overall, this game's 
 great, however, it dosen't provide playoffs or  Still, it can 
 bring lots of fun onto your PC screen. It's a must to all Soccer Fans to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_fido
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Your first port of call is bound to be the FIFA World Cup mode. Here you can choose from over 100 
 national teams in an attempt to lead them to World Cup glory. You can either choose to start from 
 the qualifying rounds in your team's continent or otherwise enter them straight into the 32 teams 
 that make up the World Cup proper. After you've organised your team for battle, (deciding upon 
 all manner of formations and tactics) , the loading screen before each match is presented with a 
 stereotypical photograph of one of the competing nations along with a 'Did you know?' fact. For 
 instance, New Zealand is represented by a farmer herding sheep, anchored with a factoid that reads, 
 'Did you know that New Zealand was the first country to give women the vote?' Well now you do. 
 Who ever said gaming wasn't educational?
  
  There isn't much of a difference between the game play in FIFA 2006 and here, to be honest - which 
 definitely isn't a bad thing. It's great that EA had finally listened to and acted upon some of 
 the criticism that they've received over recent years - basic stuff like passing and shooting - 
 rather than fobbing players off with fancier control options and other unnoticeable bells and whistles. 
 FIFA World Cup 2006 certainly isn't ultra realistic in the way it plays, in that games are always 
 very fast paced with very much end-to-end action. The tempo seems just about right, though, in 
 fact, balancing the tender margin between arcade-like play and reality. Unlike the poor response 
 rate of players in earlier editions, even novices will be able to pick up and play this iteration, 
 creating chains of passes, threading beautiful through balls and shooting with the confidence of 
 a pro in mere minutes.
  
  In addition, the relative simplicity in executing more advanced individual skill or player co-operation 
 such as cheeky one-twos or spontaneous tactical changes, (all attack/defense, more support for 
 a particular player etc.) adds variety and unpredictability to each game. The AI also varies realistically 
 in difficulty, providing a challenge for experts and beginners alike. By playing games and completing 
 pre-set objectives such as winning by a certain margin or scoring a certain number of goals, you 
 earn play points that allow you to buy extra kits and accessories from the game's shop.
  
  In addition to the main World Cup mode are options that include the Global Challenge. Now a fairly 
 standard feature in any comprehensive title, you can choose to be thrust into various scenarios 
 from World Cup history in order to fulfill particular objectives. These would be a perfect compliment 
 to the main game, except that each challenge makes use of modern day players instead of the players 
 involved at the time, which frankly isn't good enough if this is supposed to be an authentic experience. 
 Time travel, anyone? Commentators Clive Tyldsley and Andy Townsend don't really seem to commentate 
 in a way that's relative to your achievements in this mode either, no matter how spectacular your 
 win, they treat it like any other game. To be fair to the duo, their wealth of oral contributions 
 on the whole are impressively accurate and responsive to gameplay whatever the occasion.
  
  As rewarding as FIFA's single player experience can be, it's the multiplayer in games such as this 
 and Pro Evolution Soccer that really provide you with your money's worth. Thankfully, FIFA's Lounge 
 mode makes a return, allowing up to 8 players to keep track of their performances against each 
 other over time, to allow conclusive evidence to who really is the pro and who, sadly is a 'n00b'. 
 The Lounge also features the 'cheap shot' mode, allowing for various degrees of unfairness to be 
 initiated throughout play in order for one player or the other to achieve the upper hand. They 
 range from sending key players off to reducing the opposite team's stamina right down. With a couple 
 of friends such shenanigans have the ability to cause riots, but footballing purists may want to 
 steer clear.
  
  On the presentation side, everything from the players to the various stadia appear as recognisably 
 as you'd expect from an EA series that prides itself on authenticity. Player animation throughout 
 each match is fluid and realistic, while the perspective given to incidents involving the referee 
 are given an impressive televisual style appearance, shaky camera and all. Pre-match pleasantries 
 are also very nice, with a dynamically panning camera capturing a roaring crowd and a pitch showered 
 in confetti. While everything looks polished for the most part, there is often evidence of slowdown 
 in cut scenes, as well as when there are a crowd of players on the screen at one time, which while 
 not destroying your enjoyment by any means is pretty unforgivable. Shame on you, EA.
  
  What FIFA World Cup 2006 provides is a well-rounded experience that is the official virtual compliment 
 to the real world events commencing in the next couple of weeks. As a standalone football game 
 without all the World Cup-related fluff and filling, EA have provided something which is actually 
 good fun to play (both off and online) , certainly not like their frustratingly average efforts 
 over recent years. As is usually the case when these bi-annual occasions occur, if you've got FIFA 
 Soccer 2006 then there's really no need to fork out the extra cash for this effort, best sticking 
 with what you've got or holding out for the upcoming release of the Daddy of soccer simulations, 
 Konami's Pro Evolution, that, despite being overshadowed by all of FIFA's official branding, is 
 still superior in terms of play.
  
  P/S : I HOPE THAT THE DEVELOPER CAN PUT ALL ASIAN TEAM IN THE NEXT SERIES ( LIKE FIFA 02) .. I HOPE.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I have loved soccer from the time I started playing it in elementary school, around fourth grade, 
 I believe. However, I never really found time or the means to follow the big teams through the 
 World Cup. I first played this game when my nephew picked it up for his playstation 2, and hooked 
 it up to play four players 2 on 2, in a set of matches. What a blast!
  
  As a result, I purchased my own copy a few days later for the PC, along with two more USB gamepads, 
 so I could play it with my family members. My two sons love to play it with me, and right now, 
 we are on our way to working the USA into the Semifinals. I have to admit, I haven't played the 
 single-player much, and don't really have much interest in it, but that's why I own Madden, NBA 
 Live and High Heat Baseball, to play with others.
  
  Now for the technical mumbo jumbo. The response of the players to your input feels very good and 
 lifelike, and if you are running with the ball, you won't stay ahead of others without it for long. 
 Your star players tend to run a bit faster and steal the ball more often, but I would expect that. 
 The ball physics are good, and for the most part, behave as you would expect it to. The only complaint 
 I have with it, is if you set the difficulty on amateur, your goalie doesn't stop much, and the 
 other teams seem to be fairly easy to pushover. However, if you up the AI one level to semi-pro, 
 you'll be lucky to win until you've put in many hours to perfect the button combos necessary to 
 outmaneuver the AI. Beyond that, you have 3 more higher difficulty levels.
  
  The graphics are nothing spectacular, but the stadiums do look really good. The closeup views of 
 the players are decent, and you can see the uniqueness of each player. The sweat textures look 
 goofy, and some of the animations in scoring, etc. seem reused too often. The sound is also pretty 
 good, though not what I would call spectacular. The announcing, is spot-on, and I love listening 
 to them shout the names of the players when they score. Overall, however, I don't end up paying 
 much attention to those things, since I'm too busy whuppin' up on my brother-in-law, or my kids.
 
  
  Final note, load times tend to be a little slow, but the game is smooth as glass, with nary a hiccup. 
 Pick this up if you like good sports games on the PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Simply the best EA-FIFA game ever. With a few tweaks here and there, this game leads over FIFA 
 06, but mostly it's not mucho different gameplay from 06. There are mainly two modes of gameplay- 
 WC qualifier and the WC itself. 127 football playing nations have been included in this game. But 
 I think the developers have taken a shortcut here 'cause the players put in the low teams don't 
 exist e. g. India, ranked 124 or so, has a team captain named Baichang Bhutia but he's nowhere to 
 be seen in the game plus you see players whom EA has created, they don't exist in the real world. 
 Now moving onto the graphics, which is slightly increased over 06 as you can see players have been 
 given a fine polishing touch. But the bad of the graphics is that in every match you see ballons 
 flying which look as awful as the graphics of a 2-D game. The sound too is great, combing tracks 
 fromall over the world, though the commentary is boring but yet the crowd feels alive and electric. 
 Also this game has fan shop with exclusive things to buy and you get points in every game which 
 makes unlocking items easier. So, can't say it's the best but it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethorian91
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  The last FIFA game I played was the FIFA 2000, and i founded it absoulutly amazing.
  In this one, i founded out its a good game, bit short, bit easy, but it has the most mind-boggling 
 gameplay i've ever seen.
  instead of holding the ball as a player (which allawed you to go all the way with Henry or Berkamp) 
 you now push the ball along the way, which means that passing isn't only important, its unescapeble. 
 you must pass the ball past a couple of deffenders, or else, they'll take it.
  
  apart from that, the graphics are unbelievble, replay there looks more real then the ones on an 
 actual soccer game. the commentary is very good too.
  
  it's not the kind of game that you play consistently, but evry once and then u toss is a nice little 
 Italy - France just to see how good you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raul_El_Sordo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 06 World Cup is a great game with plenty to offer. The game play is better than FIFA 06, as 
 it has a much better shooting system and the goalkeepers are much better and actually get the ball 
 if its just outside their box. Im still disappointed with some of the game play which still feels 
 unrealistic, such as with tackling you only commit fouls with sliding although you foul with conservative 
 tackles occasionally. Game Modes include the World Cup and you are able to participate right through 
 Qualification with any of 120 teams. There is also a penalty shootout mode where the penalties 
 have a different format. Also there is a challenge mode where you verse teams in a set format from 
 different times in world cup history. On-line play is not bad but very similar to FIFA 06. Overall 
 a game worth having although I thought it couldve been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  this fotball simulation is much better than fifa 06 and 07. The graphics is excellent. the sound 
 is extraordinary. the controls are just right. playing this game is much more competive than the 
 fifa 06 and 07. to score a goal u have to have a strategy whereas in fifa 07 and 06 u score scores 
 so easy even if u didn't intend to score. this was the right game in putting u in the fifa world 
 cup mood. can't wait to see what fifa 2010 world cup has to offer. this is one of the few sporting 
 games i enjoying playing over and over. But this game u won't regret it. it's a better deal than 
 the fifa 07 and 06 trust me. i know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastStrider
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I started playing FIFA series since I was... 6, FIFA 1997. So, as one of my favorite game series, 
 I played almost every FIFA game. In this FIFA WC 06, I think the best qualities are on the great 
 game play, very nice game modes, and well made graphics. There are lots of star players who has 
 the ability to turn the game aroumd. Global Challenge mode let you relieve the classic momment 
 in World Cup history and try to make your own history. The game ha almost every country in the 
 world, and imitates the 2006 WC in a amazing degree. Also, the commentary is worth a round of applause. 
 Some flaws might include, hard-to-figure-out-how, free kicks, bad goalies, and weird shot misses. 
 When you play at high level, you can have many breakthroughs but~ at certain area, you always either 
 miss by 2 and half inches or hit the post. Another thing, EA didn't make Goalies very good in this 
 game. They can save your best shots and break away shots pretty often (this gets me quite frustrated, 
 one on one with goalie and Goalie saves 70% of the shot? THEY WERE GOOD, TOP CORNER SHOTS!!!!!) 
 and sometimes, they just let the slow, inaccurate ball slip past their finger tip, literally. Besides 
 from these, this is a very nice soccer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur_digitized
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  It is a typical FIFA game which is kind of pick up and play without bothering too much abt strategising 
 and formations (all play same) . I m not a EA basher or PES supporter, but I m disappointed with 
 obvious flaws of the game which haven't been ironed out for previous 5-8 yrs. 1. AI is stupid. 
 2. CPU players carry out unbelievable moves and score breathtaking goals which are rarely seen 
 on actual field. 3. Even at world class difficulty, game is too easy ( i won my first game without 
 hiccups) . But I ve to admit at perfect difficulty, it is a challenge to score and defend. But unfortunately, 
 it isnt bcoz gameplay has improved but bcoz computer blatantly cheats (yes, they score goals worthy 
 of goal of the millenium with regularity) . 4. Though its a cliche, its true, in FIFA every third 
 goal is same and u dont get satisfaction of scoring goals. But FIFA is not all bad, it has some 
 good points also 1. Presentation and graphics are nice. Newspaper headlines and DID you know are 
 cool additions. 2. Commentary is superb. 3. All licensed teams. But I missed India ( my country) 
 4. Global challenges are really good. 5. Best of all, it can be played on LAN. FIFA comes into 
 its own when played with another human. In all I would say its a fair game by industry standards 
 and good by EA standards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  It annoys me how the FIFA football series has been developing football games for around 8 years 
 or more now, and still they can't get the gameplay right. It is not unplayable, but still the same 
 old bugs appear on these titles year in and year out. Unresponsive gameplay, poor AI, gameplay 
 looking like it's being scripted rather than the player infulencing it, Tackling, clunky menu systems. 
 This list goes on.....
  
  The game is only good if you want to live your world cup dream and take your team to the final 
 on an easy level. However if you looking for a playable challenging game this is not it.
  If you play the global challenge the weaknesses to the gameplay are ruefully exposed. The lack 
 of movement by your team ruins any creativity and results in you having to resort to formulaic 
 gameplay. Yes like most of the previous fifa titiles here again the only way to make a decent scoring 
 opputunity is by a thruogh ball. They have a player attribute system, but when you try the stronger 
 difficulties it is fully apparent that it had no impact on the games you play. Goal keepers can 
 be put down to minimum stats and still save 9-10 shots on a difficult level which really eliminates 
 the point of having attributes. At time the game looks almost scripted to limit the scores. While 
 the opposing team can cluster round your players and get all 11 players behind the ball before 
 your man on the break has made his second touch, your team will sit back and do anything but get 
 near the ball. Off the ball movement is static for your team, they dont support, the option of 
 pressing a button to get players to make a run is useless as they tend to run back to their original 
 position once they've had a touch of the ball. Everything about this game is tired lack-lustre 
 and rubbish. If they didnt have the FIFA license this game would not exist as it it offensive to 
 modern gamers of today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutonium666
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Well, it is almost as FIFA 06, though the keeper is a bit more realistic. But really, it isn't 
 something special.
  
  The graphics are nice, the gameplay is easy to learn and the commentary is good.
  
  Some of 
 the starplayers have been given special abilities, like Super-Sprinter, or Playmaker, wich enhanches 
 some of their abilities.
  
  There is loads on unlockables, and a huge amount of challenges to do, witch give the game some 
 more fun. there's a lot of teams to beat, and every single match awards you with points, when doing 
 something good, and taking points, when you do something bad, as getting a yellow card.
  
  But really, if you want to buy a Soccergame, go for the FIFA 06 instead, since there are far more 
 teams and matches in FIFA 06.
  
  If you are a huge soccer fan, I would still get the game.
  
  I think the game is best for the 
 consoles, so perhaps you should go for the PS2 or Xbox version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: c663
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  this game is the best you can download when you download it your going to see how cool and easy 
 it is you will even want to play everyday even i would download it and i already have download 
 it when i download it and played it it was so cool that i had to keep on play but there was only 
 one bad thing you could only choose 4 teams england, germany, usa and mexico its one of the best 
 game in the whole wide world who wouldn't want to play the 1of the best game in the whole wide 
 which is 2006 fifa world cup but 2006 fifa world cup isn't just the best theres more gta san andreas, top 
 games and more... but theres better games on ps2, ps3, psp, xbox, xbox 360, gc, ds, mobile my email is 
 kingmayowa@hotmail. co. uk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is superb, very realistic. There are so many different things you can do with the 
 ball, with just as many options before you even get it. Scoring a goal can truly be a reward and 
 you'll find yourself on occasoin jumping out of your chair once the ball goes through the net and 
 you can hear the intese vocals of the crowd and the announcer going wild. Electronic Arts has made 
 a very great job on its official 2006 FIFA World Cup video game. You can choose your favourite 
 national teams to win the World Cup, you can play not only at the World Cup Finals stage, you can 
 play World Cup during qualifying period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 2006 really improves 2005 .This time you are more free in your moves, free kicks and corners 
 .The goalkeepers are really stupid .A guy shoot straight at my goalkeeper and he pushed the ball 
 in the goal .The rest of the players are realistic .In FIFA 2006 there are a lot of challenges 
 one including a team formed by the best players in hystory .One of the players in the team is Gica 
 Hagi which was the best Romanian player ever .You can just play a match or a tournament .Or play 
 career mode in which you can manage a team and play the maches .You can play the carrer mode 15 
 sessons .
  FIFA 2006 is a great soccer game .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixlas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  this is my first review and i am sorry if you find any mistakes in the language and my way of writing. (I 
 am from Cyprus and my language is Greek so...!!)
  
  EA has done it again. Fifa world is a game that anyone can play and enjoy it. I am starting my 
 review from the improvements that have been made. First I really liked the look of the players. 
 The faces and the body anatomy are very different from other games like Fifa 2006. You really enjoy 
 watching the players playing. 
  Secondly the hole football filed is better than others. The grass looks more real and the people 
 are slightly better when you see them from far but when you get a closer look third the improvements 
 of the menus. It is easier to find what you are looking for and start your game immediately. Of 
 course to make the game more attractive EA has expanded the store and now you can by almost anything 
 you like from shoes to uniforms and even players like Pele. Also you are going to love the world 
 cup tournament when you start playing one. You can choose to play in the qualifications and then 
 if you get trough you can play for the trophy with the other teams that have passed. 
  All in all Fifa World Cup 2006 is a game that you should buy because its not a usual game like 
 others.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_body
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  I've played all the fifa series (well, not really) , but from fifa 2000 to fifa world cup 2006 . 
 And I think this is the best, although this game have also minuses. First of all, when I first 
 played the demo I was well surprised about the characteristics of the game. I didn' and I don't 
 like now the w pass. It is well to bad. I played with lot of friends that were using only w-w-w 
 and d (shoot) . This is not football. I like very much surpringsly football, just like brasil play, 
 not like saudi arabia or other team if you understand what I'm trying to say. Anyway if you like 
 soccer game you should try this one too because is a very very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbs1991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  where do it start... ok... this game is one of the best games ive ever played. i never had so much 
 fun playing a video game in my life. the commentary in the game is realistic as hell, the gameplay 
 is superb, the graphics from a farther standpoint, are not GREAT, but using a closer camera view 
 ullnotice that the graphics are alot better. the sound.... is amazing. its one of the best aspects 
 of the game and it made me think that there was a parade going on outside for a second lol. i dont 
 think anybody will ever get bored with this game since there its 127 TEAMS!!! some of the national 
 tams are teams that have never made it to the world cup ever, and some i never heard of in my life. theres 
 a variety of unlockables from legendary players to socer balls to play with in games. the world 
 cup mode is executed very nicely, its made to emulate the game as we see it on tv. i recommend 
 anybody that has a VAGUE LIKING of the sport to buy this game.... you will not be sorry at all.
 
  
  -RBS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  
  FIFA WC 06 :-
  
  By,
  $rpi_g@mr a. k. a Neerajkumar_4 
  
  Introduction:-
  
  Amazing WC football game ever, you have many teams to select. This Game the World Cup feeling 
 !! The atmosphere is awesome! Your profile contains all the details of the minute details of your 
 statistics.
  
  Game-play:-
  
  Faced paced game-play. Its hard to score penalties but its easier to score in normal game. You 
 can show off your football skills in this game! Its a lot fun to play. you can have hours of fun 
 !! 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  Character Models are done pretty well ! The audience look terible!! Rest is great.
  
  Sound:-
 
  
  Amazing soundtrack and commentary. The sound tracks match the game perfectly, you'll love to hear 
 the tracks and the commentries AI is pretty good ! its very immpresive! 
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  A must buy for Football or Soccer Fans as WC edition is NOT released every year....! its better 
 than normal FIFA 06 . The PC version is better than the console ones.
  
  About WC :-
  
  I like football, i watched most of the matches of WC and have posted WC blog updates. Im writing 
 a review during the 'FOOTBALL FEVER SEASON'. Im supporting ITALY ( SAD NO BRAZIL ) to win the cup 
 :P ! 
  
  About The Game IN SHORT :- 
  
  The GooD : Faced Paced game-play -- The Best WC game ever -- Amazing soundtrack and commentary 
 -- Players Look good -- Interesting Challenge 
  mode -- Lots of unlockables -- Many countries added to the list.
  
  The BaD : Lazy Goal keepers -- 
 Laggy online play and sometimes normally too -- very less options for CUSTOM character Building 
 -- No CUSTOM team option --Disconnections in the online play can be really frustrating !! 
  
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Maybe the worst fifa soccer game. The good things are the way of the referee showing the cards, 
 the complete rosters and the names of the players, as EA has the official licences. During the 
 games, or before them, there are interesting stats, nice animations + pop-ups and other special 
 facts around WC. But, there is nothing else. 
  Gameplay and control are very disappointing. Graphics are not good, even if you set 1280 * 1024. 
 Pitch and cround are awful. The AI is very poor. There are times you cannot change a pass! Even 
 your player does not respond to your commands esp. when you gain the ball. If you gain the ball 
 near the line your player will go outside. Tacklings are 99% missed. Goalkeepers are FOOLS. They 
 cannot touch the ball. You can score any time you want, except for... penalties! Also, there is 
 only one way to score - just press the shoot-button wherever you are (older fifas, pro evolution 
 soccer or winning eleven have multiple ways) . 
  There are times, you have the ball, the defender of the opponent makes you foul and the referee 
 gives the opposite. Another ridiculous thing is the speakers. For example, when I played with Italy 
 against USA I had scored 15 goals (two of them with Buffon) . And when I missed a chance, two minutes 
 before finish, speaker mentioned: "NOONE CAN BEAT THIS GOALKEEPER!!! Moreover, when you are ahead 
 do not worry. Give the ball to a defender in order to keep it and gain any time you want. Nobody 
 will press you even the final minutes. 
  So do not buy. It is a waste of money, and time. Try Winning Eleven 9, or just Fifa Soccer... 1999. 
 It is much more better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Didaa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  You know, fifa is a good agem series, but is too, hmm, you know... you can enjoy it, my last Fifa 
 game before that one was Fifa 2005, i loved it, and if you think more, is unreal game
  
  Example: Angola can go to the final, or can win Brazil, Argentina, Holland, France, Mexico...
 
  
  You know, but you can spent a lot of time in the eliminators of world cup with any country in the 
 word!
  
  One cool thing is classificate canada or San Marino to te world cup, it's hard but you can, funny 
 too is with the team of Chade you can win the world cup!
  
  You must rent it or see anyone playing before buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyvasey
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  2006 Fifa World Cup is not the best soccer title around. Judging from most people online, that 
 would be Winning Eleven (insert number here.) However, it is the only official soccer title for 
 the 2006 World Cup, and it is playable, and for those reasons alone it may be worth buying. 
  
  Unfortunately, this game really has let me down graphics-wise, which is something I can't quite 
 understand. I own several older Fifa games, and this one actually looks worse than some of them. 
 The graphics job just doesn't seem finished. Textures look very low-res, faces are blurred, anything 
 outside the actual field (i. e. the crowd, the skyline, the press) is utter crap (and yet they still 
 insist on doing closeups of these things.) These graphics could have been better; we've seen EA 
 do better, it just hasn't been finished for this game, and I'm dissappointed.
  
  Gameplay's good. It's playable. It works. It's fun. There isn't anything new or exciting really 
 (except that good players have stars over their heads, yay!) and in some ways the gameplay seems 
 to have also devolved. Controlling the ball while dribbling is very very hard, and passes with 
 obvious targets are often kicked right to the other squad. The AI is alright, not great or terrible.
 
  
  Sound is pretty decent for a soccer game. The commentators suck, as they always have, but the crowd 
 does a pretty good job. The crowd even varies sometime for teams such as the typical singing of 
 "God Save our Queen" by English fans. 
  
  Despite its shortcomings, I like this game simply because it is the world cup. It's got over 100 
 national teams, official balls, official stadiums, etc. If you aren't a world cup fan, don't bother. 
 Pick up that celebrated Winning Eleven or the regular Fifa with all the club teams.
  
  By the way, a usb controller is a must to make this game playable. A keyboard simply won't do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Okay let me just say this im all about winning eleven but I decided to try this because of the 
 hype of world cup. Now this game delivers the world cup experience to the fullest I mean there 
 just isnt anything that missing from this package the commentary is great the team lineups and 
 most of the stats are quite okay. As for the game play I can say its fifa if youve played fifa 
 2005 coming up to six its actually no different and the keepers are still easy to beat just the 
 same. Where this game actually falls off is that when the hype of fifa world cup is over how long 
 will you actually continue playing this game but it would have made more sense to just do Fifa 
 road to the world cup 2006 for pc but a guess this is just a quick go get it play it thing. The 
 control actually feels like winning eleven fifa finally decided to steal something, so I can say 
 if your a winning fan you wont have any problems adjusting to it apart from that the game does 
 what it sets out to do give you a feel of the world cup 2006 and nothing more but that everything 
 is copied down to the last dot in the world cup its a nice installment to have next your other 
 football games that include clubs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slurpylurpy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  The hype of the world cup is the only reason this game is going to make sales. I was really dissapointed 
 with the gameplay. It is near impossible to gain control of the ball when the opposition has it. 
 When you have control it is very easy to loose possession. The conservative tackle is a waste of 
 a button, because it only works 1/10 times. Intercepting a pass is near impossible. The dodging 
 moves dont world as often as they should, which is half the fun. I always enjoyed taking on the 
 last man or keeper and just putting the ball in the back of the net. With Fifa 2001 on amateur 
 level i use to win sometimes 15-0, on amateur with Fifa World Cup 2006 i'm lucky to win 3-0. 
 
  
  Trust me on this, its not just me. This game is highly overrated and i think i'm going to stick 
 with Konami in the future. EA should not be selling games of this poor quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  first i will say that the gameplay of this game is the thing that make this game so bad followed 
 close by the ai that is just plain dumb. the game cant control the player and dont do anything 
 until you take control of the player. it is also imposible unless you attack a comp player at two 
 to take the ball out of they legs but they will be able to do it to you alone. they are also always 
 well place and always get the ball. one of the thing i did not like is when you shoot the player 
 get diselected and cant take the ball back if countered and come back to you also the controls 
 are awfull i play with a logitech rumble pad and they are really bad. other thing is that if a 
 long ball pass trought your defense you have no way to stop the attack and always get a goal or 
 always score. this is another example of a game that concentrate to much on graphics (that are 
 not that good on the pc) and not on the most important part controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  well i gues its pretty good , i never played football sim before... Graphicks are nice and gameplay 
 superb , it has multiplayer , and people can enjoy playing wit friends like i do , world cup game 
 is good , you can play threw cvalification and threw season of fifa world cup with is on now on 
 TV or LIVE ;] , game is realy good made i dont know maybe i cant play well but when i play its 
 hard to make a goal ... Well i played nba serries its good , but i never thought that football 
 will be more interesting than basketball... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyy89
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  FIFA World Cup 2006 is an average soccer game that falls far short of its target. The game is plagued 
 by poor controls and incompetent AI, and it is not helped by the poor layout of the game menu. 
 
  The controls do not feel smooth at all ingame and often do not respond accordingly. A case in point 
 would be when passing the ball with a player, the player occasionally chooses to pass the ball 
 very weakly to an empty area in front of him instead, choosing to ignore his teammate a bit further 
 ahead. This can be very frustrating especially when playing online. 
  Players also appear not to respond to commands at times. When pressing the default key to pass, 
 the player does not respond at all, and when one presses it again, the player finally passes the 
 ball, but the receiving player passes it again as well, often gifting the opponent the ball.
  Computer controlled players on one's team also have really poor skill. When the ball is about to 
 go out of the pitch due to an opposing team player kicking it in that direction, the AI player 
 will often chase the ball and end up running off the pitch with it, resulting in a free throw for 
 the opposing team when it should rightly have been the other way around. 
  The menu is also poorly laid out with options all sounding pretty much the same, such as "My Fifa 
 World Cup" and "Fifa World Cup". This may result in confusion for newer players and requires alot 
 of trial and error before one is able to find the correct option one seeks.
  Even on highest detail, the faces for the characters look severely marred which is extremely disturbing. 
 The players also bear very slight resemblance to the players that they were obviously meant to 
 represent. The skin tones of players is also off, with Asian players such as the Japanese, looking 
 like African players instead. 
  Limited play options also reduces the replay value of the game. While Global Challenges add that 
 extra bit of challenge to a game, the players represented are that of today's era and not that 
 of the time period in which that match took place. This often affects the true challenge of these 
 games since the team strengths have obviously shifter over time. 
  Unlocking extra content is a nice touch but the poor selection of content also leaves one wanting. 
 Additional boots, balls and jerseys are not enough to make one want to play the game another time.
 
  In conclusion, the game is pretty much a big disappointment and one's money would be better spent 
 on another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius_oltean
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  After the sheer disappointment that was FIFA 06, I almost lost all hope in soccer simulator games, 
 at least, those made by EA Sports. After playing the latest game in the FIFA series, I was left 
 with the impression that it would take something quite extraordinary to redeem the series and to 
 lift it up to the levels that it promises for so many years to reach. FIFA World Cup 2006 evidently 
 cannot be called extraordinary, but it is certainly a step in the right direction.
  
  The gameplay is easily the most significant improvement of FIFA World Cup 2006. One of the aspects 
 which largely contributed to making FIFA 06 such a disappointment was the fact that the player 
 would spend almost the entire soccer game in the midfield, the ball constantly bouncing back and 
 forth between his team and the computers, thus making scoring opportunities rather rare. This 
 has, thankfully, changed in FIFA World Cup 2006, which is the primary reason why this game is 
 so great. The soccer matches have become much more fluent, allowing for scoring chances at both 
 ends of the field one after the other. The game has consequently become much more exciting and 
 entertaining, and, even though the gameplay may still have a few flaws (for example, the inability 
 to control the power of your passes) , it constitutes a very significant improvement.
  
  In addition to feeling like a true soccer match (exciting, entertaining, captivating) , the game 
 looks absolutely superb  the stadiums, the players, the flags, the confetti, they all create an 
 atmosphere with a strong feeling of grandeur and suspense.
  
  Whether it is the few improvements that put FIFA World Cup 2006 above its predecessor (FIFA 
 06) in terms of quality of play, or whether it is the dramatic and tense atmosphere of the World 
 Cup in Germany that is taking place these days that makes this game so much fun to play, but one 
 thing is for certain: no one who is a fan of soccer should miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexFerny
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  EA have done a great job improving the graphics of the game, making them seem far more life-like, 
 and the commentry and camera / presentation resembles watching the match on TV very closely.
  However, this is where the praise ends. It would have been nice to see them spend the development 
 money on making the AI seem more realistic, as at the moment is it still relatively poor. Players 
 on your team do not seem to make runs (on thier own) , and even when you press the run buttom the 
 runs tend to not be anything like you expect in real life (they dont try to get into positions 
 that are open) - instead they stand still.
  A sinmple 1-2-1 seems beyond this game, since as soon as you pass the ball to player 2, player 
 1 will run back to his normal posision making the Beckham - Neville or Cole-Cole overlap and cross 
 impossible. It also seems that EA has never heard of man marking or pressing the opposition. Players 
 retreat to thier formation positions once your team loses the ball and they tend to stand still 
 in these positions. This means that they play very deep, with your strikers being in thier own 
 half thus not hounding the opposition defenders / midfielders who are passing the ball in thier 
 own half. Lack of man marking means that intercepting the passes becomes a whole new difficulty 
 in it self (funny how the opposition seem to be able to man mark however) .
  
  Overall, better graphics but still a very disappointing AI - I'll stick to watching the games on 
 TV and playing in the park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  I'm generally not a big fan of sport games, but soccer is my one weakness, and I have frequently 
 been disappointed by the World Cup games of the past. However, the 2006 version far surpassed my 
 expectations.
  
  Sporting spectacular graphics, nothing near the quality of the Xbox 360 though, and one of the 
 richest atmospheres experianced in gaming, Fifa World Cup 2006 really makes you feel like you are 
 part of the spectacular event. The intro to each game, from the satellite tracking to the thousands 
 of fans throwing confetti and streamers, really makes you feel like you are inside the stadium, 
 experiancing the game.
  
  Another aspect of the game that impressed me was the amount of detail that has gone into it. In 
 the previous games, you could only select a few countries to play as, whereas with this one, you 
 can pick any country with a soccer team, and take them straight through the qualifying rounds or 
 straight through the finals.
  
  Another interesting aspect that has been incorporated is the creation centre, where you can create 
 your own players and place them in your favorite team.
  
  But unfortunaltley, some of the problems in the other games still exists. Lazy goalkeepers, frustrating 
 controls, impossible free kicks, impossible penalty kick saves, etc. However, the rest of the game 
 is so ironed out, that sometimes you tend to forget about these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fennecus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun from the get go. The scores are realistic and once you find a way to score you 
 can't do it over and over again. 
  
  You can be any country from Canada to Cambodia to Chad.
  
  I like the commentators though their 
 comments are repeated too often. I never get tired of the roar of the crowd.
  
  The graphics are average during game play, but closeups get lifelike.
  
  Has a cheaper price 
 tag which makes it more desirable.
  
  Game play options, you can start at qualifying for world cup. Also there are scenarios you can 
 pick up like down by 1 finish and win by 2 with 30 min left.
  
  Good game I recommend it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  What is it about shoddy developers, and big name publishers like EA, that makes them think they 
 can release crap console conversions, with big licenses, show us it in amazing detail and glory, 
 only for us to install and reliase that PES5 on the PSP looks better! 
  
  Lets get this right, I played on my dad's very high spec PC. 
  
  The only settings I can change 
 in this game are resolution, maxing it at 1280x1024, with "High" settings. High? Well what I expect 
 for High settings is obviously way higher than EA! 
  
  It looks at best like a PS/2 game. On my dad's $2000 PC rig, thats sloppy. 
  
  Sure it has 
 all the nice little touches, like decent commentary, the carnival touches a World Cup should have, 
 but its overall a pants game. 
  
  I cannot use a PS/2 joypad. Same with most EA games, it screws them. Thats about the only PS/2 
 compatability I want with a PC game, are you listening EA? 
  
  The pitches look brown, dire looking mudbaths at best. Hardly look like the best playing surfaces 
 in the world, like we will see this summer at the WC. 
  
  The player animation is what I was used to seeing maybe as long as 8 years ago on a PS1. 
  
 
  Game play is VERY limited. 
  
  I think the only thing average about this game that would kind of make it warrant even as high 
 as 4.8 is the sound and soundtrack. 
  
  Its a waste of a FiFPro license. A waste of development time, and definitely a waste of your money. 
 
  Do not buy. 
  
  I have PES5 installed, fancied a bit of WC fever in my footy and so went and wasted money on 2006 
 Fifa World Cup. 
  
  Its crap. 
  
  If you want footy, if you want it to look good, play great, PES5 it is. I used to be a Fifa fan, 
 this has certainly gone no way to making me one again. 
  
  I cant slate it enough. In fact it gets 2/10 for me.
  
  if you have a problem with this review 
 P. M . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are ho-hum but the motion of the players is ecveptionally well-crafted. The soundtrack 
 is enjoyable to listen to and, for once, not overloaded with tracks they played too much on the 
 radio last year.
  But no one buys a soccer game for the music, so let's talk about what you really want to know. 
 How is the gameplay?
  It's not bad. Like all soccer games it takes some getting used to before you develope the proper 
 "touch" with your fingers but once you do it becomes quite fluid and hooking up passing combinations 
 between players is exciting. That being said, the game is not without its moments: like when your 
 defender clears the ball by sending it out into the crowd when you tap the buttons to send it into 
 the midfield, or when your midfielder sends the ball to the edge of the goalie box and the goalkeeper 
 just stands their and lets your striker smash the ball past him. However, these moments are more 
 than drowned out by the much more abundant times when the game does things right.
  The commentary is incredibly unannoying and the cheers and jeers of the roaring audience really 
 create an atmosphere similar to the real World Cup.
  I'll admit I have not tried online play yet but I did play against a friend (he had my gamepad 
 and I took the keyboard) and taking my favorite team up against his favorite team (England versus 
 France for those interested) was definantly the most fun I've had with this game thus far.
  I recommend this game to those of you looking for a well-rounded soccer game that successfully 
 focuses on the greatest sporting spectical on the planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsl2020
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  More Dumb AI :
  1-Your players will often get in the way of passes you try to play, resulting in loss of possession, 
 and the break down of the offense. 
  
  2 - Your mid fielders offer no support in defence and have a tendency to stand around and miss 
 runs by the opposition.
  
  3 - The goalkeepers are a strange dumb A. I. They make the really difficult saves look easy and 
 the really easy saves look difficult. 
  
  4 - The problems surrounding the A. I. in this game, have all been evident before in previous Fifa 
 games and it seems that there has been no attempt what-so-ever to rectify any of these for this 
 release. 
  
  5 - all the menus are so annoying, I don't think anyone from EA ever tryed to play this game , 
 otherwise I can't belive they wouldn't see how stupid and annoying this menus are (every 2 seconds 
 you they drop on u 3 times and ask you stupid questions) ,
  6 - playing vs computer has 1 really annoying thing, you can't steal the ball from the computer, 
 while he take the ball from you in 1 sec (I suppose he cheats here) , this game is totally crap 
 if your going to play single player,
  7 - The AI cheats tremendously and has unreal skills that one could only dream of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daJonesy7
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  So here we are again. Another World Cup and another Fifa game to accompany, the biggest football 
 tournament in the world. It's worth pointing out at the start of this review, that I am a Pro Evolution 
 Soccer / Winning Eleven fan. Despite this, I also have had a good history with the Fifa games and 
 have played them since Fifa 94, thus this review is not a simple attempt at flaming EA or their 
 Fifa franchise.
  
  That being said, I found my time with this incarnation of the beautiful game rather disappointing. 
 What makes this fact even more poignant, is that for a few slight and arguably rather basic changes, 
 this game could have been fantastic. 
  
  First I would like to point out the positives and there are more than a few. The first and one 
 which was never in doubt, is the fully licensed tournament, players and teams. Add to this license, 
 the fantastic player models and stadium details, and your left with a fantastic representation 
 of the tournament. 
  The graphics in this game are great for the most part. The player models all look great and the 
 top 100 players all have there own lifelike animations to really mark them out on the football 
 field. The stadiums all look as you would expect, with some great crowd animations, which really 
 bring the carnival atmosphere of the tournament to the forefront. 
  The game also boasts a slick menu system, which you would expect from the juggernaut that is EA 
 Sports. The menu's are all really slick and stylish, whilst remaining easy to navigate and useful. 
 
  A new mode which has been added to the usual array of exhibition, tournaments and penalty shootouts, 
 is the Global Challenge. This mode puts you into various situations from World Cups past, with 
 a set of objectives to either match the actual outcome or even better it for bonus points. The 
 points earned from this mode and the other various games can be spent in the EA Store, which contains 
 Classic Players, Kits, Footballs, Teams and other apparel. This is nice bonus to the game and gives 
 the player something to achieve, especially from a single player perspective. 
  There have been a few tweaks to the A. I. in the game, which further goes to improve the gameplay 
 experience, most notably the shooting mechanics and the penalty shoot-out mode have been worked 
 on. Both of these work well and are a definate step forward for the series. 
  
  Now onto the bad points and these are in equal quantity to the good points noted above. 
  
 
  First off...... the graphics. The fantastic work on the players and stadiums is let down, by what 
 I will refer to in this review as 'Shaky Cam' (Trademark that one EA) . The camera seems to move 
 erratically and jerks around when the passing and pace of the game picks up. This is frustrating, 
 but this frustation increases tenfold as you turn the difficulty up. Trying to come back from a 
 goal down or put together a decent passing rhythm becomes tedious at best and this really lets 
 down some of the hard work put in by the designers in other areas. 
  Other problems arise from the A. I. in this game also. Most notable is the fact that your players 
 seem to have a life of their own, unfortunately, this is not an intelligent life. Your players 
 will often get in the way of passes you try to play, resulting in loss of possesion and the break 
 down of the offense. Your players offer no support in defence and have a tendency to stand around 
 and miss runs by the opposition. These problems are again further highlighted as the difficulty 
 is cranked up. If you are a player of PES / WE, then you will find these problems really annoying. 
 
  As seems to be the trend with Fifa games, the goalkeepers are a strange bunch. They make the really 
 difficult saves look easy and the really easy saves look difficult. After around 30 mins play time, 
 most adequately skilled players will have worked out how to beat the keeper nearly everytime (reduce 
 that time by 80% if you have ever played a Fifa game before in the last 5 years) . 
  This leads onto the next problem with the game. What seems to be a simple lack of effort on the 
 developers part, to fix the problems with the gameplay, which have been widely reported from previous 
 games in the franchise. The problems surrounding the A. I. in this game, have all been evident before 
 in previous Fifa games and it seems that there has been no attempt what-so-ever to rectify any 
 of these for this release. EA may say that due to the timing of the tournament, they didn't have 
 enough time to overhaul the gameplay and still get the game released on time. Well more to the 
 point why wasn't all of this content simply added to the Fifa game released little over 6 months 
 ago? Dollar signs in the eyes would be the obvious conclusion to this question. Whilst the point 
 scoring system in the game, goes somewhat to making you want to play the game more and maybe complete 
 the tournament with numerous teams, when compared to the monstrous amount of content found in Fifa 
 06, it is hard to recommend this purchase. 
  All of this leaves an uneasy distaste in the mouth, when you have just spent another 40 on a game, 
 which isn't really any different from another game you purchased before xmas. The only really noticeable 
 difference being the gulf in content offered by the various titles.
  
  This is an obvious cash-in to mark the upcoming main event, whilst this doesn't necessarily make 
 this a bad game, it simply makes it difficult to recommend over it's predecessor. If like me, you 
 simply can not wait for the real action to begin, it does offer some nicotine-esque thrills. For 
 simple football fans, I'd sit it out and wait for Fifa 07 and Pro Evolution Soccer 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kohalik98
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I think FIFA World Cup 2006 is best soccer game. Game play is good, realistic. No more angles when 
 shooting free kick. Only one bad thing in this game. Very huge turf problem. Turf is so dark as 
 brown turf and I dont like this. Its nice that someone make patch for this bug. Its seriously sorry 
 that EA did not. But I hope they make an official patch for this bug. At all its a perfect game, 
 almost every national teams in the world. Very good posterity for FIFA World Cup 2002 what was 
 appreciably better than EURO 2004 were I cant see Holland team members. I hope FIFA 07 is as FIFA 
 WC 06. FIFA vs PS (or WE) wel I think FIFA is better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andybright
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  After reading the Gamespot review I was a little uncertain how this version would compare to previous 
 FIFA games, but after playing the demo I was pleasantly surprised.
  
  That's the bottom line, to find out how well your own PC will cope with this game, play the demo 
 first. It seems to have a balanced set of video and audio settings that older PCs are more than 
 capable of dealing with.
  
  I'm still using an Athlon XP 3200 with AGP graphics and I've experienced none of the dips in frame 
 rate that the Gamespot reviewer encounted. Even with all the settings maxed out, running the game 
 in 1280x1024 it plays well.
  
  One note of caution, for some reason if you have an ATI video card you will need to make sure your 
 video drivers are back dated to the catalyst 5.11 (released sometime around October/November last 
 year) or the graphics will appear somewhat dark - and there are no gamma settings to alleviate 
 the problem.
  
  However, despite this hiccup, the graphics are better than ever, crisp, clean and even with older 
 drivers appear to run along at a very decent rate.
  
  The gameplay itself hasn't changed that much from FIFA 2006, or even FIFA 2005 for that matter, 
 so unless you particularly want to play World Cup scenarios I wouldn't bother with this version.
 
  
  If the World Cup is the main reason you play this game, however, it's well worth the $30 you can 
 pick it up for in Walmart or some Gamestop stores.
  
  They have managed to fine tune the passing and the neat one-two interaction between players to 
 a degree that truly seems to depict the natural flow of a real game.
  
  The Goalkeepers can be suspect, but good keepers are still hard to beat, especially if you select 
 one of the higher game play settings.
  
  In fact the only niggle I had with this game was its tendancy to cause my gamepad controller to 
 lose it's calibration settings - however this never happened during a match, and simply meant saving, 
 quitting to Windows and re-calibrating the pad. Annoying but not what I'd call a showstopper.
 
  
  Bottom line, is this game worth the money? For $30, I'd say so, although if the Wolrd Cup is not 
 an important tournement for you, and you own either of the last two versions, don't bother to waste 
 your money. For those who have yet to buy a PC version of the game, this is a decent starting point, 
 and I after playing through the tournement from start to finish I've yet to encounter any speed 
 issues on a PC that's approaching 3 years old.
  
  As for online play - I'm sure it's great, but that's not something I'm interested in, so I'll leave 
 that for someone else to review.
  
  Overall I rate this game a 9 in all categories - gameplay, graphics, sound and value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 29, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Fifa World -cup 2006 is one of the best football games i have played recently. In fact, I am not 
 much of a foot-ball games fan, however, I found this one pretty tempting and well-worked. Graphically, 
 Fifa World-cup 2006 is not bad at all, however, the previous Fifa 2006 has beaten it graphically. 
 The game-play, however, is much better in Fifa world cup because you feel so many tactics and aspects 
 have been added to this new Fifa. The sounds on the other hand are very cool and do blast the sound-card. 
 moreover, i found much pleasure in the game play as much as the different modes of the game, that 
 of course make the game life-time much longer, and the pleasure much deeper. The only thing that 
 i would criticize isthe graphic engine, which should have been exploited even better than that, 
 especially when it comes to the faces of players....!! Well !! that's no big deal after all, as 
 long as pleasure and fun are there. I must sum-up and say that Fifa world cup 2006 is a great game 
 that I personally enjoyed so much !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 25, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This game will rock if it supports ATI cards, for those of you who are playing using an ATI graphic 
 Card, you will notice that the field/pitch is darker than the sccreenshots. This makes the whole 
 game looks horrible as the lighting and ray of sunlight could not enter the field coz AT graphic 
 cards blocked it...!! So with these graphics error that EA didnt fix for about a month, makes me 
 sick of EA!! The system requirements on the box stated that ATI cards are supported.. but i guess 
 EA lied just to make business.. they didnt test the game with an ATI card. Shame on you EA!
  
  For the gameplay, it's really nice. There is a new shooting mechanic which works quite and .the 
 running game is much better.
  
  For the A. i part, the opposition team seems to attack you in different ways to score a goal, that 
 is nice... but the A. I still seems to be stupid, they love to dribble the ball backwards before goin 
 forwards. And it is quite easy to score a goal..
  
  The sound in this game are quite good too.. the chants make the whole atmoshphere live and real...
 
  
  Bare in mind that there are also no linesman in this game, the grapchics option are not much. Only 
 resolution, level of detail, and refree. And the graphics are not that great like the xbox360.
  
  The Framerate arent that good too with ati cards... i heard that it runs smooth on Nvidia.
 
  
  And playing this game using an analog gamepad feels better tan using a keyboard..
  
  So if you're an ATI user, dont buy this game, it runs like crap. It feels better to play Fifa 06 than 
 WC 06.
  
  But if u're nvidia user, you should buy this game.. I'm an ATI user, so i regret buying this game, there 
 are currently not patch or fixes for the graphical bugs,,
  
  ENJOY!! Looking forward to FIFA 07, hope it dont give any problems in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahidofhonor
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Ya no doubt its the best soccer game. I dont need to say anything about graphics, coz EA sports 
 is always doing great about that. Commentry is much better than previous versions. Sound will make 
 u feel that u r in the staduim. 
  Gameplay hasnt changed that much from previous versions, i think we dont need any change in gameplay 
 as it is perfect till now. 
  New character moves r more realistic.
  And as a world cup special it got a festive look.
  and one more interesting feature is global 
 challenges. u will be abble to play historic finals.
  creation center is available.
  I say its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_connexion
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 23, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  No since euro 2000 6 years have passed and i really dont that much differece in EA games... the 
 graphics are still almost the same... the plyers look really bad like in all EA sports games. And 
 that is not even the worst thing about this game... the gameplay is really really bad every through 
 pass is good (allmost) this is really fun.. i was playing this game 3 days ago and i won 6-0 against 
 spain with Bosnia WTF?? I was paying this game for the first time... I couldnt believe this because 
 it really hard to score gols. The keeps are more than great... Even on semi-pro really dont know 
 what is happening with EA... overall i really cant see one good thing about this game... OK one 
 thing maybe real names... nothing else.... I really hope EA do something with the Graphics on PC 
 (the next fifa game) , I have also played this game on xbox 360 and the Graphics were really good 
 but on PC even when you play on 1600*1200 it still sucks big time! Dont buy this game, at least 
 not the PC version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshel_007
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 22, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Well EA are here again with a new Football game, and as usual it has quite a few bugs. Those are 
 mainly game play bugs. The passing system is bad the through ball system is the worst ever. I mean 
 to say that when you pass a through ball, the player automatically selects to shoot the through 
 ball in the direction so that the opposing player will get it. it irritates me a lot.
  
  Well as for the good part of the game. This year there has been a massive increase in the licensing 
 of players. with teams like India, Pakistan and Solomon Islands making it into the game and that 
 too these players have real names. 
  
  Other good thing is the soundtrack. Once again EA has come up with a great mix of soundtrack. and 
 when i selected India, an Indian song started to play. this is with most of the countries. Also 
 one more good thing is that at the end of a cup match the national anthem of the country plays 
 in the background. but bad thing is that you don't get to hear the anthem when u win the world 
 cup final match. although it has a quite good trophy presentation.
  
  As for the bottom line i say that this time EA might get away by giving really good music and really 
 good feel to the game, but they must improve a lot on their game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonBaineone
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 21, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  I first picked this up around a week ago now ( I think it was the 9th of May ) and I've been shocked 
 by how close the developers have come to getting things just right. Seriously, the atmosphere is 
 brilliant!, you literally find yourself standing after scoring and screaming '' YES, YES, YES, 
 C'MON!! ''. Another thing that really made me happy was the fact it wasn't just FIFA 06 with international 
 teams. They've actually constructed a whole new gaming experience for World Cup, which pleased 
 me greatly. I don't think enough can be said about the commentating! Trevor Brooking and Peter 
 Brackley get it spot on. FIFA 06 had some superb moments in the commentating, it always felt smooth 
 and didn't cut out too quickly. Now, World Cup just takes the commentating up a notch, scoring, 
 winning, making quality passes all gets rewarded by outstanding commentating. 
  
  To be honest the only downfall I've encountered is the fact I can't change my W, A, S and D to move 
 the players, using the directional keys can be annoying, I normally find myself crossing my arms 
 so I can play efficiently. I think the graphics could have been a little better aswell, especially 
 for this PC version.
  
  Anyway all In all I give this one a 7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Husamabudiab
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that 
 i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that 
 i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that 
 i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that 
 i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that 
 i ever played...: D!
  the most intresting soccer game that i ever played...: D!
  
  palestine boy...91
  
  tunisia go ahead ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitnessrower
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Fifa world cup 2006 its the best football game ever. Great graphics better and smoother moves, great 
 game speed. Simply fun!
  I played the game and my opinion is that this game gonna rock. i played a lot of sport games but 
 this its the most ecxiting of all. You should buy it, it worth your money. The commentators are perfect 
 the game style awsame and the experience this game gives you is unforgetable!
  Ea sports congrats for this beautiful game, iam sure that the next one is gonna be much much better. Germany 
 we are coming there, Soon the world cup 2006 is gonna be the most amazing event of 2006 i cant wait 
 the time!!
  Ppl all you have to do go and buy the game and live the amazing experience this game gives you. Its 
 almost real ,you feel the game you feel the players you feel the exitment thats what proffesionals 
 do, thats what EA sports do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RGAF_Iso06
Rating: 6
Date: May 18, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  ea sports allways giving us those great fifa games and me my self as a soccer fan i got one thing 
 to say STOP THE ARCADE
  now i think all off us the fifa games fan need more real animations real graphics a real feeling 
 like we are in the game and in this game i realy not feeling it its just the same as fifa 06 with 
 nation team so asa i said i this review as a big fan of ea and fifa the must build a new and better 
 engine 
  i m giving it 6 out of 10 because and only because its the same as fifa and there is nothing realy 
 new in it 
  
  ohh and EA Rulez !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_M_172007
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  It's not like WE9 or PES 5 , It got it's good moments , the game-play is mechanical , like there 
 is one way to score a goal but the game database is very nice with a lot of teams around the world 
 to chose from in the world cup qualifiers , so I think it's nice and fun to play with your national 
 team and you can creat your own player in your national team and play with them in the wourld cup 
 2006 , the is good in graphics and sounds , the sound tracks is really fine and nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 13, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  The second i saw Fifa world cup 2006 on sale in the shop on the way to school, i went crazy, and 
 straight at the end of school, went and got money and went and bought the game, and i was expecting 
 the most amazing gaming experience from a footie game so far but it wasnt to be.
  
  This is the best looking game for me so far, it looks too good, the players are photo realistic 
 and the cut scenes look nice (thats if your PC can handle it, the frame rate can suck) but the 
 some parts of the gameplay dont make up for it.
  
  I played this game on ametuer, semi pro and professional and i killed the CPU against everyone 
 and world class is the only difficulty that puts up a challenge, you could unlock a perfect difficulty 
 but it will drive you nuts, so i was dissapointed with that, you either kill this game completely 
 or flop miserably. But the game is quick, and unlike in pro evo (WE) , every time you get the ball, 
 its not a foul, and thats a HUGE releif and the passing is slick and its easy to do skills but 
 the crossing requires skill, its not AI assisted and the free kicks are really bad, youll never 
 ever score from them. Also when youre defending, the AI automatically switches player for you, 
 but gets it HORRIBLY wrong. When you are trying to get the ball of someone, you want the defender 
 to run at the ball, NOT a striker, obviously EA didnt realise that, so everytime the CPU have the 
 ball, you will have to keep pressing the pass button until you have control of a defender (or anyone 
 who is in front of the CPU) and you can succesfully tackle, otherwise you will have to come from 
 behind and try to tackle (which will never work) .
  
  You can unlock many things, but 80% of it is completely useless. you can get classic kits for 5 
 teams which dont look that great, you can get like 20 classic players of which none are english, 
 you can get football boots which are useless unless you create players and you can get footballs, 
 which is the only thing worth unlocking because they look great in matches.
  
  There are plenty of targets to acheive, like winning the world cup with a team from asia or beating 
 a team by 7 goals or scoring a late winner, etc. theres plenty of things to do like that.
  
  This game does not deliver in terms of gameplay, its unsatisfactory, youll be left staring 
 at your screen when the CPU scores against you because you couldnt tackle him because you were 
 in control of an attacker and you couldnt do anything about it, this game sounds great, the music 
 is all good and the loading times are ok but the gameplay isnt that great, dont buy this, youll 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoonen123
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 11, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing FIFA games since the first one came out, but this game is the worst I ever 
 played. The controls are SOOO easy. You cannot control you passing speed or distance, the change 
 of scoring for distance is almost zero (because the goalies are like spiderman) and its just so 
 disasterous to see EA making another bad FIFA game. But I know why, soccer games are different 
 then the other games they make like Madden and NHL, because when a new feature arrives in those 
 games they automaticly push it into FIFA almost al the time. Now sometimes this works out quite 
 well like FIFA 2003, but the case is this World Cup doesnt get those features because NHL and Madden 
 are not out yet. So you get a very unispiring game, fully scripted and no fun at all. You will 
 also be expected to hit the post almost like all the time (guys its back!!) . So please do not buy 
 this game, and we just all need to protest in the EA Booth and asked them to give up and give the 
 player names rights to the only soccer game to date Winning Eleven, or PES. 
  
  Dismall effort, with gameplay thats can be found in FIFA 2000, this isnt progress this is just 
 definately a major step backwards, and EA that is in the wrong direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hero_911
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  i think that's a good game but its depends on your thinking of playing, when you play smartly you'll 
 feel the game and when you play foolishly you'll hate the game
  about the game play its more better than fifa 06... and graphics of the players its really great... 
 but about the stadiums its worth than fifa 2006 
  the sound is good also and the crowds too
  and even the global challange and the practice and 
 the great penalty shooy out mode its all good and deserve to play
  so i think its a better one than others except the graphics
  and my advice don't miss this game... for 
 the great skills that you will see
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForteX
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 7, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Hey it is not a game, it is way to pay for your sins!
  I've always enjoyed played soccer games. I started with ISS on the SNES and have been hoping from 
 game to game ever since.
  
  I was quite disappointed with FIFA 2006... and here is why...
  
  Graphics:
  The animations 
 are generally good, although when the players run there is something odd about it.
  The textures could use quite some work, they are ugly on closer shots. Quite a few details seem 
 to detract from the game.
  
  Sound:
  Few complaints here, some musics just don't seem to fit it, but they are generally good. The crowd 
 and the narrations are well done.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Here is where it all crumbles apart, of course. While the gameplay is mostly obvious (traditional 
 soccer gameplay) , there are some parts to it that just don't feel right. For instance, how you 
 feel that there is not much control over passes, shots and tackles. Sometimes it will recognize 
 passes as low shots, sometimes crosses will be over-head shots... Plain annoying. Or how easy it 
 is to lose the ball and if you try to imitate what the cpu does, it just doesn't have the same 
 effect.
  
  I also hate how they strip away from you the control over the players. You can only move 'em in 
 certain conditions (example, you can move the attackers if the goal keeper has the ball) , or do 
 certain moves (you cannot slide tackle if you are away from the ball and if it is not being passed) . 
 I miss this freedom and it deeply annoys me how I cannot control a bunch of things that would help 
 me play, even if they looks silly.
  
  The bunch of modes avaiable is nice, variety is a good thing. The bad thing is it is just so easy 
 to get mad at the game, because there are things that do not make any sense, at all. Specially 
 with such poor keepers, well, at least yours. Some easy to defend shots will hit the net.
  
  The offside is also very annoying... not the rule, but how it works in game. In one play, my 
 player shot the ball (he was ahead of the rest of the team) , the ball hits an opposing team player 
 and returns to the foot of another player of my team... which was now ahead of everyone. Since 
 when is this considered offside? Exactly, never.
  
  Some teams seem completely unbalanced, having some ranked worst actually performing better.
  
 
  One thing that annoys me dearly is the controls outside the matches. Moving around the interface 
 is annoying, instead of having simpler-one-button ways to use it, you have to constantly move your 
 mouse trying to see what you selected because the music information overlays the selection...
 
  
  All in all, I'd say Fifa 2006 is a pretty frustating experience. If you want a fun soccer game, 
 stick with Winning Eleven. Actually, stick with any other game, it is hard to beat this one on 
 mediocreness.
  
  --Otto 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  There is nothing earth shattering nor explosive in this game. its another add on to the decent 
 EA Fifa series. But I have to say its entertaining and enjoyable. I read all the responses and 
 I'm dissapointed with the negative attitudes. This game will keep you playing for quite some time 
 and the graphics are great for such low system requirements.
  
  EA did a great job making sure everyone can play this on their system and the layout of the series 
 is nice.
  
  EA also did us a favor setting the game price to only $30. this also gives more people a chance 
 to pick up the game and play against others on the net.
  
  If you want a game to put you in the World Cup mood then pick this up. there is nothing new or 
 dynamic with this game to offer ... but all in all it kicks butt.
  
  Gameplay: Same as always ... 8
  Graphics: nothing new but nice to have it play on old systems 
 ...8
  Sound: Nothing sounds nicer then 100 thousand soccer fans chanting ... 9
  Value: you'll play this for a while ...8
  Tilt: I love soccer so its a great game ...8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  Fifa World Cup 2006, one of the most excitement tournament around the world now come as a video 
 game, is it a good representation of the tournament? The answer might be yes but 
  These days expectancy of the video games players is too high and they really want a good stuff. 
 The game provides a good qualification road to the world cup, teams and players information are 
 incredibly better than all the football games around and when you reach the final stage you can 
 feel the World Cups atmosphere in the official world cup stadiums in Germany but as usual the 
 game could be much better.
  Players faces are interesting but theyre not realistic and it became worst because of the lights 
 effects. Lack of the exciting cinematic is obvious, there is still no acceptable cinematic for 
 the substitution or wining celebration. The 3D engine of the game doesnt process frame as good 
 as it must do.
  Overall its a good game but no as much as it must be, gosh! Its the official game of the world 
 cup! EA doesnt appreciate this opportunity! Maybe if FIFA get its license to the Konami EA try 
 harder!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rexobias
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 6, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  When i see the XBox360 Version (very good) , i'm wainting for a good game with very fun, pleasure, 
 and other things.
  
  But this PC version is too bad to be true. It remeber me the FIFA 2000+ for PS1, and i run it in 
 my PC wth everything in the max. Player Models are very Bad, and the other things. Why the FIFA 
 games are so uncolour?! With this work (Zero) , you, will never catch the PES series.
  
  The best FIFA game ever was the FIFA Footbal 2003, since then, the FIFA series are worst from year 
 to year, and with this game they touch the bottom.
  
  EA Sports - OUT. Give to Konami the clubs and leagues copyrights and surrender.
  
  If you want 
 to live the FIFA World Cup 2006:
  - Go to Germany;
  - Wait for WE10 / PES6;
  - Buy a XBox360 with FIFA World Cup 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobalt_TAW
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 5, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Oh man what can i say about the pc version of Fifa 06 world cup. Well i played the demo of this 
 game on the xbox 360 last week, and yea the graphics where equally as good as it's not so distant 
 predecessor Road to the world cup, and the gameplay was a definite improvement. Anyway i recently 
 bought a new graphics card, the nvidia geforce 7900 gtx. So i figured i'd purchased this game for 
 the PC, seeming as it's about 20 cheaper, and i figured on the high settings surely this game 
 will look equally as good as the 360. Lol how wrong could i be. For a start the player models are 
 pathetic, they look like something you'd see on the PS1 back in 1998. Yea the players kinda look 
 like who their mean't to represent, but it's just cheap tacky polygon work, and they look kinda 
 squashed down abit like little stubby midget versions. Next is the staduims, awful is one word 
 to describe them. The advertising boards look cheap and colourless, the pitches look like some 
 cheap mutant astro turf style nightmare, no grass texture just all one huge crappy green mess mean't 
 to represent grass. The crowd looks hideous, especially when you see the press guys near the touch 
 line, just pathetic 2D static models. I could go on and on about how bad this shower of crap looks, 
 but anyone who know's EA will be expecting this kind of shoddy unpredictable work. I mean why couldn't 
 they have ported over the sweet looking graphics from the 360 to the pc for people who have high 
 performance systems. Anyway i know graphics aren't everything, and gameplay wise the game is ok, 
 typical fifa arcade style we know and expect with afew new introductions like the star player system. 
 I won't go into explaining it because there's plenty of other soruces that will explain it much 
 better than i. Anyway for those of you interested in buying this game for the pc, i'd say don't 
 bother, buy pro evo 5 instead and install the world cup mod. 
  Rant Over :-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkskyehim
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 3, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I have played Fifa since I have memory of videogaming, the truth is this is the best Fifa game 
 ever, it has some improvements, but still not enough to be a great soccer game, and here's why:
 
  
  First of all let me tell you that what ea sports did concerning the realism on the extra soccer 
 things is awesome. Exact copies of the stadiums of the world cup, the team's uniforms are incredibly 
 well done and the ambient is amazing.
  
  If any of you got to play road to world cup 98, u would remember that you could actually try and 
 qualify any team to the world cup, that got lost in the Korea/Japan 2002 World Cup, but thank god 
 they returned it now in World Cup Germany 2006, that is also a "pro" to say about this game.
  
  The dribbles of this game are extremely well done, actually I havent seen any of this styles 
 of dribbling in any other soccer game, so thats definately one of the best things this game has.
 
  
  And of course, EA Sports having the licenses of almost every popular sport, adds a lot of emotion 
 and excitement while playing any of its game, this is not an exception.
  
  Now to the "cons":
  
  The gameplay is not good, u cant stop but feeling your players moves 
 are robotic and it seems they have the ball stuck in their feet, which takes out a lot of realism. 
 
  
  You dont get to miss the goal arch a lot, it seems like if in real life, player never fly the ball 
 out or shoot horribly with the wrong foot, which takes a lot of realism too, its all about pressing 
 "s" forward and when reaching the area press "d" (No matter if your player is Right or Left handed) 
 and your gonna get an awesome shot. The problem with this is that all goalkeepers are extremely 
 good! Even the keeper from Angola (To put an example, I have nothing against Angola, but their 
 soccer records are not really good) was in the top 5 keepers in the world, and no matter how well 
 you shoot he will stop it, you will score mostly by shooting and hoping a rebound, so that takes 
 a lot of emotion out, because most of your goals are gonna be pretty the same, which again, takes 
 out a lot of realism.
  
  The game has some bugs too, I got 2 players injured while playing world cup mode, and as funny 
 as this can sound, the game didnt let me change one of them, it put like by default a keeper, when 
 my injured player was a striker, so I had to lose a substitution in the game because of this. 
 
  
  The tactics system of this game is really weak, compared to other soccer games, it has improved 
 from fifa games, but it still is poor, it doesnt let you move a player wherever you want, which 
 is frustrating because soccer is not a rigid game, its just the opposite. To get the most similar 
 tactics, formation and players of your choice may take a lot more time that it should, its really 
 slow sliding down through every player each time you want to make a move or a sub.
  
  So, to me, this is surely the best fifa game, but its not even close to games like Pro Evolution 
 or Winning Eleven, if you want a complete arcade unrealistic (on gameplay) soccer game, get Fifa 
 World Cup Germany 2006, but if you are looking to a solid soccer game, with much more realistic 
 gameplay and way more excitement, get Pro Evolution Soccer 5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lLord_Mihajlo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Definitly the best soccer game ever (only Footbal Manager 2006 stops it to became best sport game 
 ever) . EA gave homework to KONAMI. This game will rule I am sure in that. 
  As we know EA has good tradition in making soccer games for World Cup events. Every tree FIFA games (including 
 this) which has World Cup in name, gave us incredible quantity of unlimited fun. All of them deserve 
 to be official World Cup games.
  In newest relase EA gave their best to please us with another outstanding sport game (after all,75% 
 of their profit comes from sport relases) .
  FIFA World Cup has it all from outstanding graphics, best posible sound and offcourse fast and fun 
 gameplay. Perfect soccer game. Just perfect.
  I will not spend more time to write about this game it is lot more fun to play it .
  This is 
 best soccer game on market if anyone tells you different he is jellous PES fan or crazy man how 
 thoesn't like sport games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Eu estava esperando anciosamente a saida desse game, e agora vejo que valeu a pena, ns temos que 
 levar em considerao que os timos graficos dos personagens se devem ao fato de serem menos jogadores 
 do que no fifa 06, por isso ele est melhor, A EA SPORTS, fez um timo trabalho neste game.
  
  Som
  o som das arquibancadas, o narrador na expectativa, gritos do tcnico, reclamaes dos 
 jogadores, tudo est muito bom mesmo.
  estava jogando esses dias atras, estava fazendo uma jogada para terminar em um gol, ento a torcida 
 comeou a gritar:
  BRASIL tum tum tum Brasil !!!, nisso o narrador falou:
  - Nossa!, como a torcida est agitada no estdio hoje!
  
  Isso pode ser pouca coisa, mas traz 
 uma nova interao dentro do prrpio game! O som est muito fiel, as musicas esto bem melhores 
 que no FIFA 06. Trazendo diversos ritmos agradaveis de se ouvir.
  
  Jogabilidade
  Os passes esto mais reais, os jogadores fazem aqueles pequenos erros que acontecem na vida real, 
 na hora em que voce passa a bola, ele d uma jogada de corpo, e sai correndo, os carrinhos sofreram 
 uma leve melhoria, o q eu ainda acho que est meio ruim  uma leve lentido (que sempre teve em 
 todos os games de futebol) na hora que voce aperta pra frente e depois pra trs. mas fora isso 
 o game est muito louco.
  
  Grficos
  Os grficos esto como era de se esperar, d+.
  J que so menos jogadores para fazer, a EA trouxe uma fidelidade nunca vista antes, o time do 
 BRASIL por exemplo est muito fiel ao real. os estdios esto muito mais detalhados, os efeitos 
 de dia, noite, chuva... estao aprimorados. E isso requer um PC veloz para usufruir de todas essas 
 caractersticas.
  
  Jogo
  Esse  o primeiro jogo de Copa do Mundo que est ligado diretamente ao Torneio Mundial, sem dar 
 ateno aos outros tipos de torneio.
  as partes tcnicas trazem mais facilidade, montar uma ttica est melhor.
  Enfim, tudo o que 
 um jogo pode ter de bom no momento voce encontra no FIFA WORLD CUP GERMANY
  
   isso ae, o jogo tah excelente!!!
  
  fiquei com preguia de escrever em ingls...
  ashuashuah
 
  
  falow, ateh mais uma PREVIEW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameStupid777
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 23, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  it's too easy to goal even you play in worldcup difficult level, because everyone pass and control 
 the ball so accuarcy. 
  
  TOO BORING GAMEPLAY:
  you just need to press pass and pass and pass or even long pass then shoot and you can goal if 
 the enemy's keeper .... you will see the enemy's goal keeper play in a god mode. but you goal keeper 
 play like a chicken. In 8 min for half, i can shoot about 20/30 times per game (shoot on goal / 
 total shoot) and only goal about 2~5 , and you will never feel exciting when you goal.
  
  THE ENEMY'S KEEPER PLAY IN THE GOD MODE:
  what can i say, the enemy's keeper is god, but i have 
 a chicken keeper. in the 20's shoots, about 40% is shoot in the box, 30% for header, 20% for 1 
 vs 1. the enemy's keeper hold the ball even when i shoot in 6-yard box. Then how can i goal? The 
 way is i shoot, he block the ball to another side, and my another striker (i place 2 striker) shoot 
 again when he block it out. "SOMETIMES" i can goal, but almost he can block again by using his 
 fly ability to fly from left to right. The enemy just have 0~5 shoot per game. but my little chicken 
 keeper will say hello to the ball and say "please come in to my goal" almost. That's really really 
 funny.
  
  THE GOOD:
  The gameplay is better than fifa 06.
  The graphics & sound is good.
  
  THE BAD:
  poor gameplay and you will never feel exciting 
 when you goal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayroyden
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  The game features many stadiums and players with accurate data and physics. The game is quite fast 
 and is set to be a great release of the EA Calender. The Game has a unique player skill for every 
 player and we get a chance to lead our through the difficult world cup qualifiers into the competition 
 and onto to win the grand tournament. On your way you can pick up several credit points which enbles 
 you to do several unlocks.
  
  You can experience the excitement of international soccer competition in FIFA 06. Extensive coaching 
 options give you the opportunity to take control of all of your players on the pitch and determine 
 their formation and strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlarre
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  A really good game, some small things can always improve. but the feeling is great, the menus smooth 
 and the gameplay is superb!
  
  I have played almost every FIFA game to date, and my feeling before was that they made a good game 
 about every second year, but now they have, in my opinion, made 3 great games in a row, and they 
 have just got better and better. and now, with the world cup coming up, what could be more fun 
 than to play with your team in the greatest tournament of all, in the greatest soccer game of all?
 
  
  im going to have many hours of fun with this one, especially when playing with my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemmo_ays
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  That's it, this is thgame i was waiting for since fifa 99 :D [SPERB GAME FIFA 99] good graphics, super 
 cool music, realy realystic gameplay, improved options to wiev the game [cameras] , better coordonation 
 in the team, easy to learn tactics, easy to use menu style, all teams are in the chalange even teams 
 that did not make it to the world cup, giving them the option to qualify virtualy it's great.
  
  What can i say? this it's the best football game ever and one more thing that i love it's the 
 national songs and the soundtrack, tha way that players show the joy for scoring......
  
  i hope that the next fifa 2007 will be better than this one and will have more championships that 
 06, i want the Romanian champion ship, becaus steaua & rapid bucharest reched high places on uefa
 
  
  SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: view136
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  The long-expected first step towards the perfect fifa game. With all the new graphics and today's 
 gameplay engines, expectedly EA Sports brings up to date their Soccer game. At least they're starting 
 to improve it.
  It should be the start for a new generation of fifa games. 
  
  - The gameplay is similar to FIFA06. Actually nothing changed in the controls. Only the behaviour 
 of the players. They move more realistically, even though the console type of play is obvious.
 
  - The sound is better. The crowd reacts better at your actions, and this is a big plus. Hopefully 
 they'll soon animate even more the stadium and the fans. 
  - The nice surprise is the 90 min game. This proves something great: The AI is improved. Much more. 
 The field is closer to reality, bigger.
  
  Imagine a game of 90 min where you hardly score. This really is a soccer game. And with all the 
 previous achievements together (especially the star players game and the tactics buttons) it could 
 turn out to be the best experience.
  And this is the major change they've done in the game.
  
  - The atmosphere is nice. The gave 
 a plus to it with all the confetti. Could have done more. There are already the necessary ways 
 to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVENGEjumbo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Guess what??? The best sport in the whole world is...
  Fifa world cup the major event in the whole world as big as Olympic games or even better. Fifa 
 06 got game now. Get it for PC no crappy consoles. 360 version is good too if you dont have a high 
 end computer like mine. Get this game soccer lovers and be the real champ. See yall online and 
 dont forget to yell gooooooooooooooooooooooolll golazo gol gol gol gol gol ogol gol gol You can 
 experience the excitement of international soccer competition. Extensive coaching options give 
 you the opportunity to take control of all of your players on the pitch and determine their formation 
 and strategy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
