-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifasoccer2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 7.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,231 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 12, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is EA Sports' best soccer game to date on the pitch, but it's really unfortunate that the career 
 mode isn't more user-friendly. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       FIFA Soccer 2005 Review for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =                    After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited 
        What's this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT   
    Toward the end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;        
        

  In the world of soccer games, there are really only two serious contenders for the championship 
 title at this point: Konami's Winning Eleven games (Pro Evolution Soccer in Europe) and EA Sports' 
 FIFA Soccer series. Like rival soccer teams eager to show off their newly acquired players at the 
 start of a new season, these two series show up with a host of new features every 12 months in 
 the hope that each will finally score a convincing victory over the other. Traditionally, Konami's 
 offerings have boasted more-realistic gameplay but have faltered in the areas concerned with presentation, 
 specifically due to the lack of licensed team and player names. EA Sports' offerings, on the other 
 hand, have generally felt a little more arcadelike than realistic, but the games have always looked 
 extremely sharp, and they let you take control of real teams comprising real players that wear 
 real uniforms. The line separating the two series has become increasingly blurred in recent years, 
 and this year is no exception, as both games are still seemingly seeking to emulate the other's 
 strengths. But to set aside the competition for a moment, FIFA Soccer 2005 is definitely the best 
 FIFA game to date.  

          This year's biggest improvement is the introduction of first-touch controls.     

  
 Every year, EA Sports makes a point of improving one key aspect of its soccer games. FIFA Soccer 
 2004 focused on off-the-ball player movement, for example. FIFA Soccer 2005 retains all the off-the-ball 
 functionality of last year's offering and adds convincing ball physics (the ball doesn't stick 
 to players' feet anymore) and some excellent first-touch gameplay mechanics to the mix. The ability 
 to determine how your players control the ball at the exact moment it reaches them might not sound 
 like a big deal, but its ramifications are extraordinary, because playing realistic passing-style 
 soccer is now more feasible and satisfying. As a result, skilled strikers can create scoring opportunities 
 out of thin air by embarrassing their markers with a single touch. Furthermore, the satisfaction 
 you'll get from humiliating an opponent with just one tap of the right analog stick (we  really 
  don't recommend trying to play with the keyboard, because, oddly, the shift key is used to toggle 
 the arrow keys between left and right analog stick functions) is almost akin to scoring a goal 
 against him or her.  

  Like the on-the-ball skill moves that allow you to beat opponents when you're en route to their 
 goalmouths with the ball in your possession, first-touch controls are all performed by tapping 
 the right analog stick in the direction that you'd like your player to take the ball. The actual 
 animation that transpires when the ball arrives at your player's feet (as well as whether or not 
 the move succeeds) is determined by the player's position in relation to the ball, as well as his 
 skill level. Some players are able to flick the ball over their heads, while some can turn defenders 
 without even thinking about it or without ever letting the ball move more than a few inches from 
 their bodies. Others will struggle to perform even simple turns without letting the ball stray 
 far enough away from them so that opponents have a shot at stealing it. Also, like the on-the-ball 
 moves, EA Sports has gotten the balancing of the first-touch controls nigh perfect. They're effective 
 enough that you'll want to use them all the time, but the odds of your fancy footwork failing you 
 are also significant enough that you'll still have to work pretty hard to create scoring opportunities 
 for your team. There will be occasions, of course, when you're able to run a single player through 
 your opponent's entire midfield and defense en route to a spectacular goal, but these moments of 
 individual genius are few and far between -- just as they are in real life.  

          Passing the ball around is invariably the best way to play.     

  For the most part, 
 the only way you'll be able to beat opponents of similar ability in FIFA Soccer 2005 is to pass 
 the ball around and successfully pick out players that are making good runs off the ball. If you've 
 played FIFA Soccer 2004, you'll know that many of the best runs made by your players are going 
 to be those that you trigger yourself. Sending other players on runs is as easy as tapping a single 
 button while you're in possession of the ball, and the system is as effective at beating defenders 
 as it is easy to employ. If you prefer to play an even more active role in the movement of your 
 players, you can actually assume control of a second player using the right analog stick. It's 
 not a system that we've ever really felt the need to use a great deal (and our online opponents 
 have invariably had the same attitude) , but it can certainly make it easier to pick out your strikers 
 with crosses into the box -- provided you can retain possession of the ball while you're using the 
 right analog stick for your second player rather than using it to perform tricks and turns with 
 your first. While we're on the subject of controlling additional players, it's also worth mentioning 
 that the goalkeepers in FIFA Soccer 2005 are often very slow to come off their lines, which, since 
 you can make them charge at the ball manually, is definitely a good thing. There are few things 
 more frustrating in a soccer game than conceding a goal because your overly active CPU keeper was 
 on a walkabout.  

  The other surprisingly significant improvement made to FIFA's gameplay this year concerns throw-ins, 
 which in many previous soccer titles, including FIFA 2004, have made it far more difficult for 
 the team awarded the throw to retain possession of the ball. EA Sports has effectively resolved 
 the problem by allowing you to use the same off-the-ball controls during throw-ins that you can 
 when in open play. When you're awarded a throw, you'll be able to control any of three players, 
 and you can move them around however you see fit while your opponent attempts to mark you with 
 three of his players. The system is different from the jostling mechanic that has you battling 
 for position before corner kicks (there's still no way to play short corners, incidentally) , but 
 it feels quite similar, and it affords you the opportunity to come up with some creative ways of 
 gaining advantages during the game's various corner set pieces.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" 
        FIFA Soccer 2005 Review for PC - Page 2 - GameSpot 
                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var 
 imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //               GAMES:    
  GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome 
     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search                       
         BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic 
 Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...               Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report: 
  Its Zerg...               Mafia II Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002... 
                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS    
     community      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports     
  tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top 
 Games     All PC Games     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create 
 your account    Help    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game       Tag 
       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg                              FIFA Soccer 2005 
 Review          

 This is EA Sports' best soccer game to date on the pitch, but it's really unfortunate that the career 
 mode isn't more user-friendly.                     After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the 
 end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  As you'll no doubt have gathered from reading the previous information, FIFA Soccer 2005 plays 
 an enjoyable and realistic game of soccer. The game isn't without its problems, though, and what's 
 disappointing is that many of them really shouldn't have been difficult to avoid. The advantage 
 rule (which Konami did a great job of implementing in Winning Eleven 7 International and has subsequently 
 improved) , for example, does not exist in FIFA Soccer 2005. So if one of your players is fouled 
 after releasing a pass that puts one of your strikers clean through on goal, there's a good chance 
 that the play will be stopped before you unleash your shot so that you can take a free kick. Playing 
 against CPU teams can also be a baffling experience on occasion, because no matter which of the 
 four difficulty settings you've opted for, your opponents will often appear to pass the ball around 
 just for the hell of it. There's nothing wrong with keeping the ball moving, of course, but when 
 your defense is all but beaten and the opposing striker knocks the ball back to one of his colleagues, 
 who is in a less than favorable position, rather than going one-on-one with the keeper, it just 
 feels wrong.  

          The career mode is far less user-friendly than it could have been.     

  Perhaps the 
 most disappointing feature of FIFA Soccer 2005 is its 15-season career mode. It's actually quite 
 an engaging gameplay option, but every aspect of it has seemingly been designed with the impending 
 arrival of Total Club Manager 2005 (which will feature "Football Fusion" compatibility with FIFA 
 2005, allowing you to enjoy the features of both games simultaneously) in mind. It's a terribly 
 cynical thing to say, but the management aspect of FIFA 2005's career mode is so cumbersome and 
 unnecessarily time-consuming that it's as much an advertisement for the upcoming management title 
 as the billboards that appear in the game's stadiums. What are we basing this on? Here comes the 
 list:  

  1. When you start a career in FIFA Soccer 2005, you'll only be able to take control of certain 
 teams, most of which play in their countries' lower divisions, and some of which you'll almost 
 certainly not even have heard of. It's not necessarily a bad thing that the game forces you to 
 start your career at the bottom of the pile and work your way up, but if your dream is to one day 
 manage a glamorous team like Manchester United or Arsenal, the only way you'll realize it in FIFA 
 2005 is to first string together some successful seasons with another team and then wait for a 
 job offer. Will this be the case with Total Club Manager 2005? Perhaps, but we doubt it very much. 

  2. When you decide that you want to augment your team via the transfer market, FIFA Soccer 2005 
 makes it about as difficult as possible for you to search its player database. If you have a specific 
 player in mind, then it's not too difficult to locate him, provided he's still with the same team 
 he plays for in real life. However, if you're simply interested in a  type  of player or one with 
 certain abilities, then the only way for you to find that player is to check out the team rosters 
 one at a time, click on that specific player's name, and then scroll through that player's attributes -- none 
 of which can be done quickly.  

          Free kicks at goal are an incredibly satisfying way to score.     

  3. If and when 
 you manage to find a player that you're interested in adding to your squad, you'll notice a figure 
 next to his name that represents his value in career points. You earn career points by stringing 
 together wins, keeping clean sheets, scoring goals, and basically playing well. To make an offer, 
 you'll hit the negotiate button, at which point you'll have no opportunity whatsoever to participate 
 in any kind of negotiation. You'll instead be presented with a screen that tells you whether or 
 not you've succeeded in signing that player, in addition to a short explanation of the decision 
 made. Should you be crazy enough to try and submit an offer for a player whose list price you can't 
 quite afford -- perhaps thinking that the negotiate button will deliver on its promise -- you'll simply 
 be told that you don't have enough points.  

  Despite its numerous and significant flaws, the career mode in FIFA Soccer 2005 is still where 
 you're likely to spend most of your time when you're playing the game solo. There's something very 
 satisfying about taking charge of a team that's languishing in the lower divisions and turning 
 its players into champions. There are also a few management features in the game that are far less 
 painful than those listed above. Well, there's one, anyway. When you assume control of your team, 
 you'll be handed 100 management points to spend on backroom staff. The people working under you 
 include coaches that specialize in fitness, goalkeeping, defensive play, midfield play, and attacking 
 play. There is also a finance department; there are scouts; and there's a medical staff. As you 
 progress through the game, you'll be awarded additional management points to spend, and, as you 
 spend them, you'll find that the benefits of having a good staff are actually quite significant. 
 A good fitness coach, for example, will improve the recovery rates of your players in between matches, 
 while good scouts will be able to give you additional information on any players that you're interested 
 in signing. We should also mention that the career mode features an option that lets you simulate 
 matches rather than play them, which gives you the opportunity to jump into the action if you feel 
 it necessary to intervene at any point. The only reason we could imagine you wanting to make use 
 of this, though, is if you were looking to get through your first season or two as quickly as possible 
 in hopes of receiving a job offer from your favorite club.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  FIFA 2005 is good but only in certain parts.
  
  The graphics requirement of the game is awkwardly high for such a poor graphics result. The career 
 mode is disappointingly un-user-friendly. The player details are repetitive. I mean I never knew 
 that Peter Crouch looked like Andriey Shevchenko. The only interesting feature I found in the game 
 was building a new player. Every little detail could be fixed, starting from position of the nose 
 to the age. However, it becomes difficult to "configure" a player without proper rotational control. 
 Also the stuffs are quite complicated for a normal gamer to be worrying about. The game in itself 
 is quite boring and repetitive with the same moves and tactics used against you. After playing 
 a bit any kid can beat the game 14-0 at the world class level. The penalty shootouts are absolutely 
 horendous. In all the gameplay is ridiculously below standard. If you want a good game, check other 
 games before thinking about this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This year the FIFA series is completed with the all-new FIFA Football 2005. This year's game is 
 a great experience for everybody who would like to play a real soccer sim. Previous titles of FIFA 
 have been very good, but this year EA sports is really outstanding. The gameplay is even better 
 than in the past and the football fun and experience is improved with a very important feature: 
 the first touch. It's a new way to control the ball even better and to pass perfectly in order 
 to score. The creation of a new player has also improved and the leagues are two more than the 
 2004 version. It also seems that a new player reaction and growth is something that will interest 
 us this year. However, the season mode is not such user-friendly as it could be. The managing years 
 have changed from 5 to 15 and the visual sim is good asit is the player growth. Apart from the 
 first touch control, the game on the field has improved. The off the ball-control continues to 
 be right and some improvements are made with the free kicks.
  
  This is a game which will be remembered for a long time. I strongly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adityafunda
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  This has the best gameplay till now.
  the player can dribble in lot more ways and the first touch control is superb.
  besides, the 
 number of leagues one can select from is vast.
  also strategy making keeps improving.
  The autoplay option has a great modification in that if you see your team losing, you intervene 
 at the very moment and take charge in your hands.
  But the game on other hand is having a very poorly thought career mode.
  can you believe it, 
 it's 15 years.
  Also one always like to see the world cup option in a sports game.
  FIFA2005 is having league action only.
  despite these strategical drawbacks, it's superb gameplay 
 is a treat for all football lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farnerud
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  FIFA Soccer 2005 shows significant improvements in relation with the 2004th version of the saga, 
 but still does not justifies the preference for this game. A new interface, combined with a brand 
 new season game mode, gives you the option to play longer with an objective goal: be the ultimate 
 champion. For those of you who like to start a season with a big team, forget it! This game offers 
 you a significant amount of clubs for you to take your fist steps in the management world, but 
 it'll not give you big clubs for you to start with. For instance, if you are thinking to get into 
 the Spanish Primera, be prepared to start with Real Zaragoa, or Getafe. Teams like Barcelona or 
 Real Madrid are platforms only reachable by your own merit.
  So, by this point of view, FIFA 05 turns out to be a short sighted soccer game, once it narrows 
 your choices in how to play the game itself!
  Once you start actually playing the game, you'll notice that the pitch is horrible! It gives the 
 impression that someone tried to give it a realistic look, not to cosmetic, not to real, and the 
 mix of this to potions came out as a failure! The pitch is somewhere on the middle of the stadium, 
 that much you know, but is it that green thing that looks like your garden on a bad day ? Yes, 
 it is!
  The graphism is reasonable, but you'll find certain miss spots during the game that disappoints 
 you in this area. For example, when you score a goal, the effect that the ball has on the net is 
 not realistic at all, it seems like the net is made of steel!
  Certain imperfections in the replays also doesn't contribute to the success of the game.
  At 
 the end, keep trying EA Sports, because this one is an offside! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 2005 is the best Fifa game there is. It's better than Fifa 06 and 2006 Fifa World Cup.
  
  In FIfa 2005 you can take on players easier, do scissor kicks, transfers are a lot easier also 
 and it's fast paced unlike Fifa 06.
  
  The graphics are the exact same as Fifa 06 which means the graphics are good, They have accurate 
 player ratings, fast paced gameplay which every soccer fan is looking for. As it is hard to score 
 from far distances in the Fifa games it is still the same with Fifa 2005 but you can score better 
 goals, such as scissor kicks, overhead kicks and you can take on a whole defence and score goals 
 which is impossible with Fifa 06.
  
  Overall this game is a must buy if your'e a soccer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 2, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  In the world of soccer games, there are really only two serious contenders for the championship 
 title at this point: Konami's Winning Eleven games ( Pro Evolution Soccer in Europe ) and EA Sports' 
 FIFA Soccer series. Like rival soccer teams eager to show off their newly acquired players at the 
 start of a new season, these two series show up with a host of new features every 12 months in 
 the hope that each will finally score a convincing victory over the other. Traditionally, Konami's 
 offerings have boasted more-realistic gameplay but have faltered in the areas concerned with presentation, 
 specifically due to the lack of licensed team and player names. EA Sports' offerings, on the other 
 hand, have generally felt a little more arcadelike than realistic, but the games have always looked 
 extremely sharp, and they let you take control of real teams comprising real players that wear 
 real uniforms. The line separating the two series has become increasingly blurred in recent years, 
 and this year is no exception, as both games are still seemingly seeking to emulate the other's 
 strengths. But to set aside the competition for a moment, FIFA Soccer 2005 is definitely the best 
 FIFA game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuggs_15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Many things stop this becoming more than a runner up. The graphics are great but the gameplay let's 
 down, espically on the PC where lagging is common. 
  
  Gameplay: The career mode is a bit lame in certain areas and my first impressions wasn't that great. 
 It simply does not beat FIFA 2004, which in my mind is the best FIFA game in the series. Sure the 
 tournaments are great fun and the points for unlockables are cool but on a serious not, replaying 
 the football matches gets boring compared to other football games. Player animations are repeated 
 over and over again. The First Touch is a nice addition but doesn't stop this becoming repetitive. 
 
  
  Graphics: EA have gone a step up on the graphics from last time, and with a good graphics card 
 it has greatly improved. Players look more like each other and the stadiums and kits are well replicated, 
 however, the crowd's repetitious chants and movement are poor, they're not even 3D?!
  
  Sound: The chants drone on and the soundtrack isn't as good as, say, Tony Hawks: American Wasteland, 
 the theme tune is poor, The Streets are well recognised, but what about Plenty More Fish in The 
 Sea apart from Your Fit But Don't You Know It? Commentary is decent though.
  
  Value: There are better football games out there but if your a FIFA/EA diehard then you might as 
 well get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  Fifa 2005 is the most amazing game ever seen in it's series....
  
  It has almost all the positive points... Finding a negative point about this game is almost rare 
 possibility..
  The best thing about this game is that it is FIFA05.
  
  Game-play of this game is wonderful.
  Graphics is stunning.
  Convenient key controll like all 
 other fifa games released till today.
  It's a very good time passing game. If you wanna be like zidane, Nistelroy & so on then this is 
 your last chance to be like them in dreams & play with these real like characters and fulfil your 
 wish.
  
  At most this was simply stunning. The most interesting thing is the Commentary in the game by Ally 
 MCCoist & John Motson.
  
  The Sound Effects is just like real football match.. People cheering, Camera Flashes, Flags all 
 around & the Kicking of Football....
  All these things makes this game the most superb game in it's series.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21039285237537894737461297496559-calum_neilson
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have been buying the FIFA series since 98 and this is one of the best yet. In 2002 world cup 
 the game was good but the gameplay was jerky and slow. The graphics are excelent quality and the 
 player movement is smooth and the takling falls are also good. The gameplay is fast and that makes 
 it more addrenaline filled unlike previous ones like 2002. The career mode is very gripping and 
 all you want to do is carry on. You can buy players from the transfer market and you have to do 
 well or else you get fired. The only things wrong with it are that it can be hard to be accurate 
 with shots and there is no way to search in career mode if you want to buy a player. You have to 
 go through all of the teams to find the player you want and it is even worse if you don't know 
 what player the team plays for. Overall it is a very good game and you shoudl definetly buy it!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katilmis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This was nice veary good game i usualy dont like these kind of games but i loved this one.
  It had amazing grapfics for this kind of game usualy these kind of games have veary poor grapfics 
 but this one was wrealy wrealy good. Of course the game had litle problems but they were nothing!!! 
 I wrealy liked the controls unlike the controls in the 2004 version this one had pretty good controls 
 i wrealy didnt liked the 2004 fifa it was booooooring !!!! But when i started playing i couldnt 
 stop i just played and played it again !!! It was great and higly addictive game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subsonicdust
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Its been a mighty long while since a FIFA game came along and genuinely touched our hearts with 
 a faithful and effectively accurate interpretation of the beautiful game. Over the past 5 years 
 since the PS2s launch, the FIFA franchise has progressively worsened. Every year EA implement 
 minor new gameplay features and marginally tweak the visuals of their long-running, officially-endorsed 
 to the hill cash-cow franchise, but these things alone are simply not enough to quash the supreme 
 Pro Evo. Strangely, FIFA doesnt seem to carry the labour of love, passion and thought that pour 
 out of Konamis footy-fest like sweat out of a scouser on an arson charge. In other words, Pro 
 Evo is better. Much better. 
  So its with interminable apprehension that we declare FIFA 2005 a prime contender for best footy 
 sim of the year. Mild your anger, there is a method to our madness. 
  First and foremost, the gameplay is smooth. Smoother than Zidanes bald patch even. The much-improved 
 passing system is eloquently responsive and shots on goal feel weighty and realistic. The bond 
 between the players down on the park is a sure-fire evolution over last years FIFA with defenders 
 now sticking to their task of defending-not parting like a bunch of rubber ducks to let strikers 
 through. It all perfectly blends together with Zen-like mastery to create a cohesive, fluid and, 
 most importantly, fun rendition of football and imposes a vice-like jostle for the goal with Konamis 
 Pro Evo. Which, incidentally, makes FIFA 2005 a real contender for the much sought after crown 
 of footy-land. 
  One of the biggest new additions (and indeed ad campaigns) to 05 is the silky new first-touch 
 control. Its activated with a flick of the right analogue stick and enables the ball carrier to 
 skilfully weave around the fumbling opposition with cunning accuracy. You can perform nice little 
 step-overs or even 360 spins, brushing past hapless midfielders with minimum effort. It works impeccably 
 and serves the chief purpose of creating that vital opportunity for an offensive attack. Furthermore, 
 last years Off-The-Ball feature returns, and this time its been given the spit and polish and 
 tweaked to perfection. Gone is the cumbersome player positioning of old  05 introduces a much 
 more flexible and user-friendly system, proven to allow you to arch dazzling 40ft balls from midfield, 
 resultantly lining up Shevchenko for that crucial one-on-one with the keeper. Remember: its all 
 in the positioning, folks. 
  The FIFA series has always been widely-acclaimed for its dazzling visuals and sound and the trend 
 is, naturally, continued here. The graphics are sharper than a chemistry teachers cardigan. Everything 
 you would expect to see and hear at a real football match are faithfully recreated courtesy of 
 EAs enhanced graphics engine. Its all here, from individual blades of grass to authentic club 
 insignias  even down to the subtle details each of the players boots. There are more than 18,000 
 licensed players, 500 kits and a wealth of national and foreign licensed leagues. Its pure eye 
 candy from the word go. Commentary, again voiced by John over-excited Motson and Ally a wee-bit 
 wide McCoist, remains top-quality. Impressively, theyll now go off on anecdotes concerning their 
 past and how footballs evolved over the last 50 years. Started playing football when you were 
 4, eh, Ally? Intriguing to say the least. 
  The stadiums deserve plaudits too. Theyre heart-joltingly precise from the condition of the pitch 
 to the stands in which the crowds sit. Highbury has all its nooks and crannies and the photo-realistic 
 rendition of Old Trafford is a joy to behold. While we're on the subject of stadiums, its their 
 atmosphere that sets the scene. Crowds chant their favourite teams and instinctively boo when the 
 ref doesnt give a free kick after a nasty foul. Every match feels like an occasion, an event, 
 and as a result works wonders for the actual experience. In contrast, Pro Evos atmosphere feels 
 tepid  kind of like everyones been injected with a silence drug, or something. 
  The career mode has been radically enhanced also. Ok, so its not as unfathomably intricate or 
 as complex as the Master League, but it bolts together well to proclaim itself as a worthy competitor. 
 Admittedly, the career mode does initially seem more appealing than the Master League since it 
 is instantly accessible and refreshingly entertaining but the lack of any proper depth negates 
 it of any long term appeal, unfortunately. 
  You assume the role of a struggling lower-league club. As manager, its your job to proliferate 
 your teams success through triumph on the field. Customisation is widespread  you can customise 
 your managers looks, hairstyle and even suit type. Give him a name, race, age, even choose the 
 size of hiswell, you get the picture. Its pretty pointless really, though since there is no direct 
 relation to the football but, at least its there. 
  Theres the usual influx of seasonal transfers, tournaments, play-offs and friendlies integrated 
 into the career mode and the option to upgrade your team management staff (such as striker coaches 
 and medical staff) is a welcome addition. Tagging along from last years footy series, Euro 2004, 
 for inclusion in FIFA 05, is the morale system. It works relatively well with big, green, smiley 
 faces for happy players and red, sad-looking faces for unhappy ones  incidentally, each of 
 your players has one, so care for them as Michael Jackson cares for his friendsum, scratch thatjust 
 look after them well okay? 
  As youd expect, keeping your team in a ship-shape mood will undoubtedly increase and better their 
 performance on the pitch, whereas an unhappy and  player 
 will refuse to put in the effort (rapid stamina decreases, injury-prone) . Morale is kept topped 
 up by winning matches and attaining as little an amount of bookings as possible throughout the 
 season. 
  Essentially, though, despite all this, we still need to get back to the point that FIFA 2005 is 
 nowhere near as deeply-realistic or as juicily-addictive as Pro Evo. For starters, goalies jump 
 around more than David Seaman in a World Cup nightmare  sometimes jumping in completely the wrong 
 direction that youve shot the ball, its almost criminal! Moreover, 05 is literally riddled with 
 problems on the collision detection front. Head-on conservative tackles very frequently result 
 in a moment of the supernatural  your player will run directly through his opponent, cheekily 
 nabbing the ball all at the hands of a glitch. Plus, youll also notice that when your player lets 
 rip a fireball of a shot, the ball will magically kick itself before youve even brought your foot 
 down. Perhaps you think were unnecessarily nitpicking, but when youre in a heated match surrounded 
 by these occasional annoying glitches they immediately become damn near unforgivable. FIFA 2005 
 just isnt as involving and varied as Konamis master-stroke and in that case, why even bother 
 subjecting yourself to a purchase? 
  Still, theres no denying that EA have come up trumps with 05, nigh-on perfecting the deeply-flawed 
 gameplay of its predecessor. 
  Unconvinced? Seeing FIFA back to its true form after 5 years of underwhelming annual updates is 
 an actuality that we can all appreciate. A post-pub clash with your mates is what FIFA 2005 was 
 crafted for  its fun, visually delicious and largely entertaining. On the contrary - in no way 
 do we see it as a substitute for PES4, but its definitely worth its asking price. With the abundant 
 choice of footy titles now available, we can safely say that theres never been a better time for 
 virtual-football indulgence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical about this game, but I decided to try it anyways, and I'm glad I did. 
 The graphics are good and being a soccer fan made it even more worth my while. The game seems to 
 have improved alot from the 2004 version. I still have a few problems with the passing though it 
 does not alwasy co-operate with me, but thats just me. The game can be fast paced or slow lots 
 of ball passing and waiting for the precise moment to score. They also have many team options which 
 gives you a bigger variaty of play, plus you can create your own player. Try it, and surprise yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mai_sam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  fifa 2005 is a cool game not that much of cool (freezing) but .. aah .. its just right best fifa 
 up to date and i rate it more than the ... pro evolution soccer series and the winning eleven series 
 because its way much better than winning eleven and pro evolution soccer series ... the new managing 
 mode is very cool first ever in fifa series that you buy or sell players sign different clubs .. 
 the managing mode is just great and u can also create ur own player and set his position .. team 
 ... ball control ... speed ... accuracy .. shott power and all that .... its a great game i suggest 
 u to buy it because i like it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaz_awakening
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The Best Soccer game to date. The pitch and the spectators are bought to life by better lights 
 and sounds. The graphics are not much of an improvement but some prominent playerslike Beckham, 
 Zidane etc. look life like. Some new cool stuff like first touch give you extra control of the 
 game and allows you to get the game where you want it to go. It brings you the most enthralling 
 FIFA experience ever felt before. I must agree the career mode was a little disappointing because 
 it is kinda hard to earn credits inorder to improve your team. In easy mode you can score upto 
 8-10 goals. Semi-pro is the best difficulty level giving you the challenge. And if you don't mind 
 losing once or twice World Class is the difficulty level you should choose. I am a soccer fan and 
 i truly love the game in any form digital or real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 2005 is the best sport games I played ever in PC and yes i have played winning eleven too 
 but for PC fifa is the right choice for soccer lover.
  
  The main features of this game are its amazing graphics, wonderful soundtracks and obviously the 
 career mode. In the career mode Player can be the manager of a team. There are five regions to 
 choose from, player can select one team from a region. The main goal of this mode is to become 
 a five star manager.
  
  Gameplay is really simple and most of the action can be done by using same old A, S, D keys. Introduction 
 of one touch brought realism in the game. You can create your own player in Fifa 2005, this option 
 was absent is the earlier two versions. My Fifa store is another new addition of 2005. Here you 
 can unlock 80 different goodies like team jersey, ball, stadium and even Pierluigi Collina.
  
  The main and only problem of this game is that you can stuck in the looping of corners for 
 over 10 times and this obviously disturb the game, but anyway this game has proved that FIFA is 
 the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommy_Angelo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  The challenge for every sports game, especially from EA, is to introduce of enough updates to the 
 game from last years title. FIFA '05 improves on its predecessor in every way, even if it still 
 isn't quite the intuitive football experience it could be, especially in comparison to its competition. 
 
  
  What we have come to expect from FIFA is still there including the full FIFA license covering 24 
 leagues, hundreds of teams and thousands of players. Real team uniforms, colours and even accurate 
 sponsorships. But the biggest improvement from FIFA04 to FIFA05 has to be in the gameplay. This 
 year the ball doesn't feel like its stuck to your foot like last year.
  It just feels like a more accurate representation of the sport. This year the ball doesn't feel 
 like its stuck to your foot like last year.
  
  There is all new first touch play that they have added, which is good cause now you can set up 
 your plays better.
  
  Bad points the graphics aren't very good part from player models they are excellent. Career can 
 get a bit the same.
  
  All in all FIFA '05 is a very good soccer game and I would recommend it to any one. Players of 
 '04 should get it to cause its a big improvement from that game. Its great head to head and online 
 because of the nature of soccer itself. The Franchise mode is extremely satisfying because the 
 long term and short term consequences of your decisions are always going to be on your mind and 
 that only ads to the pressure of winning. FIFA '05 is the best version of the series so far.
  
  Tommy_Angelo
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahulprasad04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  Overall, the game is excellent. I think if u love playing sports on your PC, I would recommend 
 this game. It obviously is the best from FIFA so far but I think it requires finishing touches. 
 I do not like the points system in the game. There is hardly any scouting for young players. I 
 think many managerial games (such as Championship Manager 5) have a much better career mode. The 
 transfer market is not good. There should be many improvements in the next game of FIFA 2006. I 
 am awaiting that game having played already about 61 seasons of FIFA 2005 (Yes! I am highly addicted 
 to it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarmineJunior
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  Comparing with FIFA 2004, FIFA 2005 is a lot better. The graphics and the controls are the real 
 proof. If at FIFA 2004 you would struggle a lot to make a good pass, now passes are way better 
 and the player are more incisive. The graphics are better, but a 32MB card will hardly cope with 
 a high detail. As for Career mode, it has been improved as well. But you must have steal nerves 
 to pass through an entire season, as a season it is very long and in transfer periods there are 
 a lot of back and forth commands to settle new players. The pitch sound isn't that great, but the 
 soundtracks are pretty cool. Plenty of them to choose from, that is. The user interface, generally 
 speaking is good and easy to navigate.
  I would give an -8 for gameplay (the corner and freekick system is way off better at UEFA Champions 
 League 2004-'05)
  -9 for music 
  -9 for details and graphics
  
  
  As for requirements, a 64MB card should do the trick, a 800Mhz or better processor and 256 MB RAM 
 at least.
  As like previous games from the series, it is addictive, but it is not that fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desanvium
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 19, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 2005 is the most recent installment in the long running series of EA FIFA games -- which is 
 a good thing. EA has an amazing track record with this series and 2005 is no different. The gameplay 
 is what you're buying this sports game for: full control of your team, smooth passing, dribbling, 
 and shooting, and the ability to take one team all the way through 15 seasons in career mode and 
 become the top manager of the best team in the world. 
  
  That being said, it's FIFA, and the formula has not changed that much in the past decade of games. 
 Of course, the game looks gorgeous, pushing the PS2 graphic engine to it's limit. At the same time, 
 the characters on each team look pretty much the same -- and if you're one of those people who 
 can tell one player from another (which I cannot) you'll probably wonder why they look so much 
 alike or haven't been customized as much as they could have been.
  
  The controls are rather simple to learn and in the same light can take a very long time to master. 
 You have to find just the right combination of button pressing, left-stick directional use, and 
 the new "first-touch" system, which allows you to redirect the ball after the first touch and do 
 some very complex and technical dribbling, passing, and shooting moves. Although the first-touch 
 and some extra short and long passing moves are not a huge control addition, they do add some nice 
 touches that give you that extra level of control and really put you in the game.
  
  One of the most disappointing parts of this game, as has been mentioned before, is the career mode. 
 The problem has nothing to do with the depth of the system, which allows you to trade players, 
 add stats to multiple sections of your teams managerial staff and players themselves, whilst keeping 
 your approval rating up so that you don't get fired. The problem comes in the form of a menu system 
 that makes the career mode, and more specifically player trading, a total nightmare! You have to 
 go through 18 levels worth of menus to trade one player (and remember: these players may play differently, 
 but they still look the same on the field) and there's no way to search for players with the stats 
 that you need. All in all, I stuck with the career system for all about 2 hours and afterward my 
 biggest complaint was making changes to my team via the menu. Tis a shame when the gameplay is 
 so well fleshed out.
  
  As we come to the sound of the game, I was both highly surprised and impressed (with the music) 
 and sorely disappointed (in game sounds and commentary track) . First off, the eclectic range of 
 music, a sort of European / Brazilian / Italian techno-jazz set of tracks, really makes the game 
 feel more international. There aren't really any tunes that stick out in my head as annoying or 
 that I'd skip/single out. As for the in game sounds, they are totally repetative, oddly scripted, 
 and perpetually annoying. The stadium sounds and crowd noises and cheers (like in previous games) 
 consists of the unrecognizable cheers, horns blowing, some booing sometimes, but all in all there's 
 nothing really new here... and since we rarely see individual fans anyways... same problem with no 
 solution. As for the commentary track: send in the frustration. Although the voices may sound familiar 
 from some TV broadcasts of international soccer (the exact names elude me at the moment) what they 
 say quickly becomes useless chatter that, in an attempt to move the game along, just makes becomes 
 increasingly annoying and is way to vague -- you can tell they are recorded and scripted. At one 
 point, I just turned them off completely and found I didn't get nearly as angry at my remote or 
 tell my tv "WHAT DO YOU MEAN THAT WAS A HORRIBLE PLAY?!?!?!".
  
  Sadly, I do not have online play so I cannot review the online component of this game. But I can 
 only imagine that this game retains it strength online that it does 1v1 when playing offline in 
 someones living room (just keep an ear out for the cheers/jeers)
  
  When it boils down to it, you are getting what you always expect from a FIFA game: quality of gameplay, 
 great physics and player ball control, and a really large playing field with tight graphics that 
 keep getting better. But with a FIFA game, expect the expected... which is not so bad when that's 
 what you WANT from a FIFA game. But if you're looking for the ultimate fantasy "football" career 
 game that's easy to use and fun at the same time... FIFA is not quite there yet. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlucky3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  This was nice veary good game i usualy dont like these kind of games but i loved this one.
  It had amazing grapfics for this kind of game usualy these kind of games have veary poor grapfics 
 but this one was wrealy wrealy good. Of course the game had litle problems but they were nothing!!! 
 I wrealy liked the controls unlike the controls in the 2004 version this one had pretty good controls 
 i wrealy didnt liked the 2004 fifa it was booooooring !!!! But when i started playing i couldnt 
 stop i just played and played it again !!! It was great and higly addictive game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvin_Snipes
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the good, almost every team youd ever wish to play are here, with accurate team 
 statistics, and player stats and likenesses. This is a real assist to the game, and adds a lot 
 to the feeling of realism of the title. On the pitch, the game is really good fun, players react 
 the way they should, goals dont feel cheap, and are rewarding, and the AI is very competent on 
 the higher settings, which makes for some challenging games. If one complaint could be made (and 
 in fairness there arent that many) the free kicks are extremely easy to score from, at least in 
 my experience. Doing the same thing each time will almost always result in a goal, which detracts 
 from the realism the game aims for. All in all, once you start playing matches, the experience 
 is very rewarding.
  
  However, to get to the match, its immediately obvious the game lacks polish. The menus are clunky, 
 and setting up a custom tournament is incredibly tedious, having to first select the league by 
 continually clicking left or right, hit return to confirm, and start the process again for as many 
 as 32 teams. Why cant I pick from a list, and save myself 10 minutes? 
  Picking a team is also needlessly clunky. Double click one player, and then click on the player 
 you want to replace them with, which quite often takes a few goes, since it doesnt always accept 
 that youve clicked. Why cant I drag and drop players? 
  All these frustrating things could easily be remedied, and make for an all together better experience. 
 These all seem fairly minor issues, and most will probably be able to ignore them, but for me, 
 they really served as a sticking point.
  
  The music in the game is all licensed, so the quality is generally good. Although the vast majority 
 of the music wasnt to my tastes, so I was thankful for the option to remove tracks, which I ended 
 up doing to all of them because of another little issue
  The Jukebox will often get in your way whilst in the already clumsy menu. If I want to go back, 
 I either have to wait 5 seconds for the jukebox to minimise, or hit F5 and quickly make a run for 
 the back button before it pops up again. Needless to say, this is annoying.
  The rest of the sounds in the game, from sound chanting, to commentary is all very good, although 
 as in most sports game, this can get repetitive pretty quickly.
  
  The game comes with a wide variety of pre set up tournaments to get stuck into, although Im baffled 
 at the exclusion of European/International tournaments. All the tournaments are domestic based. 
 The game ships with every major league in the world, and yet doesnt come with tournaments to exploit 
 this strength. Normally this wouldnt be much of an issue, but the poor custom tournament segment 
 is a less than ideal way to remedy the problem.
  
  I didnt really get stuck into the online portion of the game, but from what I did play it was 
 easy to find games, and get playing. 
  
  Fifa 2005 also comes with its fair share of bugs, at least with me. Clicking away selecting teams 
 will quite often result in a crash to desktop, and the game occasionally will crash to the desktop 
 in game as well. I had to roll back some drivers on my graphics card to get the game to display 
 correctly, and an issue with the patching system, prevented me form playing online until I found 
 information on how to remedy the problem.
  
  In all, FIFA 2005 is a decent game, but ultimately disappointing. The lack of effort with the menu 
 design, and tournaments let down the actual game play, which is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The Fifa franchise of EA Sports, after 8 years from the release of the first game, stands in a 
 position from where it cannot be toppled very easily. Very few games have managed to remain on 
 the top favorites list of gamers for such a long time. Every year, we think that "nah.. this game 
 can't get improved.. EA has done it all", and EA comes out with a new Fifa game, which surpasses 
 all expectations and takes the gameplay and presentation to newer heights. Such was the story up 
 to 2004. For several reasons, Fifa 2004 was a disappointing game. But Fifa 2005 is a different 
 story.
  
  If you talk about stunning visuals, Fifa 2005 has it all. Even on low end graphics cards, the game 
 looks gorgeous. Some glitches do appear, from time to time.. but they can be eliminated by scaling 
 down the details to some extent. Moreover, it is very much expected that EA will release a graphics 
 patch for fixing this issue. All the big names, teams, stadiums are clearly recognizable. EA has 
 the official license to all Fifa names, so everything has a television like presentation. The pre-game 
 sequences, mid game analyses, replays, post-game celebrations, goal celebrations, everything looks 
 amazingly realistic. It is not that much unusual to stop and wonder.."Is this a game, or am I watching 
 TV?". This is indeed a remarkable achievement for EA. I still have Fifa 98 with me, for nostalgic 
 purposes. Now when I look at the two games side by side, one aspect that has advanced leaps and 
 bounds is the graphics. If you run the game in full detail, in a powerful PC, you will thank yourself 
 for buying that gorgeous graphics card of yours. Most people buys new graphics cards for FPS games, 
 but I believe Fifa 2005 can be a good enough reason for getting a Radeon 9800.
  
  The sound, as always, is as realistic as it can get. The chants from the audience, the shouts from 
 the players, the commentary, everything is done with precision. However, the commentary does get 
 a bit erroneous, at times. This happens mainly due to skipping replays, or a too drastic change 
 in the course of action. That is, maybe Team A had the ball for a quite long time, and suddenly 
 team B grabs the ball and instigates an attack, and the commentators keep on talking about how 
 good Team A is! Once Team B scores a goal, John Motson and Ally Mccoist gets back to their job. 
 This year around, both of these cool dudes have new tricks up in their sleevesnew expressions, 
 new phrases, new catch lines, which is all good treat for the fans of the great sport. I would 
 love to put up some quotes here, but thatd spoil the fun for those who are planning to get the 
 game. 
  
  The soundtrack list is huge, and there are a good number of catchy tunes. However, theres no flagship 
 or big song in the list, apart from a Dido number. In 2003, we had Avril Lavigne, in 2002 it 
 was Gorillaz, in 99 it was Fatboy Slim, in 2000 its Robby Williams, and lastly, in 98 it was Blur 
 with song 2. This is a disappointment, but the number of soundtracks wont disappoint most, and 
 theres something for everyone in the mixture. As an added bonus, theres a third party software 
 that lets you import your favorite Mp3s into the game, which is an awesome experience. 
  
  Gameplay is good as ever, with the retention of familiar moves, tricks as well as some new ones. 
 I am a Fifa purist, and I dont use some of the gamepad friendly moves. You can score awesome loads 
 of goals through only using a few buttons, i. e. pass, shoot, long pass, player run, sprint, etc. 
 There are lots of hidden moves like chip shot, fake shot, as well as one touch control. People 
 wholl get bored over the usual goal scoring tricks will find these advanced techniques quite useful. 
 Moreover, in higher difficulty settings, the only way to beat a goalkeeper in a one to one situation 
 could be the usage of a fake shot. 
  
  I have deducted one point from the gameplay element because the AI follows some unusual passing 
 behavior, from time to time. As an example, it can be seen a lot of times that despite of having 
 advancing forwards, an AI midfielder suddenly decides to pass the ball back to a wingback, or someone 
 lagging behind. If the pass receiver applied a long shot towards my goalpost (a cross, or whatever) , 
 this behavior could have some sense in it. But, this looks quite bizarre. 
  
  When AI is lagging behind by a goal or two in the first half, it will definitely come back with 
 more aggression in the second half. This is a good thing to watch. The team balances are quite 
 realistic, which means you will find it really difficult to hit the target with a team like Piacenza 
 from Italian Seria B, against the likes of Roma or Juventus. Applying the same speed and using 
 the same angle, Del Piero will hit the target more, compared to Piacenza striker Simone Pepe. Player 
 stats are realistic, and get reflected in the gameplay. Having one good midfielder can change the 
 outlook of a team. This is more prevalent in the Season mode. 
  
  You get almost everything here, from exhibition matches to a 20 leagues and a number of cups. To 
 add icing to the cake, you have the option of creating custom leagues and tournaments. The concept 
 of combining management aspects in Fifa games was first seen in this years Euro game (Euro 2004) . 
 In Fifa 2005, you can play a 15 season quest for becoming a 5 star manager. You start off as a 
 zero star manager, and you can only take up a 2nd division club. Its a challenging game, where 
 you start off with a mediocre team, inaccurate strikers, and dwindling budget. You will be given 
 a number of coaches, e. g. Striker coach, fitness coach, etc. After each game, based on your performance 
 you may or may not receive points. You can spend these points in upgrading these coaches, and your 
 teams performance will be affected accordingly. If you dont spend points for your medical staff, 
 your injured players will take more time to heal, which might cause you to field a tired team. 
 You will have control over two player stats, straightaway. These are fitness and morale. If you 
 field a team with demoralized players having low fitness levels, you cant expect good results 
 from them. Passes wont be accurate, shots will go disarray, the opponents slightest challenges 
 will make your players fall downthere are too many aspects to see. All these make the season mode 
 a very intriguing affair. I recommend this game to any footy enthusiast, only because of this mode. 
 Management geeks can play the Football Fusion mode, where teams, games and settings can be interchanged 
 between Total Club Manager 2005 and Fifa 2005. Though I havent tried it yet, the concept sounds 
 interesting. The only reason for me not liking management games is that I cant get involved with 
 the actual game. I buy the players, train them up, and then they play like idiotsthis is something 
 I cant stand. But in Fifa, you can make them play the way you want them to. Buying and selling 
 players is allowed twice a season, and its pretty simple. You only get a few messages, and in 
 the early years, keep yourself prepared for heartbreaks because players will often turn down your 
 offers, as you are not a prestigious manager yet. It takes approximately 60 games to end a season, 
 so its a huge game. After each season, you will get offers from your existing club and or other 
 clubs, depending on your performance. 
  
  In a nutshell, there is every reason for one to actually pursue the game for 15 seasons, amounting 
 up to a whopping 900 matches! To make life easy, you can simulate any game in between. But theres 
 another bonus hereyou can intervene the simulated matches, at any point of time. You will see 
 commentary of the game as texts, as games are being played. This is a common way of showing games 
 in Football Management games. If you see that your team is 2 goals down before half time, you can 
 play the next half and win the game. You can intervene any time, but once you start playing, you 
 have to play the rest of the game. This is not a very essential feature, but multiple intervention-simulation 
 situation couldve made the game a bit more interesting; in this aspect. Usually in a season, you 
 will play the league and an additional 2/3 cup challenges. You get bonus points for winning points, 
 which you can use for unlocking bonus items.
  Extras 9/10
  
  You get points by winning games with 5+ goals, winning against rival teams, winning cups, etc. 
 and you can use these points for buying a number of bonus items, which dont sound that interesting 
 in paper, but is actually quite a nice touch. As an example, the night version of most stadiums 
 featured in the game needs to be unlocked, and these stadiums all look absolutely gorgeous in the 
 night. You can also unlock the famous referee Collina, and also a few classic soundtracks and alternate 
 jerseys for your favorite teams. This is a good bonus, because in season mode, it is natural that 
 you will get bored over seeing the same team with the same kits over and over. An alternate kit 
 can alleviate the pain, to a great extent. 
  
  Another extra feature is the create a player mode, where you can customize almost everything, 
 starting from player stats and ending up to the slightest details of hair, eyes, etc. Creating 
 a player with your own name and physical attributes, and buying him for Manchester United does 
 sound a great idea, doesnt it? 
  
  In recent times, Fifa is facing stiff challenge from Pro Evolution Soccer/Winning Eleven, and many 
 say that Fifa is an inferior franchise. I played PES3 and the demo of PES4, and my two cents is, 
 Fifa cant be matched. Maybe PES has some nice gameplay touches, but Fifa is more realistic, both 
 in terms of gameplay and graphics. I will prefer Fifa over PES any day. If you ever liked a soccer 
 game, you should get this game. Even if you need to upgrade your PC, you should get an upgrade. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  EA make a Fifa football game every year. I have got Fifa 98, 04 and 05 and ive played quite a few 
 of the others, and I can definatly say that in each of the games, EA have made them more exciting 
 or better graphically than the last one.
  2005's Fifa game is no exception, it brings football onto your pc like always, with easy controls, 
 nice movement and fantastic atmosphere, theres no doubt, this is the best in the series... yet 
 :D
  
  Gameplay - 10 / 10
  
  All of the fifa games amaze me, but in this one the gameplay is one of a kind! You become the manager 
 and the players player :D You control basically the whole team and take them though step by step. 
 As you start the season mode, you become a starting manager and are allowed to choose many starting 
 teams to manage, as you get better and win more leagues your rating increases which allows you 
 to ditch your team at the end of the season for a better one!
  
  Graphics - 8 / 10
  
  The fifa games are getting more and more advanced, and in this game the graphics are fantastic. 
 The players on the pitch look amazingly like the original real life players. And since there are 
 over 11'000 players spread over 18 leagues, I must take my hat off for EA and say how long it must 
 have taken them to do that! I do have one problem with the fifa series thought... The crowd, is 
 not 3d or anything, they look like cardboard cut outs just moving around when you get close to 
 them. Its not a problem while your playing, they look good then, but when you score a goal all 
 you can see is a loop of cardboard cut outs :D
  
  Sound - 9 / 10
  
  The sound in this game is amazing. Theres a massive selection of music you can play on it, the 
 commentry is rather good and the crowd chants are superb! The sound in this game makes it much 
 more enjoyable to play as it really feels you are playing in a real time stadium!
  
  Value - 8 / 10
  
  I say if you've not tried any of the fifa games before, this is a must for 
 you. You will honestly be shocked and amazed at the level of customizablity. But if you have tried 
 the games before, check out the demo before hand, as you might find it partly the same game as 
 the 2004 version.
  
  Overall - 9.0 / 10 ( Superb)
  
  Overall this game is an amazing update on the 2004 version, and I recommend you get a copy! :)
 
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Marky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylean1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  The FIFA soccer series has been there for ages and for the last few years, it was in the danger 
 of getting old and eventually out of buisness. But EA SPORTS gave it a very good make-over and 
 created FIFA 2005. There is a series of differnt features and some very good upgrades to the game. 
 The very deep Carrer Mode is very deep and very well created. The first touch play is incredible 
 and the graphics to the game are really photo-realalistic. This game can really compete with the 
 infamous PRO EVOLUTION SOCCER series but it can also be beaten due to KONAMI` s genius gameplay. 
 But as a whole FIFA 2005 is a very good game and EA can be very competitive when they want. FIFA 
 2005 is a game that, like it or not, is worth to buy.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
