-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA 99
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifa99/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 495 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 99 is a good choice for the neophyte, and an almost-essential upgrade for the die-hard soccer 
 enthusiast. 

 EA Sports has produced some of the finest soccer games on any platform. Last year's two versions 
 of the FIFA franchise came replete with more options, stunning graphics, and hours of gameplay 
 than ever before. With terrific animations, dozens of special moves and in-game strategies, it 
 begs the question: Is there room for improvement, aside from just keeping up with new hardware 
 and processing speeds? Little, but there is some. EA tweaked the graphics, added commentary and 
 celebrations, beefed up teammate AI, and "smartened" sideline control - making FIFA 99 a better 
 choice for the neophyte, and an almost-essential upgrade for the die-hard soccer enthusiast.  

 
 All the moves you expect from an EA Sports FIFA title are here: flick passes, diving headers, slide 
 tackles, and rainbow kicks. FIFA 99 adds new moves like directional chest-trapping to bring the 
 ball down away from enemy players. You can fake the receipt of a pass. And draw fouls. And push 
 the goalie down with the touch of a single button. It's now possible to volley an airborne ball 
 directly to a teammate's head or feet. Shots on goal now include a chip shot and a poke shot to 
 disarm the unsuspecting keeper. These aren't the same static goalies of last year's editions either. 
 Instead of automatically grabbing and holding the ball every time, sometimes they kick the ball 
 away, other times they fail to gain control and leave it in play, dangerously close to the goal. 
 Plus, you can now have a hand in their control, and though this primarily means deciding when to 
 pick up or drop the ball, it's now possible to charge enemy strikers. The threat of charging goalies 
 makes offensive timing more of a critical issue.  

 Tactically, there's nothing new here. Still, EA deserves credit for showing that soccer is in fact 
 a game of strategy. It was the first to implement a strategic component in the electronic soccer 
 world - something that has existed in video (American) football gaming since the Atari 2600 days. 
 The four plays from World Cup 98 return here: For the defense, an offside trap moves the defensive 
 line forward to draw the enemy offsides. Offensive plays include an attack press to team up on 
 defending ball carriers to force a mistake near the enemy goal and two breakaway plays. And as 
 in previous versions of the game, three separate customizable formations are available on the fly. 
 If you're willing to tire your team out fast, you can effectively have the bulk of your squad in 
 your territory and enemy territory, by switching formation whenever the ball switches sides of 
 the field.   

 All this strategy is further customizable with the various setup options. Control each formation's 
 orientation, from defensive to attacking, as well as each individual player's attitude, from "calm" 
 to "nutter." In addition, all the usual stat and cosmetic tweaks recur in this version, so you 
 can still create strange races of bald, neck-beard-sporting, super-strikers that are all speed 
 and no endurance. Nothing new over last year's edition, but filled with possibility nonetheless. 
   

 EA Sports has opted for a more realistic use of color this time around. Gone are last year's candy-coated 
 primary and secondary colors and saturated look, in favor of lighter yet more subdued and browner 
 hues. In general, the frame rate is better, and the overall visual effect is a smoother one, although 
 (very rarely) a frame rate glitch occurs, and the game hiccups during a wide camera pan. Last year's 
 angry goalie assault of the "cameraman" must have been a big hit with the kids, because dozens 
 of new grandstanding and pouting animations have been added. Dancing wingbacks, obnoxious taunts, 
 and goalie retaliations are great, but it's the mellow and abject goalie hanging his head after 
 blowing the tying save that gets me every time. Speaking of color, commentary is tighter and more 
 varied this time around with a larger script and, more importantly, improved response time. You 
 don't have the old problem of commentators declaring "He's just given the ball away," two seconds 
 late, when you've already recovered and scored.  

 The most significant improvement in this year's version is in the AI. On the enemy side, defenders 
 mark tighter than ever before. For you Americans, that means they play man-to-man faster, rougher, 
 and closer to the forwards. You might actually have to learn a few of those special moves this 
 time around (at least half of them are fancy dribbles suited perfectly for this purpose) . Teammate 
 AI is also superior to previous attempts. Through-pass runs are easier to pull off, making for 
 supersonic breakaways, but even basic strategy is more effective now: Send a wing back up the sideline 
 and fire it into the box. Nine times out of ten, your man is there. Used to be you could get away 
 with passing blindly, not because teammate AI was good, but because enemy marking wasn't so hot. 
 There'd be time to chase the ball without losing your momentum. These improvements make FIFA 99 
 more of a game of skill that emphasizes passing and control over hotdogging.   

 One thing no previous soccer title has ever pulled off with any realism is sideline recoveries. 
 In most games, whenever a player first arrives at a loose ball, the ball travels a few feet along 
 the same vector as that of the player's approach. As a result, it's almost impossible to recover 
 a loose ball at the sideline, since the CPU doesn't know that the ball is dangerously close to 
 being out of bounds and that no real-life player would dumbly kick the ball forward and forfeit 
 possession to a throw-in. This flaw is the reason why you always see electronic soccer players 
 sprint up to the ball only to tap it out of bounds - it's not some desperate and ingenious defensive 
 ploy; it's a weakness in the code. At first I was skeptical of EA Sports' claim to have built new 
 "bounding logic" to remedy the problem, but the surprising and subtle results make for greater 
 realism at the all-important periphery of play.  

 Last year's double dose of FIFA titles was a little confusing for soccer fans. Releasing FIFA 99 
 so soon after is also confusing. Who would buy three games with nearly identical engines in just 
 over a year (first-person shooters notwithstanding) ? FIFA Road to World Cup 98 had more than one 
 hundred more teams than the later World Cup 98, which in turn had a wider array of in-game tactics 
 and plays, and FIFA 99 has more of each than either of its predecessors. EA Sports has made terrific, 
 if sometimes subtle, improvements to AI and control, making it the obvious choice of the three. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  FIFA 99 is probably one of the best early games by developer EA. Released in late 1998 it was a 
 huge succes because of many new features and improvements it brought over it's predecesor but also 
 because it was the best football (soccer) simulator out there. It had much better graphics than FIFA 
 98 eventhough it lacks many features in comparison to football simulators from nowadays it still 
 is the start point for most of them. Even if the graphics don't look good for the year 2008 ,the 
 gameplay is probably better than in any other football simulator. The controls are very sharp and 
 even if they are a little limited, the game is just a masterpiece for the year 1998. The sound is 
 also impressive, the audio from the ball and the crowd beeing very well done, while the commentators 
 also do a very good job. The game has very much content, it includes all major leagues and national 
 teams.
  Overall the game is a must have for those who need sometimes to escape from present games and just 
 have a little fun with this game.
  
  My Score 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artemakis
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  This was one of my first games ! I remember coming from school every day and playing this game 
 until lunch ! I loved it ! I got it as a present for christmas with some other game but I was playing 
 only this game although I have never been a football fan I loved this game and became one ! I was 
 always choosing Manchester I bought all the good players and played against Arsenal ! Since then 
 I stopped playing football games and now I started again ! I am playing winning eleven 8 international 
 ! This is a game I will always remember ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
