-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Manager 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifamanager07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Ultraslick presentation.
 Highly adjustable difficulty level.
 Realistic match engine.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fewer teams than its competitors.
 Tacked-on family features.
 Individual player control doesn't really work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.7, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 532 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Bright Future GmbH
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Nov 03, 2006 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA Manager 07 is a beautifully presented and accessible football management game that's tailored 
 for novices of the genre. 

  FIFA Manager 07 is the second game in EA Sports' football management series, with German outfit 
 Bright Future again handling development. Like other EA Sports titles, FIFA Manager 07 is highly 
 accessible, attractively presented, and boasts a wealth of official team and player data. Because 
 of this, FIFA Manager 07 is a great introduction for newcomers to the genre and is a gentler start 
 than something like Football Manager 2007 might be.  

          FIFA Manager is an accessible introduction to the management genre, as you can assign nearly 
 every task to your assistants.     

  Like the origins of most football management games, the idea behind FIFA is to start out as the 
 head of a football club and begin a career in the profession from there. Who you choose to manage 
 is up to you, and while many of you are likely to choose the real-life team that you support, some 
 will relish the challenge of taking a struggling side and transforming its fortunes. FIFA Manager 
 07 offers 52 leagues from 29 countries, covering most of the major European teams and some of the 
 Asian and American ones, too.  

  While this list should keep most football fans happy, it's by no means as comprehensive as the 
 116 leagues that feature in Sega's recent Football Manager 2007. FIFA Manager 07 still has an ace 
 up its sleeve, though -- access to FIFA resources means that the game boasts an incredible feeling 
 of authenticity. Endowed with an abundance of official imagery, including stadiums, logos, and 
 players, FIFA Manager 07 does a stellar job of making you feel like part of the real footballing 
 profession. Even better, it doesn't feel like a showy gimmick, as FIFA uses the licensing to support 
 the game underneath.  

  At the beginning of the game, any team in the world will accept your application for the manager's 
 position. Once appointed, you can get down to the nitty-gritty of making a championship-winning 
 squad. If you possess a basic knowledge of football then you'll certainly find it easier to understand 
 the general demands of being a manager. And if you're a fan of the club in question, you should 
 also know a little bit about the individual players in the team. However, you can choose to delegate 
 practically every aspect of the game to your assistant managers, freeing you up to concentrate 
 on key areas such as signing new talent and managing the first team.  

  Depending on which club you sign to, the board and fans will have different expectations of what 
 you need to achieve during your time there. While it's always tempting to control a top club and 
 have access to world-class players and huge resources, you'll be expected to maintain a high position 
 in the domestic league as well as bring home trophies from continental tournaments. If you're not 
 performing, the fans and the media will be the first to call for your dismissal, and as the confidence 
 of the board dwindles, you may well be sacked or forced to resign. However, you can always apply 
 for other jobs at clubs with vacancies, and you may even be courted out of your current contract 
 by other clubs interested in your management skills.  

  Just like in real life, in FIFA Manager 07 you'll need to create a team of players that can function 
 together to succeed. On a basic level, you do this by setting training regimens, choosing formations, 
 and adapting tactics to each team you play. On an advanced level, you also need to worry about 
 individual and group morale, resting players, and giving substitutes experience, as well as setting 
 up international training camps. While all this is happening, the future of the club needs to be 
 secured by scouting for new players and encouraging junior players through your youth team. Another 
 new addition, and one that made its first appearance in Football Manager this year, is the ability 
 to set up business partnerships with other clubs to loan players and give them more experience -- something 
 that definitely pays off in the long term.  

  In this respect, FIFA Manager 07 offers a decent amount of depth for those of you who want to sit 
 there and tweak things to death. As well as choosing from the regular formations, such as 4-4-2 
 or 4-3-3, you can read the opponent reports of your chief scout and adapt the team accordingly. 
 This includes telling individuals how to play in 10 key areas, such as passing and crossing. You 
 can also drag players around to dictate their default playing position on the pitch.  

  One of the most important things you need to do as manager is find the best players to join your 
 team. FIFA Manager 07 presents players who are available on the transfer market so that you may 
 make a bid, as well as letting you make offers on players not on the market. If you're trying to 
 secure someone not on the transfer list, it helps if you're working for a bigger club, as most 
 unlisted players will only consider a move to somewhere of higher stature. A much more intelligent 
 way to find hot new players is to use scouts, who can investigate domestic and foreign leagues 
 based on a number of search criteria, such as player position and market value. You can also use 
 your scout to get feedback on your next opponents, with the results stored away for future reference. 

  The final piece of the management puzzle is marketing and facilities, and you need to spend time 
 looking after both the stadium and the fans that fill it. A clever manager will check in with supporters 
 on a regular basis to find out how they feel, and they can try to boost their PR by giving away 
 free tickets or holding an autograph session. You also need to engage in your own bit of PR, talking 
 to the press on match day, both pregame and post, and choosing whether you want to represent yourself 
 as a democratic manager or an autocratic one. Each club has a 3D stadium representation that you 
 can explore and rebuild as needed, and you can sell ad space around the pitch to real-world sponsors 
 such as Barclays and EA Sports. There's also a Sim City-style view of all your facilities, including 
 press centres and physiotherapists, all of which can be expanded once you have the funds.  

  Boasting all these features means that FIFA Manager 07 can compete with other football management 
 games on the market, but it also brings a couple of other quirky issues to the table. Aside from 
 your life at the club, you need to take care of your social interests such as family, property, 
 and sports. You can choose to live the single life, have a partner or get married and have children. 
 The game is even so modern and politically correct as to offer same-sex marriage and adoption options, 
 but it all feels a bit tacked on in a football management game. Much like a real family, your virtual 
 family just spends your money and gets angry at you when you forget anniversaries and birthdays. 
 At least the game also features some of the better aspects of the football manager lifestyle -- you 
 can buy luxury cars and houses and sometimes even make money when you sell them. If you play golf 
 on a regular basis, you can lower your handicap, which will have a positive influence in business 
 relationships.  

  As with many recent football management games, FIFA Manager 07 offers a full 3D match engine. While 
 it's not the same engine used by FIFA 07, and is consequently a way off that game in terms of graphical 
 quality, it's the best interpretation of a match engine yet. Players don't make the sloppy mistakes 
 that blighted LMA Manager 2007, and while they certainly play an aggressive game, it gives you 
 a good indication of who's performing and who's letting the side down. You can shout commands from 
 the touchline, move a slider to dictate more aggressive or defensive tactics on the fly, or pause 
 the game to switch more advanced options or make substitutions. In another strange design choice, 
 you can use the keyboard to manipulate one single player on the pitch, but he controls so poorly 
 that it's made more or less pointless. Not that you'll want to watch every match in 3D mode, anyway -- the 
 instant results or Teletext-style updates are preferable for those who want to plough through the 
 leagues quickly.  

  Motivation plays a large part in FIFA Manager 07, both in and out of the game. Players who aren't 
 given ample time on the pitch will complain, while those who play too often will become fatigued. 
 You're also given the option to give motivational speeches at halftime, and based upon the ratings 
 for each player, you can choose to praise, criticize, or motivate players on an individual basis. 
 You can also give a speech to the overall team along these same three basic lines, and we generally 
 found that a bit of encouragement yielded better results in the second half.  

          At halftime, you can choose to criticise, motivate, or praise individual players, in addition 
 to the overall team.     

  The audio in the game does a good job of capturing the atmosphere of match day, while the music 
 in the menus lightens up what is effectively a fancy database. In the 3D match mode, the crowd 
 reacts to what's happening in the game, while the excellent commentary is supplied by John Motson 
 and Ally McCoist. The music contains some familiar highlights for sports fans, especially those 
 that have ever watched BBC TV's sports programme  Grandstand  in the UK. It's a change from the 
 main FIFA series, which usually takes the licensed-pop music approach.  

  Overall, FIFA Manager 07 is an excellent introduction to the sometimes-overwhelming world of football 
 management games. It's deep without being daunting, generally authentic without feeling glamorous, 
 and with a highly customisable level of difficulty, you can really make it into the game you want. 
 It doesn't come close to offering the realism or global depth that Football Manager 2007 does, 
 and features such as a private life and the ability to control a single player feel like they're 
 tacked on without adding anything to the experience. But for people who find Football Manager's 
 comprehensive nature a little too much to take in, FIFA Manager is a decent alternative.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: steve601
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  The game is far too easy for people who are used to the challenge of the Football Manager series. 
 The family and other aspects of life features are a decent edition to this type of game but could 
 be improved. The match day broadcast is perfect and the graphics could not be any better. This 
 is the main advantage over their competitors but the game play fails to meet with the quality of 
 Football Manager, due to unrealistic results and the ease of the overall gameplay. Overall the 
 game is worth buying if you are new to management games and want to take on an easy challenge if 
 not buy Football manager. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspirini
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Greetings. Very nice game , very nice graphics , it can get much complex if
  u want and many things to c about. Starting the game u can make
  your profile and set yourself 
 as a manager of a team and manager
  of a national team too if u want. You can st in the beginning which parts u want to manage and if 
 u regret later u can hire a manager
  controlled by pc so he does the work for u and u can just check him from time to time. U can upgrade 
 your stadium and put
  several structures around to make u earn more money and ppl.
  Very nice stats and hundreds of hours to be spent and I am sure
  most ppl will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali_gholizadeh
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful-exiting-wonderful. these are the words that explains this game very well. i play it all 
 day long. i agree that it is not as good as fm06 but it is not a bad game. here in this game we have 
 3 parts. (in the line below) . first one is option that u can set it in the way that u like. second 
 part is CAREER that is about your biography your career player (in this game u can choose a player 
 to control during the game. it can be match by match (u can change ur player every game) and career 
 player that you will take control of him inall matches if u want.) . and third part in this game 
 is ur PERSONAL GAME that u can buy and sell real states and cars and etc. in this part you can Marry 
 and u can have children. but dont forget ur partners birthday. it is a good game .play it and enjoy 
 it. YOU WILL LOVE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalio18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Well my personal review is that fifa manager is a great game. A wonderful idea your looking at the 
 game that is going to succeed fifa soccer. Well i enjoyed playing this game i have a few things 
 that needs to be review such as the training. Let us see our players practice, more palyable international 
 teams, more rules. better stadiums, better fans reaction, give us a little more out of the crowd. Why 
 take ths long to release this come on all other sports francise on ea is out after there seasons 
 ends. I understand that we have many leagues i football but try and get the game out quicker for 
 your fans. We cant sit and play the same old game al the time we need to see whats new. One more 
 thing i think the making of the game should be handed over to ea europe instead of ea canada or 
 us. One reason for this is that you got more people with the knowledge of the sport working around 
 it. Correct me if im wrong. Love the game but i want to see more and do more just playing and transfer 
 as become kind of boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leigho1
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 18, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I played as Manchester United, and the only way I can win and get to the top of the league is by 
 restarted games untill I win them!
  Players can't play football at all. They lose the ball, play aweful passes, have poor shots, run 
 into the keeper instead of shooting, hit freekicks back to the keeper sometimes, and fail to spot 
 obvious scoring chances.
  It is the most unrealistic game ever because Manchester United would beat most teams just using 
 their reserve players, but oh no, not on this game, even with the best line ups, teams like Wigan 
 and Portsmouth take victory. I got so frustrated with this game, all I wanted to do was snap the 
 disk.
  The biggest waste of money ever, do NOT buy it!
  I've played other manager games in the past and had no problems, so my poor performance on this 
 game isn't due to lack of ability on my part.
  I've tried everything on this game to win, and nothing seems to work. A game that sounds so good, 
 but in reality is so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eng_nader
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  what a nice game. really really u cannot feel the time when u r playing it and i cannot describe 
 the feelings when u grow up as a manger or as a club owner and when u take the league and when 
 u find ur club the best ever after it was the worest really great feelings.
  the only disadvantage of this game from my point of view that u lose a lot of time if u could not 
 control ur self ;) and believe u will can not until the 1st 15 hour playing :) ) ) )
  really try it if u like to live as a manager and have a responsibilities!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: islamthebest
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  the good of the game is that u can make every thing in your team like holding training or even 
 negotiations and you also controll your team in matches by setting formation type of play and all 
 of these things
  you can play in 3d match also with commentators and that is the big difference between fifa manager 
 and any other game like championship manager or football manager if you played it before you will 
 a little difference between it and 2006 it is even better
  the bad in the game is still the 3d match not look real also when u can get instant results i think 
 they make it by luck only and i think there is luck in all the game also u must have abig ram to 
 enjoy it as it takes along time to move from day to other
  ea have done agood job at this game but they havealso develop the technics of the game and put 
 more real things in the game like the player plays with each foot and these things also ea put 
 some new things like partner children and luxury i dont think that those things will help the game 
 they have to cocentrate better in the game play and real football and at last thanx for ea for 
 such good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Basically, this game is about soccer management sim play. You manage club from all countries between 
 lower to higher division clubs, as well as international teams. The roasters are up to date which 
 is the good part of this game. From within the club, you get to choose your squad, formation, tactics, 
 transfer, talk to the players, handling sponsors, finance, upgrading your stadium, club facilities, 
 goes as far as marketing, selling merchandise, talking to the fans, building youth camp on selected 
 good spots, getting your paid salaries, to build your own cars, mansion, getting married and having 
 childrens. Believe me, there's so much to do here that you might think you're the real manager 
 within. Of course, if you're sick of managing some of the above mention, there's always the staffs 
 there to assist you! So, you could just sit down and handle whichever you feel comfortable with. 
 There arent much changes to the game if you have been playing the previous version. Only a few 
 added new features which i find it useful. Scouting has been improved, giving you more information 
 and details on the clubs or players. Giving you more options to choose for your scouts to focus 
 on. The other is the youth team you have in your club. Now, its has split between ages for your 
 knowing and more talent youth in your club. Another feature is that you could get a license with 
 another bigger or smaller club for transfer purpose. If you got the license, you could actually 
 loan, buy youth talents from the other club. This is very useful indeed. But, remember it's vice 
 versa where the other club could do the same to you.
  
  Another interesting feature is the Player Career where you could control one of your player during 
 a full 3D match. It depends on your manager level of which players you could choose from. The higher 
 level you have, the better player you get to control. The flaw about this, is that the controls, 
 doesn't really work that well? I would rather just sit there and watch my players do the kicking! 
 In the end, i find this game doesnt change much from the previous version. To me, it's a been there, 
 done that kinda thingy feeling. For new timer, you might get hooked up and get really amazed about 
 how detailing this game could get. For old timer, nothing much to it. So Enjoy the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suhaillooji
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  The best game ever, you can play.
  Once you start playing, you will never stop it because its the best game ever.
  Now you can choose 
 car, but them as well.
  You can have you own house with loads of equiptment in it such as home theater, crazy golf and 
 much more. Its truly highly addictive.
  You can have a mansion or a palace but you would need money to buy them ofcourse.
  Ronaldinho 
 is really expensive to buy, that's the only bad thing on this game but still there is an alternative 
 and it is other players.
  Its guranteed once you start playing, you will never stop it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dioncarlyle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Well wouldn't you know it. There are excellent, very excellent games out there. Most people play 
 the game the year it came out since rosters change and then it's just not as much fun. Included 
 in this game are editors to add to the team, change kits, add kits and a whole range of options 
 right down to making your own badge from scratch... if you have an editing program that can help 
 you out.
  
  EA has placed some rather unorthodox options in the game as well including personal aspect which 
 includes family building, purchasing luxury items and so on, it does not really add anything to 
 the more main focus of the game except golfing with your buddies will increase your chances for 
 better deals.
  
  Overall the game play is excellent if a bit slow, now what I mean is to cover a week for the game 
 it takes several minutes even if you are just bypassing the game and going from say Saturday to 
 Saturday so a good book would be helpful to anyone waiting for the game to manage through all the 
 stats.
  
  That is pretty much the only drawback of the game as the graphics are great, the database is adequate 
 and many fan sites now offer updates for kits and rosters.
  
  If you like football and think that you could be better at it than the current manager try this 
 game on for size. This game has nothing but headroom above it. No boundaries as to how good this 
 game could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artpop
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is gorgeous looking. A simple layout and buttons allow for a frustration free operation 
 of the game. Though I did have lots of ideas on how to make the game better when I initially started 
 playing, those ideas have slowly gone away. The reason? After you spend some time with the game, 
 you realize that the right decisions were made when this game was created. Sure, at first some 
 things seem a bit too difficult to manage: for example, the training. I couldn't understand why 
 it had to be done in groups, and I was frustrated at setting the same training program 3 times, 
 once for each group. But after more playing time, I realized the groups were very, very useful, 
 and very easy to change. Easy to say who belongs to what group, and what you want them to train 
 on. If you have say, a few players with very low fitness levels, but most of your team is very 
 fit, you would put those fit players in one group, and allow them to train on other things you 
 see fit. And, of course, you could put your few players who need more fitness into another group, 
 and have them do nothing but Jogging and Penance and Sprints. What I liked most about this game 
 is how it grows on you. You can play for 30 minutes, and think you know what the game is all about. 
 But then few hours later, you discover something new. And few days later, something else starts 
 to make sense. And a few weeks later, you realize you're still learning. Still perfecting your 
 managerial skills.
  
  I only wish the loading times from one day to the next would be quicker, as I spend a lot of time 
 loading but then again, that somewhat adds to the game by giving you more time to think of the 
 actions you've performed, and what you would like to do the coming day (this is if you play day-by-day) .
 
  
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhammadsaad44
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Well for a player like me who always in to the management and strategy type game its requires high 
 effort to make them proud or in short u can say that to make them play for a while ,truly FIFA 
 Manager 07 is the best game of foot ball management and it has the core feature i-e the birth of 
 a legend in other way u can take an 10 year old guy in to a legend of tommarows football ,marvellously 
 the youth training feature is awesome and next big improvement is in the 3d match section u can 
 now have bug free match engine surely not as good as fifa 07 but it basically has the core element 
 and the commentry seems perfect to say the least for a management game the feature to able to create 
 a league is a dream come true for a players whose nation is not in the game the editor provide 
 usefull edition to the game and makes the game much better ,
  now tor the cons the only feature i-e is missout is the loading times and the abilily to go on 
 holidays ,now cmon man this the main part of any simulation game to bump up the speed ,but this 
 really not effects the game to much.
  overall a must have game for football fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Player Career Mode When the user joins a new club they have the option to turn on Action Mode. 
 If they go for it they then have two modes they can select, Player Career (where you follow the 
 same player through their career) or Match to Match Decision. Player Career The aim here is for 
 the user to train up a pre-selected player, and once they achieve certain targets in training, 
 the user then has the ability to take control of the player in the 3D match. This feature is already 
 proving popular. The manager can also switch to a new player by simply selling or loaning out the 
 current player (or if the player retires) . You cannot switch by simply moving the player to the 
 reserves. If the player is injured or banned, you can not play this mode. Match to Match Decision 
 This allows you to select different players depending on your Manger rating. All players in the 
 starting eleven and the bench players are listed, but those you cannot control due to a low Manager 
 Rating are greyed out. This will encourage you to try and improve this rating if you want to control 
 the better players in your squad. In either mode you can not play the goalie, and most people will 
 probably go for strikers in the hunt for glory. Switching between players during the match is not 
 possible. Gameplay Unlike the FIFA action game you control one set player so there is not the same 
 amount of action. So for example if you are a defender you should hang back, even if the ball is 
 up the other end of the pitch. You will notice more about the tactics, formations, man marking, 
 offside etc. Initially it will be tempting to run after the ball all the time but your player will 
 soon run down on energy and slow down. You can call for the ball, but do it too often and they 
 will start to ignore you. Also check the different info bars you can have above your players head, 
 the rating will be a good way to check how well (or bad) you are playing, and they will add post 
 match analysis stats so you can see how you performed in the match. In the post match comments 
 the manager can also comment if you have had a good or bad match. During the game text will appear 
 at the bottom of the screen to represent the coach shouting instructions/comments. There are 10 
 different comments for this. Solo will depend more on the radar since you spend a lot of the time 
 off screen (hence defaulting to a high up camera seems might be a good choice) . Manager Career 
 The new manager transfer market will make the manager career really exciting. The user can always 
 see their status and which clubs would currently sign them. Club Status When? Arsenal You are definitely 
 not the first choice. Now! Liverpool You are one of the preferred candidates. Next Season Additionally 
 the manager has the option to control the squad of the new team after signing (suggestions for 
 new signings and for selling / not selling existing players) . Transfer Market The player clearly 
 states his wishes now. Swap deals with up to three players are possible. After the completion of 
 a loan deal, negotiations about an extension or a full transfer are possible. Youth Team Managers 
 love to develop their youth players and FIFA Manager 07 will make their dreams come true. The game 
 has youth teams (generated players) with line-ups, match reports and full tables for the various 
 age groups. There are youth days, a youth transfer market, and special international youth tournaments. 
 Another key area is the extendable international youth camps section. The manager has to compete 
 with other big clubs for the most talented players all over the world. It is possible to hire special 
 head coaches for the camps to get the best players possible. There are also many little new features. 
 E. g. it is possible to change the name of a new youth player to make it possible to add friends 
 and family members to a running game. There are also special negotiations if a really talented 
 young player is looking for a new club, and finally the manager can win a yearly trophy for the 
 best youth department. 2D Club Grounds A new Sim City like feature replaces the old 3D club grounds. 
 There are lots of new buildings (about 100 in total) and other options (like building roads) . Cooperation 
 Contracts It is possible to sign a cooperation contract with either a bigger or a smaller club 
 (farm teams) to exchange players and to give talented players a chance to play. A satellite club 
 will add a whole new meaning to securing the future of the club. Are certain players showing potential 
 but are not good enough to play in your first squad, put them in the first squad of the satellite 
 club so they can develop into the player you would like them to be. A satellite club also gives 
 you the advantage to have a local youth academy in the country the satellite club is situated. 
 Test new youngsters and train them at the satellite club and simultaneously you can do this for 
 your own club, but you won't be bothered by a huge squad. Private Life The private life section 
 returns! The player can now take their own family into the game. As usual, it is all about relationships, 
 children, real estate &amp; cars, and ultimately about your son making it into the first team! 
 New smaller features include personal sponsoring contracts, twins, your partners character, playing 
 golf and your personal diary. Playing golf can for example improve or damage your relationship 
 with the chairman. Stats The statistics section of the game has more than doubled in size this 
 year. There are about 60 screens with statistical information in the game. New ones include: - 
 Season Stats - Scorer Lists International Competitions - Scorers by Competition - Overview Team 
 Tactics - EC and WC Top Scorers - Cup Tables - Scorer Lists Youth Teams - Most Expensive Players 
 - Manager with Longest Stay - Etc. 3D-Match Probably most realistic 3D match engine in a manager 
 game has been improved even further. We use the UEFA Champions League 2005 engine with improved 
 AI, a free camera, and the option to save highlights and to exchange them with other players. Its 
 also possible now to play more attacking or defensive with just one mouse click, or to substitute 
 players without leaving the 3D view of the match. New Text Mode A new calculation system for the 
 attacks creates an infinite number of possible variations. Fan chants were added and are further 
 extendable by the user. Videotext Mode For the first time, the player can watch the matches in 
 videotext mode including the scorers and live tables. Rules for automatic substitutions can be 
 defined precisely. Instant Calculation At the moment 30% of our players play the game by calculating 
 the matches using Instant Calculation . We support these players with a quick videotext mode and 
 an Automatic Substitution feature that allows them to define rules for automatic substitutions. 
 Calendar Many well-know and new events can be planned in the calendar, such as Short-Term Camps, 
 Open Days and End of Season Parties, as well as Emergency Meetings, Club Anniversaries and Sponsor 
 Days. Revised Budget Negotiations These are now divided into two parts. First, the season objectives 
 are discussed and the Board proposes the corresponding budgets. Low season objectives care for 
 job security, but result in low budgets and have to be compensated by special tasks as for example 
 rejuvenation of the team. High season objectives are a risk for the manager but sponsors and the 
 Board will be thrilled and provide you with more money. In the second round of the negotiations, 
 the final amounts can be negotiated. During the season, the budgets have to be adjusted up or down 
 when special events occur (Drop out of the Cup, win of the EC) . Moving the money between the individual 
 budgets and applying for more money are both possible. Starting in a higher or lower league This 
 year, the player can find out how his club would manage in a different league. At the beginning 
 of the game, the player can set the starting league for his club. The players skills will be adapted 
 correspondingly- this ensures an exciting game! Smaller Features and Comebacks Dozens of new features 
 will provide long-term game fun - Dramatic Cup Draws (including special draws for the European 
 Competitions, EC and WC) - Extended player talks - Fan opinions and the options of the FM05- Fan 
 screens return - Testimonial matches - Notice about player contracts running out - Naturalisation 
 of players - Intramuscular injections for fast recovery ;wrong diagnoses for injured players - 
 Video proof and appeal against judgements by the sports court - Performance evaluations of the 
 national team players - Protest against national team callings - Championship report at the end 
 of the season - All clubs can be bought - Own club can be sold - Variable difficulty level for 
 selected game elements (training, negotiations etc.) - Match deferment due to bad weather - New 
 layout of news including photos and graphics - Dozens of new events - Friendlies against really 
 weak opponents - Footballworld Website - Evaluation of new signings - Severe injuries can lead 
 to an end of career - No automatic end of contract after EC or WC - National team camps have returned 
 - National team players can be convinced to return from retirement - Top performance in the national 
 team will increase the players value - Players who might be dismissed from the national team request 
 their lining-up - More than 100 small improvements in the interface, e. g. typing amounts or selecting 
 amounts by slider or drop-down menu but also major improvements as for example a multiple selection 
 in buying fan articles by pressing CTRL or SHIFT - Major assistance- for example: All players 
 unavailable for sale/all insured/all for sale at market value/cancel all insurance - Enhanced 
 player search by position filter - Better development of youth players - Original town data for 
 Spain and Portugal in Found a Club mode - Transfer list filter from FIFA Manager05 is back - No 
 budgets for founded club - Training objectives can be set in Player Info - Players improvements 
 displayed with arrows such as in FIFA Manager05 - Team of the Day directly after the match - Decision 
 about shirt number directly after signing a player - E-Mail report if a youth player has reached 
 his training objective - Bonus payments can be frozen at bad performance - More than 10 printing 
 functions for all important lists; from line-up to training; from player search to fan articles 
 - Certain players get extra training - Found a club also in multiplayer mode (all players start 
 in the same league) - Additional instructions for assistants (e. g. do not line-up certain player; 
 do not extend contract) - Players return to former club, if the transfer wasnt due to conflict 
 - Interpreters can be hired - Licensing procedures in other countries - English version with player 
 ranking (optional) - All-time table with realistic data - Youth players of other clubs can be inspected 
 - Retroactive banning for hidden fouls - Next seasons squad can be inspected - Reserve team can 
 use the formation and tactics of the first team - Definition of most important sub-menus; access 
 by right-clicking the mouse - Bonus on the shirt sales of, e. g. Asia top stars Team colours The 
 complete interface is in team colours and the player can randomly change them. Even the exact RGB-colours 
 can be set! Database We have added more than 1,000 new player pictures, several hundred new stadiums 
 and several thousand new players. About 22,000 players (&gt;6,000 of them with player pictures) 
 and 2,400 clubs are in the database. About 1,000 stadiums are created with the internal stadium 
 editor to match the real stadiums all over Europe. Editor The editor will have lots of improvements 
 to make life for our fan site editors easier. This includes generating players, clubs and leagues 
 and lots of additional tools for quicker editing. It will be released some months before the game 
 to make sure that the fan sites can edit new leagues and countries very early, and that we have 
 the best possible database when we release the game. User Created Content FIFA Manager 07 is totally 
 extendable by the users. This includes the option for a full skinning of the game (see Football 
 Manager) . Some of the other new options are: - its easy to add new property to the Personal Life 
 section - well release a Match Comments editor - well release a Fan Chant editor - it will be 
 possible to add stadium pictures to the game - it will be possible to add chairman and manager 
 pictures to the game - family pictures can also be added - skinning of the complete game (colours, 
 controls, etc.) possible - stadium pictures can be integrated (will be displayed in the background 
 of many screens) - new badges can be added to the running game - 3D highlights can be saved and 
 exchanged 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djutada001
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Yeah it's not bad quite a change from CM or FM which are very similar, but this one have new interesting 
 stuff to discover, like the 3D graphics of the match gives you more action feeling on the game 
 play and some of the goal scoring moves are quite fun to see although sometimes a bit repetitive 
 but always great to see a spectacular winning goal in 3D and not just a circle moving about. Building 
 your own stadium and other features in the game such as personal life and more. The downside is 
 the lack of database of the players and the realism of transfer negotiations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Have been a great follower of FIFA game , since the day of TCM .Every year is a must have to add 
 to my collection . The release of FIFA 07 doesn't disappoint me much this year .Its a much more 
 improve version . Although , graphic and game play is very much the same . But the challenge and 
 atmosphere is still there .
  
  Data base been greatly improve and some previous technical issue been straighten out in this issue 
 . Transfer market , player contract ,club management ... etc have been well blend . As you can excise 
 more control over those area you wish to lay a hand on . The down side is that the field
  commentary and 3D match engine doesn't change much . Maybe , EA is just
  too lazy or think that 
 the voice commentary area is prefect . Its a direct photocopy from FIFA 06 . And as usual there're 
 bug here and there. Imagine
  the goalkeeper just stand and look pretty , when the ball is just right in front
  of him near 
 the six yard box . And he wait till the defender came and clear the ball for him. Where the opponent 
 was charging at it . What this ? Kind of stupid, right ? Nevertheless although with some flaws 
 present . Its still a great soccer game for fans out there. who love that live 3D effect . Personnal 
 life is back in this issue with addition that you can add in your beloved partner photo and some 
 luxury item you can spend for .
  
  A decent system should be able to run the game without much problem except some might need to increase 
 your virtual memory to suit its need . A good bargin and a game worth adding to your collection 
 if you're a great soccer fan . Those that have not lay a finger on it should start from today . 
 U never walk alone and will never feel bored ,if you're feeling restless at time . One of the best 
 time killer . Go for it ........!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedocmasoud
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the EA sports manager sims since they were first introduced back in 1997 with 
 FIFA soccer manager. With each installment came minor improvements, then in 2003, Total Club Manager 
 was released and served as a complete overhaul and catapulted the EA series to new lofty heights.
 
  
  This edition continues in that great tradition.
  
  The improvements in this edition are the subtle ones - ones that only fans and hardcore players 
 of the previous editions can appreciate. The Good: Streamlined interface, everything pertaining 
 to the club is at your fingertips. AI coaches are reliable. Player stats+character are realistic 
 and have a palpable effect on their performance. High degree of personalisation with the continued 
 inclusion of purchasing real estate, luxury items, and even founding your own club from your personal 
 fortune. Club facilities builder is another great timesink to the game, while giving you a visual 
 representation of what your spending millions on.
  
  The Bad:
  Long loading times for games with more than 5 simulated leagues. (I do need a new CPU though) . 
 Text mode and Instant results sometimes feel like the game is rigged (I'm a sore loser) . Inability 
 to reload directly from a game session is annoying (you must quit the session, return to main menu 
 and load from there) .
  
  Suggestions for next year:
  Add a new stat: player loyalty to manager - if I've used a player in every game since he was 16, 
 he should show me some loyalty when renegotiating his contract etc. Also, reinstate a single page 
 where I can Talk to and Fine players. Sometimes players deserve fines for beating up the ref, but 
 I'm not given the option to fine them (There is an option to set fines automatically which I NEVER 
 use) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sterve
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The good news is that this game does not crash every few games... people who played when this was 
 TCM will know what I mean. The 3d match is better in this version and produces reasonably realistic 
 play. Certainly this aspect is improving all the time. One thing I have noticed is if you go defensive 
 when you are away and attacking at home your results will improve. This may just be my team or 
 my style of play but taking note of this may result in less frustrating losses.
  
  Things I really like...
  
  1. The transfer market for managers makes this game more realistic 
 when changing clubs.
  2. Player transfer markets are more realistic and player values will actually go up after a player 
 has great game/s. For example I transfered a striker who had a value of 3.1mill. After he played 
 two games and scored 4 goals his value changed to 3.5 mill. In general this happens nicely as players 
 progress. Much better than previous versions.
  3. The finances are improved in terms of setting your expectations and receiving more or less money 
 depending on your ambition. This has a direct correlation on how likely you are to be fired. One 
 side note - I tend to try to get more seats and make my club financially profitable. I sell players 
 early on and build a big stadium with good club facilities so I can afford one galactico a year 
 on gate receipts/ profit... in this game even though it is early days I seem to be bleeding money 
 even with this strategy. Time will tell.
  4. Youth development is better. There are more options and the option to dabble in youth transfers 
 is a plus. I like my footy players like I like my women - somewhere between 20-24 and super fit 
 with a lot of talent. Wouldn't mind selling them for 20mill when I can't stand them anymore also 
 but I digress.
  5. Partnerships with other clubs seems like a good idea. I haven't fully explored this but I like 
 the concept. Farming out those good prospects so someone else can give them the playing time to 
 develop is a great idea.
  
  The not so great...
  1. Good to see the private life back but it is a weak effort compared to one TCM in particular 
 with the stock market etc. Still better than not having it.
  2. The player development and ratings aren't as easy to view as they used to be. I liked the talent 
 star they used to have and also liked to know exactly my players and team ratings.
  3. Not a big fan of the simcity style of upgrading your club facilities. Might float some peoples 
 boat but not mine.
  4. Managers names are fictional which I feel takes away from the overall enjoyment of the game.
 
  5. The pitch sound effects can get on your nerves. Oh and turn the commentary off.
  
  Allin in all a great game that is well worth playing... although after a couple of losses I may 
 say it's horrible and feel like smashing my pc into little pieces. But that's footy management 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volken84
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  It seems that EA Sports always picks the wrong people for developing the Fifa Manager series (TCM) ... let's 
 hope that by some miracle the 2008 edition will be at least like the 2005 one... and we won't have 
 to throw money on the window like we did the last 2 years. If we look at Football Manager series 
 from SI you can tell that it is possible to reach a certain level (a good one) of database precision... ok... let's 
 say that it is impossible for our guys at EA Sports to blend a state of the art database... but 
 at least they could put some heart in the 3D match feature (the thing that makes Fifa Manager original 
 if i may say so) ... especially on the AI (artificial inteligence) . Another thing to prove the lack 
 of professionalism is the music witch is copy/paste into the game... you can see that some songs 
 are louder then others... lucky that you can use you'r own music with the in build mp3 player. There 
 are many things to criticize but I don't see the point on going further... the game is here, the 
 money are paid, the disappointement continues. Let's hope that with the patch they are trying to 
 release at the end of the year and the addon at the begining of the next year things will change 
 a bit... in good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riodoank
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  oh... what a boring game. even with an improvement with the interference when the 3D match played 
 it's still doesn't covered themistake that this game have ever made. for example; no player emotion 
 between transfer to another club (this mean the rich club may buy any player in the game) , the 
 tactics sometimes doesn't take what we want the player to do in the field (it's silly when you 
 tell your player to clossing down often, but the opposition player still drible the ball everywhere 
 in your teritorry) , training room even more or still confused then before (even don't figure how 
 to managed it) . btw it's a good game after all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irsyad564
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  Control is everything in yhe world of football management, and this year FIFA MANAGER 07 provides 
 all the tools you need to make it to the big time
  
  THe best football manager game ever.
  i cant stop play it.
  first there are some new addition. the 
 personal life comes back .now you can
  buy houses and play golf. the transfers is now more realistic.
  now you can co operate with some 
 club to change for players. it good to have that. and the youth have been categorized. it consist 
 of 4 groups. you can spot the talent of youth as early as 12 years old. and now the transfer is more 
 detailed. the AI has been upgraded. there also a personal sponsor. so you can earn more money.
  
  so what are you waiting for, buy it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_boyxo
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  AI of player is suck, the ability of player not appropriate with their performance in 3D match, 
 the ST player from small club with low speed as 5x can even faster then the DC with speed of 8x 
 in face to face. GK is terrible, even worse than the FiFA MANAGER 07. The interesting additional 
 game play as PLAYER CAREER can not add value to this game but make it lower. Personal life can 
 give you some exciting but u will lost it quickly. Totally waste of money, I'm regretting to bought 
 it. : ( (
  Totally waste of money, I'm regretting to bought it. : ( ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  This is the best football manager out there curently.
  It basicly has the same graphic interface as last year and many gameplay elements are the same 
 but it has a lot of new and improved features that makes this game great!
  
  First of all theres the new feature of controling a player in 3D match mode, you can select a player 
 coresponding with your manager level, this means you can't controll ronaldinho a couple of seasons 
 until your manager level is good enough! Another big feature is the contract between two clubs. 
 You can sign a contract with a lower or bigger club, then you can swap players between the clubs, 
 you can take talented players from that club and be the first to bid for some of their player and 
 so on...
  The transfer market is vastly improved, the AI is a lot smarter now meaning the AI controled teams 
 will make logical buy's and sell's.
  For example if you want to buy Kaka you would have to pay Milan 190millions to get him, while average 
 players have normal values. There are new events you can organise in the calendar such as sponsor 
 day, open day, fans day and so on...
  The club ground extesions are now interesting to manage, you basicly have SimCity like building 
 and management and there are many new extensions, such as: church, disco, airfield and so on...
 
  Personal life is back, there are now 4 youth groups from 11 years to 18 years, improved Youth 
 departments menagment and so on...
  Players skills are reasonalby true and the diference between small and big teams is shortend meaning 
 theres much better chance of small team wining against a bigger team with the right tactics and 
 formation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutonium666
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The game has the same gameplay as last years version, But a lot of additions has made the game 
 quite a bit more exciting! Now your are able to have cooperation-deals with either bigger or smaller 
 clubs. This will give you, as well as the club you cooperate with, a lot of nice possibility. You 
 are allowed to take all their great talents, and send your less good players on a loan to the smaller 
 club.
  The smaller club will each year receive an amount of cash, and perhaps have a match or two against 
 the bigger team. They are allowed to bid on a player before anybody else.
  
  Another BIG feature in the game, is the ability to play in the matches, only controlling one player. 
 This is extremely difficult to master, but it is a funny way to watch the matches. But you should 
 probably be an experienced FIFA player, before playing the important matches. It is difficult to 
 stay on your position, and not stray all around the field. You should also avoid sprinting too 
 much, as it will exhaust the player VERY fast. Another nice improvement is the youth-team. Now 
 there are 4 youth-teams. 17/18 yrs, 15/16 yrs, 13/14 yrs and 11/12 yrs. This makes it possible 
 to spot a top-talent even when he is 11 yrs old! This way you can nurse him to be a killer in his 
 favourite position!
  
  Although there is a whole lot of great improvements of the game, I still believe you get fed up 
 quite easily. The game doesn't get exciting during a season, cause every match is the same, even 
 if you choose to control a player during the match. I definitely hope for some nice improvements, 
 and FAST. Some features that improve the gameplay. It is also by far too difficult to improve a 
 players skills. I think FIFA Manager should try out Football Manager, and try to learn from them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshualbh105
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  If you are expecting to play football games, stop reading now, cause its not for you. You should 
 get FIfa 07 then. But if you are looking to step into the shoes of Arsene Wenger, Alex Ferguson, 
 Bobby Robson, Capello or Jose Mourinho, then you should read this and get this game.
  
  Its the best ever manager game i have ever played! The new features this year are the player's 
 opinion whether he would like to stay or he is fed up of being on the bench and would like to leave 
 your club. The new transfer market also allows you to swap players, a feature that was not in the 
 previous Fifa manager games. The player you target also has an opinion whether he would like to 
 remain at his current club or to move to your club.
  
  Cool game.. Personal life feature is back, which makes it something like a Sims game combined with 
 a football game, which is a really cool thing. I think not even Football manager or Championship 
 manager has the substances to compete with this game.
  
  What can you say? Official license, official teams, official player names, its just pure fun to 
 actually step into clubs like Real Madrid and Manchester United and just try and win trophies for 
 them! Cool!!
  
  Transfer budgets can now be discussed with the board of directors depending on your season objectives 
 or targets, something that the previous games does not have.
  
  OVerall, it is a fantastic game, i love it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
