-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifa2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 565 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Nov 4, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're a returning veteran, you may want to weigh the game's new perks against some of its downfalls 
 before you set down your hard-earned cash. 

  In the grand scheme of things, FIFA Soccer 2004 is a good PC game. It adapts well to newcomers 
 but keeps plenty in reserve for skilled, seasoned veterans. It is the first FIFA to feature a career 
 mode. And, despite some issues we'll tackle later, it is nicely presented and blessed with an incredibly 
 deep control system. Unfortunately, it  is  marred with blemishes. It also follows a pattern that's 
 beginning to creep into the most recent versions of some of EA Sports' team sport titles. Namely, 
 despite its many positive attributes, its most important element -- gameplay -- simply doesn't seem 
 to be advancing quite as quickly as it should.  

          FIFA 2004 doesn't feature any form of precipitation, but it does sport some very convincing 
 sun effects.     

  This may be seen as a harsh judgment, considering the perennial popularity and general critical 
 acclaim the series continually garners, but the truth is that FIFA has been around for over a decade 
 now. In that time, EA Sports has blown the roof off of the game's audio-video components. Starting 
 in 1994 -- with 2D sprites and flat, comparatively lifeless environments -- and culminating in today's 
 stunningly better-than-TV delivery and incredible motion-captured players, the FIFA presentation 
 has never failed to impress.  

  Rather than instilling the game with artificially intelligent opponents and teammates who truly 
 mimic the nuances and dynamics of real-life, world-class soccer stars -- and thus compelling the 
 human player to act accordingly -- the development team continually seems more fixated on adding 
 incredibly complex button-pumping maneuvers that feel more clinical than sport-oriented. Furthermore, 
 though FIFA's AI programming is quite acceptable in the short term, it begins to feel downright 
 repetitious after you've played a couple dozen contests. This sort of thing was perfectly fine 
 for much of the first 10 years, but recently it's all beginning to feel a little old. We'll explore 
 this concept further, but let's first look at some of FIFA 2004's more noticeable practical innovations. 

  As is typical of the series, EA Sports has once again tweaked its gameplay/AI engine just enough 
 to keep us interested. For the most part, the game does feel marginally better. You're likely to 
 notice, right off the bat, that it features a comparatively large number of deflected and intercepted 
 balls. Whether you're shooting or passing, chances are that if you're in the midst of a group of 
 players, your ball will strike something on its way to the target. This is a good thing, as are 
 the newly modified defensive alignments and structuring. In FIFA 2004, AI defenses tend to back 
 off the ball carrier somewhat and, thus, clog your path to the net. This, in turn, forces you into 
 a far more passing-oriented attack than ever before.  

  To really excel in FIFA 2004's more-imposing difficulty levels, you'll have to do more than learn 
 the fine art of pinpoint passing. The game's new "off-the-ball control," accessed during gameplay 
 by clicking a specified button or key, allows you to take command of your nonball-carrying players 
 while you're still controlling the ball carrier. A great concept, off-the-ball control lets you 
 direct a given player to a new location, and it makes him perform other actions he most likely 
 would not have made if left under the guidance of the game's programming. The most challenging 
 aspect of off-the-ball control is its inherent complexity. Put simply, it's danged difficult to 
 do all the stuff you normally do, while, at the same time, working the myriad other buttons to 
 control other players. Still, most quick reflex gamers should eventually get the hang of it and 
 will enjoy it once they do.  

  They'll enjoy it even more once they've developed a patient approach to their attacks -- by biding 
 their time and working the ball around carefully while waiting for passing lanes to open up. In 
 this way, FIFA 2004 does seem more authentic. Moreover, the game's improved on-the-fly management 
 utility, which permits a bunch of tactical modifications while play continues, is tailor-made for 
 veteran players who are looking to add weapons to their arsenals.  

          In FIFA 2004, clean chances, like this one inside the goal box, are very rare indeed.  
    

  Even with the new enhancements, FIFA's gameplay doesn't effectively duplicate the ebb and flow 
 or real-world intricacies of real-life soccer. Granted, the game will undoubtedly awe rookies. 
 It is, after all, an amazing achievement when compared to many of the alternatives -- both past and 
 present. Yet there's a pattern to the AI programming that feels both repetitious and artificial. 
 And good AI is, of course, the key to any game of this nature.  

  You'll need a few contests under your belt before you begin to notice it, but soon you'll see that 
 FIFA 2004's AI defenders habitually repeat their actions. For example, virtually any time you're 
 able to negotiate your ball carrier into the opposing box, the defending side quite suddenly displays 
 amazing speed and prowess. Almost immediately, you're dispossessed of the ball. Conversely, there 
 are certain maneuvers you can enact outside the box that will cause any immediate defenders to 
 become ridiculously confused, thus causing them to run to the wrong spot or to stand still as you 
 saunter on by with the ball. Furthermore, if you should instead try to use an open field speed 
 burst to blow past a defender -- a maneuver that should usually meet with success if your player 
 is an acknowledged star while the defender is not -- you'll almost always be stripped of the ball. 
 That is, unless you're making the run down a wing, where the defenders seem curiously untalented. 
     

  Worse still, FIFA 2004 will -- once again -- give you the impression that some of its plays and some 
 of its results are preordained. Certainly there can be no other logical explanation for why a world-class 
 striker would miss a wide-open cage from just 10 yards out. This would also explain last-minute 
 equalizers that wouldn't find the back of the net in a local sandlot pickup game. Yet these sorts 
 of incidents are, once again, rather commonplace in FIFA, thus making it seem as though they happen 
 for no other apparent reason than to keep the score irrationally close.  

          The players -- and even the ball -- in FIFA 2004 are gorgeously rendered.     

  To reiterate, 
 the FIFA AI engine is by no means horrific. Certainly it is one of the reasons the game sits at 
 or near the top of the PC sports world. You'll undoubtedly find that your own teammates behave 
 in a generally believable fashion, but it still doesn't change the fact that hardcore soccer gamers 
 who study and learn the game from top to bottom will likely find its AI repetitive, patterned, 
 and sometimes highly questionable.  

  One area that clearly could have been brilliant but suffers from a seemingly incomplete development 
 cycle is FIFA 2004's depiction of fouls. It's obvious from the first time you play the game that 
 EA Sports has decided to add much more middle ground to the foul routine. Now, you don't necessarily 
 have to commit an aggressive tackle to knock a player to the ground; a normal tackle can also result 
 in a spill. Likewise, an aggressive tackle no longer guarantees that the targeted player will hit 
 the turf. This is a much more authentic routine that more faithfully re-creates real-life tackles. 
 However, the officials often seem blissfully blind to the whole thing, thus whistling down tackles 
 that are completely legit and letting vicious tackles go unpenalized. As a result, you're stuck 
 in the middle, and you don't really know what to do.  

  Visually, the latest FIFA is, by and large, the finest installment to date. If you're unfamiliar 
 with the series, you should know that FIFA 2004 is uncannily reminiscent of a televised world-class 
 match. The game features 500 teams from 18 leagues and includes a truly grand total of 10,000 players, 
 each modeled after his real-life counterpart. EA Sports boasts that it has secured 500 official 
 licenses, and it shows. Corporate logos are everywhere -- from uniforms to stadiums and even to off-field 
 interfaces.  

          Bone-crunching tackles, like this one, can come in a wide variety of ways in FIFA 2004. 
     

  FIFA 2004 players are downright spectacular. Certainly they're the most lifelike to ever grace 
 a PC soccer game. One of the obvious high points are the player faces, which have now lost any 
 remaining cartoonlike detail and now look eerily similar to the real thing. Player bodies are perhaps 
 even more impressive, simply because they are capable of so many fluid humanlike movements. The 
 development team has really gone to town in developing appropriate arm and torso animations, and 
 the results are phenomenal. Now, when players bump and tussle, they do so using their arms for 
 balance and as weapons. Post-whistle scrums are particularly delicious, what with all the new yapping 
 and pushing going on. And when your little players finally emerge from a long half or contest, 
 they sometimes do so with dirty uniforms.  

  The game's stadiums are as wonderful as always, only now EA Sports has supplemented them with incredible 
 sun glare and lens flare effects. Sadly, you may not always see what you  should  be seeing. Your 
 experience may vary, but we initially found that FIFA 2004's graphics were too dark to be considered 
 playable. We maxed out the brightness control on our monitor and searched for a nonexistent gamma 
 correction tool, but the game continued to look as if it was being played at night with no artificial 
 lighting. Then, suddenly -- and without warning -- all was well. We were never able to replicate the 
 lousy lighting of the first few forays. We did try the game on a second PC, where it looked fine 
 for the first few sessions, then -- once again -- assumed its darkened alter ego. Thankfully, the game 
 reverted to its more-playable self after that and has remained that way ever since. While it's 
 true that some stadiums offer different lighting than others, surely no stadium was intoned to 
 be this ludicrously murky.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  FIFA 2004 is a game that will confuse the new-comers a bit, but in fact is another good soccer 
 sim.
  
  First of all, FIFA 2004 provides for the first time in FIFA games history a career mode, which 
 lasts for 5 years.
  However, it lacks a more important thing, which is fast and realistic gameplay.
  
  The game 
 is also lacking realism, as this version of the game is assasignated with more trick keys which 
 are not helpful at all. It lacks the simple and real football, as the tricks or manuevrs you do 
 seem to be from other planet.
  
  There is also a new feature in the game, called Off-the ball control, which enables you to take 
 yor other players without the ball, while you control it, and move them where you want. This will 
 be a helpful feature both for new and old fans of the series.
  
  Argueably, the defence organized by AI is difficult to get through, but after a few matches you 
 will realize that the defense is making the same moves again and again, and you will find a way 
 to score easier.
  
  The AI becomes very hard to beat when the score difference is big, no matter the difficulty level 
 you play in. This happens because the CPU tries to have the score being as closer as possible.
 
  
  Another disadvantage of the game is the interfaces. The structure of the menus in FIFA 2004 are 
 very confusing.
  
  FIFA 2004 is a game with many pros, but with other cons at the same time. You should try the demo 
 first before buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realman208
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, 
 like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, 
 like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, 
 like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, 
 like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, 
 like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, 
 like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others
  good game, just good nothing special, like the others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the only FIFA that I have played a lot. The game itself isnt very fast paced but being 
 slow also gives you a bit more time to devise in game strategies. At semi-pro level, any kick from 
 outside the D into the corner of the net always earns a goal so your opposition should never be 
 a problem, infact if youre good at it, you can score a goal just using your goal keeper. The real 
 fun begins at higher levels, professional and world class where initially youll spend less time 
 with the ball and more chasing your rivals, though shouldnt be problem for FIFA fans =D.
  
  The game features many football leagues and all their clubs including your favorite players, 
 though not all of them have original looks e. g. Ronaldo never looked like that, did he now? The 
 graphics and player details are below average and up-close youll find many players to have hair 
 problems, lol. The in-game commentary is boring and very soon youll start hearing the same comments 
 again and again, so its better if you focus on your game and less on the commentary. The game also 
 features online play, sadly I never tried that. ;_; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : not bad, matches go interesting, really difficult in world class mode
  Graphics : improved from fifa2003, players move softly, but that's all, it didn't really make some 
 big change, it seems that EA can't do any better to improve the graphic.
  Sound : well, it's something worst in the game, even fifa2003 do this better. In the beginning 
 of each match, you'll hear something likes wind blowing right beside you ears, not the sound of 
 the crowds. Even sound when the ball hits the net is very bad too.
  Conclusion : I wouldn't buy this game if it wasn't a game in WorldCyberGame (I got the 4th position 
 playing fifa2003 in my country last CyberGame ;) ) . So if you're a fan of fifa series, maybe you 
 should check it out, but if you're just simply a fan of football games, you'd better check PES 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 7, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  EA has always managed to make good soccer games, but games such as Pro Evolution Soccer and This 
 Is Football has tried to beat the FIFA games in this odd soccer match. 
  
  
  The graphics aren't surprisingly enough that good, but they're okay. The players look much as they 
 do in real life, but I was expecting more details. The menus are terrible, they react slowly, and 
 looks very standard. 
  
  The sounds are very good. The audience sounds great when singing and shouting. The commentators 
 are very good, but sometimes the side commentator comes with long speeches about players earning 
 more money if they play better and so on, and I hate those. EA has always managed to find cool 
 tunes in their menus, and this game is no exception. Some of the songs are really worth listening 
 to. 
  
  The gameplay is very good because there are some new features such as "off the ball control" and 
 Career mode. The "off the ball control" works pretty good, but can be hard getting used to. You 
 control the player with the ball while controlling the one who is going to get it, and this is 
 pretty hard, but it's cool. The Career mode is brilliant, because you can play a team such as Arsenal 
 through 3 years and play both the players and the manager. You can also buy Championship Manager 
 2004 and install it on top of FIFA 2004 and play the games together, which is great. You have many 
 opportunities in the new FIFA game, and it's one of the best FIFA games ever. 
  
  + 
  "off the ball control". Career mode is great. Many different stadiums to choose from. The players 
 can do many different moves. 
  
  - 
  The controls can be hard to get into. Not that good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  ... but is disappointing. It doesn't have much improvements. The graphics are overall pretty good 
 and the gameplay is still the same as in the other FIFA games. The players have a few facial animations 
 and the shirts are very detailed. But the crowd isn't detailed. The sound is good. You can hear 
 the crowd shouting and singing & you can hear players shouting. When the players pass the ball 
 you can here the foot ticking the ball. The game has multiplayer modes but it's just like the other 
 FIFA games. It's a big disappointment if you compare it to FIFA 2003. It's probably the worst game 
 in the FIFA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgepsp
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 20, 2005 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Love the game hate the slow response of the game play. I run it on a 1.8 pentium with 64 mb video 
 card and 512 mb ram and the game runs really slow and the controls need improving but overall game 
 play is still fun. Pretty disappointed in the gameplay but can't have everything. No one perfect 
 and games aren't perfect either. All i can say is graphics great and all but the more i think about 
 it the less i liked this game. I only liked it cause my wife liked it and its one of the few games 
 she'll play against me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 24, 2004 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The FIFA series have the urge to change nothing except the last number of their titles. But now 
 it changed something more: the newest things are the off-ball situations. Passing is improved and 
 made more realistic. Now you also have the Career ability: you have to prove you're a good trainer 
 (by playing with your club and train players to improve their skills) in 5 seasons. I also like 
 the special moves when some players score. The screens are also great ! What's not improved: the 
 highlights, I find the higlight ability much worse then the one of FIFA 2003. There also isn't 
 a creation centre anymore. For the rest there aren't much other new features.
  
  The sound: If you play with some famous clubs you will hear the supporters singing the clubsong. 
 The most important thing, the effects, are not so great. When not in a mach you can hear some great 
 and cool music from whole over the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2004 3:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm not going to waste time pretending that FIFA 2004 is the best thing ever to hit the PC 
 but at the same time it is a lot better than the other reviews here are making out, as long as 
 you are a football fan that is. Die-hard footie fans are a tribe unto themselves and will appreciate 
 the subtle touches in this game, such as the authentic terrace chants, excellent player likenesses 
 and the wonderful off-the-ball control. The game still has some of the fundamental flaws of all 
 soccer games, namely the 'always score' move which exists in every game to date, where one particular 
 play will always result in a goal, no matter how often you use it. As time has passed this move 
 has proved more and more difficult to find and the reproduce but it's still here and the game loses 
 something for that. The career mode is interesting if not worth the cover price on it's own and 
 the new play mechanics and player reactions are an interesting diversion but it is the general 
 sense of speed and excitement that makes this game worth a look if you are a fan of the game rather 
 than just a gamer looking for flaws. If you Saturdays are spent screaming at the TV when a pass 
 is intercepted or your favorite striker just missed a sitter then FIFA 2004 will give you an enjoyable 
 way of showing them how it should be done (or show you how difficult it might be!) Setting Thierry 
 Henry off on a blistering run while Zidane plays an inch-perfect through ball into his path is 
 great fun if you can pull it off and gives a real sense of achievement. On a technical note, I'm 
 running an Athlon 2600+ and a GeForce 4 and have had zero problems with the game, despite playing 
 it for days on end without turning off. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmehra
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 5, 2003 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the only review I've ever written for a game, and I'm writing this to worn my football 
 buddies to be weary of the PC version of this game (I haven't played any console version) . 
  
  Wow, what a piece of crap this port to the PC is. It doesn't look any cleaner then the X-Box 
 or PS2 version. Controls are slow and sluggish and ambience sounds like a broken record. This was 
 three steps back for EA. Maybe there was a reason why it is cheaper to buy this game on PC then 
 consoles. I really, really don't recommend this game. I actually enjoyed and still enjoy FIFA 2003 
 on my PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 22, 2003 3:55 am PT
Review:  This game is better then Fifa 2003, but still way below Pro Evolution Soccer 3, that deserve 10! 
 Unfortunately only graphics and presentation cannot make for a football game, EA's FIFA is not 
 dynamic, after few games it gets so repetitive that you can't even force yourself to play it. I 
 have nevery liked forced presentation, and FIFA always force you their interface which is really 
 clumsy in this game, as always menu system is really stupid.
  
  Gameplay is mixed bag. You can take the ball run towrds box, and strangely defenders will go back 
 and back without interrupting you, but you cannot enter in the box, here they will defend amazingly, 
 so I get most of goals from shots outside the box, and if you have a fairly decent strikers, there 
 is 90% chance you will score.
  
  Other very hyped feature Off The Ball control is useless. Let's face it, on theory it is really 
 nice, but first you press the button, then select the player and about time when you are trying 
 to pass you get tackled :) If you play real life football this feature is on instinct, not thinking 
 for 30 seconds, so idea is nice but execution is faulty. It should have been much simpler.
  
  Commentry is really annoying this time. They didn't change anything from Fifa 2003, which is 
 really a shame. New players like in Man Utd, Kleberson, or Christino Ronaldo, are not recorded! 
 So John Watson will never say their name. EA could have done better here, instead of saving some 
 money.
  
  All in all nice effort by EA, but still long way to go before competing Pro Evolution Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huy302
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 6, 2003 8:49 am PT
Review:  Well, pretty dissapointed, I must say.
  Gameplay : not bad, matches go interesting, really difficult in world class mode
  Graphics : 
 improved from fifa2003, players move softly, but that's all, it didn't really make some big change, 
 it seems that EA can't do any better to improve the graphic.
  Sound : well, it's something worst in the game, even fifa2003 do this better. In the beginning 
 of each match, you'll hear something likes wind blowing right beside you ears, not the sound of 
 the crowds. Even sound when the ball hits the net is very bad too.
  Conclusion : I wouldn't buy this game if it wasn't a game in WorldCyberGame (I got the 4th position 
 playing fifa2003 in my country last CyberGame ;) ) . So if you're a fan of fifa series, maybe you 
 should check it out, but if you're just simply a fan of football games, you'd better check PES 
 out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
