-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 97
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifasoccer97/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.6, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 139 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You know you've got a good sports sim on your hands when you realize that youenjoy playing it as 
 much as seeing the real thing. 

 You know you've got a good sports sim on your hands when you realize that you enjoy playing it as 
 much as (or more than) seeing the real thing - and that's exactly how I felt after I fired up FIFA 
 Soccer 97 from Electronic Arts. It has a few minor problems, to be sure, and one annoying omission. 
 But with a game as ambitious as this one - which includes over 4,200 players on 255 teams - achieving 
 perfection is about as likely as a year without a soccer riot.  

 Just like every EA Sports title, FIFA Soccer 97 boasts a huge array of options and features that 
 give you control over nearly every aspect of gameplay. Three skill levels and three game types 
 - Action, Arcade, and Simulation - let you fine-tune the challenge to match almost perfectly your 
 skill level and preferences. Newbies will probably get their game in shape playing in Arcade mode, 
 where all teams perform equally well and no players tire; gamers who want a more realistic challenge 
 will opt for either the Action game (unlimited substitutions, better player attributes, faster 
 gameplay) or a Simulation, where skill ratings accurately reflect teams' performances and players 
 tire during the course of play. Other game parameters you can control include length of half, clock 
 type (continually running or stopping when the ball is dead) , fouls (on, off, no bookings) , offsides 
 (on or off) , pitch size (large, medium, or small, but you can only use this feature for Friendly 
 games) , and pitch condition. You can also opt for Indoor play, but the small pitch size means the 
 game moves incredibly fast, which can take some getting used to.  

 That same level of flexibility extends to the various types of matches as well. In addition to Friendly 
 games between any two teams (new teams can be created from the player database for these games) , 
 you can also see how you fare in long-haul affairs such as Tournaments, Playoffs, and League play, 
 all of which allow human control for up to 16 teams. A Transfer feature means you can create a 
 dream lineup for your run at a championship or simply keep your team authentic by mirroring real-life 
 trades, but it's here that you run into the annoying omission I mentioned earlier: the lack of 
 a Player Editor. Not only are you unable to create new players to reflect real-life additions to 
 a team, but also there's no way to edit existing players' attributes - a true annoyance for those 
 wishing to alter the fictional names used for all the U. S. teams.  

 But you'll be more than willing to forgive that oversight once you've got a few games under your 
 belt, because out on the pitch, FIFA Soccer 97 delivers the kind of fluid, realistic action that's 
 become a hallmark of EA Sports' titles. Diving saves and headers, bicycle kicks, volleys - all 
 these and more are here, and so well animated that at times you'll think you're watching a televised 
 match. Be forewarned, though, that you'll need a high-end machine to get a good frame rate: On 
 my 133 with 32MB of RAM and a 2MB ATI Mach 64 Pro Turbo PCI video card, I had to either knock down 
 the display size a couple of notches or turn off the grass textures in order to achieve smooth 
 play. The polygon-based players look a little chunky when seen close up, but that's usually a moot 
 point since you'll invariably play from a perspective far enough away to give you an idea of where 
 your players are headed. The play-by-play is good, but as with almost any sports sim you'll inevitably 
 hear a lot of the same comments over and over; if that bothers you, just turn it off.  

 Two- and four-button joysticks are supported, but the game really shines when you use the Gravis 
 GrIP system: All six buttons and both "paddles" are supported for up to four players, giving you 
 about as much control as you could hope for. In fact, it could be a little TOO much at first; the 
 best tactic is to use the game's Practise (love that spelling!) mode to learn button assignments 
 for situations such as throw-ins and corner kicks, as well as master the Passback mode where you 
 control someone on offense other than the ball-handler. Passing can be especially tough to master, 
 but again a little practice goes a long way in helping you master the basics.  

 In short, I really enjoy this game, but even I have to admit that it has a few rough spots, perhaps 
 most noticeably in its goalie behavior. Play at Semi-Pro or Pro difficulty levels, and you'll see 
 very good goalies doing some very stupid things, allowing the computer-controlled opponent to score 
 much too easily. Heck, I once saw a goalie DUCK as a header came his way! Computer-controlled teams 
 almost never commit fouls, a real drag for aggressive players like me who invariably receive two 
 or three yellow cards (or worse) during a game. Knowing whether you have control of the ball is 
 a little tough, too, because the only indicator is a circle surrounding the player you're controlling 
 that brightens when he has the ball. It's all too easy to take control of the ball during a tackle 
 and then lob it because the same button is used for tackles and lobs. I also have gripe with substitutions: 
 There's no gauge to tell you how fatigued a particular player is, information that's vital in deciding 
 who to sub and who to keep on the field.  

 But the funny thing is that I somehow seem to conveniently forget all that stuff when I load up 
 FIFA 97, especially when I'm playing against friends (up to four can compete on one machine using 
 the GrIP system, or with up to four machines over a network) . If EA can find a way to get this 
 thing working over the Internet, the world's most popular sport might be the most popular sport 
 in cyberspace, too.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tomcrito
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  When I got a PC in 1997, straight away my cousin got a couple of games, most notably Fifa 97/MDK 
 double pack. From past experience I knew to be wary of Fifa but it would of been a waste if I hadnt 
 played it so a gave it a go and damn, what a good decision that was.
  
  It starts off with this amazing title screen showing all the playing fluid football in 3-D and 
 I was astonished. Surely this was just for the title screen and not for the game I thought. But 
 lo and behold, I played the game and just playing the game in 3-D made me shake in excitement. 
 I had never seen anything so realistic games-wise before.
  
  The gameplay was MUCH improved over 96 and now it actually made you feel like you were playing 
 the beautiful game. The volleys, through balls, lobs, skills, overhead kicks, yes they are all 
 here. And just to make your gaming pleasure even sweeter, there are 3 different ways of playing 
 to suit your experience and playing skills. The default mode is arcade, where it is aimed at novices 
 where players do not tire and even if you are playing as a really bad team, most of the players 
 play equally. Then there is action, where the game is non-stop, well, action. On action the opponents 
 act like they are on steds and go crazy with the ball and take a shot from miles out. Lastly there 
 is Simulation, which basically plays with realistic attributes and players tire. There are also 
 other different parameters like how you can turn fouls on and off and crazily, how long the pitch 
 is! There is also an indoor stadium which is fast-paced and mad but it is a lot of fun. Unfortunately 
 there is only one stadium in the game apart from the indoor one which can make it slightly repetitive 
 sometimes.
  
  As previously mentioned, the graphics were astonishing. OK, maybe it looks bad now but back in 
 96 it was the best graphics I had ever seen. Just everything, the textures, the faces, the stadium, 
 all amazing. The sound was also fantastic because the crowd actually sounded like fans now and 
 the menus were filled with funky music. Yet the most obvious addition to this game is its commentary 
 voiced by the legendary John Motson. In past Fifa games there was no commentary so this was obviously 
 a big step for the series. John Motson is perfect and sounds just like off the T. V. It is a shame 
 that he only has a limited amount of lines so his lines become slightly repetitive.
  
  Fifa 97 has full leagues for Italy, Spain, England and Germany and you can play in a modest number 
 of game modes. If you get into it, this game can last you for dozens of hours.
  
  Overall, if you like football, you are going to love this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
