-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifa2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 535 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Nov 2, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It isn't quite perfect, but the latest FIFA game is a refreshing and compelling step ahead in a 
 series that's known for its quality. 

 As we've seen both in 1998 and this year, EA Sports generally tries to take full advantage of the 
 World Cup, and how much interest it generates in the sport of soccer, by releasing not one, but 
 two soccer games in a year. And now, just five months after 2002 FIFA World Cup comes FIFA Soccer 
 2003. The latest edition of this decade-old franchise is perhaps the most intriguing in some time, 
 highlighting the tactical battles of the real-life sport and at least partially abstaining from 
 the slam-bang superhuman action of past versions. Make no mistake, the pace can still be inordinately 
 fast unless you choose to slow it down, but this may well be the FIFA that hard-core fans have 
 been waiting for.           After each goal, FIFA 2003 superimposes the team logos and current 
 score onto the pitch.    

  Presumably since EA Sports has already covered international competition in its earlier game, 2002 
 FIFA World Cup, FIFA Soccer 2003 focuses on club competition. However, its scope is absolutely 
 huge, encompassing 450 teams from around the world and more than 10,000 individual players, each 
 modeled after real-life counterpart. You can choose from globally renowned powerhouses such as 
 Real Madrid, North American Major League Soccer teams such as the San Jose Earthquakes, or somewhat 
 less-renowned franchises like Korea's Pusan Icons.   

  The game also features the complete 40-squad international roster from this year's World Cup competition, 
 more than two-dozen gorgeous and purportedly accurate stadiums, and a full allotment of home and 
 away uniforms (and additional "alternate" kits where applicable) for each and every team. Play 
 modes include one-off skirmishes, league seasons, and authentic and custom cup competitions and 
 tournaments. Skilled players have an opportunity to unlock even more tourneys and stadiums by proving 
 themselves worthy on the pitch.   

  This time around, EA Sports has opted for a deceptively minimalist user interface that makes it 
 easy for rookies to jump right in without being assaulted by a barrage of information screens and 
 choices, but the interface seems poorly designed for veterans who feel the need to tweak and customize. 
 Furthermore, most menus tend to look comparatively rough, with little of the flash and high-end 
 options you might expect from an EA Sports game. Particularly frustrating are the small arrow-shaped 
 icons used to advance forward and move back; they're difficult to locate and hard to activate once 
 you do see them. It's not a completely minor issue either, because these annoying little arrows 
 are used throughout all of FIFA 2003, even for the in-game menu system.   

  One interesting amenity that you won't even find in the game but can download free of charge is 
 the official "FIFA creation center," a nifty utility that lets you create new players, customize 
 their physical attributes and soccer skills, concoct new kits with predesigned or personalized 
 artwork, modify competitions, and even construct your own logos and banners. It's certainly great, 
 but it should have been included in the game right out of the box.   

  But FIFA 2003's most important feature is its increased focus on a realistic playing experience. 
 In that respect, EA has significantly tweaked a number of gameplay elements to reward those who 
 calculate their movements in advance, devise pass-based attacks, and use every single button and 
 button combination at their disposal. It has also devised a game with substantially fewer offside 
 calls, and that's good news for everybody.   

  In FIFA 2003, you can't always rely on the good old speed-burst option to pull you through. In 
 fact, speed bursts are nothing like they were previously. When you hit the jets, your players will 
 take a moment or two just to get up to speed. They'll also take at least that long to slow down 
 again at the end of the burst, and they'll also have a lot less control over the ball while they're 
 in the process of speeding. To make matters worse, the defender marking your runner will dog him 
 every step of the way, most often closing ground simply because he doesn't have to worry about 
 dribbling a soccer ball. Clearly, the speed burst is much more realistic than it was in previous 
 games.   

  Scoring a goal in FIFA 2003 is similarly more challenging. You'll no longer pull off amazing on-target 
 blasts by simply touching the shoot button and letting go of your movement key or gamepad. Now, 
 you're forced to point your striker directly at the net and punch the shoot button in precisely 
 the right spot or face a string of missed opportunities. Snapping one wide from even a scant 20 
 feet out is a distinct possibility. In addition, goaltenders now stray well off their lines to 
 cover the entire penalty area, and they sometimes go beyond. It doesn't help that the game still 
 tends to direct too many shots toward goalposts just to keep the score close, though in FIFA 2003, 
 you'll get less of a sense that the game has decided the final score in advance than in previous 
 games.           With the aid of FIFA's new metering system, Roberto Carlos lines up a potentially 
 dangerous free kick.    

  FIFA 2003 is certainly a more difficult game to master than its predecessor was. More players touch 
 the ball via deflections, bump passes, blocks, and missed passes, and that calls for quicker reactions 
 and better planning. Even gathering in a high ball on the touchline involves more precision and 
 skill. Fortunately, EA Sports has included a number of complex advanced maneuvers and aids designed 
 for those who want to take the time to master them.   

  The most obvious of these new features is FIFA's metering system. Though it's used for different 
 purposes in different situations, FIFA 2003's meter works much like the swing meter in a PC golf 
 game; it indicates the velocity or direction of your upcoming pass or shot and ultimately gives 
 you more control over the proceedings. Advanced players will also want to experiment with the game's 
 new freestyle control feature, which, when used properly, coaxes a variety of unique and often 
 thrilling signature moves from star performers.    

 Yet for all its improvements, FIFA 2003's gameplay is not without a few flaws. The most obvious 
 of these is right in the middle of the game's otherwise impressive AI player behavior. Though computer-controlled 
 players often move intelligently to intercept balls and generally place any part of their anatomy 
 in the path of a shot or pass, defenders not in direct contact with the ball carrier can and will 
 do some mighty strange stuff in certain circumstances. When faced with a speed-bursting ball carrier 
 that is already marked by a teammate, some defenders may stand rooted to the ground, unable to 
 move until trodden over. A similar situation arises when defending against passes. Although defenders 
 will maneuver realistically to intercept or otherwise impede the ball if it comes into their area, 
 perimeter defenders will sometimes remain completely motionless until the pass is completed, rather 
 than jumping in and actively trying to recover the ball.           Using one of FIFA's panoramic 
 end-to-end or sideline cameras is still the best way to follow your players on the field.    

 
  Something else that may frustrate FIFA purists is the inherent speed of the game. FIFA 2003 does 
 let players adjust the pace of each match independently of the difficulty setting, yet even at 
 the slowest setting matches are perceptibly faster than real world-class soccer matches. The fastest 
 speed is absolutely dizzying. Given that the game already moves slightly quicker as the difficulty 
 level is adjusted upward, and seeing that defenders can reverse directions and sprint faster within 
 their own penalty area, playing a game at the highest difficulty level and at the highest speed 
 settings will make for an unrealistically frantic match.   

  Visually, FIFA 2003 offers a few new surprises. After a goal, oversized images of the current score 
 and the team logos are superimposed at the center of the pitch. At the end of each half, the game 
 automatically runs a series of scoring and infraction replays. Yet some of the pomp and pageantry 
 EA Sports concocted for the most recent editions of the game is conspicuously absent. Most noticeably, 
 players no longer go bananas or perform bizarre ritualistic dances after scoring a goal. Now, they 
 observe their success in a far more conservative manner that involves lots of fist pumping and 
 arm waving but precious few of the wild celebrations of days gone by.   

  Only slightly less disappointing are the festivities accompanying a championship triumph. Although 
 teams do get a chance to bring their newfound trophy to the center of the pitch for a few quick 
 glamour photos, there are no victory laps or untamed frivolity. And for some reason, the game's 
 replay option no longer lets you manipulate the camera or zoom in.   

  Even so, the FIFA series has consistently been one of the finest graphical showcases in the business. 
 EA Sports has dedicated much of its decade-long FIFA efforts to creating a visual spectacle that 
 matches or surpasses any other sports game out there, and it shows. At 1024x768 resolution and 
 with the video setting at "high," FIFA 2003 is colorful, clean, and swarming with details. The 
 24-plus stadiums look fantastic -- each is carefully modeled after a real-life venue and is presented 
 beautifully. You may even want to choose one of the field-level perspectives just to take in the 
 dramatic architecture or watch the exploding fireworks, rotating advertisements, and grandstand 
 partying when the camera inevitably pans upward from the field.   

  The spectators that fill those grandstands don't always look as good. Although they're portrayed 
 as lively, reactive beings that bounce up and down in unison, wave flags, and toss massive steamers 
 onto the pitch, they are clearly flat, infinitely thin polygons that look like little more than 
 a thin colored line when viewed from the side.   

  When funneled through a powerful surround system -- or even when it isn't -- FIFA 2003 sounds spectacular. 
 The spectators respond to the flow of the play in a most dramatic fashion, varying their enthusiasm 
 accordingly by producing an uproar of speaker-crushing volume and depth when the home side pops 
 one home and falling deathly silent when the bad guys score. Moreover, fans of the game's top 18 
 clubs, as determined by EA Sports, shout specific chants geared for those particular teams. This 
 sense of a real, reactive home crowd has never been so pronounced in any previous edition of FIFA. 
           FIFA 2003's celebrations aren't quite as dramatic as in the past, but the winning side 
 still gets photographed with the trophy.    

  Back for a return engagement in the announcer's booth is quintessential soccer broadcaster and 
 FIFA series veteran John Motson. Together with former Scottish football star and FIFA newcomer 
 Ally McCoist, who serves a satisfactory first-time stint as color commentator, Motson is typically 
 brilliant. His verbiage is believable and wide-ranging, and his delivery is impeccable. In fact, 
 the commentary is so seamless that you may sometimes wonder if Motson and McCoist have set up shop 
 inside your computer.   

  With FIFA 2003, EA Sports has proven it will finally take a few risks by varying the formula behind 
 the world's number one soccer game. In so doing, it has produced a considerably more challenging 
 and complex affair that should stand the test of time better than its predecessors. It isn't quite 
 perfect, but the latest FIFA game is a refreshing and compelling step ahead in a series that's 
 known for its quality.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  FIFA is a game series well known for its quality, which is not only proven, but it is hymned with 
 FIFA 2003 which deserves the title of a complete soccer game.
  
  In FIFA 2003 you can choose from a wide variety of 450 teams and 12.000 players, huge numbers really. 
 The advantage of the game is that almost everything is authentic and licensed.
  
  The interfaces of the game are not that complex, and more user-friendly. Now there are more options, 
 most interesting of them the custom team creation.
  
  Another interesting feature is the freestyle control of the ball, which allows you to trick every 
 defender in no time.
  
  The graphics are very good, but they could be better. And the commentary is amazing.
  
  FIFA 
 2003 is the soccer sim you were waiting for. While it is an old game, it still has a lot to give 
 to the fans of the FIFA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports delivered an excellent pair of soccer games for the 2002 season, FIFA 2002 and FIFA 2002 
 World Cup, leaving me wondering where else there was room for improvement and innovation for the 
 FIFA series. FIFA 2003 manages to keep things fresh and continues to deliver more soccer goodness.
 
  
  The atmosphere that FIFA 2003 creates through its presentation is breathtaking. The graphics have 
 been redone, and are amazing, from the player models, to the detailed stadiums, to the ball itself. 
 Soccer matches can take place during daytime, nighttime, or in the rain. There are several camera 
 angles to choose from, but the default action camera works pretty well. John Motson and Ally McCoist 
 are excellent as the commentators, and there are game highlights in between halves and at the end 
 of the game. As usual, the game features a soundtrack from licensed artists that plays during menus 
 and loading screens.
  
  In addition to exhibition, there are two season game modes. The regular season mode allows you 
 to choose a team from a number of different leagues around the world, and play a league season, 
 including playoffs. FIFA 2003 also features Club Championship mode, a season mode which showcases 
 the most well known of soccer clubs in the world. Apparently, EA Sports took extra effort to ensure 
 that the players and venues for these clubs were represented as accurately as possible. This means 
 that the players better resemble their real life counterparts, and you'll get club specific chants 
 for the crowds. It's amazing the atmosphere this creates, for example, for a match between Arsenal 
 and Manchester United at Old Trafford. The stadiums featured in FIFA 2003 are the most well known 
 stadiums, all in Europe.
  
  Gameplay is among the game's strong points. Gameplay tends to lean towards arcade like, but the 
 game is a joy to play because it's so easy to play. The game is fast paced, and it's too bad that 
 strategies are kept to a minimum, so you won't see an entire team bunched in the offensive end, 
 trying to overload the zone. A new feature is the ability to preload moves, so you can load up 
 shots before the receiver gets the ball, or make a pass as soon as a player touches the ball. Shots 
 can be powered up, but holding the shot button too long will result in an inaccurate shot that 
 sails wide of the goal. It's questionable that they placed the shot power meter at the bottom left 
 of the screen, where it's harder to see, when it could be much more useful above the player taking 
 the shot. But after you've played a while, you'll get a feel on how long you should hold down the 
 shot button.
  
  I noticed that on corner kicks, a pretty much guaranteed way to score is to leave the aim cursor 
 as it is, make sure your pass is centered in the meter, and once it's in the air, move the controller 
 towards the goal while mashing the volley button. Your guy will knock it into the goal pretty much 
 every time if executed correctly.
  
  It's too bad that they took away more advanced moves that were in previous versions of FIFA, such 
 as side steps and spins. Instead, like other EA Sports games, there is the freestyle command, which 
 will perform a random move. There is also no way to switch strategies on the fly, without stopping 
 the game to go to the menu.
  
  There are some things that FIFA could do better. I noticed there are problems passing in the offensive 
 zone. In the midfield, you'll have no problem passing the ball, as long as the intended receiver 
 is open. Simply point towards the receiver and press the pass or through pass button. However, 
 once you get into the offensive zone, passing becomes a lot more random and success seems like 
 it's based on chance. You'll do the same thing, but for some odd reason, the pass will often not 
 connect, and it'll just go either to an opposing player or into open space. It's like FIFA 2003 
 has a feature built in to deliberately screw up passing in the offensive zone.
  
  Also, the CPU players exhibit poor awareness sometimes. They will occasionally not be interested 
 in getting the ball, even when they are the closest one to it. Most damning though, is how your 
 CPU opponents tend to stick to man to man, even when an opponent is on a straight line course with 
 the ball towards your goal. They will often fail to leave the player they are defending in order 
 to prevent the run, giving the CPU a high percentage one on one with the goalkeeper.
  
  The FIFA series has always delivered an enjoyable game of soccer, and FIFA 2003 continues this 
 trend with its superb presentation and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games to buy in terms of QUALITY football.
  
  You can play in the world cup tournmant, play club football. seasonal football, alot of differant 
 modes!
  
  I initially brought this game in Britain because of Roberto Carlos stood on the cover and being 
 from the Americas - I just required a new Brazilian legend!
  
  What is there to say, looking at all the other consequentive game - non can compete with this has 
 it just too good to be true.
  
  The commentary, living in Britain, is remarkable. It nevers lost its awe up until you have Crysis 
 becoming a unique threat to the commentary!
  
  More so, the atmosphere is so creatative, that you may ask yourself why you have British girls 
 wanting a taste of ya!
  
  I love this game and I expect this game should go down in the Halls of Fame of the Americas! Its 
 so good that the Columbians would die to have a piece of this beautiful game! ( Columbians meaning 
 those Columbians! )
  
  The reason why this game won't receive full marks is because of the lack of commentary aurrounding 
 Club Americas football players
  
  Anyway, buy it at your own risk... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youtack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  A great game for anybody who just wants to play soccer. The number of teams that they let you play 
 with is great. You can play with a european powerhouse or a team that you never heard of from Korea. 
 The only problem is that they have a lot of stadiums to choose from. They might have about 20 which 
 is pretty bad. I mean they should have a whole lot of stadiums that are real since they have so 
 many teams. I have played college football games that have over 50 stadiums! Anyway the gameplay 
 is pretty good but you have to keep pressing one button to view your best options. Sometimes your 
 the one with really good drives and you get turned down however when they do the exact same thing 
 they get a goal. It is not a very hard game but it can be cheap at times. Tournament mode is good 
 too, but is pretty basic. In season Mode they should give more roster options. It is overall a 
 good game but could use more stadiums and features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  it is stupid that we say that this game is amazing or very good no we say that it is stupid and 
 fool very fool game with stupid actins and stupid goolkeepers and stupid moves WHAT! u can do if 
 the player u are playing with is very stupid that make the game boring very boring and i will retry 
 and 
  always writ the word very bad until every one read this preview nkow that it is very boaring and 
 stupid.
  
  The game is with no action there is no reason of playing this game when u play it u dont feel like 
 u played on real world like other games Pro evoulution soccer.
  
  Dont try to get this game it is stupid and very bad game u cant trust any thing in it, like i have 
 said it is stupid game more stupid than what u think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I'm highlighting the one inherent flaw of all football sims there, by stating that once 
 you get good enough all reality goes out of the window. This instalment of EA Sports FIFA-badged 
 game is a lot harder than its predecessors though.
  
  With five difficulty levels and more realistic player skill levels FIFA 2003 is a challenge. The 
 steps between the difficulty levels are very steep, and no longer is it possible to sprint and 
 muscle past defenders and smack the ball into the top corner from 35 yards out. The computer controlled 
 players now react much better and will attempt to block passes, as well as being able to run faster 
 than the player on the ball, meaning that goals need to be well crafted, rather than just sprint 
 and shoot.
  
  Also, you are now required to manually aim your shot at goal. No longer will shots aimed at the 
 corner flag mysteriously fly on target! Plus, the amount of time that your finger is on the shoot 
 button will affect the velocity of your strike. If you hold on to the button too long then your 
 strike from 6 yards will hurtle over the bar, and likewise if you just tap the button the shot 
 will limply make its way into the 'keepers arms. 
  
  So the emphasis is now is on well-crafted, realistic goals rather than the spectacular goals of 
 previous FIFA's. This enhances gameplay and creates an altogether more realistic experience. However, 
 with time and practice you will still be able to reach the level when you can decimate the defences 
 of the worlds greatest teams.
  
  That brings me nicely on to the range of teams available. This truly is a global game, featuring 
 many national leagues and international superstars. British fans can choose to lead their team 
 to the Premiership (or SPL if you're north of the border) , Americans can claim the MLS title for 
 their team, and hell, you can even win the more obscure international leagues if you want to. This 
 range of teams from all over the world really gives the game an international feel and represents 
 the global nature of football better than any previous FIFA instalment, which cannot be a bad thing 
 at all.
  
  Graphically this is a major step on its predecessors with hundreds of individually modelled players. 
 Football fans will recognise their heroes instantly. There are also several accurately modelled 
 stadiums from around the world, including the Stade de France and the Yokahama International Stadium. 
 This level of player and stadia detail is unmatched. Obviously there are still minor flaws, such 
 as the crowd. Having said that though I'm yet to find a sports sim that will model each crowd member 
 in a stadium individually instead of putting the standard 2D image in. The crowd are a graphical 
 frustration rather than being a major flaw though.
  
  The sound is good, with realistic chants and sound effects combining with commentary of BBC Sports 
 legend John Motson and former Scottish international Ally McCoist. The commentary is of a good 
 standard for a computer game, however the range of phrases is not particularly varied and it can 
 become irritating hearing them say the same things over and over again. The two commentators acquit 
 themselves well though with realistic dialogue and excitement, considering that they were not actually 
 watching a real match when it was recorded. The soundtrack is a hit and miss affair with classics 
 from Idlewild and Sportfreunde Stiller being the stand out tracks.
  
  It is possible to download the FIFA 2003 "Creation Centre" free from the internet. This allows 
 you to design your own players and teams. The major flaw is that when you introduce your custom 
 people into a team, the squad lists for the other teams in that league are screwed up. For example, 
 I introduced myself as a goalkeeper for the New York/New Jersey Metrostars, and then found that 
 the other teams in the MLS were starting their strikers in goal, their defenders up front etc. 
 This lead to a frustrating period of sorting out all the other teams just to get one new player 
 in. Sure, it was cool to see a fairly accurate representation of myself playing, but I'm not sure 
 it was worth the length of time it took to edit every MLS team. I'm yet to find any bugs with the 
 actual game though.
  
  In all this is an enjoyable game that is far more realistic than previous FIFA games from EA Sports. 
 Graphically it is a big improvement, and the sound is satisfactory. There are no stability issues. 
 The gameplay is improved, and at the harder difficulty levels it is quite a challenge. The challenge 
 is surmountable though, and in time you will be able to lead your favourite team to a 36 - 0 rout 
 of Real Madrid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  The game is innovation from the previous versions. And the graphics are quite good but sound is 
 little bit bugging. Anyway, this game has a fast gameplay, which is a lot of fun (you don't want 
 the players to walk when you're trying to make them run or you don't wish them to move in slow 
 motion, do you?) .
  
  The competitions and multiplayer mode is very well made by EA. But sometimes this game can be repetetive. 
 You know what I mean now, don't you? Well, I am saying that this game has a defect which is, when 
 you score a goal in no matter what way, you can repeat it over and over again and you will always 
 score. And from the right area, every shot you shoot wil go in. But, I think you are not going 
 to find it unless you play it for months... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  This is great game filled with excitement. EA has made another rock solid game. It has awesome 
 graphics that shall blow off your mind. Gameplay is great. It's great to watch the replays. It 
 has all the important stadiums. The only problem is that the game lacks teams such as Holland. 
 But that does not stop it from being one of the best games i have ever played.
  This game is loved by all my friends and I am sure that it will be liked by all who come into it's 
 world. The controls are very easy to understand. It is an all time classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  The game is innovation from the previous versions. And the graphics are quite good but sound is 
 little bit bugging. Anyway, this game has a fast gameplay, which is a lot of fun (you don't want 
 the players to walk when you're trying to make them run or you don't wish them to move in slow 
 motion, do you?) .
  
  The competitions and multiplayer mode is very well made by EA. But sometimes this game can be repetetive. 
 You know what I mean now, don't you? Well, I am saying that this game has a defect which is, when 
 you score a goal in no matter what way, you can repeat it over and over again and you will always 
 score. And from the right area, every shot you shoot wil go in. But, I think you are not going 
 to find it unless you play it for months... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuntuni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2005 10:52 pm PT
Review:  The scoring is nor too easy nor difficult but the sound effects should be improved the songs which 
 have been put inside are just disgusting. the player doesn't enjoy much on playing it. the songs 
 should be one's which make our hair stand on edge's. rest everything is very good
  Still it is one of my favourite games and sdfgi like playing it fdgds
  fsdgsfdg dfsggsjh hgj 
 gh fh gfh fhd fgh f dfg f f fguj f f fgh f fgdfyt cyrt fdstds d g f dhgd fdhfdfhdfhfg bdf dfgfgdsrytk 
 t y y yy y y dsu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 22, 2004 9:23 pm PT
Review:  With current technological standards, video games have advanced considerably in everything from 
 graphics to gameplay and from physics to AI. EA Games FIFA 2003 does excel in the graphics and 
 sound departments; however, it unfortunately has not evolved any further in other departments. 
 Fundamentally, FIFA 2003 handles and plays much like its predecessors from years ago sticking to 
 arcade-style action. Essentially, one can score quite easily simply by running a player from his 
 own half and then into the opposing teams area. Moreover, the ball always seems to be attached 
 to the players feet. Games may end up with very high scores even on the simulation setting. 
 Furthermore, veterans will quickly move up to its highest difficulty setting with ease  this does 
 not say much for the AI.
  
  Another shortcoming is a terrible glitch. A player cannot connect a header if the receiving player 
 is not being guarded. This completely ruins an entire set of tactics as many soccer formations 
 require the use of wingers crossing the ball and the headers getting into space for the finish. 
 I dont think this issue has ever been addressed even in a patch which says a lot for the lousy 
 support.
  
  On the flip side, in addition to the fantastic graphics and sound  also the commentary  FIFA 
 2003 has the advantage of the full FIFA license. It has a lot of real-world teams and their respective 
 players. Unfortunately, this does little to make up for the uninspired gameplay, basic AI, a dreadful 
 bug, and abysmal support. In this case, the reviewers are just wrong as it does not warrant an 
 editors choice selection.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
