-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA 2001 Major League Soccer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifa2001majorleaguesoccer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 295 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 30, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This year's version represents a renewed commitment to realism and offers plenty of innovation to 
 the hit soccer series. 

 Last year's FIFA 2000 proved that even the finest PC sports game franchises are susceptible to some 
 questionable design decisions. It emphasized fast action over simulation elements and also replaced 
 the play-by-play commentary of the veteran British broadcasting team of John Motson and Mark Lawrenson 
 with the unremarkable ESPN announcers Phil Schoen and Julie Foudy. Fortunately, this year's version 
 represents a renewed commitment to realism and offers plenty of innovation to the hit soccer series. 
   

  However, when you first fire up the program, FIFA 2001 seems anything but improved. The introductory 
 sequence is simplistic, grainy, and uninspired, despite the generous audible assistance of Moby's 
 hypnotic Bodyrock. The menu interfaces are missing EA Sports' standard high-tech gloss, so they're 
 uncharacteristically unsightly. Every menu selection is also accompanied by awful-sounding sound 
 effects reminiscent of a loud coin-op arcade machine, but, fortunately, the game lets you turn 
 these off.   

  FIFA 2001 really shows its stuff once you get to the pitch, where it exhibits the culmination of 
 a complete visual and practical makeover that'll satisfy anyone who can appreciate the accuracy 
 of a sports simulation. Now, the players move and groove with more realism than ever before, as 
 they stop and plant before changing direction, take a reasonable amount of time to gather in passes, 
 and move at a decidedly measured pace even during speed bursts. Though the players in FIFA 2001 
 are still a bit faster and more capable than their living counterparts, these players aren't swivel-hipped 
 supermen - they generally move just as you'd expect them to.   

  Nevertheless, they're still capable of executing a stupefying variety of actions. FIFA once again 
 takes full advantage of every aspect of your ten-button controller, so much so that you'll probably 
 still be practicing new moves even days or weeks after you first play the game. You'll want to 
 work on advanced moves such as 360-degree spins and double stopovers, and you'll get to control 
 a full roster of in-game team management decisions and set piece decisions. Though the game won't 
 let you reconfigure gamepad buttons, the default controls should prove to be highly accessible. 
   

  Unfortunately, the gameplay does have some minor problems. For instance, goalkeepers are capable 
 of occasional gravity- and physics-defying saves. Virtually any player can execute implausibly 
 long-distance sliding tackles. Lob goals are made possible only if you lob "pass" toward the opposition 
 net when no teammate is positioned in front of you. And when you play on the more challenging difficulty 
 levels, the computer-controlled rearguards become unnaturally effective. Even so, such problems 
 are all but completely overshadowed by all the great features in the game.   

  In general, computer-controlled team and player actions in FIFA 2001 are much better than those 
 in the previous version. Lesser defenses play for the offside. Talented offenses work the "give 
 and go" and feed looping timed balls to bursting strikers. Defenders slyly monitor ball carriers 
 and don't commit until the time is right. Even if you prefer to play FIFA 2001 as more of an action 
 game by cranking up the gameplay speed and selecting the lenient officiating option, computer-controlled 
 FIFA players are always smart players.   

  They're also noticeably smaller than in the previous installment, which better reflects their real-world 
 size. That means you'll do a lot more running to get to where you want to go. It also means you'll 
 be staring at very small players from most angles in the game's four available camera views, unless 
 you decide to observe through the field-mounted "action" perspective and apply manual zooming. 
 Yet, even then, none of the cameras get nearly as up close and personal as they did in FIFA 2000. 
 They won't usually even get close enough during the game's replay mode, even with its free-floating, 
 manually adjustable viewpoints.   

  But when you do happen to get a good close look at the players, whether it's during the game, the 
 replay, or the wonderfully rendered cutscenes, you'll see their downsized stature hides how impressive 
 they really look. The 3D players in FIFA 2001 are bereft of the straight lines and jagged edges 
 of prior editions, and are quite capable of demonstrating various degrees of emotion and fervor. 
 Their faces are particularly striking - they are individually rendered right on down to hair color 
 and hair length and are articulated with moving lips and shifting expressions. When you watch your 
 little computer version of Ronaldo or Zidane throwing a fit over a carding and then actually  listen 
  as he verbally chastises the referee, you'll know you've found your game.    

 In addition to the realistic players, EA Sports has created a highly authentic environment for its 
 latest FIFA. The grandstands come alive with undulating multicolored, humanlike shapes. Flags wave, 
 songs are sung, and the crowd ebbs and flows in unison. In full sunshine, stadiums are lit with 
 lens flare effects and later darkened by shadows that move across the pitch as the day wears on. 
 When the weather grows inclement, thunder rolls in the distance as dark clouds travel across the 
 skies, and thousands of individual rain droplets flash across the screen. That all these effects 
 run so smoothly on the Pentium III 500 Voodoo3-powered test computer, even at 1024x768 resolution, 
 really shows that EA Sports put a lot of work into optimizing the graphics.   

  Yet perhaps the most notable upgrade to the presentation of FIFA 2001 is not really an upgrade 
 at all: It's instead the welcome return of veteran BBC and FIFA broadcaster John Motson as the 
 commentator. Perhaps due to its real-world heritage, virtual soccer requires a knowledgeable British 
 announcer, and certainly the poorly scripted banter of last year's Yankee team wasn't good enough. 
 But the naturally witty Motson is, and he has more lines and better timing than ever.   

  The color commentary from Lawrenson is a bit less impressive - he's an Ed McMahon to Motson's Johnny 
 Carson - but together they add the necessary spice to the game. Their phrases are delivered with 
 just the right inflections and at precisely the right moments. When Motson proclaims, "Only the 
 goaltender to beat now" followed by "I'll have to eat my words" if a defender slides in with an 
 astonishing tackle, you'll realize just how impressive FIFA 2001 really is.   

  FIFA 2001 is also as deep as any good EA Sports game in terms of the sheer quantity of its features. 
 The game offers no less than 17 national leagues from such divergent locales as Greece and Israel 
 to more traditional soccer powers such as Germany and Brazil. 60 international sides are also along 
 for the ride, for a grand total of hundreds of available teams and a player total that's more than 
 a cool grand. These are mighty big figures indeed, especially when each side purportedly mirrors 
 its real-life tactics, strategies, and player attributes. The old-time classic squads of last year's 
 edition are unfortunately absent, as is the indoor game of distant FIFAs, yet there's more than 
 enough in FIFA 2001 to keep you busy for a long time.   

  FIFA 2001's gameplay options are as seemingly limitless as the sheer quantity of teams and players 
 available. You may want to conduct an almost-instantaneous quick game, a customizable exhibition, 
 a full season, a knockout cup, or a custom league or tournament, in which you're offered just about 
 any conceivable parameter for long-term competitions. Team managers may edit individual attributes, 
 alter the color and appearance of team uniforms - many of which now carry actual team crests and 
 sponsors - and buy and sell players with a bankroll based on real-life resource figures. Curiously, 
 the game's practice mode won't let your team take the pitch without facing some form of computer-controlled 
 opposition, thus somewhat limiting its effectiveness if all you want to do is figure out which 
 button does what.   

  FIFA 2001 also promises to be a great multiplayer game. Apart from the usual allotment of modem, 
 serial, and network modes, the game supports Internet play based on EA. com's new player-matching 
 service. Various lobbies will be set up around the world, which will permit players to pick and 
 choose the nationalities of their opponents, structure contests, and chat. This is fortunate, since 
 FIFA fans have been waiting for just this type of service.   

  FIFA 2001 is much more than just an annual rehash - it repairs whatever damage was done by last 
 year's version, heads in a more authentic direction, and offers numerous new features. It is the 
 first serious revision of the series in a number of years, and it can be described only as the 
 best FIFA to date.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nirakak
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Nice easy game. The best is that you can play with little countries like: Estonia, Iraq and ononon...... 
 So the game is good, good graphics, good gameplay and good person design ( for that year) . The only 
 bad thing is that you can win Brazil with Estonia even with normal or hard. That is the worse mistake 
 in the game. It sucks you in with cool and exiting gameplay and graphics. You might get hazard 
 from this game and you might play it every day for like 6 hours. In Fifa 2001 you can make cool 
 cups yourself and design them like u want. I almost gave it a 10, but the easy playing knocked 
 it to 9.5. You have lot desisions to make in fifa 2001. Ill round up all bad things in here: Too 
 easy gameplay, hazard (really I dont know if it is a bad thing) , stupid goalkeepers (almost every 
 attack they let balls in) and finger pain after playing the Fifa 2001. Of course there is many 
 good things more than bad things, so if you have chance of getting the game get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  FIFA 2002 was the one that happened to be still my favourite sports game. FIFA 2001 looked good 
 and a worthy prequel to FIFA 2002. But let me tell you that isn't. FIFA 2001 is hardly any different 
 from its previous versions. I am not talking about graphics nor realism as we all know that's the 
 sector that EA are perfect at.
  
  But gameplay wise FIFA 2001 isn't a worthy buy. But like it happened to GTA 2 for me (by playing 
 its much better successors like GTA 3 and VC) I think the same has happened to FIFA 2001. Cause 
 FIFA 2002 was a game perfect in every sector unlike FIFA 2001 whose imbalance creates a pit that 
 spoils the real fun the greatest sport in the world provides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIP-shikhar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:43 am PT
Review:  Whoooo! This game is fantastic. Wonderful gameplay, nice commentry, several modes, wonderful training 
 mode. Different climates.
  I am such a person who doesn't care about the roster. So, I like this game very much. I have two more 
 fifa games, but I don't forget to play this game also b'cos it's different than the others and a 
 wonderful game!!!!! The gameplay is smooth, the in-action commentry is fast and nice, the graphics 
 are wonderful except the audience also looks like a football.
  
  I would just say that nobody should regret for having this game. Its a simply fantastic game. Even 
 if you have some newer versions of fifa, then also you will find this game comparitevily a lot easier 
 and entertaining. Whoo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShelobMan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2004 12:49 am PT
Review:  The new FIFAs are overrated - this is still the best one. Yes I thnk that Fifa 2001 is better than 
 the 2004 version. Call me crazy.
  
  Gameplay: This is the main reason why the game is so good. The gameplay is fun and more realistic 
 than it has ever been. The players are easy to control and even thouugh sometimes you can find 
 yourself watching a ball go back and forth and back and forth between two of your players' heads, 
 most of the timethe stuff players do on the field looks close enough to the real thing. The game 
 is easy to pick-up and play, as they say, so new players might even win their first game. That 
 brings me to the con of the game. It is too easy. I had a season in which I was with only one loss. 
 This arcade-like gameplay turns me off a little, but it was common back then for sports games to 
 be too easy. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics were top-notch for back then, and they are still not bad to look at today. 
 The ball moves the way it is supposed to, but sometimes the repetitiveness of the goalie always 
 kicking it to the same spot gets annoying. The stadiums look good, but there are only a few of 
 them. The crowd is pretty good and has flags for each individual team. So if Brazil is playing 
 United Kingdom, there will be Brazilian and Bitish flags. The players move well. The celebrations 
 after a goal, and the arguments with referees might get repetitive after a while, but it's fine.
 
  
  Sound: The crowd sounds good. The announcers are top-notch. The players yell. What more is there 
 to it?
  
  Value: The game has a lot of leagues -- both National and International -- with a lot of teams, 
 so if you want to win as both the US and UK than you might repeat. All the teams are different 
 in how good they are, so again there is a possibility you might want to play for each league, but 
 it would take too much time.
  
  Tilt: No bugs. No problems.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
