-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifa2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic and accessible gameplay.
 Great soundtrack and commentary.
 Engrossing manager mode.
 Ivan Campo.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Less than perfect online play.
 Annoying online sign-up process.
 No J-League teams.
 Lazy goalkeepers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,113 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 4, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 06 adds plenty of new features that help make it the most realistic and accessible (and best) 
 FIFA game to date. 

  Since 1994, not a year has gone by without EA Sports releasing at least one new FIFA soccer game. 
 And, predictably, 2005 is no exception. The isometric pitches and teams of identical players that 
 graced EA Sports' earliest offerings have now been replaced by stadiums and players that can be 
 difficult to distinguish from their real-life counterparts. And although there have been some ups 
 and downs along the way, the series' gameplay has evolved at an equally impressive rate. FIFA 06 
 is particularly unusual in that it ditches some of the series' recent innovations in favor of tried-and-tested 
 gameplay mechanics. However, it also adds plenty of new features that help make it the most realistic 
 and accessible (and best) FIFA game to date.  

          Youre sure to find something in the fan shop thats to your liking.     

  The first 
 time you play FIFA 06, you'll be prompted to let the game know which of its 500-plus teams is your 
 favorite, and then, before you know what's going on, you'll be challenged to a match against a 
 formidable "Classic XI" squad that counts such men as Zico and Eric Cantona among its players. 
 Winning that match will award you your first 1,000 points to spend at the fan shop on such unlockables 
 as classic player profiles, all-star teams, different-colored balls, alternate team uniforms, extra 
 player celebrations, new stadiums, and season highlights footage from last year's German, English, 
 French, and Italian leagues. To stand a chance of winning that match, you'll need a good grasp 
 of FIFA 06's control scheme, which -- although there have been some improvements made since last 
 year -- certainly won't be a problem if you're a fan of the series.  

  If you're not a fan of the FIFA series but are taking the time to read this review, it's probably 
 because you're a Winning Eleven devotee, in which case you'll be pleased to know that the PlayStation 
 2 and Xbox versions of FIFA 06 let you opt for an alternate control scheme that's straight out 
 of Konami's soccer franchise. The PC game also features customizable controls, although it's impossible 
 to re-create Winning Eleven's controls perfectly.  

  Once you've decided which button you want to use for shooting and which you want to use for long 
 passes, you can start familiarizing yourself with some of FIFA 06's new controls, which include 
 using the D pad or left analog stick to change offensive and defensive tactics on the fly, as well 
 as using a single button to perform a dummy move (either to yourself or to a teammate) whenever 
 a pass is headed your way. There are eight different tactical changes and team mentalities you 
 can switch on and off on the fly, including counter attack wing play, box overload, offside trap, 
 and zone defense. Like many of FIFA 06's new features, these aren't really explained in the instruction 
 manual but are instead covered comprehensively via easy-to-follow help screens in-game.  

  Other changes you'll find on the pitch in FIFA 06 include much simpler (almost to the point of 
 being retro) control systems for set pieces, much-improved commentary and TV-style presentation, 
 and the all-new playing-style feature, which affects your team's performance based on how well 
 your players feel the match is going. This doesn't necessarily mean that your team will become 
 stronger if it's winning, though, because your players' morale is influenced by recent action on 
 the pitch rather than by everything that's happened since the kickoff, as well as by whether you're 
 playing the match at home or away.  

          The goalkeepers are well-behaved for the most part, though a little lazy.     

  The 
 boost your team will get from stringing together a few good moves against a team it's losing to 
 is definitely noticeable, and you'll find the opposite is true if you're in charge of a winning 
 team that's struggling to retain its lead. Individual players can also be affected by events on 
 the pitch, and if you notice that one of your players is feeling particularly down, it's invariably 
 a good idea to replace him with one of your substitutes -- none of whom enjoys sitting out match 
 after match on the bench.  

  On the pitch, FIFA 06 is undoubtedly the best game in the series to date, but it's not without 
 its flaws. The goalkeepers, for example, are extremely slow to come off their lines -- even when 
 the ball has been hoofed from the other end of the field and there are no other players with a 
 hope in hell of reaching it before they do. This is actually a good thing when it's  your  keeper, 
 because you can bring him off his line manually, and you don't have to worry about him going on 
 a walkabout of his own volition. The keepers on CPU-controlled teams, though, appear to be largely 
 unaware of the "keeper charge" button, although they do become more proactive as you move up through 
 the game's four difficulty levels. FIFA 06's other main flaw, which is more of an issue on the 
 PS2 than on any other platform, is that the whole game can slow down quite dramatically when a 
 large number of players is onscreen simultaneously. The drops in the frame rate aren't so bad that 
 the game is rendered unplayable, but they're certainly noticeable enough to be worthy of mention. 

      

  If you're playing FIFA 06 solo, one of the first gameplay options you'll want to check out (perhaps 
 after playing a couple of practice matches) will undoubtedly be manager mode, which lets you take 
 charge of a team anywhere in the world so you can play through a career spanning no fewer than 
 15 years. You won't be able to assume control of whichever team you want from the outset, because 
 most of the top teams seem to be happy with their current managers, but there are plenty of jobs 
 to choose from that will make for great stepping stones en route to the management position of 
 your dreams (if it isn't available on day one) .  

          Need better backroom staff? Throw money at them.     

  Once you've taken a job as a 
 manager, you'll receive your first e-mail informing you of the board's expectations for the season, 
 and you'll be introduced to FIFA 06's simplistic backroom staff system. As a manager in FIFA 06, 
 you'll have eight staff members working under you, including a negotiator, a scout, a stadium manager, 
 and coaches specializing in fitness, goalkeepers, defenders, midfielders, and strikers. Each member 
 of your staff has an effectiveness rating of between 1 and 10 that can be upgraded simply by spending 
 money on him. Money isn't always easy to come by in FIFA 06, though, so you'll almost certainly 
 want to keep some funds available for the transfer market and for sending your scout in search 
 of young, unsigned player talent from time to time.  

  One of the easiest ways to make money for your team, of course, is to sign a lucrative sponsorship 
 deal, of which you'll have plenty to choose from before guiding your team through its first match. 
 You'll choose your sponsor based on the various amounts of cash offered to you in the form of match 
 funding and as bonuses for different competitions. Opting for the sponsor that's offering you the 
 most money seems like the obvious thing to do, and you actually can't go far wrong if you do so. 
 However, it's worth noting that the sponsors offering smaller figures generally have less-strict 
 qualifying requirements for their handouts. So while one sponsor might offer you a fortune for 
 winning the league, for example, another might offer you a more modest sum that you can get your 
 hands on simply by finishing in the top half of the table. The other ways you'll earn money in 
 FIFA 06 are by doing well in competitions and by charging fans to come and watch your team in action. 
 And before every home game you can choose to set a low, medium, or high ticket price -- bearing in 
 mind that you won't endear yourself to fans by charging them an arm and a leg to get through the 
 turnstiles.  

  Fan support is one of three considerations you'll have to bear in mind every time you make a decision 
 as a manager, along with team chemistry and your job security. You're scored on each of these considerations 
 with a number between 1 and 100, and letting any one of them fall too low can have disastrous results. 
 For the most part, you can keep everyone happy by simply winning matches, but you'll also be presented 
 with random managerial decisions to make, from time to time, that invariably have an immediate 
 effect on the parties concerned. Typical managerial decisions include dealing with problems in 
 the dressing room or answering an interview question for a local newspaper. And although the "correct" 
 answers are usually obvious, some of the situations you'll find yourself in are really quite tricky. 
 Some of the random events in FIFA 06 unfortunately don't give you an opportunity to provide any 
 input whatsoever, so don't be surprised if you find yourself falling out of favor with your fans 
 and superiors after a squabble with a rival manager outside your stadium once in a while.  

          Lose the support of your fans or directors and you could find yourself out of a job. 
     

  FIFA 06's manager mode is easy to get to grips with and is undoubtedly the best way to play the 
 game if you're on your own. A little more depth during transfer negotiations, in addition to more 
 feedback from your directors, fans, and players, would have been nice, but the simple fact that 
 you can now search every league in the game for players you might like to sign -- according to their 
 positions and ratings -- makes this a dramatic improvement over last year's career mode.  

  When you're not playing FIFA 06 solo, and especially if you're in a room with no more than seven 
 of your friends, you'll definitely want to take advantage of the all-new lounge mode, which, despite 
 what it says on the packaging, is  not  a feature of the PC version of the game. If you're playing 
 FIFA 06 on the PS2 or Xbox, lounge mode is the perfect way to enjoy the game with your friends, 
 not only because it'll keep track of all your results throughout the session (and subsequent sessions, 
 if you choose to save your progress) , but also because it incorporates some quite ingenious features 
 designed to level the playing field when players are mismatched.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (114 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  This year's version of FIFA is another good soccer sim to enjoy for long, but some mistakes or 
 minor problems keep it a bit away from perfect.
  
  Luckily, many improvements are made sice the 2005 game.
  Some gameplay problems which existed 
 in FIFA 2005 are greatly fixed. The gameplay now seems even more realistic, and it is more accesible, 
 a feature which FIFA 2005 was competely lacking.
  
  The manager mode has also changed completely, now being easier to use, with more options when setting 
 up your team.
  
  Another positive thing about FIFA 06 is the graphics and sound it provides. The graphics are brand 
 new offering a complete experience on the pitch, while commentary and the crowd sounds are a real 
 masterpiece.
  
  Unfortunately, FIFA 06 is lacking sometimes AI, especially in critical phases of the game. For 
 example, most times the GKs seem to be lone as the don't really move when you get near to the post.
 
  
  It is also a pity that the online mode is not that acessible, confusing the players, till they 
 quit trying to sign-up.
  
  In fact, FIFA 06 is a game which will delight the users who like high graphics and fast-paced games, 
 but it may also annoy the ones who are looking at every little detail.
  
  And before I forget it, the videos included are really nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  FIFA Soccer 06 has a great variety of game modes and a very good gameplay. manager mode is a fifteeen 
 year mangerial mode that you need to manage every season and after a season you can change your 
 team. to sucsess you must see that the players are happy upgrade the staff. be careful that your 
 budget dosent fall down or you might get kicked out. tournameent mode is a simple mode where you 
 participate in a legua or ar cup and win with only one team. create a tournament mode is a mode 
 wherre you create a tournament of your own and select a team and win. You can create a player and 
 sign him to a team pretty cool ha? the gameplay is pretty complex with cool moves simple controls 
 but sometimes frustrating. the formation isnt very open you can change playersand the formation 
 nothing complex like and PES. Overall fifa 06 is a great soccer game that will be played for years 
 to come. i play all the time too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koinek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Fifa 06 is everything you would want in a soccer game. Tremendous depth with its rosters, immersive 
 sound fx and commentary, good graphics and an true to life gameplay engine. The new team chemistry 
 feature is set to be a staple of the franchise and any future soccer games.
  
  But the game doesn't stop delivering there. It goes on to boggle your mind off the pitch as well. 
 The manager mode is the best thing it has going for it; the perfect combination of gameplay and 
 off the pitch issues. The sheer number of teams in the game means that it's possible to actually 
 take yourself from the bottom to the top in a slow, true to life progression. Fifa Flashbacks mean 
 that a hint of nostalgia felt in the menus. Even the Season Highlight videos are absolutely amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrokle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Well, time is money so I'll be brief ;-)
  Let me explain what I understand by real football experience: when I play the game I feel like 
 being a real player involved in a real match. I played all the FIFA series since FIFA 98 up to 
 FIFA 2007 and this feeling is the strongest with this game (FIFA 2001 was very good too) . Some 
 ppls like to call it immersive . When you'll go to FIFA 2007 you'll have the feeling of really 
 playing a computer game and nothing more... there is nothing immersive , unfortunately. FIFA 06 
 introduces some finer ball control possibilities than the previous versions but it's still far 
 behind the possibilities of Pro Evolution Soccer (or Winning Eleven) series, which is not necessarily 
 a bad thing. I like the power of PES but the number of key combinations to learn and use is just 
 too big for me so I stick to FIFA because it's simpler and easier.
  
  If you are new to FIFA series I advise you to keep the difficulty level to at most semi-pro and 
 start with a 5 star team. It will be easier to learn and to discover the beauty of the game.
  
  The teams are well balanced and you'll manage to score from long shots even without the ultimate 
 strikers like Thiery Henry or Ronaldinho. Once you'll get used to the game, you'll manage to win 
 pretty often with a 2-3 star team against a 5 star team. This wasn't really the case with the previous 
 releases of the game.
  
  The biggest, let's say lack and not problem of the game is that while you are defending, it's very 
 difficult to manually select a player in the front of the attacker player (unless they are really 
 close) so you'll almost always select players behind the attacker (then you'll have to follow the 
 attacker player and increase fatigue while a defender in the front of the attacker can easily slow 
 him down and get faster the ball than the followers) .
  
  Another lack of the game is that a computer controlled team will hardly make any substitutions 
 which is not the case in real games. I heard there are non official workarounds for it but I never 
 tried them.
  
  Internet playing is quite slow and pretty much a game of anticipation :- ( (I saw players doing 
 anticipating slidings all the game which won a lot of balls... without the internet latency this 
 wouldn't be possible so online playing is completely different from the offline one... no wonder 
 we have sayings like Gaming experience may change during online play :-P) .
  
  One thing I would appreciate a lot at this game is the possibility to record an entire game. One 
 can save short moments of the game which is really great for recording amazing goals or misses 
 but not an entire game.
  
  Comments in the game is something I love. The clishes amuses me a lot, sometimes I play the game 
 only to listen to them.
  
  The music in the game is also cool. With every new version of FIFA series I had the impression 
 that the previous version's music was better but once I get used to it I think is quite the opposite. 
 I'm evolving too... :-)
  
  With all these lacks, I have great time playing it and recording beautiful goals almost every day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarke_311
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports has just released the best soccer game ever!! I am a soccer fan and I bought this game. 
 It took me a while to score, but after I did I could do it again and again. The difficulty is Just 
 Right because it's hard but you can still score and you can still win. If there is one soccer game 
 you could buy it has to Fifa 06.
  
  There are lots of different game modes, from Manager Mode to Tournament Mode. In Manager Mode, 
 you manage the team. You can send out scouts for other players. You even play as the team you're 
 managing, but if your team is doing bad, you'll be fired.
  
  I love this game and even if you're not a soccer fan I guarentee you will love this game very much!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  Yes, game is fun. Fun for a couple of matches. After that, it's like everything over and over again. 
 Well, nothing to say about graphics. Game can run on almost any system, that you can buy today 
 on the market, no matter how it suck. That's a huge plus to a game. Sounds are actually great, 
 only commentator became a bit boring after a while. Gameplay is 10 times worse than in fifa 2003 
 or fifa 2000. It is anything but good. It actually suck. Overall game has good elements such as 
 football manager, or you have your own team, make your own players and much more.
  I think it's an decent football, nothing extremly awesome but still good to play a kick-off after 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commander_T
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Well realy cool game love it. I like being a star player with zidane and ronaldo and all them jazz. 
 To right a long review short. Good game, like the gameplay, nice graphiques, excelent sound!!!! (Go 
 Andy Grey!) It gets repetitive after 2h of playing but i play a match or 2 every day in carrire 
 mode and i love it!
  
  
  
  Go!! get it now 10$ and best buy (and/or future shop)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Well realy cool game love it. I like being a star player with zidane and ronaldo and all them jazz. 
 To right a long review short. Good game, like the gameplay, nice graphiques, excelent sound!!!! (Go 
 Andy Grey!) It gets repetitive after 2h of playing but i play a match or 2 every day in carrire 
 mode and i love it!
  
  
  
  Go!! get it now 10$ and best buy (and/or future shop) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 06 is a good game and it has things in it that other sports games do not have... like all the 
 world teams unlike the NBA, or NFL games. This one gives you everything about all the players and 
 countries in it. The one thing that is kind of upsetting is that there is no world cup mode. Now 
 why would you have to buy FIFA 06 and then get Germany World Cup too? That is just a waste of money 
 and they should put both games together. Like in NBA or NFL they have the big games and the finales 
 in them but NOOOO, in FIFA you have to go out and get World Cup separately. Everything about the 
 game is very good though, the graphics and all could get better for the PC versions. They always 
 seem to make the PC versions a bit less graphical then the console versions but all in all its 
 a good game and very enjoyable if your a soccer fan. PS, People shouldn't be wasting their money 
 on every version that comes out every year, they should buy one then wait like 3 years for the 
 next one because if you buy one every year, they are practically the same. Not much of a change 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raul_El_Sordo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 06 is great football experience and has heaps to offer. The game play has improved quite a 
 lot over FIFA 05 with added controls with enable you to do more types of passes and shots. In FIFA 
 06 the set pieces have changed a lot, now instead of choosing targets and target players here you 
 just deliver the ball in hoping that you can find a head to put it into the back of the net. Unfortunately 
 the graphics havent improved but overhead it is not too bad. The Game Modes are much improved 
 as the Manager Mode is better for you can start as better quality teams and the transfer windows 
 are much better than the ones in FIFA 05. There are also many video clips that you can see such 
 as Memorable Moments and the highlights of 4 of the Major leagues from last season. The On-line 
 play is excellent and now you are able to start from anytime you want in any situation you choose 
 in a friendly match. The game also features new and improved commentating. Overall a excellent 
 game that will last for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maajid_
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  I've been playing football simulation for the last decade at least and FIFA for me was always the 
 front runner, if not the only runner, up until the groundbreaking Pro Evolution Soccer 3 arrived 
 on the scene -- it changed our perception of how a football game should be: a down to earth, playable 
 and seem-real classic like PES 3.
  
  'At least make it believable' is a phrase we're more than used to from films, tv series etc. and 
 it applies perfectly to this game. It's flashy, it's good looking but it just doesn't seem right. 
 The physics, the gameplay, the movement of the ball on the field, frankly everything except the 
 menus and other otherwise unimportant things. I'm sorry but it does seem to me that the developers 
 of this game have never gone out and played a 'good clean fun' game of football with their friends. 
 In a nutshell, I think it's more arcade than simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  As I said in the review deck I don't need to win anything to gather &amp; obtain game points (unlockable 
 conditions) like u must win the dutch cup to have 500 points , cause I can change my points by 
 using a small program that searches the game memory &amp; give me the points value so that I will 
 be able to change it lol, it's called t-search .
  back to the game :
  I found it very intresting &amp; full of fun cause it focusing on the 2006 world cup details with 
 the same players . but the most thing I loved in this game was the ability to edit the player's 
 skill levels &amp; change it as u wish like speed , shot power .. etc.
  
  Thanks 4 reading my review Satorn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I love this game ... soccer that is. Played it in highschool and loved it. Unfortunately, my career 
 path did not unfold with soccer in mind. That with arthritis problems at age 25, my soccer dreams 
 have fallen short.
  
  The FIFA series of games has always been close to my heart for this reason. Fifa always lasts for 
 a long time on my hard drive mainly because its my "game to getaway from other games" game. I play 
 it in between other games that I've played enough.
  
  This edition is probably the best of the series. Its offers more than the previous and then some.
 
  
  Career mode is my favorite mode and my manager is Kicking butt, only in the first season. Having 
 a hard time keeping my subs and reserves morale up high though. Guess I'll have to trade them or 
 let the play a couple but that will kill my chemistry, which isn't good. That and my star league-leading 
 striker is retiring after this season ... decisions decisions ...
  
  Graphics are as good as they can be. Player reactions are also good. For once goalies seems to 
 at least be competent, blocked shots make the game a challenge. Previous to FIFA 2005, lob, shoot 
 score from the side lines was amost garanteeed a goal. This one is a bit more challenging, since 
 timing is everything.
  
  I'm not professional game reviewer, so I can just say that its worth playing if you're a soccer 
 fan. The winning eleven series might be better, but soccer to me on PC, FIFA 06 goes all the way. 
 If only they could stick Canada in there somewhere ... I know they rank 82nd in the world, but 
 I'd still like to try and get the World Cup with them. Would be fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I am going to make this quick the soundtrack is wonderful Im not sure its better than 05. The presentation 
 gets a 10 because of the license Teams that are availble players and all of that the menus are 
 dont nice and it feels like a players dream come true. The Campaign is so so still not as good 
 as winning eleven but they are getting there. As far as moves is concerned its soo so because its 
 still not realistic enough , the graphics is poor when your trying to view people who arent star 
 players. Also Fifa couldnt be fifa without the lousy keepers dropping the ball for almost any kind 
 of shot. Playing online is actually worth it so if you get the game try it. Transferring players 
 is quite good , national selections are there but if your looking for a patch for rosters you can 
 forget it cause there isnt one out and fifa 2007 will almost be here. The other fault to me is 
 the fact that players dont seem to play there postions it seems everyones going after the ball. 
 As far as i can see the only reason this is better than Fifa world cup soccer 2006 is because of 
 the clubs and might i add im sure you wont even use 65 percent of them anyways buy this game if 
 your a fifa fan cause im sure youlll love it if you are a winning eleven fan stop reading now and 
 get Win or Pes on console or pc. Fifa has come a far way to me this is the best Fifa game to date 
 but its still lacking behind Win by far but i kid you not fifa is easy to play the buttons work 
 nice now all you need is some workable A I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the best sports I played ever. This game takes every thing and does it just right. This 
 game is what all sports games should try to be. It takes the sport and makes you fell like your 
 right their. This game has spot on graphics that has the in game players looking just like their 
 real life counterparts. I also love how they are able to make you fell as if your actually in the 
 game. Overall this game is a must, and you'll enjoy it for a long time and it isn't a game you can 
 just beat in like a week or so. Also there are challenges that you can beat to get points and unlock 
 stuff in the the Fan Shop. This game basically has everything you would want in a soccer game. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  hi every one .. i think it is the best fifa game until now .. it is very very beautiful game .. 
 and the best thing in it is that u can become a manager and it is very interesting .. and other 
 thing is beautifuls in this game that u can play on line or multiplayer and it is very interisting 
 .. and i can beat anyone of you ,, hahahaha .. but the sound in the game isnt very cool and it 
 is the same asthe past fifa's" .. graphics are good but they need some improve .. fifa06 is 
 not difficult to learn .. it take 2 hours to learn it good and until now i still play this wonderful 
 game .. see u with the new fifa .. fifa 07bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I've never played Fifa 2005, and i was very dissapointed with Fifa 2004. Before rewiewing Fifa 
 2006 in all fairness i wanted to log as many playing ours as possible, i've logged many hours over 
 a month of playtime and i'm still amazed about the perfection of the game and the very bugs that 
 i have found. This is the best football game ever, i must say i was impressed with "Winning Eleven 
 Nine", but FIFA 2006 tops it. The gameplay is wonderful, in my humble opinion it is flawless, something 
 of what the football gods would be really proud of. The Artificial Intelligence is spectacular, 
 it will have you guessing all the time again and again, and if you think you can predict its next 
 move, try setting a higher difficulty level. One common bug that people complaints about is the 
 one that were the AI doesn't make any substitutions while playing unless the players get injured, 
 but the AI makes subtitutions in change if you use the option of Quick Sim or Visual Sim a match 
 which are great additional features. Don't try to play this game with the keyboard though, you 
 will not appreciate it, buy yourself a controller, i did that for the first time just to play FIFA 
 2006 and i do not regret it. The game balances so many features and characteristics from individual 
 players and teams, that you are going to feel that every match you play is different from the next, 
 no two matches are the same, as in real football anything can happen on the pitch. EA Sports gave 
 us back the Editor for editing players and adding in them to any team. The career mode is superb, 
 you get to make many decisions which will determine your team trajectory on the league, you get 
 your own budget, sponsors, etc. The manager grows in prestige and experience and has its own staff 
 of coach experts in football concerning: Striking, Midfield, Defense, Negotiator, Stadium, Goalkeeper, 
 fitness scout and upgrading the staff will translate in boosting your team's player attributes. 
 Transfer system is excellent. Now you can sell, loan, borrow or buy players through browsing their 
 particular contract conditions. Besides this, you can edit any team so you can keep up with the 
 transfers from season to season, or just simply modify any team you wish. Other game modes are 
 really rewarding and should not be overlooked or under appreciated. In tournament mode, you can 
 customize any kind of tournament, wether that is from international teams (you can make a world 
 cup if you want) or clubs from all the leagues which the game carries. The game includes a look 
 back at the past of the evolution of the FiFA games back from 1994, which is really nostalgic to 
 see. Football memorable goal moments from the present and recent past top players of football are 
 also included. There are also video highlights from the Premier, German and French league. The 
 sounds are excellent. The narrators don't get annoying anymore instead get you immersed in the 
 game. The game's soundtracks are really catchy.
  
  The best thing about FIFA 2006 is the REPLAY value. If you ever get tired, you can come back again 
 and again for more and find it really entertaining.
  The learning curve is normal, graphics are good. If you are a Footbal enthusiast buy this game 
 now you won't regret it!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahim_zak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  EA's latst football franchise!!!!!! Now the graphics is better specially more updated faces, good 
 crowd noises, awesome Careermode. New difficulty level called "LEGENDARY MODE" Maybe the best football 
 game ever. But some bads: comp opponent never make any substitution unless there is a serius injury!!!!! 
 same commentry. But thats all. Every good thing has a bad side.
  This is a very enjoying game. You will love to play the careermode with your favourite club side 
 though before that you may have to finish more than one season with other club. I bought this game 
 about seven months ago but I still play this game because I love this game. I can bet you will 
 like it unless you are 
  another "pro-evu fan" . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsl2020
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  EA just make your goalkeeper slower in reaction and all your players also slow and in the wrong 
 position in everything they do against 5 star team in world & legend class setting ! While the 
 5 star CPU AI had all the running with super fitness till 90 minutes and excellent positioning 
 during attacking, they can pass and score accurately from long range and they can steal your ball 
 from you anytime! .In legend setting with your auto swith fully off is even worst everything is 
 slow except for the AI off course ! 99 % they will surely score if they can steal the ball from 
 you even if you have buffon as a goalkeeper and the AI will only need Ashley Cole to score from 
 long range! The only thing that is legend are The AI team Not your team ! The AI could score score 
 like a Basketball team in legend . That is why the World cup fifa 06 is better than this! The reason 
 I played this game only because of the WCG . !And You will not have any advantege even if it played 
 in your hometown! Make sure you play this game with your friend only! Avoid this single player 
 with disaster game play! Blah!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iblewafuse14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but it should definatly have a Superstar mode like they have in Madden 06 i think 
 that would be great. But everything in this game is awesome except for maybe the goalies and RARELY 
 the AI. In my opinion in WE9 it was too easy to get around defenders even on hardest but FIFA it's 
 actually quite difficult. The soundtrack is wonderful with all the differant songs from countries 
 and i like the little flashbacks they have of some of the most famous goals. so if you want a game 
 that has some very good replay value and some tremendous amount of options. this game is the one 
 for you!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  In FIFA 06 you cant do scissor kicks, i dont know why but maybe EA forgot to program the players 
 to do a scissor kick. FIFA 2005 is alot better than this.
  
  FIFA 06 provides more player faces which do not look anything like the actual players, the referee 
 is too strict and gives red cards too much, it's very hard to score a long distance goal because 
 the keeper always saves it and you cant take on the keeper. 
  
  The graphics have stayed the same since FIFA 2003 and they're good graphics, the gameplay is a 
 bit worse than before because it is impossible to take on a player, the only way you can score 
 is if you run up to the keeper and tap the ball in, or if you header the ball in the goals. You 
 can hardly ever score a volley because you always either get it over the bar or the keeper saves 
 it. The commentary is the same as always but has a new commentator, which frankly I couldn't care 
 less.
  
  Overall PRO EVOLUTION SOCCER 5 is a lot better than FIFA 06. FIFA 2005 is equally as good as Pro 
 Evolution Soccer 5. In PES 5 or WE 9 you need to have good timing to do headers and volleys because 
 if you press shott at the right time the ball will go on target or you will score. It is also not 
 impossible to take on players and to take on the keeper.
  
  Buy FIFA 2005 or Pro Evoultion Soccer 5 instead of this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicolasmk2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  After deception in Fifa 2005 because of its lots of errors, Fifa 2006 come to satisfy me down with 
 a good gameplay, graphics, soundtracks, etc. 
  Ive realized that F2005 was a rough of F2006, thats not good. I prefer to wait 2 years playing 
 a good game than having a game in half of development, like Fifa 2005 was.
  Fifa 2006 is much better, better graphically, a lot better in manager mode and significantly better 
 in "extras".
  There still are some bugs, maybe most of them are graphical bugs, like the reserve bench.... some 
 times is there... sometimes not... sometimes reserve is there... most times not. Also once happened 
 that the ball didnt passed through the goal, and guess what... yes, it was goal. Another bug: the 
 referees most times have similar cloth colors to one of the teams. STUPID BUGS.
  
  Just play and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  ps2 version is more different than pc version
  
  fifa 06 give you plenty of challenges and gameplays , and it is great game we can't say anything 
 about this but we can say that if they did penalty shootout and also easy it little bit because 
 it is to hard the legend difficulty is unbelievable it is almost unstoppable the manger mode is 
 also great but very hard you have to make very good team management and also you need good players 
 there overall should be not less than 89 and the good players are expensive so try your best and 
 play hard to finish the game just like me and many others and you can still play exhibition matches 
 and the fifa 06 lounge and many other modes matches there will give you even more fun when you 
 played with your friends so have a nice game and dont forget to tell it to your friends if they 
 because have it beacuse they can really miss it and it is the best football game ever amd it is 
 the best game ever
  
  here i will compare between fifa 06 and winning eleven 9
  
  Now FIFA 06 rules, WE9 isn't the best !! 
  Why FIFA now is better than Winning Eleven ?
  
 
  In my opinion, the game mixes good graphics with playability. FIFA's playability was always worse 
 than Winning Eleven's, but as we can see now... the player's movements are better, and I think 
 that in Winning Eleven, the players can't control the ball in a way that really simulates de real 
 soccer.
  
  I mean, it's very strange to guide a player, controlling the ball... and when you're running and 
 controlling the ball, you always get lost. You're probably thinking I'm a dumb, but believe... 
 Winning Eleven used to have a better ball control and more realistic stuffs.
  
  Well, more...
  FIFA has more Leagues, more championships, and lots of other stuffs that Winning 
 Eleven doesn't have.
  
  It's incredible how the camera works when you're playing it. It's different from the last version. 
 You'll see it when you're playing.
  
  One only thing I can't undertand, which is a bad point to me, is that FIFA doesn't have a "Team 
 Creation" option!! Since 1998, FIFA don't offers this option.... but Winning Eleven do, so... I 
 can say that FIFA still needs to improve this items to be a 100% better than Winning Eleven. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunnySimantov
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Do I really need to introduce Fifa06? This game series is known for years, and this game isn't 
 anything special.
  I didn't play Fifa01-05 so I can't compare, but I can say what this game includes.
  There are 
 tens of teams to play with, each have real life players as in-game players. All teams have their 
 accurate outfit and logo, which is pretty nice if you like a team from the British fourth league 
 or something.
  The greatest part I really enjoyed in this game is the Career mode. It lets you be a manager for 
 15 years, you don't have to stay at the same team all the way and you take control of the team's 
 budget. There are many cool features in this mode. Playing like in a real season and leagues is 
 very fun. However, I didn't play it long after the fourth season, it gets pretty boring even if 
 I switch teams.
  There are many rewards to unlock with points you earn as you proceed in the game or in Career mode. 
 Some nice things are Funny Sound FX (canon shot for kicks :D) and third outfit for famous teams.
 
  The AI is very pleasing in the Semi Pro-World Class difficulty settings, though I found two annoying 
 things:
  They try to score alot from side lobs and headings.. And during the second half the goalkeepers 
 NEVER rush the attacker. I can score from 5 meters all second half. You can tell your goalkeeper 
 to rush with a button, luckily.
  What this game seriously lacks is good graphics. The player models are very non-accurate and not 
 satisfying, and the crowd is actually jumping carton pieces.
  The sound commentary is cool, but gets really repetitive and expected after a while. Sometimes 
 they (commentators) even say things in huge delay. *goal* 1..2..3.. *players already dancing* ..4 
 "Goal!" -_-
  The good side is when they say "MUSAMPA!!!" (if that old player is going to score... which happens 
 rarely.
  Well, this is about it. Look at my point attribution for further understanding.
  Thanks for reading guys hope you enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maanaslal
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  well fifa 2006 for me proves that games do always have critics but the best way to answer criticism 
 is to go on contiously with the job of making good games not bothering about the critics. fifa 06 
 for me is by far the most user friendly game in the fifa series. realism to the core is the motto 
 of this timeless wonder. all the clubs, all the teams all that you can hope to expect from a fifa 
 game. i have liked greatly the ea retrospective section of the game. so score some outstanding goals 
 and whenever you are in a bit of of trouble dont forget to change sides (sometimes foul play does 
 help) .three cheers for ea hip hip hurray! hip hip hurray! hip hip hurray!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darshandk
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 2, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Well, i cant understand why ea guys are experimenting with the game which has gone gold..... same 
 is the case with fifa.... the controlling is horrible and there is no enjoyment in gameplay.... you 
 will feel like that your players are not actually RUNNING but they are JOGGING. Players runs very 
 slow evenif you press sprint button YOU will not feel charm of FAST PACED ACTION THAT IS THE MAIN 
 ELEMENT OF SUCH GAMES..... and to score goal from a distance will remain a dream into your eyes.. you 
 really not able to dodge the other players and dodging moves are really poor...
  
  graphics are quite ok but not as good as it should be..
  commentary is good and somewhat enjoyable....
 
  
  in a nutshell it is not the game that soccer fans wanted.....
  
  dont waste your time and money on buying this game there are better options available than this...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lakaivan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  oh my god i am fan of fifa since so long, but now in this game is time to say pay for much, but 
 in my case i add more... more leagues, snow in game, and others but in special more teams, because 
 in my country my team never go to the world cup jaj aj ja, thanks to easports, i hope soon fifa 
 street 2 for pc c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 
 c c c c c 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fadi_S
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  For the last 3-4 years i havent touched a single game of the Fifa series , i just skiped them all 
 (exept Fifa 98, i still play it sometime) , i thought it wasn't right .. and i didnt like it at 
 all , so i swiched to PES5 and sticked to it .
  and i accidently got Fifa 2006 some days ago , so i tried it , and i was surprised that i liked 
 , and i'm playing it at the moment .
  
  Fifa 2006 brings you a great football (soccer) experience , and it's fun to play . as usual , you 
 can play Friendly matches , tournements , practice & manager mode... along aside with lots of chalenges 
 to complete and earn points in order to be able to unlock stuff such as players bios , balls , 
 shirts , studioms and more ....
  You can creat your own player , and i havent done that yet .
  
  I always think to my self , 
 if they just bring together all the Fifa games and combine it , they will get the perfect Fifa 
 game . each game has it's flaws , if they observe it and try to fix it , that will a great thing 
 , but i think they dont see anything wrong in the games , and that is wrong .. some time they fix 
 a thing but they leave something else hanging .
  
  Anyway , if you like soccer , this is a great game to play .. and i recommend it.
  
  (i'm pretty 
 sure that i will get sick of it in some weeks. that is what happens to me with fifa games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lipan03
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06 better than the previous series. more realistic gameplay good strategy. I like the challenge 
 mode that you can unlock many things. In manager mode also great that you can buy, sell and loan 
 player to your team. You also can select sponsor for your team... cool right. 
  
  Graphic: interesting but not realistic and not up-to-date. i don't know why the EA don't change 
 the player characteristic, such as Victor Valdes ( the Barca GK) i saw his face and his hair not 
 real, i think it same for the last series FIFA 05 while he han a short hair. what disappointed 
 me is there are no Nike or Adidas or Puma or other boot, just the ea boot, that's s**k. 
  
  Sound: good sound, i like the new commentor. great background music and enviroment.
  
  gameplay: 
 had improve from previous game. but a bit lacking gameplay. it to easy to got either yellow or 
 red card.. but it better than pro evolution series hehehe..
  
  Overall this game worth to play and need more improving in graphic. but quite interesting in gameplay 
 and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_player_here
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Of course there are some nice stuff in FIFA 2006, but also some pretty stupid stuff.
  
  The good tinhgs are:
  -The graphics of the field and stadiums;
  -There are more tactics and 
 that makes the game more interesting.
  -And the soudtracks have some really good music.
  
  But, on the other hand there are lots of stupids things in this game:
  -Sometimes the keepers 
 have the ball right in front of them but they don't catch it;
  -It's almost impossible to score a goal from a long distance;
  -In the manager mode the faces 
 of the managers should be better;
  -In the manager mode, when you're in the transfer period, you can see that some of the best players 
 of the game were transfered to weak teams;
  -The game should also have more international teams, for exemple, Holland, Japan, Korea and more...;
 
  -There sould be more stadiums;
  -And the crowds suck, what's the point of having statues supporting your team (at leats they sing) .
 
  
  They EA Sports guys really sould thing about making a better FIFA game for 2007... (I'll hope so) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekki7
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  EA Sports has money, and yes they bought all licences for shirts , names , leagues and other. FIFA 
 looks really nice if you just look, but the point of football simulation is to give a player real 
 football experience, and FIFA is way below that.
  
  Some FIFA fan wrote in PES 5 review :"The tactics system is okay but the ball-control system is 
 HORRIBLE! What's the point of tactics when you can't score an open goal?". - well that's the point. 
 I can play FIFA with my eyes closed and score goal....
  
  So please all FIFA fans please don't make your comments on PES 5, check the 
  web sometimes and 
 see who is playing FIFA and who PES?
  
  I don't even like to put FIFA and PES into same sentence.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Fifa 2006 comes with new features and better graphics to give you an amazing football experience!
 
  
  One of the new features is that you can manage your team in carrer mode as a manager and you can 
 play the matches too! (Of course) This feature is a big advantage compare to other soccer games! You 
 can also manage the ticket price of your home stadium and you can make new contracts with other 
 players from other teams and all that kind of micromanagement!
  
  The gameplay is very easy! And that's a disadvantage, because it's very simple and you don't have 
 many choises and cool moves to do! Every goal looks the same! If the producers have added more moves, 
 the game would be more interesting! But that's not very big problem! The game is still exciting and 
 fun to play!
  
  The sound in most parts is good, but it could have been better! The audience sound is very good! With 
 every goal you score the croud screams! The thing that i liked very much, was the sound that the 
 post doing, when you hit it!
  
  Now the graphics part! In this part has been done an excellent job! The models looks very realistic 
 and with all the expresions on their faces! The player's physics are also very good! I think they 
 create them with motion capture!
  
  Conclusion! Fifa 2006 is a must for your collection! Especially if you are a sports fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mai_sam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Its cool .... still the best in EA's soccer franchise .... AND..... way better than winning eleven 
 series. The difficulty will not be that easy when you start playing it in first time But you will 
 improve your game in just about 1 or 2 hours ..... just practice and you got it ..... i like it 
 its amazing .... and guess wat i've been thrown out of bolton because of my job security gone so 
 bad :D ... so watch out the manager mode its a little sensitive ... dont forget to learn the hints 
 and tips in MY FIFA06 .... all about job security, team chemistry AND Team mantalities.... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Last time I played a FIFA game seriously it was FIFA 98. This game is fun but they have removed 
 so many cool things. 
  
  There is much less team in this game. No "road to World Cup option" no real World Cup so you have 
 to make your own tourney. They have also very few international teams and less stadiums then in 
 FIFA 98. They have also removed the indoor soccer which was a really cool option in FIFA 98.
  
  The graphic is of course very good as always in the FIFA games ( exept the crowd ) but I think 
 but the gameplay is not that good. The players sometime play by them selves making tackles and 
 so on when you release the control so if you play against a friend you can put your control down 
 for a few minutes without risking a goal. 
  
  The problem is that they have dumed downed the game very much to be easier to play. You don't even 
 have to make a tackle because the computer will make it for you. I don't know if this is a bug 
 or if it was intended. 
  
  The crowd is as bad as always. They look like statues but at least they sing in this version. It's 
 just about money these days and not about making the best game ever. sad...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  EA sports is one of the most reach and sucssesful company there is. why? beacuse they have no compettetors 
 and have loads of cash. Still they keep producing low quality games and poorly expansions (see: 
 sims) . Fifa 2006 could have been a very nice and refreshing game but instead it has many stupid 
 **** and bugs that will make you go angry on the computer.
  
  First, The goalkeepers are too good and you will find it very difficult to beat them asspecialy 
 from long ranges which its almost impossible. 
  From some reason the good people in EA also thought that it will be smart to take out the A key- 
 which you slide with. No more of that... the players are claumpsy and very slow and hard to controll. 
 You'll try to shoot over and over but the defence of the opponent team will stop you over and over...
 
  
  Free kicks are bad and getting worst from year to year, and the penallty 
  shoot out is also something they shouldn't be proude of. But problably
  the biggest downside 
 of 2006 is the manger mode- I took birmingham to uefa champions league and won it and plus i won 
 the FA preimership.
  But the best options i had the next years were Aston villa...
  
  But this game has couple of upside too along the many many downside.
  The graphics are nice and 
 much better than 2005, with many stadium and modles.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Fifa 06 is quite a good game if you're a football freak. Cause yes the graphics and sound are good 
 and the music just rocks! 
  
  Well the game is really quite hard I'd say 'cause till today I have'nt been able to score a single 
 goal! The controls are quite tight but I think Fifa 2002's controls were better. In that game we 
 had a 1-2 pass which was quite worth playing that game. Well in Fifa 06 there's no such extraordinary 
 move or anything.
  
  But no matter, the game's sound covers it up. The game's music track when you're out of play simply 
 rocks! The game's sound is also quite good. The commentary I think could be a bit better cause 
 the commentators simply HAVE to keep up with the game. The graphics of the game are as good as 
 they could be. Yeah it's no surprise as the graphics of most of the games today are surely good. 
 And EA just cannot remain behind in that field. 
  
  So even if you are a fan of soccer or not you should surely give this game a try! Nothing hurts 
 if you download it's demo from GS and try it out. (actually I myself just played the demo!) 
  
  Thanks!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _D3athCr0w_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  EA celebrates its new exclusive FIFA World Cup interactive entertainment partnership with the release 
 of FIFA 06, a game that immerses players into the emotional intensity of the next-generation football. 
 Utilizing the power of the Pc, fans are able to revel in the world' most sophisticated representation 
 of football ever. Experience a newly enhanced game play engine that delivers extremely responsive 
 controls and greater level of depth. New physics and animations mean that players will now react 
 more realistically to every tackle, shot or pass of the ball. For the first time you'l see and 
 feel the joy, anguish and pain of 90 minutes of soccer in a video game. Through the power of high-definition 
 technology youll see how the detail of the players is accurately recreated in fine detail. The 
 power of the pc truly brings to life 80,000 chanting fans in a stadium and immerses you in the 
 emotional intensity of FIFA World Cup football.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brovoj8
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  this game was is good but what i think is that it might be running in a same platform of fifa 2005 
 the gameplay is ok graphics are good but overall the game is not up to the mark and not up the 
 my EXPECTATION and the Season is again Too long to play with as have said before the Season timing 
 was good in 2004 edision thats 5 years you can play out and then if you wana play more then you 
 can BUT the ONE thing they have added is the new option of retros ITS realy good to see out favorite 
 game from its begining to date its good ......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-mat
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  If you talk about improvement from last year... then there's none. It's only freshened up FIFA 2005. 
 The menus are different... Manager mode is only a bit better than Career mode... The commentary 
 is improved... That's probably all. 
  
  Shooting from long range is impossible (My strikers have scored 95% of my goals - all from close 
 range) . There are three ways to score - head it in from cross, score when 1 on 1 with the keeper, 
 or score from a rebound. So every third goal is the same. Goalkeepers act like they were retarded. 
 Although they'll make impossible saves from close range, they'll react on a shot from distance 
 only when the ball is like 5 meters from the goal. Looks like they're half blind or something... 
 Dribbling is unusable... I managed to get past two defenders at most when using Ronaldinho. The 
 pitch is too big for two teams... And finally - Although I gave the game "Just right" difficulty, 
 it's not right at all. It's messed up like always. I wonder when EA is going to realize that harder 
 difficulty setting should mean smarter AI and not cheating. It the same problem in all their products 
 I've played... On world class level the AI is going to bomb your goal's top corners (and score 
 quite often) ... It's not like I let them... Cpu usually gets registered about two shots a game 
 against me (8min half) and both from long range. But their deadly accurate (=goal!!!) so it's better 
 to take the ball away from the cpu as soon as you can. And taking the ball away is another problem 
 - you have to tackle the opponent noticeably longer than cpu does regardless of ball control, dribbling, 
 creativity, speed, tackling... ratings... The gameplay is bad.
  
  Graphically the game looks ok... Although many players look the same at least the stadium looks 
 great. Nothing more to add...
  
  In game sound are great but... inadequate. The home team can often feel like they're visiting because 
 the fans sing when the home team is losing, boo the home team when it has possession and so on... 
 In game music is not my style. I kind of liked only two songs... As I mentioned the commentary 
 is improved.
  
  Considering the fact that it is FIFA 2005 with a different cover the game hasn't got much value...
 
  
  I like football a lot. So I've spent more time with this game than it probably deserves. If you're 
 a fan you may like it. But I suggest you try Winning Eleven or Pro Evolution because that's what 
 I'm going to do... They can't be worse... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I played Fifa 2005 and liked it very much, and when i began to play this 2006 version , there was 
 something i didn't like , but eventually i got used to the games system. Overall the game is fun, 
 it has a better management system, so as usual i prefer to surface the problems it contains:
  1. Scouting - You can send a scout to different regions, but the cost varies, i see no point in 
 sending the scout to expensive Europe when i can send him to Africa and gain the same results.
 
  2. In the trade system, and in overall, the money is unclear and unreal. Why can't they use $ or 
 Euro's ?
  Another thing in the trading system is when you offer to sell/loan a player, only one team approaches 
 you each week, while when you try to buy a player, more than one approaches him. That should be 
 fixed.
  3. The special moves are redundant - I play in the Professional level , and I beat most teams without 
 a problem and without using the Shift key for tricks.
  4. Goalkeepers - There is no reason to hold more than one goalkeeper in your team , because GK's 
 don't get cards unless they hold the ball much too long, they don't get any injuries, and they 
 don't get tired even you happen to play 3 games a week.
  5. The way the computer manages his teams - is a little sneaky , unfair and not intellegent. In 
 manager mode I managed Benfica with very expensive players, and in the end of the season the team 
 ran into debt. Next season I met them in one of the cups, and I saw they A. Stayed with same formation 
 and players within the formation as I left them. B. Changed the players contracts (you are not supposed 
 to do it while in debt) - and moreover it signed more players.
  Three more points that can be improved -
  1. Contacts - Instead or with paying % per goal, maybe 
 they should put in the game contingency paying system - if we win the league, the player should 
 get this and this %. This is a more realistic approach. 2. I always maintained there are 2 EA sports 
 companies, or else how could you explain the different statistics and other interfaces between 
 the FIFA games and the NBA ones ? In the NBA you can see the statistics of all the teams, so i 
 suggest they'll put it in FIFA - see the stats of teams outside of your league too, and the ability 
 to track their achievements, as well as for player histories stats wise. This year the stats system 
 is improved, but it must be as good as it is in the NBA games.
  3. I don't like the Fan Shop system, don't discard it but it is must be changed.
  
  Other than 
 that , the game is a lot of fun , and i suggest to buy it, as PES 5 over-realismness was to much 
 complex and irritating for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game is waht you would name, nearly perfect. It has a very good gameplay, good graphics, and 
 exciting. But somethings still missing. It would be better if would have some other Cup competitions 
 ( ex. : UEFA CUP, Champions League ... ) , because playing only for the country league and Cup gets 
 kind of booring after some tiime. Even the graphics need a littlefixing ". Another thing that 
 would be good for the game is a much larger variety of stadiums and teams from other countryes, 
 such as Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Turkey, and so on... I hope the next releases of FIFA games 
 would contain some of these things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlobalBU
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Since when do Canadians in general know a thing about football (soccer) ? Oh, they don't, and this 
 game is materialized proof.
  
  If this is the only football game you play you'll guess it's not bad at all.
  I mean the graphics 
 are pretty good, and the soundtrack is not bad at all. (see my review scoring)
  
  The second you try Pro Evolution Soccer 5, this game goes straight to the trash. After trying Pro 
 Evo 5, like I'd been robbed at gunpoint by EA. 
  
  I have bought every single FIFA game since 1997.
  This is the last time EA cons me. 
  
  Do 
 yourself a favor and spend your money wisely. Try Pro Evo 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babke
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  This years Fifa 06 has seems like an improvement finally. I've played all Fifa games from Fifa 
 98 onwards and to be honest I still have Fifa 2002 as the one I had most fun with. I rarely play 
 the game on my own, most of the time there's at least a couple of friends and we play games and 
 tournaments. 
  
  For me and the whole fun part, the everything from Fifa 2003 until this release was really not 
 playable. So as a result Winning Eleven & Pro Evolution became very popular in soccer playing world. 
 But this release has really stepped up. On the more obvious side, a lot of the controls have been 
 taken from the Pro Evolution series, and the gameplay has really stepped up.
  
  The graphics are good, but then again i've always been one of those people who would sacrifice 
 graphics for gameplay. No need for this release. 
  
  The sound is on a high level which is expected from EA, so no surprises there.
  
  The game 
 will give you a lot of standard playing modes (friendly, tournaments, leagues) and a career one 
 which has managed to get me involved for some time, on my own.
  
  This release has again become a game which I played with my friends and a step in the right direction. 
 
  
  I am sure you will enjoy it if you like fast paced football!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Crab
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  I must say I have been disappointed with FIFA 06 ever since I got it installed. Aside from the 
 new graphics, which is OK, EA brings nothing. I don't know what kind of testers they had, but from 
 the first 1-5 hours of playing I could've made up a mile-long list of things which could've used 
 improvement. 
  First of all, strategies are inexistent. Now every football fans knows that the essence of the 
 game is the lineup and strategy. And though you can modify formation up to some extent, it doesnt 
 give you the freedom to make your own playing style. At best, it's all a series of pre-set formation, 
 with no chance to alter it by any means. Like I said, strategy and mentality are all but inexistent. 
 And while you can push some numbers on the keypad in order to select box-overload or wing play 
 or that kind of stuff, I really found it difficult to see any difference whatsoever between the 
 times I selected, for example the "wing play" strategy and the time I didn't select any strategy 
 at all. 
  Moreover, I think it has some design flaws. For instance, when I'm on the attack an opposing defender 
 tackles my player and gets the ball into touch. Nothing wrong with that, except when it comes to 
 the throw, it gives the throw to the opposing team! Now at first I thought that maybe the ball 
 touched my player last, by instant replay showed it totally clear! This has also happened with 
 corners/goal-kicks. The way I see it, probably in Canada they thought that the same rules as for 
 American Football apply, as in if you push the one who has the ball out of the pitch the ball goes 
 to the defenders or something... 
  I find it very hard to believe that EA Sports hasn't learned some valuable lessons along the way. 
 I would say that, considering the time frame of course, FIFA 06 is slightly worse than FIFA 99. 
 Again, taking the time frame into consideration. 
  Another thing, "navigation screens", as in the team management screens and all that are HORRIBLY 
 designed! I have to wait for some 10-15 seconds for the buttons to switch around so I can finally 
 see a player bio or change the formation. Some will say "use hotkeys", but why should I? I'm a 
 player who got used to the easy navigation from previous versions, why should I all of a sudden 
 be forced to remember some hotkeys just cause the designers of EA Sports didn't find it useful 
 to place normal buttons, instead of the ones that keep changing. I find this the worst part of 
 the game.
  For the first let's say 10-15 hours of playing I varied difficulty levels, starting naturally from 
 beginner and going to semi-pro, pro and up to world class. In about 80% of the cases, until I managed 
 to realize how the AI works, I would finish the games at the score of 0-0, or if I was lucky, 1-1. 
 I repeat, this didn't happen at one difficulty level, it happened with all levels. The was I see 
 it, the people at EA sports put so much time in improving the defense, that they forgot what the 
 game is about. SCORING! And until one learns how to trick the AI, expect a lot of 0-0 draws.
  The shooting meter... when I'm getting close to 100 hours of play, I still don't realize how it 
 works! I scored goals from 30 meters away by simply tapping it, meaning it went a very short distance, 
 but I had players shooting from inside the box, with the meter at the "blue zone" that barely pushed 
 the ball into the keeper's hands. Not to mention that the speed of the meter can not be modified 
 as in say, for example FIFA 2002. And after managing to learn the "tempo" of the shooting meter, 
 BOOM... I realize that free kicks and corners have a different speed. Now, I understand that it's 
 logical, cause a player in a corner can select the shooting power better than during play when 
 the pressure is on, but in order to make the game play more user friendly I think the speed of 
 the meter should've been kept the same, AND made possible to be modified from the options menu.
 
  In the end, I say I'd give it a "Rent it first" classification because some might like it and 
 get used to it faster than I did, everyone has the right to an opinion so I can't say it's bad 
 or it's good, just rent it first before deciding to buy it, and see what happens.
  One word of advice, should someone from EA sports read this. Move the "Soccer Games" programming 
 department to Europe and have some Europeans make FIFA from now on, the result will be so much 
 better.
  Cheers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidus_swain
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Fifa games are not know for their difficulty, but fifa 06 breaks the mould there.
  
  Fifa 06 is EA best football game, and is probably THE best football game on the market. 
  
 
  From the start the game lets you personalise itself around you. You select your favourite team. 
 You select the controls you want to use. You, the player are the games target audience.
  
  Gameplay has been tweaked since last year. Its a bit faster now, and flows better on the pitch. 
 Also stamina has been built In more, so that you cant outrun people for too long because you players 
 will tire. This is a nice developed feature, but can be annoying in the later stages in the game 
 when you cant out run the last defender or get back in time.
  Free kicks are different now as well. Instead of the circle where you want to shoot or an arrow, 
 its just you working out angles to shoot. This has no indicators, so will be difficult to pick 
 up at first, but after a while will help you score more often from further distances if you improve 
 your technique.
  A few differences I noticed while playing were that the goalkeepers are now more realistic. Instead 
 of just always plain catching the ball or pounding it away, they can now pound it then scramble 
 on it afterwards. Also handballs have been introduced (even though I have only ever seen 1 happen 
 so it may have been in a previous edition) these are nice little features that help the player 
 feel more in touch with the game.
  Another great feature that helps you out tactically is The mentality options. During the game , 
 by pressing a direction button, you can select to counter attack, wing play, box overload, 3rd 
 man release, press, flat back, zone defence or offside trap (for the defensive you have to hold 
 L1 at the same time)
  Manager mode has also returned from last year. Your 15 year career in the football world. The idea 
 is to win as many tournaments as you can, at the same time getting points to unlock extra goodies. 
 
  Manager mode has also been given some improvements. The office mode now helps you out. It will 
 allow you to scout players from certain parts of the world, improve you staff ratings, and most 
 impressive of all get sponsor deals.
  Team chemistry this year has been added to. This is exciting prospect, because it can allow you 
 advantages against even the teams with the most fantastic players. If they cant work together 
 then they are as good as the over 75 Pennsylvanian side (and thats bad)
  Apart from that, most things gameplay wise are the same. The tweaks made though are impressive 
 enough to make the game outshine ones before it.
  
  Graphics. They have improved the shadows and the player details in particular. But the thing that 
 worries me is the lower team players and the crowd. The players from the lower leagues have the 
 tendency to look the same. The crowd is still very bland, no where near the standards of Smackdown 
 vs. raw 2006. I am hoping that this will improve next year when their approach will be much more 
 next gen.
  
  Online mode really impressed me. I got hardly any lag while playing online. ( and thats with Aol 
 broadband) Online features a leaderboard, so you can see who the top online players are. Also, 
 you can keep a track of all you past matches, make friends, and even have 4-8 player tournaments. 
 This was a fantastic online experience, one that can only get better.
  
  The extra features are also nice. You can win points by performing certain tasks, and can watch 
 player interviews, as well as play a retro fifa game. This shows you really how far this series 
 has come. And of course the new commentating team keeps things fresh.
  
  Fifa 06 has improved tons from its predecessors, and will continue to grow and improve. If next 
 years addition can improve as much as this year addition, then you could be looking at one of the 
 best sports games ever created. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deus_ex_2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of this series and I own every title released from 1999 to present like FIFA 99 to FIFA 
 06. All I can say is, realism has been improved compared to last years version. As far as I know 
 there's no routine to scoring goals this time around (atleast in highest difficulty setting) . The 
 presentation has been improved drastically and is a welcome addition. The refereeing is not accurate 
 but realistic enough. The old arcade style of free-kicks and coners are brought back which may 
 baffle the user who has played only FIFA 04 and FIFA 05. OFF-THE-BALL-PLAYER-MOVEMENTS has been 
 excluded which brings new gameplay style as compared to last two versions. Player models are good 
 and u can customise the accessories worn by real players ( asigning goggles to Ronaldinho is fun) . 
 But I've to say, this game has lot of bugs. For e. g., a goal is not awarded even if the goalkeeper 
 carries the ball into his goal after saving. A good collection of soundtracks is again present. 
 The career mode is excellent this time around especially because of funding per game by the sponsors 
 u sign a contract with. For all u FIFA fans, this game won't disappoint. All u PES fans, well too 
 bad ur game hasn't got the licenses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i1am2a3dog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 2006 is simply a mindblowing game. Electronic Arts keep makin them better and better for us. The 
 graphics are way better than any of the previos FIFA's , even 05. The game provides an awesome gaming 
 experience. The Artificial intelligence in the game is simply superb. You can just keep playing 
 the EA Sports Fifa series on and on and on...... The other rival soccer games in the market just 
 look outdated and lack lustre when compared to fifa'06. Fifa 2006 offers you more in one game than 
 any of the predecesors, or counterparts in the market. On linking it up with the Total Club manager 
 2006, you can take your gaming experience to the next level. You just cannot get bored of playing 
 the game, coz you'll simply get hooked !!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seugirdor
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  if you prefer gameplay and graphics, pro evolution is for you but if you prefer a big amount of 
 leagues and teams but no gameplay and graphics play fifa but believe me when i say that fifa doesn't 
 worth any space in my PC disk, if you want to have fun playing, play pro evolution soccer 5.
  f i f a s u c k s
  p r o e v o l u t i o n r u l e s 5
  k e e p u p t h e g o o d p l a y i 
 n g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Overall its a good game with a large team selection and good stadium settings. As good as the graphics 
 looked they weren't actually that nice to me. Players' faces looked like they were shaped in an 
 easy-bake oven and the crowd looked 2d from certain angles but the graphics aren't terrible overall. 
 The soundtrack to this game is pretty good with a lot of interesting songs and some tracks have 
 soccer highlights in the middle of them. The menu and controls were good for the PC as long as 
 you were able to find where to set your buttons. I like how stadiums could be friendly or unfriendly 
 and the announcers gave you some decent info on the games. My first game was Man. Utd. v. Man. 
 City and the announcer said "This game may not count in the long run but this certainly counts 
 as far as pride goes." which I thought was rather interesting. You can't achieve the high scores 
 you can get in Pro Evolution Soccer 5 but thats because the AI is much more balanced per difficulty 
 level in this game. Overall this is a solid game but its not worth fussing over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pb12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, FIFA's are coming around nowdays like clockwork. Many complain that little has changed from 
 the previous version, that certainly may appear that way, but when comparing FIFA 02 to FIFA 06, 
 I think it's quite obvious things have been getting different.
  
  FIFA 06, is pretty much what you would expect. Crisp graphics,... interesting sound track over the 
 top intro video and an unusable menu.
  
  Career:
  
  Well, 15 seasons is a lot to keep things fresh like in previous installment players retire after 
 a certain age and/or move to different clubs. Personally I find that annoying as you are unable 
 to use teams like Arsenal, Man U, Real until most great players have left and replaced by some 
 generic player who looks just like the previously retired 'star' player. 
  
  The greatest new introduction has to be team chemistry, as players play together the team starts 
 to perform a lot better, performing above their rating. Certainly a nice touch by EA and to an 
 extent it works. Keeping team morale up seems to be near impossible. Some players have 99, most 
 of mine are 0 despite playing most matches, winning Champion's League, League, etc, just don't 
 know how to please the bunch of suckers. 
  
  The money balance is annoying, you get money from ticket sales and winning things. This effectively 
 puts a stop to managing a big side until late in the game as you end up going into the red and 
 getting the sack, arf! 
  
  In game:
  
  Handles pretty well. I like the way the players now run forward to help out and get back. In previous 
 FIFA's once you get the ball upfield, usually have to wait for everyone to catch up or try to do 
 it alone. The realism is pretty good, it does resemble at times something called football. Although 
 there a few glitches, such as keeper catching a ball and falling on the ground behind the goal 
 line not counting as a goal. Offside being called when player has gone past the back four and passes 
 to a player behind him. And finally impossible keeper on hardest setting. In fact this is something 
 quite frustrating. Playing crap teams, having 20 shots on target and scoring maybe one, other team 
 have 2 shots and both hit back of the net. Makes me cry...
  
  World XI:
  
  Have to mention my surprise at the line-ups for Classic XI and World Best XI. Clearly EA do not 
 see Pele the greatest footballer ever, he is left warming the bench. Also, can someone explain 
 to me how Christian Ronaldo and Rooney (sorry Man U fans out there) come close to making World 
 XI? Neither have come close to winning any international awards, esp Ronaldo. Would have like to 
 have seen Lampard/Eto or Shevchenko in starting lineup.
  
  Game controls:
  
  Having got an oldish WingMan Gamepad, I was shocked to find that I cannot assign a skill button 
 in the control config. This is quite annoying!!! There are so many different moves you can do that 
 sometimes you may wish you had extra finger or two.
  
  Overall, nice game, worth playing, until that is FIFA World Cup 2006 comes out. I strongly suggest 
 getting third party patches to add players, update rosters and edit the game to your hearts content 
 (be careful what you install though!!! Make sure it comes from a reliable site) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pawliuz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  every year fifa gets better and better . this year wasn't exception - fifa 06 looks great . every 
 year the gameplay becomes more realistic , equally it gets more difficult to play , and that , 
 i think , is the right way they develop this series . the graphics looks the same as fifa 2005 
 , except for the crowd , but the gameplay looks much better . the manager mode is way better than 
 in previous games . one of the new things added is challenge mode , that stuck me to my chair for 
 a long time . but the one thing that pleasantly surprised me is the fifa retro , that, s a really 
 great idea , i'm looking forward to see somewhat in all coming fifas , they could make something 
 like best goals of a last year or some legendary players compilations . 
  but there is one big minus they didn't solve - it's a "teams of clones" . i hate to play with lower 
 league team where all players has a same face , only different haircut . i don't understand why 
 can't they make faces for all players . 
  despite that , that is the best football simulator these days , really worth to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiafraBeliever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  What's there to say about Fifa, always been one of the strongest makers of soccer games, and this 
 time around they really hit the nail on the head. the game brings an unbelieveable amount of excitement 
 and realism to the game. The game is more wide spread then ever, with the ability to play as virtuairly 
 every professional team out there. It is in my opinion the best sports game on the market right 
 now, hands down. The gameplay is quite nice, if you have a gamepad like I do. The graphics on the 
 other hand had some weakness in some spots. Lots and lots of players in the game looked like they 
 were 50, because they looked like they had grey hair. And the facial features can be worked on 
 a little bit more.
  One really anoying thing about the game is the stupidy of the computer AI. If you play a regular 
 game against the computer, you'll notice that the computer can be dumb at times. So many times 
 have they been running around their backfield not trying to make any advance. A number of times 
 they will dribble the ball out of bounds, and one time they acuaily dribbled the ball into their 
 own net. 
  Nonetheless, FIFA is quite possible the best soccer game ever put out, and the best sports game 
 out there at the moment. It is very addicting, exciting and fun. And this is coming from an amature 
 soccer player :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proels
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the game for a few weeks, I'm impressed. The gameplay is great. The other soccer 
 games out there (pro evolution) may provide more realistic game play, but Fifa 06 is the most fun. 
 Difficulty can be changed depending on your preference anywhere from amateur to world class. You 
 can play single matches using any of the teams fifa offers. I follow world soccer and they have 
 any team and league I've ever heard of. Besides single matches you can play a career as a manager. 
 You pick the team and play the games yourself, or they can be simulated. I'm a couple of years 
 into a career managing the Kansas City Wizards. As you win and gain money, you scout for and purchase 
 players to improve your team. You use money to upgrade your staff as well. At the end of the season, 
 if you do well, you will be recruited to manage in better leagues. Fifa 06 has a number of features, 
 classic teams, and players that can be unlocked. Win 25 games, beat a top level team, score 50 
 goals, etc, etc to gain points for unlocking features. The game tracks all the stats from every 
 game you play. Also as a bonus the game has a soundtrack, many new songs from new artists. Music 
 is great and plays as you are changing your lineups and using the menu screens. I recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolution_remix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
 NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER NICE MULTIPLAYER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeninPrince51
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I recieved this game for Christmas and I've spent countless hours playing FIFA 06. Previously I 
 had FIFA 05, so I can compare the upgrades the game has recieved.
  
  First off, what kept the game from attaining greatness was the fact you needed to disable some 
 USB ports in order to keep the game from randomly scrolling up and down. Once you fixed that, however, 
 you could get the game rolling. This game isn't as stable as one may think it is, which once again 
 detracts from the gameplay value. In matches, the game is incrediably frustrating at times. There 
 are times when you can go 11-0 and thrash Real Madrid, or lose 3-1, on AMATEUR setting. The game 
 it seems has no definition of a diffculty level. Also, the ball is constantly attached to the opponents 
 feet, whenever you go up to tackle, he just turns and keeps the ball glued to his feet. Also frustrating 
 is the apparent lack of beta testing. Often times, I find I can't use the keyboard to navigate 
 around the game, for instance when I want to save my career. 
  
  The career mode, is great. I love it! Player contracts need to be negoitated, staff upgrades to 
 improve your team, send the scout out to find the next Ronaldinho, also, I get confronted with 
 situations, (the most hilarious one) that a player of mine was swearing in front of little kids. 
 Do I punish him, or tell the charity foundation to take a hike? It adds realism to the game, and 
 some humor.
  
  The sound is by far the greatest thing this game has going for it. The fans are chanting, commentary 
 is superb, boos and cheers whenever something happens. Dead silence at the home stadium if the 
 away team takes a 2 nil lead. In the menu section, the music that has been complied is excellent. 
 Music you listen to otherwise you would never hear in your life, adds diversity to a diversified 
 game. It isn't called the world's most popular sport for nothing!
  
  The graphics are nice, but I don't like the fans in the stands. Maybe if it were more like Madden, 
 your teams preformance dictates how many fans show up. Every game won't be a sellout. Also, if 
 when a goal is scored, the fans JUMP UP AND CHEER like in real life. The referee and assistants 
 run u and down the field with the players. The actions of the players on the ball are realistic, 
 and whenever they take a fall, their reacions are sometimes hilarious to watch. Also, thank goodness, 
 red cards are more frequent (although not TOO frequent) than in 05. It is a good upgrade, and I 
 would recommend getting this game. Just be prepared to be a bit flustered at the beginning of the 
 game if you have more than one main USB interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azollars
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  First of all, this is not meant to be a comparison of FIFA vs. Winning Eleven. Each has their own 
 merits, but this is more about the state of EA's FIFA series rather than a debate about the best 
 soccer game available. The fact is, Konami's games haven't been available on the PC in the US until 
 recently. What I have played of them, however, has been enjoyable.
  
  I've been playing FIFA games since the first edition came out on Genesis back in '94. Each year 
 I've been anxious for the next one to arrive. The community support has always been great, and 
 EA are fortunate to have such a hardcore following of people willing to make additions/improvements 
 in the game. (For what it's worth, EA have done their part by making the game relatively easy to 
 modify.) I view each game as an opportunity to achieve the perfect simulation of soccer in a video 
 game. Perfection is a matter of opinion, but it's what I think most of us look for in any new sports 
 game that attempts to represent the real thing (unlike the "Street" series of games, which have 
 a strictly arcade focus) . 
  
  The pinnacle to the series for me was in '99, with the open gameplay, real teams, players, and 
 stadiums, and top-notch presentation. It really was a remarkable achievement. The control scheme 
 was very complicated, but rewarded you with the ability to do just about anything a real player 
 could do on the pitch (even taking a dive to draw a foul) . You didn't have to know every control 
 to play the game, but mastering those controls turned the game into an entirely new experience. 
 Since then, however, my loyalty has begun to wane. This season has brought me back.
  
  FIFA has always given us a great-looking soccer game, but the gameplay really went downhill for 
 2000 and 2001. Sure, FIFA 2001 introduced real kits for a lot of the teams worldwide, but FIFA 
 2000 and 2001 are absolutely unplayable to me. Let's forget the fact that EA completely ripped 
 out all the stadiums in 2001 except a handful (you're not supposed to take away features in new 
 releases, right?) It's a ridiculous slide tackle and bicycle kick bonanza which in no way resembles 
 a true football game. An overhead bicycle kick goal is a once in a lifetime kind of achievement 
 for most forwards, not a "once every 10 minutes every game" affair. I play soccer/football games 
 because I want to experience the game when I can't be out playng it myself. I've been playing soccer 
 for years, so I look for a game that feels natural to me. Graphics are still important, but I can 
 forgive some graphical lapses for a fun and engaging football experience. The presentation in 2000 
 and 2001 seemed to come at a sacrifice to fun and playability, which is not forgivable.
  
  So I said that the FIFA games have been presented well, and they do. The menu interface and commentary 
 are always well done. In fact, I think FIFA set a standard for the way commentary should sound 
 in a sports game using the voice of BBC football commentator John Motson, and with the variety 
 of dialogue. The commentary has always been fun and interesting to hear. However, I do recall that 
 2001 and 2002 player models were a bit odd. What I mean is that NO PLAYER IN THE WORLD looks like 
 the player models in FIFA 2001 and 2002. It's like they took a step backward from '99 and 2000. 
 The World Cup 2002 game rectified this problem with slightly improved body types and some real 
 player faces. I can't fault EA for not including real player likenesses in the football game until 
 2002, even though they were doing it for their NBA and NHL franchises since '99. The sheer quantity 
 of players included in the game is more like 10 NBA Live or NHL games combined. For that, they 
 are forgiven. But at least make the generic player models and faces believable.
  
  So I was ready to give up on FIFA completely after 2001, but 2002 came along with some interesting 
 new gameplay mechanics. The stadiums were still absent, but being able to control the curve of 
 the ball, the strength and distance of your pass, and an overall "detachment" of the player from 
 the ball added a whole new strategic element to the game. It was challenging and rewarding to slot 
 a pass through the defense by controlling the spin and power of the pass. But the game still suffered 
 from some atrocious AI and unrealistic gameplay. The flow of the game never felt like real soccer 
 to me. In retrospect, these changes may have been too ambitous to implement in one edition, but 
 were the first step in the right direction. They just never came off feeling right. 
  
  When 2003 came along, I played the demo quite a bit before deciding to purchase it. I was skeptical, 
 but the addition of the right analog stick controls and the much-improved graphics and new stadiums 
 lured me back. Authentic crowd chants were also a nice touch. Finally it seemd like EA was getting 
 the message. I was not disappointed. But I was also starting to see that Konami's game was going 
 to be coming to the PC in the US. FIFA finally had some much-needed competition in the states. 
 I believe the fact that Konami's game was so strong in gameplay really helped push the FIFA series 
 back into a soccer simulation. It was clear that football gaming fans wanted more than what EA 
 was offering in FIFA. Unfortunately, most of us just never had another option. 
  
  At it's core, FIFA 2004 was yet another step in the right direction. There was a new career mode, 
 and the graphics were slightly improved, and I really liked "off the ball" control (or was this 
 introduced in 2003? I can't remember...) 
  
  But the real progress came with 2005 and the "first-touch" system that was more than a gimmick. 
 To me, this is the single biggest improvement that EA ever made in the FIFA series. It's such a 
 subtle thing, but makes an enormous difference in the way the game plays. It felt natural. It made 
 sense. I felt like this was truly EA's first good soccer game since '99. I couldn't envision playing 
 the game without it, that's how much I like it. Playing soccer, you know that one of the things 
 that separates a good player from a great one is their ability to trap a ball close and quickly 
 do something with it. This "small" thing allows the game programmer to factor in a player's skill 
 more accurately in the game. Zidane is a master, and can do just about anything you want him to 
 do with the ball. Play a season in the MLS, however, and you'll see the game is much slower and 
 sloppier. Mishandled lobs and passes lead to more turnovers and an uglier game.
  
  FIFA 2006 takes this concept, drops the "off the ball" control scheme (which was difficult to use 
 anyway) , and adds in some more stadiums, slightly improved graphics, better crowd reactions, more 
 player animations, more strategic controls, and a tweaked career mode. This is also the first year 
 without John Motson, which isn't a good thing, but a change in the broadcast booth is refreshing, 
 and Clyde Tyldsley does just fine. This is the absolutely the best FIFA to date. It's not perfect, 
 but it looks great and plays more like the real game than ever before. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moreirasil
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Bem, esse jogo est quase perto da perfeio! J joguei Winning ELeven 9 e no achei melhor do 
 que FIFA 2006. Essa  a EA Games sempre aprimorando a qualidade de seus jogos! A nica coisa que 
 eles poderiam se esforar mais em melhorar, so os extra-campo, ou seja, a torcida e seus gritos 
 (hinos) , bandeiras, etc... Bem, esse jogo est quase perto da perfeio! J joguei Winning ELeven 
 9 e no achei melhor do que FIFA 2006. Essa  a EA Games sempre aprimorando a qualidade de seus 
 jogos! A nica coisa que eles poderiam se esforar mais em melhorar, so os extra-campo, ou seja, 
 a torcida e seus gritos (hinos) , bandeiras, etc... Bem, esse jogo est quase perto da perfeio! 
 J joguei Winning ELeven 9 e no achei melhor do que FIFA 2006. Essa  a EA Games sempre aprimorando 
 a qualidade de seus jogos! A nica coisa que eles poderiam se esforar mais em melhorar, so os 
 extra-campo, ou seja, a torcida e seus gritos (hinos) , bandeiras, etc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  first of all, i would like to express my hapiness of playing Fifa 06 it is wonderful game but there 
 are many diffrences between fifa 05 and 06, There are afew new options.
  
  The most beautiful thing in Fifa 06 is that it is not very easy to score a goal and there are no 
 a certain way of scoring goals you may score from a shot, a corner, a foul & by head. Its amazing.
 
  The career have alot of changes from fifa 05 now you have the options to act as a real manager.
 
  The graphics are wonderful but it didnt develope anymore from fifa 2005 it is relatively the same 
 but at all it is wonderful.
  
  But really i have a special request from EA sports, you must add new options which make the next 
 fifa games be more exciting we are too pored, we cant play 15 seasons, we can play up to 10 seasons 
 and then i myself i cant continue.
  
  At last i would like to thank you for reading my review & i hope you enjoy playing Fifa 06
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbutza69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 2:56 am PT
Review:  Well the game isn't much different from FIFA 2005 which is actually good because the gameplay is 
 very good, so it didn't need radical changes, just a few minor changes, which EA brought to FIFA 
 2006. The graphics are not allot better than it's predecessor's, There is still no movement in 
 the hair, and what's more annoying is that the F*****G spectators look like pieces of moving plastic. 
 The sound is excellent, and i'm not talking about the cheering when you score a goal, i'm talking 
 about the excellent sound track the game has provided plus some goofy sound effects that you can 
 unlock. 
  The game sadly doesn't provide a big challenge, if you play long enough and learn the AI's mechanics 
 you will be able to beat FC Barcelona with Betis Sevillia at a 4 goal difference at World Class 
 difficulty. But if your a big fan of the game you can play the games challenges and unlock special 
 features or you could take the worst team in the game and make it a Champions League winner or 
 something like that. Another thing that is bothersome about the game is that there are no new leagues 
 like the Turkish, Greek, Bulgarian or Romanian league, leagues which have very good teams that 
 did very well in European competitions in previous years.
  
  All in all FIFA 2006 is a game that soccer fans will love... but if your not a fan of the greatest 
 game in the world i suggest not buying this game because you won't appreciate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ouji-sama
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  ... as I was saying, the coach features are enjoyable.
  
  About the gameplay, nothing can be worse than fifa04 which was containg the flop of the soccer 
 games world and it was called off the ball control fifa06 is back to basic, the same gamplay 
 as fifa01, which is okay! Slidings on the other hand are annoying, if you make a sliding while 
 standing in front of your enemy you will get the ball and there is a slight chance that youll 
 give away a free kick. On the other hand if you dont stand in front of your enemy and you make 
 a sliding, you get a guaranteed yellow card. But the sneak passes which you preform by pressing 
 the w-button are great.
  
  The graphix a okay to, but suprisingly not as good as previous 2 fifas! Fifa04 in my opinion had 
 greater graphix, but anyway, its not really a turn off.
  
  And finally the uber most annoying thing about the game is: The endless turning of your opponents, 
 when they do the annoying turning stuff it is almost impossible the get the ball unless you cause 
 a free kick which in most situations means a yollw card.
  
  Overall rating: Coaching features are good, graphix.. can live with them, gameplay good and a couple 
 of annoying stuff included as well However I do recommend this game and in my opinion this time 
 (the first time) fifa06 is better than PES5!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoZo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:11 am PT
Review:  The GAMEPLAY first of all is very fun. EA have also made it fun to play 2 players or more. Something 
 that I haven got of the earlier FIFA's. 
  
  The GRAPHIC is nice. But the players hair look like some kind of metal. 
  
  The SOUND, as the 
 earlier games is good. A new thing in 2006 is that the audience sing team song's f. ex. on a team 
 from Norway. 
  
  FIFA 06 is a game you can use a looong time on, because it is very many objectives to do (if you 
 want) . I have played it over 20 hours and i'm not longer than 30% maybe. 
  
  BUT AFTER ALL FIFA 06 IS A FUN GAME TO PLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowgod
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:14 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06 is just as good as any FIFA game before it, so in other words it sucks. The ball as usual 
 feels as though it is part of the player and not an on its own object it just feels like you always 
 have total control and this problem has always been there since FIFA first was on the PSOne, I 
 mean if you can get your goal keeper to score from running from his own goal there is something 
 very wrong. The games graphics are as usual very poor and most of the players just look right. 
 FIFA only has two thing going for it and that is its free kicks which since '02 have felt solid, 
 and that it is fully licenced. Dont buy this game its is crap just buy pro evo 5 (Winning eleven 
 in the US and Japan) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsammut
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  Well i just installed the full game after having played the demo since it was launched... it's been 
 a long time since i played a football game since i tend to like FPS games better but anyway, I 
 really loved this game, graphics are awesome and players can be distinguised, my last football 
 game was Fifa 2003 and its crap compared to this one. 
  I also played Pro Evo 5, also an awesome game but the way the players move on fifa is much more 
 realistic than Pro Evo 5, therefore this makes Fifa better. I reccommend this game because it sure 
 is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  The graphics and gameplay has really improved. And the career mode rocks!!! And it will be a perfect 
 game for online gaming. You now get into the team's incomes and outcomes and salaries. If you play 
 well and improve your stadium's size, you can make money. If you play bad, your budget will finish 
 and you might end up losing your job. 
  
  This game is great when outside the game like strategy, team managing... But its not that great 
 when it comes to getting in the game. I think EA should improve their sound and authenticity in 
 movement of players, so that gamers can have pleasure from playing in the game AND managing also. 
 Then it can reach to perfectness. 
  
  The net, whoooo... It's really flexible now and its really nice to watch the wave of the net in 
 a replay. You can choose your style of face in the manager mode.
  
  If you are looking for a game that can be played online (multiplayers) AND single (manager mode) , 
 you HAVE to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keku_leh
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:38 am PT
Review:  Fifa has always been my favourite football game until i tried PES 4, last year.
  despite having bundles of great features (jukebox, licenses, in depth management games, nice designs 
 in appearance, etc) ahead of PES/WE series, the Fifa series lagged in the gameplay, which is very 
 important for football games. the players' movements are very limited and slow. while the ball 
 physics weren't realistic until this latest installment fifa 06. better but still not as good as 
 PES.
  also, the graphics are not very good. the players' faces, yes, real. but overall, they look shiny 
 like wax (especially the hair) !! the jerseys look like being painted on the bodies. the colors are 
 not sharp. the fields look like floors sprayed green.
  why can't EA make them look more solid like PES series?!
  
  on the positive side, the features 
 like commentary voice is good (great if compared to PES series) . the menu designs are beautiful, 
 great musics, more in-depth management games, more clubs (and All licensed!) , and many more.
  i just hope that EA can improve on the gameplay and graphics.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauromb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 5:47 am PT
Review:  muy bueno casi como el 2003, EA se recupera d sus ascos del 2004 y 2005, esta entrega es mejor 
 por que susu jugadores se muevem mas rapido tienes mas contacto con elbalon, por lo tanto es mas 
 real, los jugadores se chocan entre ellos, y ronaldinhop juega muy bien, se los recomiendo xx x 
 xx x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x xxx x xx x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x xxx x xx x x x xx x x 
 x x x x x x x x x xxx x xx x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x xxx x xx x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x 
 x xxx x xx x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x suerte!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius_oltean
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This years installment of the famous FIFA series from EA Sports fails miserably, just like nearly 
 all of its predecessors, in introducing the originality that it so desperately needs to truly stand 
 out in the world of computer games. It is simply a reminder of the obvious and very annoying repetitiveness 
 of the entire series. Each year, a new FIFA comes out posing as a separate, distinct and improved 
 game, but it is really nothing more than an update to the one from the year before. A few hardly 
 noticeable changes in graphics and gameplay, and, of course, an update on the teams squads are 
 about the only aspects of the game that differ from one year to the other, and still, beyond my 
 comprehension, people hold the FIFA series in high acclaim and consider its annual installments 
 to be among the best games in their respective years. Looking at FIFA 06 specifically, it can be 
 characterized as passable for true soccer fans, but, unfortunately, will prove mediocre and disappointing 
 to the average gamers, and will not live long in their memories. The graphics are relatively well-done, 
 in spite of the fact that they are essentially the same as last year. The gamplay has been improved 
 a bit, and it proves itself as quite realistic in a few ways, but is, altogether, linear. It develops 
 very slowly, in the sense that you will spend most of the game in the midfield trying almost desperately 
 to advance the ball forward, instead of carrying out the attacks themselves. I have been playing 
 FIFA for many years now (although I was not too enthusiastic about it) , and consider myself quite 
 experienced in this genre. I can say that the gameplay in FIFA 06 is the most difficult to handle 
 and master of all games in the series, and, honestly, do not recommend it for beginners. A true 
 and dynamic game of soccer will have the play flowing from one end to the other. But it is also 
 important not to make it flow too fast. It is here where the very old versions of FIFA have made 
 mistakes. One must know how to balance the flow of a match, which is, in my opinion, the secret 
 to creating a good soccer simulator. FIFA 2003 is about the only one in which the gamer will encounter 
 great, almost perfect gameplay, and is also probably the only one in the series that manages to 
 even come close to what a true soccer simulator should look and feel like. In FIFA 06, it truly 
 feels like a simulation when youre playing the game although its aim is to create the atmosphere 
 of a real soccer game. Unfortunately, and I cannot stress this enough, it fails miserably. As another 
 year goes by with the same story, I wonder when the revolution that we are all waiting for will 
 come, or if it will ever come at all. Each year, everyone anticipates the release of FIFA hoping 
 that, finally, EA Sports has decided to make enough effort to produce an original, competent and 
 professional soccer simulator, something that is, in my opinion, within their capability. But, 
 as more years pass with the series essentially remaining the same, and advancing at such a slow 
 rate, I wonder if the true FIFA game that we all expect will ever come. Soccer fans must truly 
 feel disappointed with such a superficial treatment of their beloved sport. When will a true and 
 respectable soccer game finally come out? At this rate, it looks like never. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  The all-new gaming technique, Fifa 06 has really improved in certain parts of gameplay, but some 
 parts are not very impressive, so here comes the bad news, the bad news is the way they dribble 
 the ball, unlike 04/05 it's gone back to a sort of fifa 03 style, they un-control the ball, hitting 
 it far ahead of them when they dribble, whereas on fifa 04 or fifa 05, they would keep the ball 
 close to feet. But here comes the good news, the all new mechanism of Man-Marking , you pick your 
 defender, to mark the opposing striker, then during the game they will try their hardest to get 
 near the striker, giving them an uncomfortable time penetrating the defence.
  
  And, the sound of the game, the songs in the game have improved, newer songs, allround good songs, 
 it is also nicely layed out in the way the menu is done, But this year fifa may not have achieved 
 all they would have liked to.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:23 am PT
Review:  Tired of playing soccer games that after you won nothing happened?
  Do you want to feel soccer in your blood?!
  Do you want to feel stress and happiness like a real 
 manager?
  Do you like to play in real stadiums with wonderful atmosphere like Santiago bernabeo or San Siro? 
 
  Ok! then it's your time! let's play Fifa Soccer 2006 !
  With new manager mode you will be on touch with world's soccer clubs for 15 years and you will 
 face to everything that a manager will faced it to , in a real world! You have to pay good salary 
 to your players and keep club's financial situation in find mode to force with Bankruptcy! Makes 
 your fans to better support your team by paying attention to them and wining your games ... Bargaining 
 with others clubs to buy their players with less price and loan your extra players to keep them 
 acquiescent.
  You can send your scout team over 5 Continent to look for young and talent players. Earning more 
 money will help you to upgrade your stuff and make better manager team.
  And many other features that you will see in Fifa 2006.
  What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 2006 is just amazing. EA Sports just keeps makin them better and better for us. The graphics 
 have been improved but most of all the gameplay is just awesome. You really do not waste your money 
 on the EA Sports Fifa series coz the cant bore u. The other football games available in the market 
 just look outdated and boring against fifa'06. When you start the game for the first time you will 
 be asked what your favourite team is then challenged to a match with that team against a fictional 
 squad called 'Classic XI' consisting of legendry players of yesteryear such as Eric Cantona and 
 Rudi Voller. This match allows you to get used to the new controls but feels ultimately pointless 
 since your likely result will be a loss against this 'all star' team on your first ever play.
 
  
  The main single player venture is called Manager Mode. As the name suggests the managerial aspects 
 are a great deal more sophisticated than previous instalments in the series, giving a lot more 
 depth to the training and financial side of your club. Your main objective is to lead your team 
 to great things in 15 seasons of play. While some of the managerial aspects may please the hardcore, 
 some fans will be left with the feeling of having to wade through endless screens before being 
 able to play the next match.
  THE BAD : One of the flaws with FIFA 06 concerns the on-field presentation of the game. While in 
 the menus before kick off the presentation is rather flawless, the presentation of replays and 
 other non-interactive elements on the field is lacking that same high value. While many EA Sports 
 titles, like Madden or NBA Live, feature interesting replays with exciting camera angles and a 
 high quality presentation, the replays in FIFA 06 lack that glossy feel that helps make the player 
 feel like theyre watching a television broadcast of the game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibrahimbilal
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  I played fifa 2004 and 2005.... but there is less difference between them. FIFA06 provides you 
 with a variety of gameplay options. You can change your strategy within the game... you can call 
 your players to get themselves free and run forward to get the ball, Star players can dodge better, 
 sprint better and score better making the game more realistic. 
  This time they have also worked on manager mode, so fans of championship manager can also switch 
 to this game if they want to score as well as mange. They have changed the way of scoring penalties, 
 free kicks and corners, and that is a positive change... Its really best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emy_vi
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 06 is not a good game...
  It's CPU opponents are sucks...
  fifa 05 is better than this game...
  the only thing i like about this game is the menu interface, 
 graphic and its sound....
  other things like gameplay is very very sucks ( sucks to the power of 99 ) ...
  EA better creates 
 better soccer game next time or people wont buy your soccer series anymore...
  i'm so disappointed after playing this game... it is a waste... really...!!!
  and i am so shocked 
 to death when Gamespot gives this game 8.8...
  it's not worth it...
  fifa 05 gameplay is more addictive to me... 
  Just cancel your intention of buying this game... believe 
 me... it will only waste your time and make your heart hotter....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnolten
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Well, I guess this won't be red, but I will try to make it readable (my first :D)
  
  Fifa, a good game, but according to some people, other games are better. That has changed now. 
 It is unpredictable what your opponent will do, but sometimes you will be mad on your teammates 
 if they walk next to your opponent. But you don't care, cause this game is made because you have 
 to control your team, and that will do better than ever!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Much options to do/test, but the button 'switch tactic' doesn't work here... But I really need 
 it. Much ways to score, for you as for the enemy. Which makes the game really fun!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  They really maked work of the heads of players, and they are really recognizeable. 
 Only the hair and the croud aren't good. But the rest remains good.
  
  SOUND:
  I like the option to hear commentary in your own language, but I miss the option to switch the 
 commentary to any other language without losing all your data.
  
  VALUE:
  I wouldn't know. I downloaded it :P
  But the price I saw is good, 40 euro, most of the games 
 are more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidrogue9
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:14 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a multiplayer football game, then this (as with any other) is great, you will 
 not be disappointed. However as in the past, the single player game leaves a lot to be desired. 
 I have purchased several incarnations of the FIFA label over the years; all of them I feel have 
 failed to deliver in the single player department. Im afraid that the same frustrations encountered 
 in earlier versions are still here. 
  The front end is full of the usual slow chunky cartoon menus  worse is they have been carried 
 into the manger mode of the game, making it an absolute pain to navigate through your team and 
 compare stats. The manger mode itself is, well basic and predictable  but then again this is not 
 a management sim.
  There are four levels of difficulty, first two are for six year olds, Professional is again, just 
 to easy, unless you playing one of the top teams, followed by World Class which will have you throwing 
 your PC out the nearest window. Now, I think its wrong to call them difficulty levels, frustration 
 levels would be more appropriate. Ill explain:
  Now the mark of a good team is pass and move, in FIFA its the ball-glued-to-feet technique, no 
 matter how many tackles you throw at the computer opponent they still emerge from the crowd with 
 the ball, and if you slide in, your likely to be sent off.
  When your player has the ball and is tackled, he stumbles and is ineffective for a few seconds, 
 while the computer opponents run off with the ball. Rarely are the opponents troubled by this effect 
 when you have a successful tackle, usually opponents turn around immediately and take the ball 
 back and you player stumbles.......
  Opponents goalkeepers are ridiculously good, while your keeper does his best to get out of the 
 way of the ball. The tried and tested method of scoring is to roll the ball under the keeper from 
 close range, shooting  even at point blank will be saved every time, which is of course nonsense.
 
  Positions on the field are way to deep, and this cant be changed in the team management or strategy. 
 The in game team strategy, does virtually nothing to change your teams performance. Pressure? 
 Teammates dont pressure, rarely tackle and are slow to react. These problems are especially frustrating 
 when you lose possession in the opponents box; you teammates immediately run back to their formation 
 positions leaving the opponents free to clear the danger.
  Last but not least, your players stats have little effect on their performance, you may have the 
 fastest player on paper - he will be a donkey in the game.
  Enough said, now wheres that copy of Pro Evolution Soccer 5....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conrad_QS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the best soccer games made ever. If you have this game and Pro Evolution Soccer 5, it's 
 impossible not to became a fan of football. Both games are very addictive and well, very well designed. 
 Comentators are briliant, the sound is like you are there. It is working on a 64MB video card, 
 and that is a good thing from one point of view. No pixel shaders and blur... but the gameplay 
 it'a all that matters here. If you don't like it, most probably you hate sports or god knows, maybe 
 it's more interesting to watch the real games on tv. But the pleasure of control and all tricky 
 stuff... More words? Just play and enjoy a total imersion in virtual (but almost real) game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey2xxx
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  Electronic Arts is one company which doesnot let grass grow under its feet.
  When it became obvious that WE 8 was much much better than Fifa2005, we expected that EA will do 
 something about it. They just wouln't sit twiddling their thumb and watch Konami take the lead. 
 Then came Fifa 06 and finally EA gave some meaning to the term "simulation" which is used to describe 
 the fifa category. This is because with Fifa 2006 gameplay have been vastly improved-made more realistic, 
 which is a major feature of WE series.
  Graphics looks okay although a bit reminiscent of Fifa 2005. There are also many new moves incorporated 
 into the game. The carreer mode felt much involved with some fun elements like making contigental 
 decisions. ( a bit like sims2) There is no repetetive gameplay- you cannot win all the game by playing 
 in some fixed pattern. It also looked to me that this game is slightly more compatible than the 
 previous Fifa versions. ( I wonder what type of machine does EA use for testing the minimum requirement 
 of their games) All in all Fifa 06 is the best fifa game till now ( after fifa98) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  Despues de jugar practicamente toda la saga de FIFA desde el 98 hasta hoy , puedo decir que este 
 FIFA 06 es uno de los juegos mejor trabajados por EA Sports, una excelente jugabilidad, graficos 
 impresionantes y (para la comunidad hispana) los infaltables comentarios de Paco Gonzalez y Manolo 
 Lama. Una jugabilidad mejorada (nada espectacular, pero ha mejorado mucho con respecto a FIFA 2005 
 y 2004) .
  
  Quejas??? pocas, lo de siempre, los movimientos de los arqueros siguen siendo un poco acartonados 
 y muchas veces uno se pregunta pero como carajos atajo eso con ese saltico??, a los espectadores 
 aun les falta un poco mas de animacin y por momentos se puede sentir un poco mal la velocidad 
 del juego.
  
  Lo nuevo, muy bueno, las faltas ahora si se ven como faltas, mas y nuevas celebraciones, mas trabajo 
 en las caras de los futbolistas, los equipos clasicos sin palabras, los retos y el poder personalizar 
 el inicio del encuentro le dan mucha vida a este excelente juego.
  
  No voy a decir si es mejor o peor que el Pro Evolution Soccer 2005, pero es una muy buena alternativa 
 para los que nos gusta el mejor deporte del mundo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standardqueso
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Why EA Sports don`t try of provide a better support for their current games and upgrade them every 
 six months or so. Their website is just poor in the support area, there is not new rosters and 
 kits for FIfa 2005, don`t even try yo find something for older versions because they just don`t 
 have them. It looks laike they don`t even care. If you want something new you are forced to buy 
 2006, Is not Right. I own Fifa 99, 2001, and 2005. Those versions ARE different to each other and 
 they worth tha change. I am not planning to buy 2006 just for the new kits, may be in 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylean1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  Before PES and WE showed up in football gaming, FIFA was the best there is. With licenced players 
 and some very smart and fun ways of playing. Then, when PES hit the stores, FIFA took a punch in 
 the face. Konami had produced a better product and EA games found themself in the only position 
 they hate, COMPETITION :shock:
  
  With That said, most FIFA fans were preferring PES and until last year, we were seeing PES rain 
 upon the world of football gaming. How does this year`s installment compare?
  
  FIFA 06 indroduces some very good features into the game such as challenges and classic matches. 
 The Carrear mode is also in my favorite list of the best Carrear mod i`ve ever played in any sport 
 game. 
  
  Carrear mode is a 15 season journey where you have to start from a low profile team as a rokkie 
 manager, be later become the definative best there is.
  
  In my experiance, i`m still at my 3rd season. i was fired from Fiorentina cos of lack of money 
 (i was at a 10 game 100% streak) . Thats what you have took look out fot in this game, FINANCE. 
 Choose your best sponsor you have to have total income. anyway.... In my second season, i joined 
 Atalanta, made some changes thanks to some exellent scouts but unfortunatly finished 2nd in the 
 league behind Juve (cant win that team!) . i also won the Italian cup that season which was very 
 appreaciated by the supporters. now i`m in my 3rd. already beat Juve (YAY!) , Inter and barca with 
 2-0, 3-1 and 5-1 wins respectively.
  
  All in all what i`m trying to say is that this is by far the best FIFA game in the series. great 
 presentation and it uses its licences very well.
  
  Does it compare with the competition? well, NO. Konami are still a step ahead and although EA did 
 a good job this time, its nothing compared to Konami`s Monster.
  
  Thanks for reading and i hope i`ve helped you decide on which game to buy this christmas :D :P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmandoo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  ..::EEN GEHEEL NIEUWE FIFA::..
  Zoals je al weet waren Fifa2004 en 2005 heel slecht gemaakt. De fans van fifa konden na 2003 geen 
 leuk spel meer spelen ,maar dat is deze keer veranderd Fifa06 is een geheel nieuwe Fifa geworden.
 
  
  Fifa heeft altijd al mooir graphics gehad ,maar deze keer is het ze gewoon weer gelukt om het te 
 verbeteren het is zeer realistisch hoe de spelers zig bewegen en hoe de net beweegd als er een 
 bal in gaat. Fifa06 heeft ook meer gameplay te bieden ,deze keer kan je weer een carieere beginnen 
 aleen dan met meer mogelijk heden zoals: het kiezen van een sponsor, het verhogen of verlagen van 
 de prijs kaartjes of stuur je scout naar een bepaalde deel van een wereld om te scouten en kies 
 waar hij op moet letten ,verhogen van de salaris en verlengen van transfers en nog meer mogelijk 
 heden. Deze keer kan je ook meer dan een bal ,teneu en/of stadium kopen met je verdiende punten. En 
 eerst wist je niet eens wat je precies moest doen om de punten te verdienen deze keer staat er 
 een mooie Lijstje van heel veel opdrachten. Je kunt Speler bio's ,geluids effecten, andere camera 
 style, seizoen herinneringen en nog veel meer kopen. Er zijn deze keere meer teams en meer ballen... 
 :P
  
  De gameplay is grootensdeels veranderd het is moeilijker geworden om de bal te pasen schieten voorzetten 
 etc. En het is ook wel beter geworden bij meeste voetbalspellen druk je gewoon op de knop en hij 
 paast automatisch naar een man ,maar bij Fifa06 moet je de richting aan geven en als er niemand 
 daarzo staat en jij wijzd diekant op dan gaat de bal gewoon naar niemand. Dit is wel veel realistischer 
 en beter vind ik ,want zo moet je gewoon echt goed zijn om te winnen van iemand en gaat het niet 
 meer om het geluk. De strafschoppen Vrije trappen en de corners zijn ook moeilijker geworden en 
 je moet op de kleinste dingen letten bijvoorbeeld bij een penalty als het een onervaren speler 
 is dan kijkt die meestal naar de kant die jij met de joysctick aan wijst dus zo kan je als keeper 
 zien welke kant jou tegenstander gaat schieten . Je kunt ook deze keer de keeper laten bewegen 
 tijden een strafschop maar het zal wel beter zijn als je dat ook bij een vrije trap kon. 
  
  Dus Fifa06 is erg leuk en echt de beste voetbal spel tot nu toe... ik raad het je aan om het 
 te kopen.. : ) .... Veel plezier al fast..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annihilator007
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  I gonna write this review a little bit as a comparison between Fifa 06 and Pro Evolution Soccer 
 5 (PES5) .
  
  Although Fifa06 is better in a lot of thing as it's pre versions the thing that really can be heating 
 you up is the difficulty. The game is much difficult that for instance Fifa 2005. Scoring is really 
 difficult at Semi Pro Level. This is much better done in PES5 which still feel a lot more realistic. 
 I still have the feeling that Fifa06 is in some ways scripted. And that's something I really don't 
 like.
  
  Good thing about the game is that it has all the licences and it even adds the Polish Cup :S What 
 the hell do we need that for?
  And that licences thing is a real pro against PES5. 
  
  So in conclusion I'd like to say that Fifa06 is better than Fifa2005 but somethimes to difficult. 
 If I compare with PES5 I say that that one is better with gameplay (It's more realistic) but the 
 licences are no there (excepted for a few leagues) .
  
  Both game are good so maybe you should try them both! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shazly_rock
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  that is the best game ea has made
  go buy this game , its a very good game i love this game i spent alot of time playing 
  its a 
 very good game 
  it is the best game ever , this game is very relastic 
  i spent alot of time playing this game 
  u will like it the grapic is really good
  the sound 
 is perfect
  the value is great and perfect 
  back to the graphic, the graphic is the most value thing in the game 
  it has been changed from 
 fifa 2005 and 2004 
  i think the holl game is very good 
  ronaldinho is the best player of the game, his spicial movies is perfect
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thienbach
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  oh! Game is very very very good. oh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! 
 Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game 
 is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is 
 very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very 
 very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very 
 very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very 
 goodoh! Game is very very very goodvvvoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very 
 goodoh! Game is very very very goodoh! Game is very very very goodv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmmoussa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This year there are many new things added, like the challenging Manager Mode, replacing Career 
 Mode in Fifa 2004 and 2005, the Fan Shop where you can spend the points you earn from winning challenges 
 in getting new balls, third kits, season previews, Celebration packs, and other things that made 
 the game really very interesting. The best in this game is the sound tracks and the Manager Mode. 
 In addition, as last Fifa versions, the graphics are as superb as usual (at last one can see the 
 referee and the Linemen) , and the menus have improved a lot making it easier to navigate through 
 different tasks. Gameplay still needs imorivements even though it improved a LOT when compared 
 to Fifa 2005. The computer will become aware of the gaps in your defence and will always use them.. 
 It also possesses the ball when your team is not in shape, which is indicated by a performance 
 meter beside your team's score bar. 
  
  One of the best things in the game is the very detailed Manager Mode. It enables you at the start 
 to pick a team from a league you choose, except a 5 star team when you start the Manager Mode. 
 You can also select a sponsor that meets your desired fund/game and contract requirements. You 
 will have 3 performance scales; a Chemistry bar that shows your teams condition according to the 
 morale and level of team experience your players gain, a Fan Support bar that indicate how much 
 the fans love you, and a Job Security bar that shows you how the board feels towards you.. You 
 would also be able to hire 8 staff members, which are Stiker, Defender, Midfielder, and Goalkeepers' 
 trainees, a scout, a negotiator, and stadium manager. These Staff are upgraded by your hard earned 
 budget which is increased by keeping winning. The nice addition is the random pop-ups that appear 
 after some matches that requires you to choose from 3 different choices, each affects your players' 
 morale and fatigue, fans, and board in a different way. Now, you can loan players and make negotiations 
 to add new players to your squad. You could also renew contracts and search for young talent by 
 your scout. This makes the Manaager job close to the real managers' job and adds to the quality 
 of the game.
  
  Another nice addition is the Fan shop, which enables you to unlock lots of add-ins, like team 3rd 
 Kits, balls, celebration packs, stadiums, classic player's bio, season previews, and more. As you 
 win more Challenges, another nice addition to the game, you gain more points with which you will 
 be able to unlock your desired Fan shop items.
  
  The gameplay, even though it needs some improvements, is great.. The players make runs to create 
 spaces, the new refereeing rules are well applied, like the new offside rule (and you will sometimes 
 get a red card for a hard w/o ball tackle anywhere in the pitch) . At last, you can choose to see 
 the referee and the linesmen. There is a nice addition, the Performance meter, that makes you see 
 your current team's shape. You could choose the number of substitutes, not sticking to 5 as other 
 previous Fifa versions. The players have skills related to their positions (markmen and wings for 
 defenders, playmaker and defensive midfielder and attaking wing for midfield players, and targetmen 
 for strikers.. All of these are ranging from Bronze to Gold icons) . The players block shots and 
 intercept passes and set offside traps intellegently. There is AT LAST free kicks for hand ball. 
 The referee plays Advantage rule so neatly. You can mark specific players if you opt to, and switch 
 mentalities to change how the game is going. There are still some disadvantages, like goalkeepers 
 that react lazely at times, the computer sometimes has the advantage over your players even though 
 you have a very good team. The computer does not swich his playing style, it depends more on through 
 passes and crosses. In general, The game play is very very good and makes the game very exciting.
 
  
  I have not checked online play, but for multi-player, it is as good as any other aspect in the 
 game. As a whole, the game is worth playing.. If you want to compare it to W11, then you will find 
 lots of improvements made that would make Fifa series finally can stand a chance against W11. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEBO9
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  its a very good game 
  it is the best game ever , this game is very relastic 
  i spent alot of time playing this game 
  u will like it the grapic is really good
  the sound 
 is perfect
  the value is great and perfect 
  back to the graphic, the graphic is the most value thing in the game 
  it has been changed from 
 fifa 2005 and 2004 
  i think the holl game is very good 
  ronaldinho is the best player of the game, his spicial movies is perfect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mon_2034
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  this is best football game i have ever seen and play game is good and career is wonderfull and 
 i think it will be better than pes 5 and its good
  
  hussen
  zamalek the best club in africa 
  this is best football game i have ever seen and play game is 
 good and career is wonderfull and i think it will be better than pes 5 and its good
  
  hussen
  zamalek the best club in africa 
  this is best football game i have ever seen and play 
 game is good and career is wonderfull and i think it will be better than pes 5 and its good
  
  hussen
  zamalek the best club in africa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasser_mh
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:54 am PT
Review:  well first when you start the game it gives you a great feeling, well designed menu, but when you 
 start the game this all goes in thin air, why?
  1-the graphics in my opinion more worth than fifa 2005.
  2-some old features which makes me played 
 this game are no longer avalliable like the mrking for long passes which was a great help.
  3-the physics are veryyyyyyyyyy bad in this game, when a player shots the ball it looks like that 
 he is handing the ball to someone the movements are very unrealistic.
  
  on the other hand if you are willing to play a game that is easy to play it's recommended that 
 you play this game because of the easy controls with ball in [long passes-scoring and free kicks] .
 
  
  this is a whole easy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockygunner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  Its the best football game ever. Without some general faults its quite addictive. I have played the 
 demo for more than a month every day but its still challenging. The corner and freekick system is 
 hard to master. The training mode is worth nothing. Single player mode is quite challenging. Multiplayer 
 mode is frustrating because its restart after every game. None the less its still a lot of fun 
 to play. Celebration after the game is really feels boring after you play such a long time to achieve 
 glory.
  If you want to play it start with playing in the friendly or cup mode. Manager mode is quite difficult 
 to manage.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrikcomn
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:23 am PT
Review:  Fifa 06 is a very good game when you enter's it.. but after playing it for like 6 hours, I have 
 realized all the major problems in it.
  here's whats good, and not good :D
  
  The good: A lot of teams to pick; OK graphic; Nice looking stadiums; Pretty good in game sound; 
 still the best Fifa game so far;
  
  The bad: Boring gameplay after a while; You have to unlock all teams; Lack in realism; You gets 
 tired of playing it after a few weeks or less!. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ersu
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  I think it's one of the best soccergame ever. I played PES 5 for several times, but i don't like 
 the gameplay.. however the graphics are better than fifa 06.. still it needs something.. the onlinegame 
 is very cool, you got rankings and other.. you can create your own CLUB and people can join you 
 as clubmembers. You can create your new player.. but still you can't create your own TEAM since 
 fifa 2003.. thats the bad of the game. Why does the eredivisie exist in the game ?while they haven't 
 put the dutch international team?: P
  
  Stil..
  
  But its a worth of playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hercules99
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  FiFa2006 is an enhanced version from 2005 fifa soccer game. 
  noting new to it just that the graphic is cell shaded thats all...
  
  the rotation with the 
 ball is still the same... never gets off the feet..
  the sound is much better than last years sound.
  Stil the Pes4 is better game to choose and Pes5 
 is coming out so, you might just check this out when it comes out.
  
  this game is not suitable for real soccer fan, because the physics is of the game is horrible. 
 PES rulesssssssssssssssss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tequilo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:17 am PT
Review:  First of all the graphics are better than ever before, the game play is nice, even though the controls 
 give you some challenge when you shot while running, but that makes it better because it would 
 be boring if you could score every single shot you make, it gives you the impression of being in 
 the stadium of the local team since it have the cheers and sings of the teams, new stadiums and 
 up to date info about teams and players, i also like the manager mode, it gives to the game a new 
 perspective and you get more involved if you play both together; in other words this is a really 
 worthy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YASERSEFFO
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  it is very great game it combined between the manager games and the football games not to mention 
 the musics in it how amusing are the design inside the games was very nice the characters way to 
 each player BUT there are some mistakes which can be fixed by patches the control problem and the 
 reflexes of the players inside the game it somehow slow there are other games have much reflection 
 than this like winning eleven 8
  but overall its realy nice game and i've been playing fifa since fifa 96 this one has realy a new 
 move and mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4ft3rD34th
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  They say there is no class in FIFA games anymore. Pro Evolution is the best, so who cares about 
 EA, the company who made football games really happen?
  
  I, and several others, have kept faith in EA. Recently I've felt like simply wanting to turn to 
 Pro Evolution, but after playing this game, I know I simply can't.
  
  The gameplay, compared to FIFA 2005's, is entirely new and polished. It feels exactly how it should. 
 Passing, moving, shooting and heading have never really been so realistic. The game is more fast 
 paced and the AI has been reworked to perfection. No longer will it be predictable.
  
  The graphics aren't great for me, considering I have a pretty bad computer, but they're simply 
 fantastic with other machines. Although Pro Evolution appears to have beaten FIFA on graphics this 
 year, FIFA still feels far superior.
  
  Sound is as good as ever. Clive Tyldesley and Andy Gray are my favourite commentators of all time, 
 and although Andy Gray needs better lines, Tyldesley does a great job. The club chants again come 
 out into the game, and the physical battles can be heard. Excellent as usual.
  
  FIFA 06 is great value for your money. The once-tedious career mode has been reworked into a masterpiece 
 that will keep you busy for hours. Despite the fact that I often get the feeling I'm too good for 
 the game, the next game I'll lose by two or three goals. The AI is different each match, and this 
 makes career mode seem like a breath of fresh air every time you play another game. There's enough 
 here to keep you playing for hours.
  
  Overall, I feel that it's an absolutely superb game, and that it gives the FIFA series a new look 
 and feel that it needed. Who needs Pro Evolution or any other football game when you can get the 
 best one, FIFA 2006? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcaN3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  When I installed it I thout to myself: "well it must be very good" because I sat for an half an 
 hour for it to finish the installetion, and let me tell you, it was worth every minute!! the graphics 
 is AMAZING! the player control got better and the maneger feature is a lot more realistic! But 
 although the control and the graphics are great there's the music side. the music is bad and it's 
 not suitable for the game. but still it's acceptable. the fans animation is very good and a lot 
 better then the other titles.
  in closing, this is a great title but the music is just bad!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anvusp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The player graphics haven't changed much since FIFA 2005. The referee still has something against 
 me... Some great additions to FIFA 2006 include: a really good lighting system, and finally! handballs. 
 It's also much easier to take free kicks: in my whole lilfe of playing 2005 I could not score a 
 single free kick. The crowds are now a little bit better than in 2005, but again they look like 
 cardboard people that move up and down in cutscenes. In FIFA 2002 the crowds could move, but they 
 didn't look like real people...
  
  In all soccer simulations most of the goals get scored by forwards with about 1% being scored by 
 midfields. That is very unrealistic and I would've hoped that by the 2006 game, EA would have dealt 
 with it. Scoring goals is now ridiculously hard die to a perverted shooting system.
  
  All in all, FIFA 2006 is a great game that should not be missed by soccer fans all over the world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkyguy_amit17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  EA SPORTS r back with a bang to prove why its da best soccer game maker ever. After konami"s big 
 blows with their last soccer games fifa06 had to be the best soccer game ever. Alost everything 
 from gameplay to sound has improved by a mile this time. The manager mode is simply amazin and it 
 has never been so real managing a team. Every thing about this game is superb only da graphics 
 look like they r same like fifa 05. But surely da music and sound is teriific. And da most boring 
 thing about fifa for last few years has been its commentry by mcoist but thank god there r new 
 commentators who simply exeptional make it feel like real live commentry. SO fifa 2006 is the soccer 
 game u r lookin for if u r a soccer fan. FORGET WINNING 11 N PRO EVOLUTION SOCCER GO AND GET UR 
 SELF A FIFA 2006. SIMPLY  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Ronaldo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:52 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06 is a good game, much improved on last years, with the new close control skils brilliant, 
 but it still lacks in many area and the gameplay is still to fake.
  Crosses always go into the box and all look exactly the same, long shots are near imossibl to score, 
 and goals always look fake, and aren't really satisfying.
  The worst bit is free kicks, gone are the days of everyone going in, now every free kicks on target, 
 but never, and i mean NEVER goes in.
  There are good points, the graphics are till pretty darn good, although players faces look pathetic, 
 especially close up. Just a mess of pixels.
  Another plus is the good sound track, and crowds, so sound is as always better than Pro Evo.
 
  All in all, this gme is a fun arcade football game, and with all the finer touches put in to Pro 
 Evo 5, making it that more realistic, FIFA has again fallen short of Pro Evo, purely having more 
 licences! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  Oh yes this is the stuff !
  To be honest the FIFA crew has always been able to surprise me with their new installments year 
 by year, and this one is no exception to the rule.
  Playing FIFA 2005 for the past year I was kinda wondering what would be so new in the 2006 model... well 
 I guess this is my answer, EVERYTHING !
  
  The graphics are better, the gameplay is better, the whole feel of the game is so much better. 
 Finally I think PC football game has got the feel of a platform football game with the quality 
 of a decent PC game.
  
  If anyone reading this is a football fan then go and buy this game coz it's the next best thing 
 you could have waiting till the world cup this summer.
  GO BRAZIL GO !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhenyu21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, people WILL draw comparisons between FIFA and WE/PES as these two franchises have 
 been fighting it out for the last couple of years.
  To me, its painful to see FIFA losing its distinct sense of arcade style gameplay and lean more 
 into the competitor's camp of realism.
  It basically boils down to this, this year's outing is neither here or there. The realism is not 
 entirely there (as exhibited by the corner kicks, but the free kicks picks up WE/PES formula) . 
 There is some arcade action involved, but not much.
  
  Graphics:
  In terms of within its own franchise, the graphics are not much improved than FIFA 2005 or even 
 FIFA 2004. It is still on par with the current generation of games, but then when we look at WE/PES 
 and what it does on the PS2.
  The animation is good in its own right, players react accrodingly (etc. shielding balls) . It looks 
 good, WE/PES does it better.
  
  Gameplay:
  When playing on a PC, I usually don't use gamepads. First touch is really difficult on the keyboard. 
 I like calling plays with the keypad though, and the tactics helps to win the game.
  The complaint I have here is with the manager mode, and particularly, the player's development. 
 Of course, scoring goals will make the overall performance of a player better. But what about goalkeepers, 
 I noticed that if they get more saves, their performance is better. BUT WHY DO WE WANT TO LET THE 
 COMPUTER HAVE MORE SHOTS ON GOAL, JUST TO RAISE MY GOALKEEPER'S STATS? Are u kidding me?
  The overall stats really changes the players alot. Thus, we need those stats to increase, but for 
 goalkeepers? Come on.
  
  Sound:
  EA Trax...... Didn't like it a lot. Still prefer the older sounds of FIFA 99 and 2000.
  But the 
 gameplay sounds are excellent. The commentary though, i would like to have the old guy back, the 
 new commentator sounds just a bit too much like Stryker on Burnout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkhwang
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Everything looks better than previous FIFA series.
  
  Some defects can be found since it is still an arcade game, with all the skills that are already 
 ready for you to use, instead of being there for you to create with your controls. 
  
  Other than that, I love all of the teams there, especially when it comes to career mode. Speaking 
 of which, career mode in FIFA 06 is very satisfying. It is far improved from FIFA 2005's career 
 mode. You can do more things than just playing games, such as recontracting players, upgrading 
 your own stadium. It really is worth playing career mode. I am not sure how online plays work yet, 
 since I have not tried a single online game. Some say it's not as bad as last one but we will see. 
 ANYWAY. Do buy the game and play for fun.
  
  Awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raposo_29
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, yes the game its not bad, u have a lot of ways to play it, challenges, a lot of teams and 
 competitions... but in the most important moment of a game its gameplay... FIFA still dont have any 
 comparasion with the rival Pro Evo Soccer. It s a good game, but when u have aetter rival, you 
 have to work more... more and more, maybe next year FIFA series can match a little better with PES 
 serires. I hope so!!! But in football (soccer for us) games we already have a winner this year, 
 its the same of previus years PES 5. So if u have to chose one, dont miss it, PES has an enormous 
 gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loveunited
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Well... its been a three years since EA CANADA released its FIFA 2003 and the graphics look really 
 the SAME
  
  The first thing you notice in the game is that menus slows down the game for no reason... even 
 with a 2000 mhz Processor you would notice that menus are taking time more than they should to 
 load
  
  on the other hand, game can run really too much fast on a super computer so EA programmers did not 
 care for thoese who have little old pc's or the ones who have a dream pc. However you can still 
 set the game speed but it really does not look normal.. it looks too much of a fast freak show.....
 
  
  when you first play the game you feel that is hard... you feel this is the right game for you and 
 you just keep playing
  
  as you play and score goals you hear all the amazing sounds of the fans and the all new commentary 
 and really enjoy feeling like wartching a real game
  
  BUT, when you score the goal and watch your players celebrate you really realize tha EA programmers 
 are so lazy that they cant make their games look better for three whole years....
  
  i mean if they would work they can make a doom 5 or something... but they really dont care... what 
 are they waiting for? to lose more to konami soccer games ? 
  
  graphics are the 'black point' in the game and are the reason that will make EA lose to 'Winning 
 Eleven' or as its also known ' Pro Evolution soccer 'games for the third year in a row
  
  - ZIdane is WITH hair.
  - Players look like a cartoon paper.
  - The sky always look like we 
 live on mars
  - 2D security people and camera men makes you feel you are playing FIFA 96......
  
  career 
 mode was the life saving option for EA games and the last hope for them to make their games get 
 sold after 'retiring' from creating some new graphics
  actually without the 'TEAM CHEMISTRY' thing that they added this year this game would be as bad 
 as FIFA 2004 that was the same as 2003 but with little more fog....
  
  EA failed to make players understand what is team chemistry stands for
  
  here is the easiest 
 way to understand it
  
  Look at raely Madrid... they have the best players on the planet right?
  have they won anything 
 lately?
  NO
  because they just cant play together
  its like bringing a lion and a human and two cats and a dog and then each yaer you add some new 
 kind of animal to them...
  trust me they cant play together they just dont understand each other
  
  on the other side
 
  look at CHELSEA
  
  do u know the names of more than 4 players of the team ?
  they really are unknown players but they play like they are 1 perfect domenating player
  
  
 therefore... Real Madrids team chemisrty is set 37 ( as i remember ) in the game and chelsea was 
 in mid 90's
  
  Lets talk a little about some general bad facts about the game ( good things coming ath the bottom 
 )
  
  * Lazy computer goal keepers.. they just stop shots but they hardly move from their places if you 
 ONLY reach 3 meters from the goal then the goalkeeper will come out 
  * Lazy human goalkeepers... when you play and a computer or during online play you always have 
 that situation that your keeper is 1 on 1 with a opponents player
  
  you press 'W' to make him leave his lines and go fight for the ball but he moves slow and does 
 not move the way you want
  or when your opponent is playing on wings and you want your keeper to come out and cut the lob
 
  he just fails and make you concede a goal
  * The game makes you want to throw your computer our of the window or send your head to the computer 
 fan when it keeps asking stupid questions about saving game or even a stupid profile that NONE 
 of you guys and i am sure of that cares to look at it
  
  
  now the good things are : 
  
  lol just look at the official gamespot review
  i just wanted to add a few things to their 
 review
  
  read their one and this one and you really know everything about the game and can decide to buy 
 it or not 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicugoalkeper
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  It has the same graphic and game stile like Fifa 2004-2005 si Champions league whit some new features 
 ::: ( ( ( ( !!!!!
  
  Basic it is the same game for 3 years and noting new except the gameplay
  but to litle i tink 
 that if they don't change the engine they will lose to PES 5 ho has a better graphic and gameplay 
 !!!!
  
  It has some big problems even at the roster where players are mising at all (example: Mutu from 
 juve is not on the game ) So they must not say that they have all the team updated !!
  It was a bad job that they did whit FIFA and it will still decline if they don't do nothing ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onurta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, it was not far, when I was telling to myself This is the last time, Im playing Fifa, long 
 live PES , until I had a chance to see Fifa 06 on a friends PC. 
  
  It is very easy to see how different EA approached to the game this year to keep up with the competiton. 
 From the name of the game, which always had the 200x year tag at the end, to the all time favorite 
 John Motson, everything seems to have undergone major change. Some hardcore fans may be disappointed 
 with the departure of John Motson, but in my opinion, this only is enough to feel different about 
 the game.
  
  In game mechanics, are also very satisfactory. Playing Fifa, is no longer, watching your players 
 skating on ice. Players seem to be really on the pitch, and they are responsive to your control 
 more than ever. Motion capture, player details, sound and graphics are all top quality. What Ive 
 noticed this year is that, controlling the players is more fun and satisfactory. Even playing with 
 a keyboard, you can do many things and get to feel the game. Nevertheless, a joypad is a must, 
 to do special tricks, and first-touch.
  
  Apart from playing on the pitch, there is a deep manager mode, in which you take your team through 
 seasons, dealing with every aspect of the club.
  
  With great production values, tons of extra content to unlock, great playability and an impressive 
 soundtrack, Fifa06 is a must for every soccer fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zee6a
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  FIFA HAS DONE IT!!! IT HAS BECOME CLOSER THAN EVER !! FIFA 2006 can be called the revolution of 
 Football..... it's UNDOUBTELY the best of the series.
  The game has been improved hugely!! Lots of dynamic midfield play, tight marking, and decent adherence 
 to tactical principles. Just like the real thing.
  Numerous all-new features.... There's a heavy emphasis on intelligent passing here (not a bad thing) , 
 and it's critical you learn to exploit players who come over to help defence. Master the art of 
 drawing an extra defender then dishing the ball off, and your job is made a lot easier. This is 
 not an easy task, and when playing a human who knows their way around a controller, it's even less 
 likely. 
  To any players who expect to be doing any dazzling solo runs down the wing followed by a swift 
 powerblaster into the auld onion bag..... FORGET IT. 
  think about it..... do real soccer players do such things!?
  Presentation, is, as always, flawless. 
 The commentary beats Pro Evo's into a cocked hat, and the pitches, well, there's no comparison. 
 It would be nice to see a little more work done on the crowd in the FIFA games, mainly because 
 it's the one thing preventing this from being a broadcast-quality mimicry of The Real Thing.
  
  However.. the game has a few issues.......
  1) The game is a 3.5 GB which is nearly double 
 the size of FIFA 2004.
  - i mean should a football game be THAT BIG!!?) -
  2) It just isn't sharp enough in the control stakes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagarwal
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:03 am PT
Review:  Dude FIFA 2006 is the same thing With New Characters....... I can bet you that you wil be bored 
 if already tried the other FIFA's. I would never recommend you to buy this game if you already 
 have any of the other FIFA games from 2001 onwards. I mean seriously, have noticed anything else 
 except the increasing of control complications and the new players. There are some new features 
 added as well as some bugs. The people making these FIFA games need to be a bit more original and 
 creative. This game maybe ok for a rent, but you can get a better soccer like FIFA street if you 
 want to buy a soccer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teefan82
Rating: 5.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of WE, but after read the review (FIFA) on GameSpot with the score 9.0, I bought 
 one, and after 20 or 30 mins of playing, first thing come to my mind: FIFA is just still FIFA.
 
  
  I have played FIFA series before, even before Winning Eleven, it was great because WE has not came 
 to PC yet. But I feel the quality of the game is more worse and worse after the FIFA 2003 version.
 
  
  And let get to the game:
  
  Here something I hate about FIFA06:
  A big let down is that I can't believe why the the graphics is so bad ? The players on the field 
 just look like uhm.. little plastic pupets..., I just feel like I am playing a computer game, not 
 on a PITCH!
  
  The manager mode: I want to watch in match mode, but no, just visual sim (Text only) or quick sim 
 is available. The formation can not be customize in detail, you have to follow some defined formations. 
 After any modifed to the formation or line-up, 4-5 popup menus ask me to save, it's so annoying.
 
  
  The Menu System: stupid, the most thing I hate is I can not find controller setting menu in an 
 on going game.
  
  I didn't play long enough to see if any for the pros, but the cons have stopped me from playing. 
 Have to wait for the new version of WE hee hee!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: staffanj
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I hate it.. when incompent people degrade games just because their computers or their heads are 
 in a mess. Usually I would make a more serious review, but I have only played the demo. This review 
 is just to 
  make the balance right - to cancel out those idiotic 1.0 characters that no game deserves and should 
 not be allowed.
  
  FIFA is usually a great game, so I'm looking forward to playing the new 06 edition!
  
  Well, 
 nothing more to say right now but I gotta write some more to be able to submit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashlocke1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review:  Although it has a brilliant managing and outstanding clips, EA is far from a brilliantly soccer 
 simulation. On of the bonuses of the new FIFA game is its manager mode which brings it closer to 
 reality. Morale of players and fan support depends on your statements or actions during the season.
 
  Moreover, the shooting has improved you can now score marvelous goals from far away much easier. The 
 players growth in skills is faster and easier than usual (I for one have brought a striker from 
 90 to 99 in just half a season) . New cut scenes are available ,you can now see the players you switch 
 during the game. Also the Unlockables are awesome I especially liked the video spots, but there are 
 also teams, third kits and the novelty in this category are celebrations and players biographies (such 
 as Cantona and Hagi) . Players have more features to customise ,from the tips of their nose to their 
 boots and even how they celebrate after each goal. Brand new balls are avalable for play from the 
 classic ones to the present ones.
  However the graphics are nothing to pompous they look just as the 2004 and 2005 series. Players 
 are poorly drawn and the textures are the same. Also there are a few glitches like Mutu is nowere 
 to be found and the Romanian team is missing their best players not only there are two players 
 Adrian and Adrian Neaga playing for the same team, which in fact there is only one player Adrian 
 Neaga the first beeing fictive. Furthermore when I was playing a friendly match i shot two feet 
 away from the bar and the game said i had scored a goal when in fact it should have been a goal 
 kick.
  In conclusion FIFA is a great game with its ups and downs I can only hope it will only get better 
 over the years (especially the graphics which have not improved for some time ) . All in all it's 
 a game worth playing just for it's gameplay and cool sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamza88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 11:08 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of Fifa 2006 is just amazing. EA Sports just keeps makin them better and better for 
 us. The graphics have been improved but most of all the gameplay is just awesome. You really do 
 not waste your money on the EA Sports Fifa series coz the cant bore u. The other football games 
 available in the market just look outdated and boring against fifa'06. Fifa 2006 offers you a lot 
 in one game then you can even link it up with the Total Club manager 2006 and even expand further 
 you r gaming experience. You just can not stop playin it until the next release comes out. The AI 
 is remarkable. Well buy one for urselves coz im off to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  It was exactly the 2003 year that we had our great revolution in FIFA series' both gameplay and 
 graphics. This time, in year 2005, FIFA comes back with the same ambition but did it really succeed 
 or not we are about to discuss.
  What is the most important in a game, in my opinion, is the gameplay. FIFA 06 gives you everything 
 to enjoy in this category. from the FIFA 2004 til FIFA 06 EA is working on gameplay and every year 
 they deliver a new and (actually) more perfect form gameplay compare to the other Football games 
 which will just be added details and have no change in gameplay (take Winning Eleven Series for 
 example, it gives you the same gameplay every year!) . So why should we play these games every year 
 and repeat the same experience. As a result FIFA worths playing every year and specially this year 
 with FIFA 06's smooth gameplay which delivers great features from tactics and mentalitieas (changble 
 while playing!) to player styles which "can get you to the edge of your seat ! ".
  Next is the Graphics. Unfortunatly the outline of graphics hasn't changed alot since FIFA 2004. 
 But I hope it may improve next year.
  Finally FIFA 06 delivers the best lounge ever. You have many things to unlock and to see. It's 
 great.
  At the end I really recommand playing FIFA 06 (much more waits to be discussed about this game 
 such as it's all new manager mode and etc.)
  feel free to contact me at:
  105sm1109200se@gmail. com
  
  105 S. M.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageTrickster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  PC Version: Pro Evo fan i am, but going by the demo I'll be sticking with the FIFA for the 1st 
 time in years!! Graphics for me is the real let down like tiger-woods, NHL and NBA live. They are 
 good, but I would love to see this with half-life2 graphics, now that would be good!!
  
  The funnest part of the game-play is mastering the step over button n the right analog stick which 
 controls your touch.
  
  Gr8 edition of the All-Star World 11, I love betting Chelski with them!! LOL
  
  8.5/10
  
 
  PS I'll be lying to say i wont buy pro evo hee hee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Before going on to the actual review, I would like to let you know that I'm not one of those people 
 who pledge allegiance to either Konami or EA. I've played 4 Winning Eleven games (6, 7, 8 and 9) 
 and 15 FIFA games (all except FIFA International Soccer and FIFA 95) , and have given them their 
 share of praises and curses over the years.
  
  That said, FIFA 06 feels like a step forward, but in fact it isn't.
  
  Well, let's see how 
 it is so. While FIFA games have ceased to be dribble fests with dozens of goals a game, attempts 
 by EA Sports to encourage thoughtful approach play have been dodgy at best. True, through passes 
 are now the way to go for goal instead of dribbling half the length of the pitch, but it doesn't 
 help that the same passes, the same build-ups, almost always lead to shots on goal no matter who 
 you are playing as or who you are playing against. FIFA's range of clubs and international teams 
 maybe massive, but when every single team play the same way, you know you've got a problem.
  
  You may ask, What about the tactical options? Hmm. They're there, but unfortunately they're 
 only there for you but not the AI. Plus, the implementation (D-Pad or left analog stick to issue 
 tactical commands) is beyond poor, as the tactics controls force you to abandon player movement 
 controls. By the time you've told your team to counterattack, the AI may have already scored a 
 goal. Even though the AI tactical settings didn't really make any difference in the past, removing 
 them entirely is a rather stupid decision.
  
  Not that putting those settings back in will help. The AI still cheats ruthlessly. The computer, 
 unlike us poor human players, have perfect control of that pesky Off-The-Ball Control thingy. While 
 computer teams no longer create goalscoring opportunities by lumping an 80-yard 'lobbed through 
 pass', they now play cross-field passes like there's no tomorrow. AI players still have the tendency 
 to run towards their own goal when in possession just to keep the ball (before launching inch-perfect 
 long passes without even looking at the destination) . WIth the newly-added controls like ball shielding 
 and... whatever that happens when you press R2 with the ball at your feet, the AI is incredibly 
 good at keeping possession. It gets worse when you notice that 90% of sliding tackles result in 
 a foul, and usually a card along with it.
  
  How to defend, then? Stab the 'soft tackle' button repeatedly when the AI is doing pointless moves 
 in front of you.
  
  When you're attacking (ignoring the fact that you'll be executing the same moves over and over 
 again) , things do get better. Passes may feel scripted, dribbling (without using the mad skill 
 moves) may be crap, but the shooting feels quite right. Maybe a little too accurate to be realistic, 
 but good nonetheless. You can almost feel the sting of the ball when you hit that 30-yard first-time 
 volley into the stands. Set-pieces are all right, but nothing to write home about. At least EA 
 ditched the incredibly silly 'scripted targets' set plays of the past few games.
  
  The rest of FIFA 06 is pretty much the same as always. Good visuals, great presentation, perfect 
 audio, a ton of modes. Oh, and terrible menus.
  
  While the last few FIFA games have improved quite a lot, the unchanged core game is so bad that 
 it holds back every single improvement thrown in. FIFA 06 is NOT a bad game. In fact, it still 
 has no competition besides Winning Eleven 9.
  
  But why play it when you can find a far better alternative? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: view136
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  
  Sorry, but I couldn't change the score so I wrote it here again. 
  
  And, well, if I have to write smth anyway, I'll just mention the good new ideeas in this version:
 
  
  - improved manager mode, where you can choose a sponsor, loan players, get info about the players, 
 etc
  - the morale thing, wich is great, well improved. Though u have no interaction with a specific 
 player u can influence his morale in other ways
  - the changes made reg. options during the game (strategy) and the colour indicators (yellow for 
 a great form etc) or for the team's overall.
  - well improved player's control and realism (hope for the best the coming versions)
  - great 
 gameplay, despite same old tricks (once u've learn the game, it's easy to score from a distance, 
 for ex.) As for the strategy changer wich could be a continous style changing, I also think it 
 is a delight and will be the following versions)
  
  What about the crowd... still the same not so interactive and creating atmosphere crowd (but i 
 mentioned that earlier)
  Thanks again for reading my comments. I tried to summarise the best soccer simulator, and I hope 
 I succeeded just a bit. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
