-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifasoccer2002/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 589 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 29, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of real-life soccer will find this the most enjoyable soccer experience on the PC to date. 
 

 Those who hammer the buttons on their gamepads as though they were synthetic rodents in a whack-a-mole 
 game had best prepare for their day of reckoning. The foremost proponent of willy-nilly button-beating, 
 EA Sports, has used the latest edition of its vaunted FIFA Soccer series as a springboard to a 
 more thoughtful and more challenging control method that genuinely alters the way the game is played. 
 Penalizing adrenaline-fueled thumb jockeys and rewarding those who initiate actions only after 
 quick consideration, FIFA Soccer is quite simply a more grown-up affair than its predecessors. 
 That it also offers improved passing and player movement and a generally more credible feel are 
 just two more reasons fans of real-life soccer will find this the most enjoyable soccer experience 
 on the PC to date.           The gameplay of FIFA 2002 has a remarkably true-to-life pacing.   

  Since its debut in the mid-1990s, the FIFA series has continually ranked as one of the strongest 
 PC sports games on the market. If the series had a low point, it was in the highly stylized FIFA 
 2000, which focused on graphical prowess and high-speed button pushing over believable gameplay. 
 In doing so, it seemed to herald a trend toward even more arcadelike gameplay in the future. Fortunately, 
 things got back on track with last year's FIFA 2001, a game that showcased a renewed commitment 
 to authenticity and now can be viewed as an obvious stepping-stone to this year's model.   

  In FIFA 2002, the gameplay is noticeably slower and more deliberate. Players behave even more 
 like human beings than they have in the past -- taking a few moments to gather in passes, accelerating 
 slowly, gaining momentum in their first few steps, and ultimately losing steam toward the end. 
 Rapid and repetitive button presses only hinder subsequent maneuvers, and manually controlled speed 
 bursts do not generate the temporary supermen seen in prior editions. Passes must be delivered 
 with an emphasis on trajectory rather than raw speed, and shots on the goal should be measured 
 and carefully targeted if you don't want to miss the net completely.   

  The art of tackling has undergone a particularly satisfying revision. No longer do slide tackles 
 carry a player 20 or 30 feet across the field, razing opponents without fear of punishment. Now, 
 you had best measure your chances of contacting the ball first, or you'll risk drawing a yellow 
 or red card. As such, an aggressive tackle is recommended over a conservative approach only in 
 the most dire circumstances.           Neither rain nor night prevent games from being played through. 
    

  Artificially intelligent players without control of the ball display newfound canniness in some 
 situations, though they may just as likely infuriate you in others. It all depends on whether the 
 program has been coded to recognize the play you want to set up. Normally, teammates smartly predict 
 strategies and move skillfully to open areas, setting up for quick one-twos or running at double 
 speed to await perfectly timed lobs that drift just over the heads of defenders. EA has added new 
 visual cues such as trailing red streaks to help identify which of your players is currently making 
 a break for open ground. Sadly, teammate reaction is less convincing when the human coach leads 
 his or her ballcarrier on an abnormal crossing pattern or otherwise atypical maneuver. In such 
 situations, nearby players tend to stop or shuffle about listlessly rather than adjusting and moving 
 where you want them to go.   

  The ebb and flow of the team is especially believable. Offensive forays are stifled not just with 
 well-timed interceptions or tackles, but also with appropriate positioning. Watching a computer-controlled 
 side move toward midfield, only to play the ball back and regroup when faced with a threatening 
 but as yet uncommitted wall of defenders is something FIFA veterans have rarely seen before. Shot 
 and goal totals are still a bit too high, and defenses continue to possess uncanny skill within 
 the box -- often dispossessing ball carriers and picking up loose balls faster than they do anywhere 
 else -- but EA Sports has generally done a fine job determining the final tally according to quality 
 of opportunity and ball possession, total number of shots, and overall dominance. In short, FIFA 
 2002 beckons you to play again if just to more effectively implement your strategy and more astutely 
 man the controls.    

 FIFA Soccer 2002 is not completely void of the series' past problems, some of which now seem more 
 conspicuous simply because the rest of the game is so darned good. The most prominent problem is 
 its continuing inability to properly generate the final scores of simulated contests in league 
 or tournament play. Whether you've been dominating prior games by scores of 10-1 or losing them 
 by the same margin, the programming consistently spits out tight, low scoring results that might 
 just as easily be a draw as a victory one way or another. On the pitch, players will be mystified 
 when the referee blows his halftime or fulltime whistle right in the midst of a breakaway, and 
 they'll be annoyed when their controllers just don't seem to respond as quickly as they should. 
           Diving saves are just part of the job for FIFA 2002 goaltenders.    

  It won't take returning players long to discover that EA Sports has paired FIFA's new physics and 
 modeling authenticity with several measurable graphic innovations. The prior edition, FIFA 2001, 
 was already one of the prettiest sports games on the market, and FIFA 2002 offers enough new wrinkles 
 to warrant a close inspection even by those who purchased last year's model. The pitch itself is 
 brighter, sharper, and far more representative of real grass. Players raise their arms to call 
 for passes and jostle about even more realistically. The crowd is more colorful and alive than 
 ever before, flying flags of the participating nations and waving their arms when they see something 
 they like. User perspectives are doubled from last year's four to eight with an extra manual "free 
 cam" available during replays, yet EA Sports has curiously continued to confine the number of playable 
 stadiums to five, each of which is now generic. Fortunately, all five are impressive.   

  As is typical for the series, FIFA 2002 sports three variations of playing conditions -- day, night, 
 and rain -- the latter of which combines visible droplets, overcast skies, an appropriately faded 
 color palette, and the roar of distant thunder and the pitter-patter of precipitation. In addition, 
 the FIFA audio scheme is a surround-sound delight. Players grunt when they kick the ball, shout 
 when they want the ball, and howl painfully when hit with it. Returning BBC commentators John Motsen 
 and Andy Gray once again prove infinitely preferable to FIFA 2000's ESPN pairing of Phil Schoen 
 and Julie Foudy, generally exhibiting awareness of the play and a typically dry UK wit. Britain's 
 popular techno and dance purveyor Ministry of Sound provides the music, much of which is majestically 
 electronic and seriously funkified.           FIFA 2002 is simply the best soccer simulation on 
 the PC to date.    

  Off the pitch, FIFA 2002 is a managerial funhouse. Now, you can generate, edit, and otherwise customize 
 any number of new teams, then take one of those teams into a league or tournament involving up 
 to 32 of the game's 500-plus sides or multiplayer contests via network, direct modem connection, 
 or EA's own Internet player-matching service. You can construct new players from scratch, define 
 skill levels in each of eight categories, then assign such personal characteristics as age, nationality, 
 clothing style, height, weight, and facial features. Controller assignments are now fully adjustable, 
 as are virtually all other parameters.   

  Like most EA Sports series, the FIFA series receives an annual upgrade that addresses some concerns 
 and leaves others for the next installment. In this way, FIFA Soccer 2002 is no different from 
 its predecessors. However, EA Sports decided to key on gameplay this time around, and in the process 
 it has successfully propelled the game dangerously close to reality. This should sit well with 
 anyone who truly appreciates the nuances, subtlety, and pace of the real-world sport.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  You may have a good time playing, but some time later you will get bored. All the FIFA series are 
 designed to effect the eyes and the ears. Especially FIFA 2006 was very succesfull in this manner. 
 But the play is not worth to spend time on it. In a very little time, you will learn the tricks 
 to score goal and get the ball from the opponent which makes the game boring.
  
  You can score from the particular points and the goalkeeper always gets the ball from the same 
 points on the pitch. This makes it hard to get the satisfaction, because I don't want to strike 
 from outside the penalty box. But you can not score if you entered the penalty area. Is this fair?
 
  
  You can send the ball to the opponents goalkeeper if you strike from the half of the pitch with 
 a tired player. This makes the game a fun tool for everyone. Yes, I agree; everyone including earlier 
 ages and the olders can play it easily. It has only three controls on the keyboard. Yes, the firm 
 (EA) is not challenging to create a soccer simulation, Right! But I got bored! 
  
  
  You may have a good time playing, but some time later you will get bored. All the FIFA series are 
 designed to effect the eyes and the ears. Especially FIFA 2006 was very succesfull in this manner. 
 But the play is not worth to spend time on it. In a very little time, you will learn the tricks 
 to score goal and get the ball from the opponent which makes the game boring.
  
  You can score from the particular points and the goalkeeper always gets the ball from the same 
 points on the pitch. This makes it hard to get the satisfaction, because I don't want to strike 
 from outside the penalty box. But you can not score if you entered the penalty area. Is this fair?
 
  
  You can send the ball to the opponents goalkeeper if you strike from the half of the pitch with 
 a tired player. This makes the game a fun tool for everyone. Yes, I agree; everyone including earlier 
 ages and the olders can play it easily. It has only three controls on the keyboard. Yes, the firm 
 (EA) is not challenging to create a soccer simulation, Right! But I got bored!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  FIFA 2002 is my best sports video game as it was natural that I would love it. It has all the contents 
 to make iit the best game ever in sports video game history. There are so many variations of teams 
 players league that it is really very awesome. You can also create custom leagues cups and all such 
 other great stuff. CLASSIC! The graphics are also very good which makes it look better. Finally, the 
 sound tracks are good and FIFA 2002 makes its name in my top 10 list. I have also liked it so much 
 that i have recommended my friends to try it out.
  
  There is a lot of replayability and the ability to create custom players and teams made me have 
 scores of hours of fun. I created a team of all my created classmate players and enjoyed having 
 fun with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkbengamer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Its more brilliance from the most realistic Football game there is. With more teams, stadiums, 
 players and kits. Make your own player, make your own team, Make your own league.
  
  Well as usual with the Fifa games they are little different from the last. So I don't know what 
 to say. I'll just this game is awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome. OK thats get boring.
  
  The creation lab is the best. You get to make players, teams and leagues. That feature doesn't 
 return until the 2006 version of the game. 
  
  Overall this is probably the best football game there is. Although Fifa Street 2 and Fifa 2006 
 probably surpass it. Ultimate football fun 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
