-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA 07 Soccer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fifasoccer07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Looks great.
 sounds superb.
 plays an enjoyable, fast-paced game of soccer.
 interactive leagues are a great new way to play online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Defensive players are a bit lazy.
 no FIFA Lounge mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,905 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 3, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 07 plays a fast-paced and realistic game of soccer and boasts plenty of gameplay options for 
 solo and social players alike. 

  Almost a year to the day since the release of FIFA 06, EA Sports has released that game's inevitable 
 sequel, FIFA 07 for the PC, the PlayStation 2, and the Xbox. Last year's game could only be described 
 as the best FIFA game to date; so the question, of course, is whether or not EA Canada has improved 
 upon that game in any meaningful way. Not all of the changes that have been implemented since last 
 year's game have been for the better, but there are more than enough improvements here to make 
 FIFA 07 worth a look.  

  On the pitch, for example, you'll find that FIFA 07 plays a quite different game of soccer to its 
 predecessor, though initially it can be difficult to figure out exactly what has changed. One of 
 the few obvious changes to this year's game is that players accelerate and decelerate more realistically, 
 which means that they can't turn nearly as quickly when they're moving at speed. This results in 
 your needing to pass the ball more, and depending on your play style, you might find that your 
 trick (right analog) stick gets a lot more use than it did last year when you're attempting to 
 beat opposing players in one-on-one situations. Both passing and using trick moves are a little 
 more challenging in FIFA 07 than they were in 06, and because that's true for both teams (and because 
 tackling when you're on defense is still relatively easy) , the result is often that ball possession 
 changes more frequently.  

          The success of passes and shots now depends on your player's positioning and balance.  
    

  Trick moves have become more challenging not because they have a lower success rate, but simply 
 because the controls for them are a little less forgiving. The section on trick moves in the FIFA 
 07 instruction manual bears more than a passing resemblance to a special-moves list for a fighting 
 game, and the tricks available to you vary according to whether your player is running or standing 
 still at the time. Passing the ball hasn't become more difficult per se; you just can't take it 
 for granted as much because the accuracy of your passes is now dependant on the positioning of 
 your player in relation to both the ball and his intended target. A pass to a player directly in 
 front of you when you have the ball at your feet, for example, is more likely to succeed than a 
 pass to a teammate who is barely in your players' field of vision, particularly if you're trying 
 to make that pass on your first touch after receiving the ball at waist height. Lengthy strings 
 of one-touch passes, then, are more difficult in FIFA 07 than in previous games, which adds a nice 
 risk-versus-reward mechanic any time you attempt one rather than take a moment to get the ball 
 under control.  

  Shots at goal are also greatly affected by the positioning and balance of your player, as well 
 as by how well he has the ball under control. If you try to play the game just like FIFA 06, you'll 
 watch a lot of your shots fly wide of the goal and into the crowd. This can be frustrating at times, 
 but the flipside is that spectacular, almost unbelievable goals in the game are now the exception 
 rather than the norm, which is certainly a good thing. That's not to say that scoring goals in 
 FIFA 07 is difficult, though, because it isn't. Defenders generally back off attacking players 
 a little too much, and the goalkeepers, although good at stopping shots for the most part, are 
 a little too prone to spilling the ball when they do. Worthy of note is the new "finesse shot" 
 feature that, using a modifier button that needs to be held down when taking a shot, lets you unleash 
 shots that are more accurate but less powerful. It's not a feature that we've felt inclined to 
 use a great deal, but if you've already beaten the defense and rounded the keeper it's a great 
 way to avoid embarrassing open-goal misses.  

  Another way that you can avoid potentially embarrassing mistakes, though in a much more subtle 
 way, is to keep your team's momentum up. Your momentum, as indicated by a performance meter in 
 the top-left corner of the screen, is an indication of how well your players think the game is 
 going, as determined not only by the current score but also by recent events on the pitch. It's 
 entirely possible, then, for your team to be a couple of goals down but your players will still 
 be playing their very best football or, by the same token, to be winning a game but struggling 
 to contain their opponents. It's difficult to quantify just how much of an effect momentum has 
 on your players' behavior, but it's definitely noticeable, and we've enjoyed numerous matches in 
 which the run of play has shifted between the two teams several times.  

          Defenders and goalkeepers don't behave as realistically off the ball as their attacking 
 counterparts.     

  Matches like those, along with one-sided goalfests, are perhaps the ones that best show off one 
 of FIFA 07's most improved features -- in-game sound. The commentary from ITV's Clive Tyldesley and 
 Sky Sports' Andy Gray isn't nearly as repetitive as it has been in previous years, and it's both 
 accurate and well delivered to boot. Complementing the commentary team's efforts perfectly is the 
 noise from the crowd, which changes dramatically according to what's happening on the field and 
 which of the teams is playing at home. Many of the teams in FIFA 07 have specific crowd chants 
 (it's generally just the name of the team being shouted over and over again, but it's still neat) , 
 and these will give way to thunderous applause and cheering or venomous boos and whistles as the 
 action dictates. One especially nice touch is that if a home team is winning comfortably and passing 
 the ball around without their opponents getting a touch, the home crowd will start to cheer every 
 completed pass individually -- mocking the away side in exactly the same way you'd expect them to 
 in real life. Furthermore, when the crowd is quiet, you'll occasionally hear the players calling 
 to each other, though it's far easier to make out what they're saying if you're on the practice 
 ground with no crowd at all.     

  As was the case in FIFA 06, the players on your team other than the one that you're controlling 
 are adept at making off-the-ball runs and such. You'll often need to trigger offensive runs manually, 
 but this is achieved via only a single button press, and the subsequent pass or through ball invariably 
 feels more satisfying as a result. CPU-controlled players are less proactive on defense than they 
 are on offense, unfortunately, which is especially noticeable when they continue to back away from 
 attackers well into the penalty area. You shouldn't be relying too much on any defender that you're 
 not controlling yourself anyway, and the good news is that when you switch players on defense, 
 you'll usually be given a defender with a chance of intervening rather than one who's chasing back 
 from a forward position, even if the latter is closer.  

          The ball physics in FIFA 07 are a big improvement over those in last year's game.     

 
  If the defender in question happens to intervene with a sliding tackle, you'll probably notice 
 that the ball physics in FIFA 07 are even better than those in FIFA 06. Perhaps for the first time 
 in a FIFA game, the ball feels like it's an object reacting to external forces rather than one 
 with physics that are fudged for certain player animations. The ball physics are best demonstrated 
 by shots on goal that do something out of the ordinary when they strike one of the posts or the 
 crossbar. One of our most memorable goals, in fact, was a free kick from Bolton Wanderers' Kevin 
 Nolan that hit the underside of the crossbar really hard and bounced straight down at an angle 
 that resulted in the ball barely crossing the line. This kind of goal doesn't happen in real life 
 often, but it does happen, and it's great that it can now also be said of FIFA games.  

  The aforementioned goal was a particularly satisfying one because it was scored during an interactive 
 league match, interactive leagues being a major new feature of this year's game. Interactive leagues 
 are league tables that are generated using results from players who have pitted their teams against 
 each other online according to the same match schedule used in real life. Four real-life leagues 
 are supported, including England's F. A. Premier League, France's Ligue 1 Orange, Mexico's 1st Division, 
 and the German Bundesliga. It's really little more than a new way to get matched up with opponents 
 online and for results to be tracked, but because you're contributing to your favorite team's league 
 position every time you play, it definitely adds to the experience. Predictably, fashionable teams 
 like Chelsea and Manchester United have far more online players than many other clubs, so if you 
 choose to commit to one of those, it might be more difficult for you to find opponents. If you're 
 unable to find an opponent in a timely fashion, you have the option to participate in a fixture 
 involving one of your rival teams instead -- taking control of the opposition in the hope that you 
 can indirectly benefit your team by beating its rivals in another match. You can also just choose 
 to find a regular online game in a lobby.  

  We found that the Xbox version of FIFA 07 afforded us the best online experience, not only because 
 it was the one with which we experienced the fewest disconnects and the least lag, but also because 
 playing it didn't require us to sign up with EA Nation and go through the usual ritual of agreeing 
 to let a soccer-related Web site send us spam (for the record, we've never knowingly received any) 
 in return for waiving a small subscription fee. The PC game was also lag-free for the most part, 
 but the EA Nation lobby system is somewhat unwieldy when compared to that used in the console games. 
 The PS2 version of FIFA 07 uses the same online menus and lobby system as the Xbox game, but we 
 experienced lag to some degree in every match that we played, and on more than one occasion we 
 were abruptly disconnected and subsequently very disappointed to see a statistic next to our name 
 to suggest that we were quitting out of games intentionally -- which no doubt deterred some potential 
 opponents from playing against us.  

  While we're on the subject of differences between the three versions of FIFA 07, there really aren't 
 too many that are worthy of note. The PS2 game suffers from noticeable slowdown on occasion (especially 
 when playing in widescreen) , which the other two rarely do. A unique feature of the PS2 game's 
 manager mode is that it boasts connectivity with the PlayStation Portable version. The handheld 
 game's manager mode boasts all of the features found in the PS2 game, and transferring the data 
 between the two consoles takes only a few seconds. The PS2 game does support progressive scan, 
 but doesnt look nearly as good as the Xbox version in 720p if youre in a position to take advantage 
 of it. The PC game's controls are the most customizable but don't let you re-create those of Konami's 
 Pro Evolution Soccer (Winning Eleven outside of Europe) series perfectly, while the Xbox game uses 
 its controller's badly positioned black and white buttons to perform some important functions, 
 like chip shots. Where those of you playing FIFA 07 on a PC are really going to miss out is the 
 lack of a FIFA Lounge mode, which remains one of the most enjoyable ways to play the game if you're 
 in a room with up to seven of your friends, although some questionable changes have been made to 
 the feature this year.  

          Four real-life leagues are supported in the new interactive league online mode.     

 
  In case you're not familiar with the FIFA Lounge mode, the idea is that a group of you can play 
 each other across multiple gaming sessions and have the game keep track of your results in a league 
 table. Furthermore, you'll collect power-ups (or opponent power-downs) known as "cheap shots" as 
 you play that can be used to level the playing field in your favor before a subsequent match. In 
 FIFA 06, these cards were allocated in such a way that losing players generally had more cheap 
 shots available to them. In FIFA 07, however, the opposite is true, since winning players are almost 
 always rewarded with better cheap shots.  

  It's still possible to level the playing field to some extent before FIFA Lounge matches, but doing 
 so is now achieved by awarding goals to a team before any cheap shots are activated. It's neat 
 that when awarding goals to a team in this way, you can actually see a visual representation of 
 how much it's likely to improve your chances of winning based on previous performances, but the 
 system feels like a step in the wrong direction after last year's game. Winning a match against 
 a superior player because you were able to bench his star forward or give all of his players a 
 level of fatigue before kickoff is still rewarding, but beating that same player with a two-goal 
 head start is a hollow victory at best.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (113 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Great soundtrack
  - Lots of players and stadium
  - The game looks good 
  - A lot of things to keep you busy
  
  Negative
  - Not a lot has improved
  - No Lounge Mode 
 for the PC
  - The weak AI softens the difficulties
  - Annoying glitches mar some stadiums
  
  EA Sports make some minor improvements over the superb 
 Fifa 06. Don't give me wrong, the game is still great. Fifa 07 looks different than its predecessor 
 but gives it a more life like feel.
  
  Fifa 07 almost plays exactly like Fifa 06, only a little worse since the AI is weak. Especially 
 when it comes to goalkeepers. The AI is so weak than the game will seem easy and the difficulty 
 is really softened. Even World Class. Also the AI is predicable at times. This always happen, the 
 opposing team's defense always clears the ball when around their area, even if there aren't other 
 players around. The GK are slow to jump and sometimes move a little to the side when attempting 
 to steal the ball in a one on one situation. 
  
  There are a lot of players and stadium. Some players really look like each other and not in real 
 life, but EA can't do all the players, right? The stadiums basically look the same other than night, 
 day and rainy. Plus, there are some frustrating glitches (didn't anyone have them?) that blocks 
 the view in some stadiums. If I'm not mistaken it is Oval Style. That shouldn't be a problem since 
 you can always choose another stadium but you can't do that in the Manager Mode.
  
  The Manager Mode is as good as it was last year. This time around you can begin with a big team 
 and then if you leave go to a minor. The challenge mode is basically unchanged from Fifa 06, but 
 still packs a lot of time to beat the challenges. And the fan shop is available for those who want 
 the 3rd kit, new balls, and other stuff. Unlike the PS2 version, the PC version is missing the 
 Fifa Lounge Mode. 
  
  The graphics can't be said that they are better than those in 06, but they look more real. The 
 soundtrack is great, there are lots. Commentary is average. Most of the time is good, but not always. 
 Occasionally, when going for Cup match, the commenter says that one team is far stronger than the 
 other and most of the time the two team have basically the same skills and stars. This is what 
 Clive says. The part when Andy Gray is mistaken is where you taken a free kick and you barely missed. 
 He would says that it was a wasted opportunity, even though the replay has come and also if Clive 
 says that that was close.
  
  The worst part of the AI is the goalkeeper. On World Class difficulty the opponent goalkeeper makes 
 an unbelievable number of brilliant saves. Plus, the opponent AI scores easily, normally on the 
 first shot even if the angle is impossible. GK are almost AI controlled, unless you press the W 
 button to make them come out, but otherwise they jump, dive etc with aritificial intelligence. 
 Your GK won't sometimes catch the easiest of saves in World Class difficulty, and it is cheap and 
 infurating. The AI is simply awful at times. This works always, even with the best GK. 
  
  And listen to this. I was playing the ECC final against Barcelona. When doing a sub I realized 
 that I was hearing people shouting, and the ground was empty. Not a single person, but the noises 
 and sound effect were somehow all there. 
  
  Fifa 07 is a worse game than Fifa 06, just the same level. Fifa 07 has removed 2 season highlights 
 leaving only the English league highlights ( of course ) and the german bundesliga. Also some annoying 
 glitches mar what is a great looking game. You should own Fifa 07 is you don't have 06, but Fifa 
 07 is a rich, full of modes that can keep you busy for a long time, until next year. 
  
  
  
  Graphics = 8.3
  Fifa 07 looks more realistic and the player models are stupendous. The 
 crowd still looks awful. And there are some horrible glitches that really make you exit the match 
 and simulate. That is what I do. 
  
  Sound = 8.7
  The soundtrack is as good as you can expect from EA Sports. The sound effects are good enough. 
 The commentary is ok most of the time, but it's not flawless.
  
  Gameplay = 8.2
  The game is fast-paced and exciting. There are lots of players, team, stadiums, challenges, unlockables 
 etc. Create-a-player options are the same as Fifa 06. Create-a-club is good. AI is a bit weak especially 
 GK and defenders. 
  
  Presentation = 7.5
  Menus are easy to navigate through and there aren't slowdowns in menus, only sometimes on the pitch. 
 Still can't see the manager when playing the manager mode (when playing a game that is) . Production 
 values are a bit weak. Load times are ok. 
  
  Camera = 8.1
  Lots of camera view + you can buy one, the overhead camera. 
  
  Story / Modes = 8.5
  There 
 certainly isn't shortage. Though the Lounge Mode is absent. Manager Mode has seen little update, 
 same with challenge mode. But they take a while to complete. 
  
  Difficulty = 7.1
  4 difficulties + one unlockables if you beat any 2 regions in the challenge mode. IF you're an 
 expert the game will seem very easy, since the AI is a bit too weak. Not even World Class, I won 
 4-0 away against French team Lens with AS Monaco, World Class in 4 minutes. And I'm not an expert, 
 the game isn't hard. 
  
  
  OVERALL SCORE = 80 / 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is a brand-new games released by EA sports. This new FIFA edition changes many things around, 
 for example the ball balance and the manager mode, while it comes across with new features, such 
 as net tricks with the ball, 
  team creation, interactive leagues and much more. It also provides a new graphics engine, and the 
 sound inside the stadium is very improved. The manager mode is even better, with some new features, 
 such as the youth academy and from now on it is very crucial for your finances to have your sponsor 
 happy. Furthermore, it is now even more difficult to transfer a star player into your team, especially 
 if he is from one of your rivals.
  
  There is also a brand-new feature, called interactive leagues, a new way to play online, this time 
 in 4 different real championships. The good news is that when it comes to the fixtures of your 
 team, you are programmed to play the same day and time with the real football teams, which make 
 it even more realistic.
  
  Apart from the above, FIFA 07 keeps its previous features which made success in the past. To end, 
 for the football funs there are still videos with highlights of the previous year, but, unfortunately, 
 there are not so much and, in my opinion not that well-made as they were in FIFA 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sitflermeister
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  im so sorry because i left to take a photo about this but i played multiplayer with some of my 
 friend and he shooted 5m far near the post and it was gol it's impossimble  
 . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . .. .. . . .. . .. .. .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . 
 .. . . . . . . . . .. . asd skdsk asdja h qwhe ashd qhde aw hdaskd sds a im so sorry because i 
 left to take a photo about this but i played multiplayer with some of my friend and he shooted 
 5m far near the post and it was gol it's impossimble  
 . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . .. .. . . .. . .. .. .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . 
 .. . . . . . . . . .. . asd skdsk asdja h qwhe ashd qhde aw hdaskd sds a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying I haven't played a FIFA game in years before FIFA 07 but I must admit 
 the game has come a long way over the past 10 years. The player detail is absolutely amazing and 
 very life like but I was surprised by the horrible gaming menu. The constant bombardment of the 
 Online play feature took me about ten minutes to navigate past since I have never come accross 
 such a horrible navigation design, it actually puts Windows Vista to shame becuase atleast with 
 Vista you don't need an encyclopedia to get to where you want to.
  
  Anyway back to the soccer. I found the graphical design of the fields to be quite amazing since 
 there is a huge diversity between a nice souped up pitch like Wembley compared to cheaper ones 
 that the not soo profitable clubs produce. There are tons of teams but there is no world cup or 
 international friendly features which should surely be added on to the game since internationals 
 is what makes the sport what it is. Other than those complaints the commentary is pretty good, 
 the controls aren't too bad except when aiming on goal which is an absolute nightmare for a beginner 
 but gets easier with practice but is still a bit dodgey.
  
  Overall FIFA 07 is a very fun game that you can spend countless hours playing and I can only imagine 
 what it would be like if you had a clan of people coming around your place to play the game for 
 the night. None the less FIFA 07 is definetely worth picking up and inviting a few friends around 
 over for a good night out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doldrums504
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing FIFA games on PC since 2002, and after every one I don't feel like it's an 
 amazing update, but it's still solid gameplay, and only needs minor updates anyway. FIFA 07 is 
 no different as it plays very much like FIFA 06 but little upgrades to the graphics of the stadiums 
 and deeper options in manager mode are worthwhile additions, and well as new menu presentation 
 and songs as always . I have always loved the realism of FIFA and 07 is a big improvement. Everything 
 is official as always, kits, leagues, player names unlike Pro Evolution Soccer. I think there are 
 some strange issues with the game, like the way it's very hard to score long range shots and free 
 kicks feel hard to control but when you work a great goal it feels great as always! I suggest a 
 gamepad is better than a keyboard for this type of game, and many keys need to be pressed to combine 
 skills with sprinting etc but I manage ok. Many people claim Pro Evo has much better gameplay on 
 the pitch but I have played PES 5 and 6 and was really disappointed- it just didn't excite the 
 way FIFA did match after match. If you put in the time in FIFA you will definately be rewarded. 
 I haven't played FIFA 08, but FIFA 07 I'm sure is just as good with 27 leagues and over 500 teams 
 from all over the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I am not a hardcore fan of football but I like FIFA games. It might be the best FIFA 07 till date. 
 It is my favorite FIFA game. (Since I have only played FIFA 02, 03, 06) Its same as FIFA 06, but 
 there are some new features like Interactive League and it even has a manager mode.
  
  Where to start? The menu. The menus are quite attractive. It has real pictures instead of usual 
 game pics which was there in many FIFA games (except 06) The game can be played in many ways. Kickoff 
 (which is like Quick Play. You select a team and start playing) Interactive League, Online Play 
 Mode and there are many other modes. There is FIFA 07 Challenge Mode in which there are loads of 
 challenges for you all. By completing these challenges and achieving some goals we get points by 
 which we can unlock things like Jerseys, footballs (over 20 footballs) , stadiums (over 50+ stadiums) . 
 There is also a special camera unlockable, and a "Funny SFX"
  
  These all features will make you an addict. I never stopped playing this game for months. It never 
 gets boring, believe me. The game has hundreds of leagues and thousands of players. The commentary 
 by the two commentators will get you hooked. The commentary is different and it does not get repeated 
 for a long time unlike any other games of EA Sports like Cricket Series and all that.
  
  The gameplay is same as previous football games of EA. But there are many new moves in this game. 
 The players get to use many different tactics and tricks. And the crowd will cheer you on always. 
 The noise they make is brilliant. Its like you are playing a real football game out there in the 
 stadium. The gameplay is smooth and you will not encounter any glitch on the way. ( I haven't noted 
 any glitch that's why) And the graphics are great. Detailed and looks real. All the players in 
 the game look like the real players out there. Even the referees. Like all FIFA games we get to 
 make our own squad.
  
  The soundtrack is nice. There are many songs may it be of English or Spanish or any other language. 
 All the songs are catchy. If you don't want to play the game, you still have the good soundtrack 
 to hear if you get bored.
  
  FIFA 07 will not disappoint football fans. Some players would be playing it for months.
  
  
 Ratings: 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheng187
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  First off, EA is the worst game developer. No wonder the company's market share is tanking. Even 
 the CEO admits their games are lacking in quality. 
  
  The game: It seems like there's a trend in EA sports franchise. Rather than imitating the players' 
 skills based on professionals, the players' skills seemed to be based on the developers themselves. 
 Controls are horrible and teammates AI is weak, or lack thereof. If there's a game that would make 
 me stop playing VG for that night or forever, this would be it. 
  
  The game's rating: 8.5? I don't know how much EA's paying the Gamespot, but they must be paying 
 a lot to even get 8.5. This isn't even 6.5. Gamespot is the most biased place to get reliable ratings 
 on games. They give EA games good ratings while competitors receive harsh or sometimes face value 
 ratings. Some of the users reviews are ridiculous. I come here to compare GS's rating to the other 
 critics' score. I trust GS's score as much I trust the devil's word. 
  
  Electronic FART, nothing but gas is in the GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abosh1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is a great game. I would recommend it to everyone, though the people that will enjoy it 
 most would be primarily football fans (or soccer as some still call it) . The last Fifa game that 
 I played was Fifa 05, and the difference is amazing, EA has made some brilliant changes that make 
 Fifa 07 a viable choice to upgrade any old Fifa games too, or to start you Fifa career on. The 
 sound is brilliant and the gameplay is even better. the biggest improvement is the game is probable 
 the sound of the crowd, who react to different events as you would expect a real crowd to, and 
 who also chant different songs (depending on the teams playing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baloch070
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say about that game is that it is the best in series awesome gameplay... better graphics... sound 
 and the soundtracks are awesome ... and its awesome when they celebrate after scoring the goal 
 the dancing ohhh really awesome but the EA team should have concentrated on crowd and commentry...... and 
 it really makes my heart jump when we goal on the top right or left corner ..... and its online 
 play is best .... Well i think you can experience the excitement of the internation soccer competition 
 in FIFA 2007.... The manager mode lets you to create your own club and its up to you to work hard 
 and get to the top... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmkaks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  Firstly ill have 2 say its a great game
  Best in the series
  Ea have at last found the perfect game
  Correct attributes for players
  Superb List Of songs
 
  The Interactive League System is Just Rocckking
  Perfect Football Game
  I Thing The croud graphics and simulation is the main problem................
  Tricks for PC 
 could have been made a bit easier rather than the trickstick only
  Much Much better than PES
  More unlockables could have made it more fun..........
  Worth the 
 wait..... seriously
  Liscensed Stuff
  Superb career mode very innovative and realistic
  EAST OR WEST FIFA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! IS THE BEST
  
  ITS IN THE GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  My personal best in the FIFA serie, played them all from fifa97, greeeat gameplay, ocopy me for 
 months, good for teammate play. Advancing in game, making points playing... all good stuff you get 
 with FIFA... Logos and licences are like real, shame not to have all legues included, but its for 
 everyone... surely worth every cent spended for it. Some great moves for individual players like 
 Ronaldinho, Zidane, ETO... From every fifa release little has changed but moves and players, sadly 
 and i am furious to EA about that, but its has that charm you want every game to have. Stadiums 
 are great, textures also... and every year we have new leagues to enjoy.. maybe i have my CRO Legue 
 someday, huh i hope so:: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dk_limp
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I was huge fan of FIFA games and played all since the first one in the SEGA Genesis era. I must 
 say that the best FIFA game I've ever played was FIFA 2002 because it was different from all the 
 other football games, it was the most realistic football game to date. And that's what a football 
 sim must do. It must be realistic so we can feel like we are there in the stands watching (or playing) 
 the match of our lives... Don't get me wrong, FIFA 07 is not that bad. Let's see... Good graphics, 
 good commentary, good sound, good effects, licensed teams, licensed leagues, pretty menus, that 
 motion capture thing, but when it comes to play football, FIFA 07 fails, Pro Evolution 6 doesn't... 
 So, if you are a football fan and a FIFA fan, do like I did, give pro evolution soccer a try, and 
 after a few days you'll buy it.. guaranteed. The playability is instinctive, realistic and the 
 more tactical knowledge you have, better player you'll be. The AI system is excellent! Player moves 
 are great both attacking or defending! Player skills are simple, effective and perfect. If a left 
 footed player shoots with is right foot, the shot may be disastrous. If a light weight player collides 
 into a heavy-weight defender, falls down easier.... All these things happen in reality and in Pro 
 Evolution Soccer! FIFA games need this reality I talked about, although is very very hard to achieve.
 
  So, play PES 2008... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkllia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  the learning curve is short, play it for two or three days &amp; youll find a way to bet other big 
 team (5+ star rating team) even tough u only use Chunnam dragons!!!
  hehehehh...
  
  cant wait to get my LEGENDARY level...
  maybe it will be more enjoyable..
  with world class 
 level, i can score a goal in 5 minutes (chunnam vs man utd)
  does anyone agree with me here?..
  
  nway the game play is good! really good..
  i used to 
 play winning eleven &amp; PES before...
  but now EA come out with football game with better graphic...
  hopefully the FIFA2008 is much 
 much more better!!
  
  good luck EA!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash_rulerz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  The game has its good sides and bad sides. its far from being the perfect soccer game u are looking 
 for but it is still fun. the new engine changes the way u play and its much more immersive though 
 the game is still too easy.
  fifa 07 has a wide variety of teams and whether playing a friendly game or the manager mode u are 
 not dissapointed. ive realy enjoy the manager mode which i still play. the playlist is a treat 
 for the ears while u r trying the make star players resign a contract with ur team. the graphics 
 are not the top notch that are around in this industry but they are still enjoyable. the things 
 u can unlock when u get enough points realy sucks. they could have made it more interesting
  
  Still, its a game that will keep u playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MigGui
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  OK, Electronic Arts are getting into it. New dribbling, new career mode that make players evolve 
 as you play (quite disturbingly, though, they all evolve at the same time, by the end of the season) , 
 a few musics that no one will ever know where they find it (including one or two in Portuguese, 
 again) ... but the graphics are still way behind the perfection we see in even bigger games.
  
  OK, the learning curve is awesome, the difficulty is just right and the Achievements Mode is 
 actually kind of fun. But there are a few scratches that should not be forgotten:
  
  Some players look terribly ugly, and they all look alike. The number of players with unique faces 
 is growing by the time, but the number of common faces is rather small and shabby. The make-your-player 
 tool is not quite good, since rarely you are able make a face look like a face. The hair of the 
 players often goes inside their heads, and it's not rare to make a player simply go through an 
 opponent.
  
  Also, the ball still is magnetic, and glues to feet or gloves almost always. And the keepers are 
 still ridiculous. I can't believe EA isn't able to make a goalie that does not jump AFTER the ball 
 has passed by him, or that knows only 5 or 6 jumps and saves. The keeper engine has a lot to go 
 before reaching my approval, and I'd love to see it working on edition '08.
  
  But in my opinion the must disgusting part of the visuals is not on the field, playing. The stands 
 are pathetic! Spectators (actually, boards that jump and wave) are as bad as in 1994, and the whole 
 stadium is pretty ugly and bad-shaped.
  
  The final part of my review is dedicated to the leagues: Brazilian league, once again, is pretty 
 crappy, has only the top division, doesn't have a lot of players and still has the squads of 2005. 
 And it is the only South-American league. It's a shame that Argentinian league is not present, 
 although Mexican, Korean and a lot of low-budget European leagues are.
  
  All in all, it's the best but it isn't yet great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wintermute_66
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of EA Sports titles since the early 90's - I was hooked by one of their first games 
 'Bulls Versus Blazers' a Sega Megadrive basketball game - back in the days before PC's even had 
 any decent grpahics. I progresses onto the NHL series and stayed with it for many years until somehow, 
 hockey lost it's appeal. I relaly got into the FIFA series with FIFA 2005 - it felt like they had 
 finally got the gameplay for soccer right, and even though 2005 was a little easy to score, it 
 still played a highly entertaining game.
  
  FIFA 2007 for me, is Arcade Soccer perfection. The amount of moves you can pull, the different 
 shots, the huge amount of teams, the customised tourneys, make this a game that is playable for 
 a loooong time. Even after you've played it so much you know what works the best against the computer 
 - you can always choose a lowly ranked team, enter it into a customised tournment with all the 
 best club teams in the world, set the skill level to the max, and you've still got a big challenge 
 with thrilling matchups and seat-of-the-pants victories. Scoring three goals in the last 3 minutes 
 to come from behind when down 5-3 in the cup final - well it may sound sad or weird to YOU, but 
 it was one of my finest gaming moments and it filled me with joy. Man, I was up in my room, strutting 
 around and shouting, even my dog came in to look at me. There's few games that give me that kind 
 of thrill. EA Sports is the undisputed king - for mine. if you want ot have a FUN game of soccer, 
 with a real challenge built-in then GET this game, you will not be dissapointed.
  
  wintermute_66 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zuzino
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  It's about time they programmed a new game from scratch. As usual, the presentation and sound are 
 good but do you buy a game for its music/sound effects or do you buy it for its playability?
  I can see some improvements to previous games. I watched a match between 2 computer players and 
 they sometimes do some clever moves but other times they do stuff which makes me think that isn't 
 football, that's just bad programming :
  -The goalies are often stupid and rarely respond when i press the button for them to rush out of 
 goal.
  -Most players 1st touch is awful (or maybe i just can't play the game) . In any case, i shouldn't 
 have to press a certain button in order for a player to be able to control a ball and i hate the 
 fact that most times i receive the ball the player will kick it 10 metres ahead of him. What a 
 stupid system.
  -When i watch PES, i feel like i'm almost watching a game on tv. Watching FIFA makes me feel like 
 i'm watching retards learning how to play football. As i said the players sometimes do some clever 
 things but more than often you'll see them doing dumb things like running straight out of play 
 with the ball. Even my pub team wouldn't do that and they are baaaad.
  
  So, overall, a poor footy game by EA once again which i'm sure has outsold PES around the world, 
 but which really should be thrown straight into the bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The past few FIFA's where vastly over-rated and pushed me over to the PES series but finally FIFA 
 shows some promise with a much improved game but it lacks what a true football game should have 
 with too many flaws that stops it from becoming great.
  
  The new engine takes FIFA 07 to the next level with improved graphics, sounds and gameplay but 
 playing it, I still feel EA are catering to the wrong demographic group and should take FIFA to 
 a more older level cause lets face it, the game is far far to easy. On legendary mode I still win 
 too easy and rarely am I troubled but thats just one small problem. The keepers are so bad it makes 
 you laugh and scream at the same time, they play at a Sunday league level and push the ball out 
 to the opposition too often , they are slow to come off there line and they struggle to save the 
 easiest of shots.
  
  While the passing system is far improved and the shooting system is the best yet allowing you to 
 pull of some amazing goals, the AI on your team is a little thick. Your midfield never gets up 
 enough to help you score and your defenders walk around at times like they have been blinded. Keepers 
 hardly come out to narrow down the angle for 1 on 1's which is basic 101 in football.
  
  The sound and atmosphere is really good but there need to be more songs from fans especially in 
 the English leagues. Also there are too many generic stadiums. The transfer system needs a overhaul 
 and the refs need to show more cards. Also FIFA players tug back far too often and ruins the realism 
 if the game.
  
  Its not all bad but these are crucial problems that must be address or FIFA will end up scoring 
 too many own goals and lose fans though sometimes I feel the 10-14 year olds they apparently aim 
 the game at would play anything as they only care about the official licences and are too stupid 
 to care about the gameplay so please EA make the game for a older audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  From the first whistle of the season to heartbreak of cup failure, FIFA 07 throws you into the 
 rollercoaster ride of a football season, has your team got what it takes to win the league or will 
 they bravely battle relegation - its all up to you.
  
  Relish every scintillating victory over bitter rivals and fume through every gut-wrenching poor 
 performance at home. Savour the spine-tingling stadium atmosphere, home and away, as your team 
 battles their way up the league table. Listen as your supporters chant your players names and 
 bellow all the rousing club songs through rain and shine.
  
  You have the power to shape your clubs destiny in the EA SPORTS Interactive Leagues [F. A. Premier 
 League, Bundesliga, French League, Mexican 1st Division] , a new online mode that enables you to 
 pit your club against supporters of your real-world opponents. Play your games according to the 
 real-world schedule. When they play, you play. Track your teams progress as the aggregate results 
 determine your clubs position in the league table. Now you actually take to the pitch for the 
 glory of your club.
  
  New intelligent AI ensures that your 11 men on the pitch make realistic decisions, finding space 
 and passing like professionals. A complete overhaul of the game engine now means that you have 
 to employ real world tactics, make realistic decisions and think like a player in order to win 
 matches.
  
  Take on the updated and improved challenge of the Manager Mode. Player values and wages have been 
 tuned to be even more realistic. Managerial decisions have even more tangible effects on player 
 performance and welfare. Smarter CPU decisions mean rival managers are even more strategic in their 
 own pursuit of silverware.
  
  Features:
  FOOTBALL EMOTION: The crowds react to your performance. Goals and possession result in rousing 
 chanting as momentum builds for your team but dips to a frustrated murmur if youre struggling. 
 The camera focuses on those players who wear their emotions on their sleeve. EA SPORTS Interactive 
 Leagues: Represent your club online against your rivals throughout the season in the F. A. Premier 
 League, Bundesliga, French League or Mexican 1st Division. When they play, you play. Win and drive 
 your club closer to glory. Lose and see your team plummet to the bottom of the table. Weekly podcasts 
 include user interviews that broadcast your glory to the world. IMPROVED GAMEPLAY: Passing and 
 positioning have all been enhanced. Players jostle and collide realistically while trying to win 
 balls. New ball physics accurately recreate bouncing, skidding and topspin. Signature moves and 
 playing styles for the stars have been authentically captured. SET PLAYS:: Use the left analog 
 stick to apply topspin or backspin to the ball for more creative set plays and finesse shots. NEW 
 SHOOTING MECHANICS: Experience a more sophisticated shooting mechanic that gives you greater control 
 for pin-point accuracy. ADVANCED GOALKEEPER AI: Goalkeeper intelligence is authentic, with true-to-life 
 reactions and a greater variety of deflections and saves. ENHANCED MANAGER MODE: Everything is 
 real. Real money, youth player development, press and fan reaction. Immerse yourself completely 
 in the world of a football manager. New this year  create your own club. SOCIAL GAMING: Play against 
 up to eight friends in the FIFA 07 LOUNGE to determine your champion. A new handicap system levels 
 the playing field in the ultimate pursuit of bragging rights. COMPLETE AUTHENTICITY: FIFA 07 features 
 27 leagues from 20 nations. Over 510 teams are accurately represented with correct kits and badges. 
 ONLINE EVERYWHERE: Never again miss any news with the ultimate sports ticker. While online, breaking 
 news, live scores and results are delivered straight to your screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umer_fawi
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is best in series, in this game EA have made the new A. I Engines (Artificial Intelligience 
 Engine) , new Physics Engine and the new Animation engine.
  
  Gameplay:- the game play is superb i give it 10 out of 10.
  .
  .
  .
  .
  Value:- This 
 game became so popular than previous versions.
  .
  .
  .
  .
  Graphics:- graphics is very very imperesive. i give it 10 out 10.
  
  this game is very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 superbbbbbb !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalkhare
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Ever since FIFA 06 released i knew the next one would be even better. In 07 the graphics are as 
 good as usual, the sound is extremely good, they have edited the song of paul oakenfield a bit. 
 The gameplay is awesome not like the previous fifa games like 05 &amp; 04., in this game the ball 
 actually bounces off the players and not go through them. though the goalkeepers are a bit lazy 
 ,, the defending of the opposition makes it real hard to score which is good as it gives you the 
 feeling of playing a real match . the managerial mode has also been improved , last year almost 
 after every match there used to be a memo asking this and that. this year they have reduced that 
 a bit, the new thing is the player growth, and after every match every player gains match experiance 
 which helps in adding up his skills. you can also sign up players from your clubs' youth academy 
 grow their skil a bit and then sell them at a hefty price. The sponsors are as usual the same. 
 though some people think that this game is overrated i strongly oppose it. it's the best game in 
 the series after '98 and 2002. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_x2004
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07: a soccer game that must be played , its great improvements since its predecessor FIFA 
 06 makes it shine in many ways :
  
  THE GRAPHICS :
  
  Really good ; since FIFA 06 , the characters design in the game is good &amp; smooth makes them 
 look more realistic.
  the high-res movie that starts in the beginning of the game is solid , its shows ronaldinho shooting 
 a free kick and then... GOAL !!!
  the in-game graphics is nice , while your playing the characters detail is apparent ,though stadiums 
 need more detail in to them.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY :
  
  Absolutely great gameplay by all means , from passing to shooting , high passing , long pass .... 
 you name it !!
  controlling the characters by keyboard is very good as if you have your own touch on the players 
 which makes it more realistic and enjoyable at the same time.
  but there are some bugs in the system as they say , in this case this bug (or shall i call it glitch) 
 comes out while your playing a normal game then running down the right flank shot the ball at the 
 keeper (he leans out to catch it) and guess what happens...... the ball goes down his legs &amp; 
 oops its a goal (literally) . now some of you might think this a good thing... i don't... i mean it 
 might not sound as a big bug but when it happens to you.... yep you will be pissed. (because your 
 keeper was supposed to catch it!)
  
  other changes in the gameplay :
  -there is no blue bar any more ; when you want to shot the ball , its free to shot, but if you 
 keep pressing until the bar fills then you are defiantly not going to score!!
  -they also Reduced accuracy of goalkeeper's lobbed passes and through balls.
  -the defenders 
 &amp; goalkeepers don't act realistically when your attacking there positions.
  
  
  SOUND :
  
  Again EA's sound trackers r better than ever , and it amazes me the quality of the 
 music &amp; the time they toke to collect them, some of the sound tracks are great like (civil 
 sin for boy kill boy ) &amp; many others.
  The commentary voices are as always : Clive Tyldesley &amp; Andy Gray , nice for a while until 
 they keep repeating the same comments over &amp; over again on many several occasions. ( not like 
 FIFA WORLD CUP the comments in that game never end &amp; every single time i play it i hear new 
 comments , i just had to say that) .
  
  in the end FIFA 07 is a great experience for football fans, my opinion give it a shot ,even if you 
 are a PES fan , FIFA 07 will definitely meet your thoughts . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3spodude
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is alot better and most of all realistic than Pro evolution soccer 6. Ive 
 played both games and i couldnt stand playing PES6, it is unrealistic and the computer literally 
 cheates by passing the ball everytime perfect, and by taking the ball away from your player the 
 instant they reach him meanwhile it takes alot of work to take the balll from them. I uninstalled 
 that piece of **** and im going back to Fifa 07 that has more realistic soccer. In Fifa 07, you 
 can play as manager which is i think the best feature yet, it has more leagues, better stadiums 
 and most importantly better and more realistic gameplay than any other soccer game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 2, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  i was expecting that you could play the world cup but no. i was also expecting more unlockable 
 gameplay things like no fouls or invisible walls but no also!
  
  the graphics, i could say, are good no different than last years
  
  sound is terrific especially 
 with the funny sound FX passing is weird too i mean you wanna pass to a guy right in front of you 
 but you end up passing to a person to the side or WAY in front of you.
  
  i wish there was another dificulty between semi-pro and pro pro is just a little to hard for me 
 and semi- pro is too easy i want something like almost pro or something overall this is a good 
 fun game with plenty of challenges and (not gameplay) unlockables to keep you playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madeirense
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  After i played PES 5 &amp; 6, i tought EA would never get back on their feet... But surprise, surprise..... 
 They managed to come up with an amazing soccer game, with a great gameplay, some awesome features, 
 like the replays. The manager mode is also pretty good... The games it self are a great deal of 
 fun, since u can't be hanging around with the ball. It's pure hardcore gaming... Goals are easy 
 to score, but the path u have to make to reach the other side of the field makes it funnier than 
 most of the other football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celticfan383
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  A waste of money and time.
  
  I bought this expecting a great game with loads of new features... Boy was I wrong
  
  I was 
 expecting maybe the Coca Cola Championship to be added... No.
  I was expecting maybe the Scottish Football Leagues 1-3 to be added... No.
  I was expecting to 
 be able to play as every World Cup team and to be able to recreate the World Cup... No.
  I was expecting to create UEFA Euro 2008 Qualifying and Tournament... No.
  I was expecting damn 
 good kits... No.
  I was expecting Goalkeeper Kits for every team... No.
  New and Unique Commentry which doesn't repeat every 10 seconds... No.
  
  I think that that 
 sums up what i expected and got out of the game.
  
  DO NOT BUY ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is the first fifa I've gotten since 98 world cup.
  
  It's actually pretty fun to play - the learning curve to me is pretty steep - well, actually if 
 you want to be really good in the game, if you want to learn all the advanced controls - like the 
 through ball, ground cross, lobbed through ball, early cross, early ground cross, one two pass, 
 blah, blah, blah.
  
  Basically the gameplay is solid - the only problem is that the computer has this special move where 
 they trip you in the box, and you aren't awarded a penalty kick. But you can't do this to them 
 when they are attacking you, or you'll give away a penalty every time.
  
  Some little things are really annoying should have been fixed, i can't believe they weren't.
 
  
  1. when you see your players match growth after a game, some of the words at the bottom of your 
 players profile are jumbled together, right on top of each other! this problem is ridiculous for 
 a triple AAA game! ultimately, this bug shouldn't stop you from buying the game, but it's just 
 a little thing that could have and should have made it better!
  2. when you resign players contracts, and you offer them a goal bonus or clean sheet bonus, for 
 some players, for some reason, you end up not paying the goal bonus - even though you offered to 
 pay it to them! Another thing that should've been fixed.
  
  Official leagues - good if you really into football - here in the US, it's not a big thing, so 
 I don't really care about authentic leagues and players all that much - MLS is a joke on the global 
 soccer scene.
  
  The manager mode is really fun - I like a lot how players progress over seasons - how you can see 
 how much they'll grow according to your scout level - so you can find a completely new random player, 
 sign him, grow him a little, and then sell him for a lot more than you signed him for.
  
  Ultimately, fifa is a soccer game worth buying, with or without the official leagues. So the fact 
 that they are in the game is another bonus.
  
  The price dropped from $40 to $20, here in the US, so if you're into sports games or soccer, or 
 you want to start trying to play sports games, fifa is worth $20 if you can spare it. You'll learn 
 the rules of soccer, how transfers (sort of trades between teams) , in soccer works, and how soccer 
 contracts work. It's a good game with a good price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  If you have been playing FIFA 06 and are moving to this version you are probably not going to see 
 much of an improvement. One of the new things FIFA 07 brings in is new ball physics which makes 
 the ball look more realistic in the way it spins and moves on the pitch. Probably one of the minor 
 details but it gives the game a nice touch. So instead of spending your money on it maybe wait 
 until next year's version. Now, if the latest FIFA game you have played is FIFA 2003 or before 
 then we have something in common and you should get this game. Seeing as I haven't played a recent 
 FIFA game, I see some of the stuff in FIFA 07 that was probably in last year's FIFA and possibly 
 the year before and I think 'this is cool'.
  
  The controls work well. I have had friends coming over who are only Playstation gamers who didn't 
 like the controls at first but said that after a little while they got used to it. In manager mode 
 you get to manage a team and develop your players in the Player Growth system which I enjoy using. 
 The Visual Sim is good to use if you can't be bothered playing a match but still want to progress 
 through the season and also watching all the things your team is doing. Overall, Manager Mode gives 
 you an in-depth experience of being a manager with scouting and the Youth Academy options available. 
 Also having the media ask you questions and the board giving you options of activities your teams 
 can do to build up team morale and fan support are great.
  
  I haven't used the online mode yet but by the looks of things it seems to be pretty fun. It gives 
 you the ability to download the latest squad updates, giving you the latest in transfers from the 
 real-world and putting it into your game. The Interactive leagues looks good where you play as 
 your club against fans of another club in real-life fixtures.
  
  The only problems with the game is how you have to control your defence all the time, the AI doesn't 
 do anything. But it's not really a big problem.
  
  Well, the gameplay is good, also being able to control spin on the ball when you take a free kick 
 or corner. The graphics are nice. The soundtrack is well put together and the songs stay in your 
 head for a long time after playing. With lots of options and also the challenges gives you many 
 things to do in this game. Overall like I said, if you are coming from older versions get it. If 
 you have played FIFA 06 it is probably not worth getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenging_arrow
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  EA Sport's FIFA is probably one of the most popular and best soccer series around, and FIFA 07 
 is no different. However FIFA 07 stays true to its roots by having all the features of the previous 
 games, however they are improved upon, with a couple of new ones. For the first time in FIFA history 
 the ball will react in a real way for example the accuracy of a shot is now determent by the player's 
 direction and his skill. The AI of the computer controlled players, teammates and opposition, have 
 been extensively increased. Despite this there is still couple of glitches with the AI, one of 
 the most annoying is that you still have to do most if not all of the defending while your computer 
 controlled opponents act as a fully coherent team. Although it is not such a big problem at the 
 lower difficulty levels and lower ranked teams, it does begin affecting your game at the higher 
 difficulty levels and against better teams. The game isn't very difficult however it is advised 
 that you spend a bit of time at the practice pitch before attempting to play the game. It should 
 take the new cumbers at least half an hour to master the different controls and a further hours 
 play to fully master all the different aspects and techniques in the game. With the different leagues 
 unlocks and challenges in the game expect it to last you for a very long time. All and all FIFA 
 07 is a rewarding and fun game for veterans and new cumbers, and is a must buy for any soccer fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manjabes
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  The game is in itself quite good, good graphics, real players, stadiums and stuff but the quirks 
 in it ruin the good taste rather fast.
  
  It seems that EA Canada has some fanatic rage against UI's. It has lost some of its most outrageous 
 blunders compared to FIFA 2005, but the game UI is still HORRIBLE. For example, when I try to navigate 
 to the squad management section in the pause menu with my mouse, it yells at me to use my assigned 
 controller (in my case, the keyboard) . Oh, fine, it lets me focus the menu item with my mouse (in 
 fact, when I try to navigate the menu with the keyboard and the mouse is on some menu item then 
 THAT menu item stays focused, not the one I try to navigate to) , but I have to hit Enter on the 
 keyboard to enter it. Apparently this decision has been made by total MORONS (sorry, there is no 
 polite way to express this) . The bastards should be hung. And then shot to be sure.
  
  And furthermore, this stupid trend to announce that a save is complete??? Why oh why? And of course, 
 all the notices that pop up , are SO SLOW AND UNRESPONSIVE to navigate with the keyboard it just 
 scares the intestines out of me. On the positive side, the game now lets you SEARCH for players 
 by their attributes, not just select them from teams like in '05. A great improvement. Still, the 
 UI suffers from their general UI misfortune.
  
  Another new and interesting feature is the fact that you have to give interviews sometimes. The 
 idea itself is great but the responses are quite clear in their effect. It'd be more entertaining 
 if the results of certain responses were not that obvious.
  
  So, if you manage to get past the horrific UI and start the actual football playing then the game 
 kind-of revives itself. The pitch is beautiful, players quite realistic and so on. In this part 
 of the game, the greatest FIFA ever. But there are annoying quirks even here. The defending players 
 that you currently are not controlling do ABSOLUTELY NOTHING USEFUL. A human cannot control 11 
 players simultaneously so some AI help would be useful. And another quirk from way back (FIFA 05) 
 is that according to the game a player gets an offside when he tries to shoot a rebounding (from 
 the keeper) ball to the net coming from a passive offside . The other player that shoots the first 
 time makes no attempt even to pass, just a plain old shot on goal but the game still screws this 
 up. Again, probably football is not that popular in Canada for the devs to notice this little but 
 annoying detail.
  
  All in all, it's an improvement over any other FIFA but still needs a lot of work. But for easy 
 entertainment, it's good enough. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wongsyshere
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is just another game in the FIFA series but it is hell fun and stuff cause its like the 
 only one i have. The graphics are pretty good and stuff but some of the players faces are kinda 
 screwed up and its funny.
  
  well yea so altogether its a fun and addictive game and also its cool how the player AI can be 
 heaps stupid sometimes in Amateur mode which is so funny and i save the replays and sutff man im 
 bored...
  
  yea well this is ma review. oh yea and like its fun cause u can make ur own team and make ur own 
 players and its heaps cool wen u see ur player score. and also the gameplay is good but some bits 
 arent done enough like the glitchy offside wen ur not sometimes. like for example, u shoot while 
 ur not offside but it rebouds off the post or the keeper then u kick in in the goal from the reboud, 
 but its called offside, that not offsides rite?
  
  besides that FIFA 07 is a great game cause its just addictive wen u bored and stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  I've been playing buying and renting FIFA games since fifa 04 came to shops.
  I've seen a one thing that makes a huge diffrence besides NHL hockey games FIFA games doesn't make 
 any changes! I mean that this crappy fifa 07 is the same old fifa 06 game just with better craphics.. 
 Man i'm happy that i didnt buy this game.
  
  
  
  
  Only sucess I sawed comparing the fifa 06 was that 07 has little more better graphics but than 
 i see so many things that are better in fifa 06! Lets start with the balls mobility: It's SOO freaky 
 weird that even in moon the ball wouldn't move like that! Unbeliveable how they screved up with 
 it... Then lets say something about sliding tackles: In fifa 06 there was at least some fun to 
 break the legs of your opponent team-m8 :D but in fifa 07 it's nearly impossible to hit with sliding 
 tackles or even to steal the ball from opponent particularly if they're hard rated!
  
  
  
  
  
  Players haven't changed at all still the same ronaldinho's and drogba's are running 
 in the field and it's so boring... I didn't like the cornering at all either it was just so strange 
 and its better in fifa 06. But you guys have to remember that i played this on PC so it's (maeby) 
 better on PS2 but who knows... I say one word more about controls that where strange i changed them 
 bu it didn't make the game feel better... I still dont how where to REALLY do tricks with the ball 
 I didn't find that command in practise mode... In game there wasn't that lot of diffrent game modes 
 but i passed the manager mode in like 35 hours... Other modes disapointed me and i didn't try them 
 more then once..
  
  
  
  So now after 5 weeks of playing I've been peeing on this game so dont you buy it ether or you have 
 to waste your expensive pee too!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is easily a recommended game because its so easy to play , if your a soccer fan no matter 
 even if your totally druged by winning eleven lol this yr fifa game delivers a nice punch . The 
 good points are these the graphics looks good, the music isn't bad after a few hours you'll get 
 use to it, the gameplay is fun knocking shots from the half line like Xabi Alonso or Matthew Talylor 
 swinging in some nice free kicks with Ronaldiho or recking havoc on the defense with Cristano Ronaldo. 
 So yes fifa is a fun including with its manager role its makes it one of the best if not best fifa 
 game to date, its really deep with the major teams and although the roster is gonna needs some 
 updates ea does provide you with downloads. The bad points are the goalkeepers are the worst youll 
 see since fifa 98 i mean some ridiculous glitches and drops and over the goal line stuff example 
 ill hit a wicked shot with enough power from 25 yards out and hell make a spectacular save then 
 when I'm at close range and hit a simple shot so soft and he cant hold it and so i just knock on 
 the rebound. Also free kicks is like open goal season .They are allot of errors that will cause 
 you to get very frustrated with him and it doesn't matter what level keeper you get they are all 
 the same. The old rosters for those who don't have internet will have to do them manual, not a big 
 big improvement to the players moves and they are even more difficult to do and also the lazy defense 
 . If you can over look the bad the game still delivers a nice little field including allot of leagues 
 to play and allot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gavin2232
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The pc version of FIFA 07 is a decent footballing experience with all the official leagues and 
 players plus an enjoyable match engine and manager mode. The graphics are decent with the well 
 know players having there own models and some good looking stadiums. On the pitch the game features 
 the ability to perform tricks although they are often ineffective and difficult to get correct 
 meaning most players will keep it simple. Personally I found the AI, even on world class, too easy 
 to defeat which takes the fun out of the manager mode. The normal game speed is a little slow and 
 i find it more enjoyable at the higher speed but having to revert to the lower speed for the online 
 games can be irritating. The create a team and player features are nice add-ons but we are being 
 to expect these to come as standard with other EA titles including them such as Tiger Woods. The 
 physics in the game seems much more realistic since the last in the series and this is a positive 
 step forward offering a more enjoyable experience. There are a few minor issues that effect the 
 realism, one being the goalkeepers. They make ridicules errors and the collision detection sometimes 
 fails. They are also useless at rushing in one-on-one situations which is particularly clear to 
 see facing an AI opponent. The free kick system once mastered can result in a goal from nearly 
 every free kick making the game that little bit easier. Overall the game is worth a look but still 
 has a long way to go before it will be a solid football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forstertj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  In 1995 the soccer-gaming world started. FIFA and EA released the first in the ever-going series. 
 It has now been 12 years since the release of FIFA '95 and its rather archaeic graphics and gameplay, 
 but have things improved? Simple answer, Yes. Complicated answer, absolutely. It can't be seen 
 any other way, FIFA 07 is just the best football game on PC to date, with it's massive player database 
 it has everyone from Paul Scholes and Wayne Rooney to Andy Ferrel (Hereford United, CCL2) . With 
 all the new tricks it makes it ever-easier to pass Rio Ferdinand and John Terry and with the all-new 
 shots available it makes it possible to beat Jens Lehmann, Van Der Sar and Casillas. The best improvement 
 in football since the prevention of back-passes, FIFA 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I don't like sport games so much. FIFA 07 is a very stupid game, but FIFA World Cup 
 2006 was relly a great &amp; addictive game. Now FIFA 07 is a great &amp; realistic soccer simulator 
 &amp; a really nice game to play, although its atmosphere is not better than the one in 2006 FIFA 
 WC. The graphics are really good, so much better than in FIFA 06, but I think the blurr is just to 
 much! The sound is really good, but the music is almost awfull, the best track would be Muse-Supermassive 
 Black Hole. The gameplay is much better &amp; much more realistic than in other FIFA titles. But 
 the bad thing is that some great teams, like the national teams of Czech Republic, Holland, or the 
 Romanian team Steaua Bucharest are missing, but teams such as AC Lugano or Orlando Pirates are present 
 in the game. The manager mode is really good &amp; realistic. I started my career as a manager ar 
 Middlesbrough,&amp; things are very nice. It's a very addictive game,&amp; it makes me curious 
 of what they will add in UEFA Champions League or FIFA 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbladechrome
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Being a player who has always thought Pro evo was a beter football title, i have to give EA props. 
 Fifa has definitely brought a winning title to the playing field with 07. While the game has some 
 damn good qualities, it still has it flaws, but we'll get to that later.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Texture qualities in fifa 07, is top notch hands down, but it has a huge turn off with the 
 blockiness of characters from the long distances, which il say if you are a real edgy about your 
 games grahpics, it could annoy you a little. Other than that, the graphics are nicely done.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay is for sure well done, and you can tell EA has put more effort into 
 gameplay than anything else. The game offers a huge amount of tricks to get pass the nasty defenders, 
 cool replay effects, more than your fair share of unlockables including third kits, stadiums, new 
 footballs and tons of other goodies that should keep you playing for hours on end. I would like 
 to see the game be a tad more challenging though
  
  Sound: The has a fairly large amount of menu sound tracks, and the stadium crowd is done well as 
 usual. The commentary after a while, will drive you insane however, with Andy Gray saying the most 
 stupidest comments ever like ' if you dont hit the target you are never gonna score ', yea isnt 
 that bloody obvious?? The sound quality is nice but the commentary definitely lacks a more broad 
 amount of comments
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall, this is a very nice title which is would recommend to anyone who likes to play a good 
 football game, and it will take you a while before you unlock some good game altering goodies.. dont 
 know if that tickles your fancy or not, up to you to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carigan006
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grottekvarnen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is here so get ready for some fun . This new title of Fifa won' t let anyone unhappy . 
 Gameplay ,graphics and sound are all very improved . When you play, you feel like you are in the 
 pinch and you are playing real football . My favorite part is season and as you will see , this 
 is the Season . There , you will have to do everything to get to the top . Things like upgrades 
 of your stadium , sent scouts for new talents and more , will make it very exciting . The players 
 look better and especially Ronaldinho is ver improved. Also something new is that you can control 
 the ball when you shoot and that way you will score unbelievable goals .These and other features 
 form the new title and promise hours of joy. Have fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emzeesquared
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is fun and all, but there is just way too many things this game needs improving on. 
 There are things that occur that make me want to throw my computer out the window, and this is 
 just not how a Fifa game should be. Other than these (major annoyances) problems, the game would 
 be brilliant.... but these take away from the game just that much!
  
  New Jostling Feature - This feature is a good idea for jostling for the ball, but totally screws 
 you up. As jostling uses the same directional joystick as the one used for deciding which direction 
 to volley the ball in. So if you are jostling for the ball and you move the player back to get 
 in position for the header and press the shoot button, you will head it backwards, or if you are 
 holding forward to shoot it at the net the player will simply run in that direction because he 
 is in jostle mode and not volley mode. Good idea but it seems common sense that it would be one 
 joystick for the jostle feature and another for the direction of which you want to play the ball.
 
  
  Through Ball (long ball) Pass - This feature has been butchered, and anybody who knows soccer knows 
 the long ball is the most effective pass in the sport. This game makes it almost un-usable, as 
 the through balls seem to be almost direct passes as oppose to a pass way ahead of the player that 
 the player runs to. I don't know why they messed with this feature as in 06 and Fifa world cup 
 it is fine.
  
  Difficulty - The difficulty settings are just retarded, mind my language. If you set it to world 
 class, the AI gets a bit more difficult, but it seems more that your teams defence is useless and 
 your goalie lets any shot in as oppose to making the actual team harder to beat they make your 
 team easier to beat. This is something I can't stand, you can have 10 really great shots on their 
 net and their goalie will make nearly impossible saves to every one, even rebounds. And then they 
 get one break away because the defender which you are not controlling runs away from the ball instead 
 of towards it and the player gets one lousy low powered shot off and the goalie makes an effortless 
 (and in most cases an unsuccessful) attempt to save it. Referies - I also think that the ref's 
 in this game have it in for your team in every match. About 10 times I had a breakaway and a player 
 was behind me grabbing my shirt, i get into the box and start powering up a shot when my player 
 gets pulled down, not once has it been a foul or penalty shot. Then you are doing the same when 
 chasing after the opposing player and they fall it's a foul and even a card. I really don't understand, 
 yes it makes the difficulty setting more difficult, but isn't there a better way such as making 
 the team harder to beat, as oppose to letting the opposing team get away with murder in the box 
 all the time - oh and another thing fifa creators, when a play passes the ball to his own goalie 
 using his feet, it's a penalty shot!
  
  Free Kicks - Yes indeed you already know about this if you have played Fifa 06 or world cup, you 
 will overshoot the net incredibly on the first free kick you attempt on this game; and quite possibly 
 overshoot the next 5 as well until you realize that you just have to tap the shoot button as lightly 
 as you can so that the bar is about 5% full and if your lucky it will go under the bar instead 
 of hitting it. I don't know why they made it so that going over 5% power overshoots the net, it's 
 quite ridiculous.
  
  Misc. - this is just random stuff that happens in the game that is just weird. For example the 
 ball got hit onto the crossbar of the net and just stayed there, and all the players just watched 
 it, no whiste or anything. Regardless, i still love this game and play it daily while trying to 
 pass off these major annoyances, which shows it has great potential. It's a shame EA doesn't know 
 a thing about footbal/soccer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prabindra
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  The game is good but not enough to beat other like Konami, as they are improving a lot in graphic 
 quality. I found the graphic quality low than as I played in Fifa 2006 worldcup Germany. The football 
 ground is brown in color as it feels like I'm playing in dry grass ground. Others are good in game 
 play. But still need changes in quality. Sound is fantastic. Special moves is not enjoyable than 
 last verson. The game details is not soo colorful, it still need to paint in graphic details in 
 the game screen. So its not good enough than Konami new soccer game release. Better quality improvement 
 than older verson make gamer much intrest. but this version didn't give much interesting that last 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grangersp3000
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are about the only improvement that really makes a difference. The AI still has a long 
 way to go. There is still far too little action off the ball. Its basically 1 V. S. 1 99% of the 
 time. The other ten player just stand around and watch. They do not create or defend or dummy. 
 They just watch. As for the goalie; there is no reason for a pass to go in the net. It happens 
 probably once every ten games. The goalies don't have any awareness. The ball is passed too strongly, 
 yet it trickles in the net any way. Other than these negatives, everything else is great. Awesome 
 gameplay options. Lots of fun. Room for improvement though, cant wait for 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATFNeOpHyTe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I've bought this game because I like soccer, and this should be the game on the PC. Well when I 
 first played the game it was better then previous series. The looks (graphics) are better then 
 ever, sounds also improved.
  then the gameplay: nothing really changed on the passing system; when you want to pass to your 
 left winger you press in that direction, he passes to the guy in the f***ing middle, which i can 
 remember was why i didnt bought fifa 06, because fifa 05 had the same thing. Shooting is quite 
 much still the same a bit more difficult (less accurate) and skill shot or something like that, 
 but other then that it's still the same as in fifa 04 or 03 (dont quite remember) . The keeper, 
 still a louzy mofo, punches when he could easily caught it, is still on the ground after 2 seconds 
 he ball went away from him, never seen that irl, did you? tackling: even if you slide in early 
 but the oppo hits your head you'll get an FK against, sometimes when you almost break his legs 
 from behind not even an FK against :S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Well this is the best FIFA game yet.... why?... because EA wants to be ProEvo so badly that they 
 changed the controls to be almost identical. Well that's good in my opinion..... see, sometimes 
 I get tired of ProEvo's absolute control and attention to detail in the gameplay and I long for 
 more of an absent minded kinda arcade type soccer.... well that's where FIFA comes in... and with 
 FIFA 07, I no longer have to re-adjust to the difference in controls because EA finally conformed! 
 So that's what makes it the best FIFA yet! (although i must admit I had a lot more fun with 06 
 and WC than 07) Well, ok, so besides no longer having to get used to the difference in controls 
 every time I switch between them, what else is FIFA07 good for? hmmm....... hmmm...... well, nothing 
 much really.... EA did not disappoint us with the traditional incorrect commentary that is usually 
 late and often doesn't make sense. And I can't tell you how tired I am of hearing won that well 
 or any of the other 4 comments.... I exaggerate but seriously, play with the commentary for more 
 than a couple days and you'll be turning it off.... which is too bad cause the commentary is about 
 the only thing that makes that particular game..... if ProEvo had commentary like that they would 
 be hands down winnders across the board. Also EA does not disappoint with their confusing user 
 interface. You have to go into one section to check out player contracts and growth, and then if 
 you decide you want to renew a contract based on this info,.... oops... nope..... back all the way 
 out and go into the transfers area a couple screens deep... hell by that time my ADD has kicked 
 in and I don't even remember what player I was looking at.... and EA... please!!! stop with the damn 
 animated menus..... and the annoying  sound 
 is, as usual, very annoying.....
  
  I would really like to see better rewards for the points you get off the challenges (WC was trying 
 to get there but most of the rewards were pretty lame) Well anyway, I could go on but hey, check 
 it out yourself... bottom line for this player: FIFA is worth having, so is pro Evo... they both 
 have their strengths... certainly would be nice if EA and Konami teamed up and just made one nice 
 big kick ass game
  
  Oh and by the way, as is tradition with EA's FIFA line..... the computer cheats all the time, usually 
 at the last minute so you don't have a chance to counter.... don't take it out on your gamepad or 
 keyboard, just quietly say you **** and end task on the executable.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_samurai
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  From the first whistle of the season to heartbreak of cup failure, FIFA 07 throws you into the 
 rollercoaster ride of a football season, has your team got what it takes to win the league or will 
 they bravely battle relegation -its all up to you. Relish every scintillating victory over bitter 
 rivals and fume through every gut-wrenching poor performance at home. Savour the spinetingling 
 stadium atmosphere, home and away, as your team battles their way up the league table. track your 
 team's progress as the aggregate result determine your club's position in the league table. Now 
 you actually take to the pitch for the glory of your club. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccerking22
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  This game runs but seems to start lagging when I start a match. The game play doesn't seem to lag 
 so much but the cut scenes lag a lot. After pausing the game in the middle of a match, it's hard 
 to scroll to different options and my monitor refreshes really slowly. Black screen, game, black 
 screen, etc. Just wanted to know if anyone had any suggestions. I have a P5Wd2 premium mobo, x800 
 gto video card, 2 gigs RAM, and a 3.4 ghz processor. Seems to me that I should not be having any 
 problems. Can you send me a message if you know what the problem may be?
  
  Thank you,
  Emilio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marck_rock
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  The good thing about FIFA 2007 is the manager mode, which is generally fun to play... i like it 
 very much.
  
  The commentary has hardly improved... the sound is superb..
  
  The new online feature, which allows you to track the fixtures of your favourite club and play 
 them on your pc is an innovative feature. That's a good plus for game.
  
  The best of this thing are the gameplay7graphics... To shooting: is amost impossible to shoot at 
 goal from outside the box... i cant do that..
  Online feature came to make the difference with the interactive leagues.
  So anyway... a great 
 game...
  ENJOY IT... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aniket_sucker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Well.................... The game had just to be continuation of the FIFA series... but the manager 
 has been well improved on. It seriously makes u feel like a manager. SO REALISTIC!!! Graphics is 
 not much improved. EA seriously has to work on the goalkeeper's AI. It is pretty stupid. Glitches 
 are still there. But if u're playing the manager mode. In the excitement u forget everything. It 
 coined all the modern tricks together. But i gotta say the ratings of some players are not correct.... those 
 stuffs have to be corrected. But Heck fun while playing especially in manager mode. It has been 
 the best game this series.. there isn't a doubt about that. But very few glitches need to be corrected 
 as 1 mentioned above. But in little words......... Very Very fun game to play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  EA Sports hasn't often improved on anything, if ever. NHL was better this year, Madden was about 
 the same and FIFA, well, it got better.
  
  This is not a big step over the least one, but it is enough to make it worth having.
  
  If 
 you are a Man U fan (piss off!) and that is bad enough, you will like this because your team is 
 over rated as usual. The real plus though is that the game is better in AI, graphics and all around 
 gameplay.
  
  If you are a fan of this series, it got better and keep playing it, depsite the fact I hate supporting 
 EA because they are just so lame and unable to support thier customers.
  
  FIFA 07 is very good, there isn't much more to say, it is graphically great and footy is always 
 the goods. If you read any of my reviews (and I assume you have) you know this is a pretty good 
 review from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid soccer game that manages to draw you in with its various game modes and provide 
 a very realistic experience. Its hard to rate these types of games because they're part of a genre 
 you either will like or hate. I hate playing football games. But I love watching football. I love 
 playing soccer games but I hate watching soccer games (sans World Cup) . Graphics
  FIFA 07 is nothing but a good update of 06. It has better graphics, new modifications to its manager 
 mode but not much else. I havn't played 06 so I will stick to the current iteration. The graphics 
 are outstanding for a soccer game. I do wish camera angles can zoom in more, but that would be 
 asking too much and deviate from the proper gameplay (who needs such a closeup of the grass when 
 you can't see the majority of the field and lose out on all the player positions?) . Graphically, 
 I was surprised that while its not unsurprisingly demanding as FPS games it managed to slow down 
 my system and displayed not more than 35 fps. On FEAR, with my 7950gt I get upwards of 50 and 60 
 whereas on this game I only got 35. Sure HDR is great and the character model and details are superb, 
 but 35? It felt like a slight letdown. As well, the crowd actions are a bit contrived. not only 
 do they jump up and down the same way, when you see them up close on corner kicks they look so 
 much like cardboard cutouts its depressing.
  
  Music
  The music is astounding. I absolutely loved the tracks available and the number of songs on. I 
 also enjoyed the various crowd noises and the commentators ( always loved british accents)
  Gameplay
  I used a xbox 360 controller and the controls worked just fine. I wish rumble support 
 existed, but I'm not complaining. The new addition of special moves with the right analogue was 
 a great addition. If you've read the official review then you know what that is. Unfortunately 
 I felt like it was a lot harder to utilize than it should have been.
  
  Skill Level
  On amature this game is a joke, you'll almost always score and almost always win. At higher settings 
 like semi-pro and up the game becomes more challenging and opposing teammates are more aggressive, 
 shoot more often and tackle more often (likewise garnering more penalties) . However, occasionally, 
 the AI goalie will jump the wrong way (annoying but I can deal with it... i just make excuses, ohh 
 he was looking the wrong way) .
  Still, the game could have had more intelligent AI.
  
  On that note, i wish the game allowed for practicing modes that allowed you to practice specific 
 skills such as dribbling, passing, special moves etc., much as you would find in football games.
 
  
  Overall, this game is great for soccer fans, but its slow paced, gets repetitive and isnt for everyone. 
 Then again, thats how all soccer games are, I'm just into it because, well, its soccer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Amazing graphics, better sounds, better gameplay and much more improvements than before. It is 
 the first time that FIFA competes PRO Evolution Soccer. In FIFA 07 players' movements are extremelly 
 realistic, not only when they run or walk, but generally in their behavior in the ground. Their 
 reactions are very true, all over the game, depending from the score. Also, a player with the ball 
 moves slower than the rival defender. More realistic is the scoring. In order to score, important 
 role plays if the footballer is tired, his characteristics, the position of the goalkeeper, etc. 
 Still, in FIFA 2007 there is a very effective meter. It is a bar presented on the screen (near 
 the score) , which shows the mood of the team during the game. It depends from the score and chances. 
 So, you have much more possibilities to score if your team made enough attacks, if your players 
 lost more occasions than the opponent etc, and the meter is up. Graphics are fantastic. Players, 
 kits, stadiums etc are very realistic. Things are better in the level of sound, too. The two broadcasters 
 have more expressions with less repeating. Fans sound better and if there are silent in the field 
 (it depends from the game) you will listen to the players voices. Also, if you are three or more 
 goals ahead, you can hear your fans sing ole when your players will change the ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don_sheru
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Yet another soccer game from EA! This time, its huge! Lot more Teams (Clubs) and new features as 
 well! You can create Club teams and design Uniform as well as the team logo! First time ever PC 
 has the Blurry Motion in Cut-Scenes as in Consoles! As usual... PC has much better Graphics compared 
 to current-gen consoles!
  
  EA has produced much more realistic features this time to be prepared and compete their Rivals 
 in Soccer games - PES! There are 2 main new feature by EA in this Game!
  
  1) L1 + L2 Feature: This feature help in shooting the Ball with kinds of spinning it! Helps in 
 much situations!
  2) Much like PES series, the player can move around while the ball is in the air. A marker is shown 
 where the ball is going to be land!
  
  Overall, the game is superb and every Soccer lover has to own it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreagan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  FIFA '07 for PC is a definite improvement over its predecessors. It still lacks the realism of 
 the WE/PES games, however it is still more enjoyable to play. Manager mode is improved, 720p resolution 
 is great, gameplay is better, graphics are more real, online is supreme, and overall it is a huge 
 step forward in soccer simulations. If you are a FIFA series fanboy this is a definite necessity. 
 However, if you are a WE/PES fanboy it isn't quite that much better that you just have to switch 
 over. So, in closing FIFA 07 is the best game form the series yet and the best soccer simulation 
 to date and is a must have for any true soccer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesare313
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  I spent most of my weekend trying out this game and enjoyed it in that I could run a little bit 
 with the bakll and had some freedom to actually pass the ball. Due to gamepad problems I still 
 learning some of the controls. Beginner mode is easy to begin with and sometimes you might get 
 a shock. The shooting takes a little bit gettng used to. Graphics is very good until the close 
 up shots reveal a slight haze around the players. Weatrher is lovely I had the joy of playing when 
 it was raining and then the rain going away. It made a difference to me. The ball bounces realistically 
 and the attackers and midfielders are good. The defenders need to be improved a bit and the goalkeepers 
 range from the sublime to the weird as they can pull off great saves and then suddenly make a big 
 error. I learnt something in the short time I played. And that is don't give away direct free kicks 
 as the goalkeepers never seem to save them. That hinders the game for me as you have to carefull 
 with your challenges. The referees need to be more consistent as the make some bad decisions out 
 of the blue. I scored from a corner on my first match but never again as the keeper adjusted his 
 position and thats good but they do need to be harder to score against. Overall a good game that 
 getting better. Maybe it just might become the bestyfootball series ever with fifa 08. To do this 
 goalkkepers will have to improved, marking made better and a new graphic engine that has steeper 
 requirements and not 32mb. I have a 7900gtx and want a game to test the card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iknik
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  The graphics of the new FIFA installment are surprisingly substandard. Usually, the games in this 
 series offer slicker graphics every year, but the current version looks dated and ugly.
  
  The gameplay is sluggish. Since fluent passing is nearly impossible, attacks usually end up just 
 outside the box, which is crowded with players from both teams. Luckily, every single player in 
 the game is an excellent sharp-shooter from 20 or 30 yards. And since every single player is also 
 a horrible striker, spoiling at least 3 out of 4 chances when one-on-one with the keeper, long 
 range shots are the way to go anyway. Oh, and you can forget about headers. Winning and controlling 
 a header is nearly impossible.
  
  It's possible, of course, to learn the game. But it doesn't feel like mastering the gameplay, it 
 feels like learning to deal with horrible controls.
  
  The good thing about FIFA 2007 is the manager mode, which is generally fun to play. But one wonders 
 about one thing: who came up with the contract negotiation scheme and why didn't anyone tell him 
 or her that it's stupid? When you want to sign a player, you have to determine a number of variables. 
 Should I offer the player a contract for two years, or three years, or maybe more? How high should 
 the salary be? Should I add a bonus for every time the player scores? Since there is no way to 
 find out wht the player wants, you just have to guess these values. You then offer the contract, 
 and the player says yes or no, and if he says no you again have no clue why he does so. Should 
 the salary be higher? Should be three years instead of two? Does he want a bonus? You just don't 
 know. If a player turns an offer down, you have to wait a few week until you can make a new wild 
 guess. The big question is: why would anyone create such a crippled negotiation scheme? How is 
 it possible that no one at the FIFA team realized how utterly lame and unsatisying it is? It's 
 not so bad that it makes the manager mode unplayable, but it does suck some of the life out of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rich-of-uk
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is a game that you should definitely rent before buying because i know a few people who 
 love but a lot of people who think it is pathetic.
  
  The best thing about this game is either the licensing e. g leagues, boots, balls or the manager 
 mode. Although the matches in manager mode make you want to just do a quick sim as the game is 
 so repetitive and the all the visual sim does is sometimes tell if someone has a shot, is fouled 
 or scores.
  
  Online play isn't very good either as most of the matches dont even work and sometimes if your 
 winning 5-0 a screen comes up saying that you cannot connect to the other player and you dont end 
 up getting a win on your profile page.
  
  There are also many glitches in this game such as the Shut Off glitch which causes the game to 
 switch off by itself.
  
  If you prefer licenced equipment and a manager mode and you are not bothered by unrealistic gameplay 
 then go for FIFA 07.
  
  If you are not bothered by licences but you prefer better gameplay, realism and graphics go Pro 
 Evo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saergas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  Fifa 2007 is already my favourite Fifa game to date, because of several reasons. It's more realistic 
 than previous fifa games, looks (slightly) better than the last Fifa and it's entire presentation 
 has improved greatly.
  
  The gameplay is quite standard, everyone knows the fifa controls, which haven't changed. But it 
 is great to use 'C' and be able to outskill your opponent, instead of running straight through 
 your opponent (think fifa 2000 and earlier) . The graphics are naturally great, which they have 
 to be. You have to get the feeling you're in control of an actual football game, which is the case 
 in this game. The replays after (almost) goals have improved greatly as well. As for sound, not 
 a lot of new stuff. The commentary has, as far as I can tell, hardly improved, except for Andy 
 Gray who keeps telling that the best players would have taken a certain chance, even when you're 
 playing with Ronaldinho or van Persie. Overall, this game is a really good value, if you're a fan 
 of the genre that is. I loved and still love playing this game, something I don't get with a lot 
 of games.
  
  So, if you're looking for a good-looking, sometimes challenging football games with many options 
 (creating teams, players, manager mode) , get this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game certainly lives up to it's expectations. The gameplay is fabulous. AI is really good. 
 The game has good commentary and the sounds are awesome. The graphics are quite good. Some players 
 really look very funny, though. The game is like quicksand, once you get in to it, you cannot come 
 out easily. You would just want to keep on playing, playing and playing.
  EA has really done well this time. FIFA 2006 was not that good. This one is certainly the best 
 in series. And also, taking the free kicks is extremely tough. It is difficult to figure out how 
 to get the ball inside the goal. But challenges make any game better.
  
  Everyone is recommended to try out this game and in case you like football, grab this as soon as 
 you can!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lenong309
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is the best ever in the series so far. A lot of changes have been made to the gameplay, 
 though I wonder if it's just me or the game resembles Pro Evolution in many ways, especially the 
 corner kicks and the free kicks. To those for whom gameplay is only secondary, FIFA 07 is a great 
 game, in terms of presentation. The manager mode is quite interesting and a lot of fun to play. 
 Difficulty wise, FIFA 07 is still quite easy. And once you've mastered the many special techniques 
 of the game (not really difficult to master) like curving the ball in mid air, the game's a breeze, 
 even at world class level.
  The new online feature, which allows you to track the actual fixtures of your favourite club and 
 play them on your pc is quite an innovative feature. That's a good thing about the game.
  To wrap it up, FIFA 07 is a good single player game (due to the manager mode) but an average soccer 
 game. It doesn't very well emulate the thrill and the rush of soccer, but it's the closest EA has 
 ever come to.
  If you prefer playing games against humans rather than the computer, Pro Evolution Soccer is a 
 wiser choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranjan_united
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  After playing FIFA 06, I was extremely disappointed, especially since FIFA 2005 was so good. Therefore, 
 I was really hoping that FIFA 07 would be something totally different. And I wasn't let down. The 
 first thing noticeable about the game, is the game-play. It is by far one of the best game-plays, 
 especially in the Professional and World-Class difficulty modes. The AI has improved a lot and 
 although defending has become a bit more difficult, it just adds to the fun since, if you manage 
 to defend well, you can do a lot of damage during counter-attacks. Although I play on PC, I have 
 a Logitech pad controller and I would recommend it to other PC Gamers as well for FIFA 07. If you 
 use the keyboard, you will be missing out on a lot of the game's special features. I also like 
 the game's auto-update feature. No more manually going through entire team rosters, transferring 
 players, worrying if you missed anything. Overall, a really good game. Not brilliant, but definitely 
 good and worth having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creswellh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  This is just put together fabulously! So many options and different types of game play! AI is really 
 good and the diffrent levels makes it easier to get hooked. Take up amateur to get started and 
 used to the controls and later test your self against some awesome teams! The day I got the game, 
 I let my buddy have a go at it and he was hooked - went and bought the game the next day! Still 
 need to sort out the on line mode, but just need to download a patch for that. Struggeld to establish 
 the version of my game, but the on line forum at gamespot has been of great help! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhekimci
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Before I spill out my opinion on FIFA07 PC version, let me tell you that I am more interested in 
 the online game play aspect of the FIFA series rather than the management or offline mode. In that 
 respect, I can easily say that the actual game play has been improved a lot over 06 with the new 
 ball physics, more realistic player movement and animation. Through balls are no longer supernaturally 
 precise. No longer can any man on the field pull trick moves, and get away with it. The added ball 
 spin feature sounds nice, but I'm not sure I have been able to observe it too obviously so far. 
 I'm still working on it. Finesse shots are a feature that we have been missing for a long time. 
 You longer have to rocket the ball into the net from 2 feet. You can flick it right past the goalie 
 with a well timed and well placed finesse shot. Heading crosses into the net have been made more 
 difficult. This is a good in a sense, because people used to abuse it last year. However, this 
 time around, it feels a little too rare when somebody can score a header. Certain players like 
 Eto or Ronaldinho can feel like they move inhumanly fast at times, which results in 65% of online 
 players choosing Barcelona as their team, and the rest of the crowd trying to avoid playing against 
 Barcelona, because sometimes it feels a bit unfair.
  
  The EA Sports Online, which is the game interface that is shared throughout all EA Sports PC games 
 for interacting with other players online, is well behind being able to achieve more than the VERY 
 BASIC needs only. You have no way of knowing who you played 5 minutes ago unless you wrote it down 
 on a piece of paper, or you have a great memory. It can get a little frustrating to locate North 
 American players at times, and that results in having to deal with high ping players, which ruin 
 the experience for both sides.
  
  Nevertheless, I think FIFA07 is better than its predecessor in many ways, and can be recommended 
 to any football fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmsssak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  GOOD THINGS:
  well the good things i found is that they provide u with a better challenges from opposing teams, 
 grafix r good too but there is no big change in them.
  the best thing i found was the free kicks bcuz now u can even bring a better curve on the shot 
 unlike the previous ones .
  everything on its place is good ea has done much better this time unlike previous games we just 
 had to point out the weaknesses of computer and then no matter how much difficulty u set u can 
 still win without any good challlenge but here the case is different its not like that u cant win 
 unless u r expert
  
  THE BAD:
  well what i saw the keepers had a good control on the close shots but on the far ones they just 
 r too clumzy.
  but the patch has fixed this prob and the grafix engine i think it needs improvment bcuz it gets 
 bad on some places . and yes the penalty kicks r same like the winning eleven style i didnt like 
 that one at all it just quite easy and sometimes even ur best player gives the worse shot that 
 doesnt even go near the bar of the goal. and the thing i found disapointing is that its really a 
 fast game i mean u dont see this fast action in a real match the shud hav been a lil slower to 
 make it look better and the ball movments r not exactly as we see it in the real matches i mean 
 if the goal kick is given the ball comes down in no time as if their is no air present to make 
 its downward motion a bit slow
  
  OVERALL:
  well its a gr8 improvment and i think this is their best performance in the whole series they shud 
 b appreciated
  but many things r there which r same as winning eleven .
  ea shud make a game totally different that what makes them on challenge
  anyways the game is 
 good and i giv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Phoenix
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  i prefer 06 on it
  players are slow stupid but look a lil better
  the goal keeper is more that stupid and does foolish moves most of the time
  the corner kick 
 was better in 06 so what did ea think when making such a game!!!!!!
  better do some fast and effective updates soon to fix this fully bugs game
  btw i donno what 
 other ppl found good in this game
  maybe it's their first or some thing any way i'm playng fifa games since 98 and this is 1 of the 
 **** game ever after fifa 2001
  maybe ea should work with konami and make a great foo-ball sim for the good of all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_falcon90
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  A marvelous game, created by the magicians,, EA.
  
  What a great game! and what a great piece of art this game is!!
  I can't get enough of it, I 
 really mean it..
  it's not just the realistic gamplay, or the well-made graphics, and it's not just the most realistic 
 commentary ever,, IT'S ALSO BEING IN THE GAME, and this game takes you to a hole new level of gaming 
 experience.
  so lets take a look at this game:
  
  -Gameplay:
  this game is what companies such as Konami should follow to make an exciting, realistic game. It's 
 greatness is obvious in every where in the staduim, from the goalkeeper, to the midfielders, to 
 the strikers, and to the fans!! as I said, this game takes you to a new level of gaming experience, 
 a level where the passes are great, and the shooting is awesome, and the goalkeeping is Oliver-kahn 
 y level.
  
  -Graphics:
  With the new graphics level you will see the great goals in a whole new great way that will even 
 make you enjoy the replays for the first time!!
  the players details are great, the ball look is great, the stadiums are well made...
  
  -Sounds:
 
  commentary is so great! in every language, trust me on this..
  the other sounds as always,,
  and finally the songs in the playlist,, just hear them and then 
 tell me!!
  
  -Value:
  I really wrote this review to make people who are not convinced in this game to buy it and see 
 for themselves if it worths their money or not,, but I assure you, It WORTHS EVERY CENT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebeast78
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  How is it possible that every year, these games get scores well over an 8? I've played most of 
 them, and can tell you they honestly don't deserve such ratings. I'm honestly starting to believe 
 reviewers (the official ones) are either not altogether objective (i'll leave money out of this... 
 and am more pointing in the direction of some sort of occupational pressure...) or don't play the 
 game for an reasonable amount of time (that is: more than five times) .
  
  The other reviewers are probably mostly unable to overcome the sense they paid a lot of money for 
 something that wasn't really worth it... and try to see the positive, ignoring the negative (no 
 matter how hard it screams: here I am, look at me !) . I'll just point out some of the most obvious 
 weaknesses. These should be enough to conclude that, really, the high marks are undeserved, no 
 matter how you look at it:
  
  Goalkeepers (I) : they blunder, blunder, blunder ! I mean, it doesn't matter if you've got Petr 
 Czech in your goal or some random lower level wannabe, they all make random, extremely stupid mistakes. 
 For some reason they frequently aren't able to parry the simplest shots from outside (and sometimes 
 inside) the box. Slow 'shots' hobble by, and they often just stand there, not doing anything. When 
 they do make a safe, they often just stop the ball (not pushing it aside, as every keeper knows 
 he should) so the inevitable rebound almost always is a sure goal. It is so extremely frustrating 
 when you're supposed high-class keeper make the simplest mistakes, making your hard earned advantage 
 dissapear in thin air. The sollution for me (at the world class level) was defend like a madman, 
 keeping the opponent from getting anywhere near your penalty box, knowing full well your goalie 
 isn't worth s*** (even if his name is Kahn or Dida or Czech) . Goalkeepers (II) : that said: they 
 are often really good inside the penalty box (although they hardly ever push low balls to the side) . 
 Yes, that's right: your (or mostly the AI) totally worthless keeper can make the most impossible 
 safes when shots are blasted at goal from just a few metres distance. And they do this with some 
 sort of 'time-freezing' ability: they just stand there frozen, untill you blast at the corner: 
 then they are (often) there, all of a sudden, like they teleported or something.
  
  All of this, mind you, is only getting really frustrating on the highest difficulty setting. On 
 this setting, the computer opponent generally make every chance, getting every help from your keeper.
 
  
  Your other players: they are often unresponsive: you frequently are unable to receive a pass, as 
 they don't come towards the ball when it is played to you. You don't seem able to resolve this 
 problem with your controls, they simply respond too late. This again is something a soccer player 
 learns on his first training: therefore it is an unforgivable mistake. Selecting a player is also 
 often illogical, not selecting the one who's most obviously in the position to step in for a tackle 
 (this is a problem which leads to the biggest problems when defending, obviously) .
  
  Shooting: it is amost impossible to shoot at goal from outside the box. Shots, no matter how you 
 direct it, or how much pace you give it, almost always end up in the stands. This makes your terrible 
 goalie much less of a big deal, i'll admit that, for your computer opponent can't really shoot 
 as well (even on the highest difficulty setting) . However, this is ridiculous: you can't shoot, 
 even with great space around you, and if, by chance, you manage to get a shot on goal, you'll often 
 score, even if the shot was lousy!!
  
  This last mistake makes all others (and believe me, there are many more) pale in comparison: it 
 makes the game (at times) ridiculous. Reading this review must make the reader get the impression 
 that the game is much too difficult to play on the 'world-class' level. The fact is: this isn't 
 true: it is (again, most of the time) way too easy. I've managed to win almost all my matches on 
 the highest level, despite forementioned errors.
  This is accomplished because the AI is stupid in it's fieldplay also: they don't go for obvious 
 combinations and (like previous editions) run with the ball way too often at the wrong moments, 
 making it rather easy to get the ball from them: the result: you dominate every single match, and 
 are bound to score eventually. Now i've come to a point where i'm going to give Pro Evolution Soccer 
 (despite it's difficult learning curve) a serious chance. Chances are this was the last fifa I 
 played... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amanology
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  EA Sports FIFA series is really the best in it's genre and they have no competitor. Since FIFA 
 98 they lead the market, but really I'm not happy for that and all players shouldn't be happy for 
 that.
  
  FIFA 07 should release in 1999 or 2000. EA is kidding, they are improving the GFX, sounds, tactics, 
 but the update is moving slowly, and it should be major updates in the game in all it's sides.
 
  
  Really, it's a little difference between FIFA 06 and it's update FIFA 07, they should release a 
 patch of this updates into FIFA 06.
  
  We need a real competitor for EA, to see FIFA 2010 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aygol
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 07 with its completely remastered gameplay is the best sports game in current-gen. This year, 
 a lot of new features added to this game and it's really cool. now PES doesn't have any chance 
 to be on top. Trust me, this is the best sports game ever made. I played the PC version and it's 
 really really amazing. it's a HUGE CHANGE. don't look at those bad reviewers, and don't look at 
 the trailers, just play the game and ENJOY. Trust me, you will not be disappointed.
  This is the best sports game ever made. Don't forget about that. EA built a new online mode, that 
 enables you to play with your favorite team and be the first in the league. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozo_hawk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is the best football game ever made. The graphics and the sounds are very good and the players 
 are made like in reality. I like most the freekicks because you have do beat them like in reality. the 
 soundtracks are many but teh soundtrack of Fifa 2006 was more nices. What can i say... In the end 
 play fifa 07 because you won't regret any minutes play on it. Enjoy Fifa 07 and goodluck. I forgot 
 to say the best team in my opinion is Real Madrid. But the Chelsea is the richiest and Barcelona 
 has the Best Player of yhe Year 2006 RONALDINHO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyw1988
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Well, I have gotten every soccer game Konami and EA has produced and so it comes of no surprise 
 that fifa 07 ended up in my collection. Both Winning 11 and Fifa have their strengths and weaknesses 
 so I would not critise any of them in my review here. With that said, lets begin.
  
  Gamplay:
  Probably, the best gameplay I have seen in the fifa series. EA basically took winning 
 eleven's gameplay and added it into fifa 06. And the results were simply magnificent. The game 
 has become so realistic that it feels as though you are watching a real football match. Everything 
 from passes to free kicks and corners play as would a real life soccer game.
  
  Graphics:
  Hasn't really tweaked much since 06. But you could see EA are improving on player 
 models to make them look more real. Couple of slight graphical bugs around but nothing an average 
 gamer would notice.
  
  Sound:
  Everything from kick off to the final whistle is done well.
  
  Value:
  Plenty! Apart from 
 your normal tornaments, there is an extensive manager mode and lots of online stuff to do. Furthermore, 
 EA makes it a point to produce updates to the game during transfer periods so that squads and team 
 management are as close as possible to their real life counterparts. Also, the new interective 
 league feature lets you play online against different players the same as your real life team plays.
 
  
  Overall:
  Great game! If you are a soccer fan, it is a must have. The only complain that I have is EA's after 
 sale's service. Other than that the game works perfectly fine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chirloc
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  When playing fifa, half the time you'll be wondering to yourself, wtf? There seems to be 2-3 ways 
 for the game to respond to your controls. For example, when pressing button 2, you're never sure 
 if you're going to pass the ball, or switch players. You will sometimes literally have possesion 
 of the ball, press button 2, lose possesion of the ball, control an entirely differently player, 
 and lose possesion. The gameplay hardly ever makes sense, the controls only respond to what you 
 press half the time, if you want to stop going forward, and take a left while dribbling, sometimes 
 you'll be able to, other times you'll just keep running strait. This is the worst game ever made. 
 Stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Oh pepz
  
  Each year FIFA gets better, 07 is very suprisingly good!!!! the only negative point are the graphics! 
 same 06 engine... but 08 will be different for sure...
  
  The gameplay is awesome, looking the movements let you thing you're seeing real players...
  when 
 you shoot the goal, player must be on a good position... this is good
  
  the soundtrack is superbbbbb 90% of good music and 10% of medium low music...
  
  Online feature 
 came to make the difference with the interactive leagues.
  
  I'm very proud to say that i have this game...
  
  This game is the only one that makes me scream 
 very loud and vibrate in front of PC
  
  ehehehehehhehehehehe
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Its became almost something expectable that those old days that each year FIFA surprised his fans 
 are really gone! Although FIFA 2007 is a great game with a lot of new options but this is not what 
 we were expecting! Each year FIFA series miss an important part of the game more and more; The 
 Spirit of the game what makes us to fully enjoy the game and fell ourselves in the real atmosphere 
 in the beautiful game and fortunately or unfortunately this spirit is more likely to find in Pro 
 Evolution Soccer these days! Although manager mode improved dramatically but the graphic and cinematic 
 of the game havent improved very much to compare with FIFA 2006, the point is, each year new FIFA 
 is a improved version of the last year FIFA but in the past, each year we have seen a brand new 
 FIFA which everyone loved ( FIFA 98 Road to World Cup; who can forget that amazing game?  FIFA 
 99; new style in gaming design, FIFA 2000; feel the atmosphere of the game etc.)
  
  There is still a hope for the next year, Can EA surprise us again or they will lose more fans to 
 Konami? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostyakuzmin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Sorry for my English :/
  
  So... FIFA 07 is good..... This game has good graphics, pretty nice gameplay and terrific sound. There 
 is one thing I really don't like in FIFA 07 - it's football fields. They look the same... FIFA 07 
 is not so hard and once you get in it you will probably win every match :P anyway this game looks 
 great and you will spend some time with it (probably ten hours, well maybe a be a little more) 
 but after that FIFA 07 is going to be boring (well, it's my opinion)
  After playing FIFA 06 on xbox and PC I expected much much more from FIFA 07....
  But if you are 
 football fan or you just like a sport games-FIFA 07 is a nice choice... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrotz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  I've played every FIFA game since 1998. Never has FIFA impressed me in any way compared to Winning 
 Eleven (WE) . I have to say that this game has really impressed. Soccer fans have to agree that 
 if you want a realistic and challenging game, go for for WE; If you are just a casual gamer who 
 wants to have some fun, don't play WE, it will frustrate you, go play FIFA, you'll get to score 
 more goals. But, FIFA 2007 has the best of both worlds. The physics in this game are impressive, 
 gameplay is smooth and entertaining. A big leap from FIFA world cup 2006 in terms of being a realistic 
 soccer sim. Great job! I am definitely playing this game until WE 10 is available, and may even 
 stick with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameanl
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  I've had the FIFA line since ps1 FIFA 96. This by far is my favorite. It's gameplay is smooth, 
 feels more authentic and the movement is so smooth, if you try maneuvering the player with a flow 
 of action like chesting the ball, seeing an open player to your left you turn to your left, and 
 then wait a sec for the right time, and pass. This flow when watchin seems more authentic towards 
 reality. Mind you I do play with a saitek p880 game pad.
  The graphics aren't revolutionary but rather evolutionary, since the the basic models and the outlook 
 seem to have evolved from the past series, but the blurr lighting effect is really nice, since 
 everything seems flooded with soft white light so you can make out the shapes, except the main 
 player with the ball who is clear, sort of like anisotropic filtering. Check out the demo or whatever, 
 I say just buy it, if you are into the FIFA series this is a worthwhile investment. I have FIFA 
 06, that was great this is just 06 TRULY refined, so if it's time to buy, buy this or wait 'till 
 08 and it'll get even better, if you can wait 365days to play this great title!
  
  by the way I am running this game 1280x1024, High, AF 16X, AA 0
  there is a problem for me when 
 I turn AA on, my fps just plummets when the game is in menu mode or showing highlights or replays 
 of goals...
  The game plays at an unfaltering 60fps during normal kick the ball game play, even with AA on, 
 but in the menu without it on it locks to 30fps, but with AA on it crawls to 2-4fps Aaaaaahhhhhh!!!!
 
  
  Whatever, again I'm still lovin' it.
  
  SYSTEM:
  OS: XP64
  CASE: Thermaltake Kandalf all Al
  PSU: OCZ Powerstream 600W
  CPU: A64 3700 Sandy E6 vCore 1.5 
 2.2@2.7 10.5x257 zalm. 9500
  MB: A8N32SLI
  RAM: OCZ 2x1GB plat 3200 2.5-3-2-5 @207 @166 divid
  GFX: BFG7800gt 425/1050@479/1130
  HD: 2x80 
 raid0 1x250 ... all SATA
  FANS: 3x120, 2x90 1x80, 1 vantec spectrum
  SPEAKERS: Logitech Z5300 5.1
  Sound: x-fi xtremey get it for true enjoyment
  'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  i gave this game a 7.0 and i was reported for trolling? un believable ! anyways, although Fifa 
 series got the worst fanboys ever, i still enjoy the game. the new ball mechanic is interesting 
 and the feel of controlling the ball is great. but it still lacks in gameplay and the ' right at 
 home ' feel. the controls are a bit clunky and demands some great effort to get used to. if you're 
 a soccer fan, this is a must have. if you're just a regular sports game, just pick up pro evo soccer 
 5 and install the superpatch 3.0. It's still a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aurimace
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Crap, fifa 2002 was much more better in my opinion, after 2002 series jus going lower. If you want 
 to enjoy real soccer game, at the moment just PES.
  Alot people's says that fifa is the best, maybe if you don't understant and never wathing soccer 
 than i agree. EA have alot of money but don't have good direction. In fifa world cup 06 they just 
 copyed pes, and gameplay was much better than fifa 07. Ok thats all, everybody have own opinion, 
 but this is crap of s t. by the way sound is incredible and graphics nice and screens colorfull. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Oh what a game.!! I REALY want to buy it!!
  
  EA Sports were dissapointing in making soccer games the previous years, EXCEPT for Fifa Soccer 
 06. Fifa 06 was THE BEST SOCCER GAME i ever player (I am a big soccer fan) . Fifa World Cup 2006 
 wasnt a nice game. I played on the PS2, there is a BIG difference in the gameplay between Fifa 
 World Cup 2006 and Fifa Soccer 2006.
  
  But they stood out again and showed that Fifa06 wasnt the only good Fifa game, they made another 
 amazing realistic soccer game - FIfa Soccer 2007! I hope EA Sports continue like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlgauci
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 has always been one of the best football games ever created and EA Sports have always succeded 
 in making a Fifa game that is fun to play and the games seem to improve every year, they seem to 
 never get it repetitive and always include new features.
  
  Gameplay this year is the greatest so far with new features which are more interactive crouds which 
 are more realistic and they react to players' moves during the matches and you can clearly hear 
 that if you are home fans shout more and they boo other players even when they foul you. When you 
 are away the home supporters fans boo your team and cheer for theirs. Also you can notice that 
 the away stands (which your fans are in, in an away match) in certain corners of the ground cheer 
 for you but in other sides of the ground people boo you and cheer for their team, it's a little 
 complex to explain but it's amazing how EA manage to include these tiny new features. Another new 
 feature is a new interactive online player league which you can play online with real life fixtures 
 every week so it's even more realistic online! It's amazing how EA seems to improve their controls 
 every year this year you can experience better and more realistic skills from players which they 
 even included some famous players signature moves and signature free kicks from the best players 
 in the world. Create a Club is also a feature that I enjoyed which you can create a club and enter 
 them in leagues and making them the best! There is only one thing that I did not like, gameplay 
 varies so much if you play on the easiest mode you score like 8 goals to nil while on semi-pro, 
 pro and world class it's so furious to score a goal and your defenders never seem to go on the 
 ball it's the only thing that made me mad in this game!
  
  Graphics this year are sweet, players react even more if they miss shots and they have various 
 celebrations which some of them can be unlocked when winning points for winning leagues and tournament. 
 Players look so life-like and you can clearly see how they get tired and the way they run when 
 they are tired, this takes the game to a whole new human-like realism. Weather this year also effect 
 the quality of you shot and if you aren't careful the ball will go in the fans stand.
  
  Sound and Commentary are the best this year where the Commentary comments on players performence, 
 how much they missed and scored and they even notice the weather and when the rain stops or begins 
 they pass comments on that too. Soundtrack this year is from various known and some not well known 
 bands, but the soundtrack is enjoyable and after a while you play the game and you begin settling 
 you may find yourself humming a tune or singing along with it, this reflects that EA carefully 
 chooses it's songs for soundtracks so they can be enjoyable to the users and you don't get bored 
 when loading, creating a team (which takes some time) , making transfers and so on.
  
  Well this year we are going to enjoy a good FIFA game which is realistic and fun to play and most 
 of all you won't get bored quickly because there are tons of modes you can choose from if you get 
 bored from one so this game will keep you busy for ages but it's difficult to say how much because 
 it depends on how much you love soccer in my case addicted to soccer I find myself playing FIFA 
 all year (seriously) but if you are not a huge fan of soccer you still get to enjoy this game and 
 it should keep you busy for a month or two.
  
  The Good: This year there are new features and the game is much more realistic than previous versions. 
 Soundtrack is enjoyable too this year and graphics are sharp football fields look good and players 
 are similar to real life players.
  
  The Bad: Very, very few. Controls can get frustrating at times and sometimes to score can be frustrating 
 too since controls are sensitive and to hit the back of the net can be a pain, but you'll get over 
 that for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Like EA always did they released another one of their long lasting soccer franchise game FIFA 07. 
 For those who played FIFA 06, you will see only a few minor changes for the first few hours of 
 play. In fact, EA has taken care of many details in real life soccer game, and it is somewhat exciting 
 to see those in EA Sports' game although it still feels like something could be improved. For those 
 who only played upto FIFA 2003 for instance, you will be quite astonished by the gameplay.
  
  This year's major change is their soccer ball. Now the soccer ball is more bouncy, and gives 
 more  The ball doesn't look like pre-scripted sphere shaped object 
 anymore and it now looks like moving by external forces. It is nice to see players fighting for 
 goal keeper's long press kick and both fall down just to miss the ball which happens quite often 
 in real soccer games.
  
  They also changed their manager mode a bit by introducing realistic scale of franchise revenue 
 and more goals to achieve. Now your goal can include things like upgrading your staff members or 
 winning 70% or more of your home games. Other than that, you won't really find much difference 
 from FIFA 06's manager mode.
  
  They managed to take care of minor details in visual and sound effect of the game as now fans sound 
 better and look better. Stadium looks better now and a lot of players look impressively better. 
 They are not the most significant factor of the game for sure, but it is always nice to see a stadium 
 only half full because the friendly match is usually not too attractive like in real soccer games.
 
  
  Although it feels like EA could've done better job with AI player's defence (and your other defence 
 players you don't control) as they tend to fall down to deep almost back to penalty box area quite 
 too often.
  
  Again, this game, as always, is not perfect. But given the improvement I see from this year's FIFA 
 game, I am quite satisfied. This one is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZCracker
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  After finifhing 1st season in manager mode in FIFA 07 I can say treat I am very disapointed whit 
 the game. I expected more. But what is done is done! To me FIFA 2003 is teh best there is so if 
 you hava it or the last year edition FIFA06 I can not recomend you the game. I belive theat most 
 players will play the game no matter what because they are the fans of football and they can not 
 help ther self. The graphics is better then last years but i do naot see the need of making such 
 bad cut-scene where the player look kind of blurry.
  Sound is AOK bit i prefer winamp in the background and turn of the game sound after playing 10 
 matches.
  And the game is wey to easy for exp player!
  
  In teh end if you have FIFA03 or FIFA06 do not spend money on FIFA 07.
  Otherwise I can recommend 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddcromax
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  FIFA 2007 is the latest game in the excellent FIFA series but will this game be top of the table 
 or in the relegation zone before the competition has even kicked off.
  
  New features that weren't in FIFA 2006 are the Real Life Fixtures which is looking great as you 
 will be able to represent your favourite team and prove that they have the best supporters. I also 
 like the Create A Team feature which has been brought back and improved (I hope) .
  
  A lot of things have also been improved and one which you will see is much better is goalkeepers. 
 They know do a lot more different types of saves, whether it is one handed saves or two handed 
 saves, they look more realistic than they ever have done in any game. Another thing that has been 
 improved is the ball animation. You won't get any more of those incidents where the ball goes away 
 from the player but the other players can't get it making the game's realism, much better.
  
  The graphics are a major improvement and the players look very realistic. The animation has 
 improved dramatically. The lifespan looks to be longer than ever with all the new modes and it 
 is sounding better than it ever has.
  
  The controls aren't too good as you'll have to keep checking the keyboard or pad every few minutes 
 if you want to use the tricks on offer but otherwise they are alright.
  
  While playing, I didn't see referees or linesman on the pitch unless it went to a cutscene. It 
 may not be much but it doesn't look as good without the referee and linesman but this is made up 
 with all the licenses of all the players, teams and more of all the biggest names in football. 
 From Manchester United to Darlington and from Wayne Rooney to Sam Russell. They are all there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius_oltean
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Year after year after year, the FIFA series from EA Sports has seldom managed to impress by originality 
 and innovativeness. Ever since 2003, each of the series installments seemed to be almost an exact 
 copy of its predecessor, in essence the same game. Last years version (2006) had me convinced 
 that that was it for this series, that if, by then, nothing notably new was implemented, then nothing 
 never will be.
  
  My surprise when first playing FIFA 07 was immense. Exceptional gameplay, truly revolutionary graphics, 
 the look, sound and feel of a real soccer game. While previous versions of FIFA had never really 
 managed to encapsulate that feeling of suspense and drama that only soccer matches played at the 
 highest level can have, one could say that FIFA 07 comes unexpectedly close. The control of the 
 players is now much more difficult and, consequently, realistic, and there are many more ways of 
 scoring goals. The graphics are also a notable improvement. Although the faded background effect 
 (albeit an interesting idea) seems rather bizarre at times, all players look much better than in 
 previous versions of the series. Also, the atmosphere created by the cheering fans during games 
 is another aspect of FIFA 07 which must be applauded.
  
  I know that there are many people which have lost all hope in the FIFA series in the past few years 
 (I was one of them) , but the incredibly realistic gameplay and atmosphere of this new installment 
 make FIFA 07 at least worthy of a try. What we have here is a truly revolutionary soccer simulator, 
 one that I and, I am sure, many others, have been waiting for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdanaci
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Same speaker, same goalkeepers, same interface.... if it doesnt write fifa 2007 on the cd, i believe 
 that it is a patch of 2006. This game has some modifications. You can transfer from your youth 
 team, you can see players experiance after a match, you can change money to $ or  . Same speakers 
 it is so boring. goalkeepers are totaly fool. There isnt any fake that you can do. same interface, 
 if you want to save your game you must confirm it three times. The game is too easy in amateur 
 level. You just need to get the ball and walk (not sprint) to goalkeeper and shoot. so easy. You 
 can score 20 goals in 4 minutes.
  Manegering mode satisfys enough. Same one with 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graydon20_basic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this fairly short. Fifa 06 was pretty crappy (I'd give it a 6.1) . The new physics 
 of Fifa 07 are good, but the graphics aren't very good (aside from zoomed in faces) , and the game 
 runs crappy on my Athlon 2000 XP/Radeon 9800 Pro 128mb/1 GB Ram. The gameplay is much better, and 
 resembles that of PES, the problem is, PES does everything else right. Taking the ball away in 
 this year's fifa is actually a little better, since it's more random and the ball bounces around. 
 I find that shooting is also alot better, balls tend to dip or rise based on a player's trajectory 
 to a shot, and it often results in stunning goals.
  
  All in all, if this game played a little better on my PC, it would be an enjoyable experience. 
 Almost unlimited number of licenses, but at the end of the day, it's gone from being WAY behind 
 PES, to emulating PES in almost everyway, the problem is, they don't build on an old PES game and 
 make it their own. The game however, does provide some good fun, as the goalies are pretty good, 
 and goal scoring is a treat, but passing seems jerky, and dangling/dribbling seems very robotic 
 as mentioned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaitouZero
Rating: 2.7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me just give it to you straight: this game is pretty much unplayable. The graphics are absolutely 
 hideous with ugly blurring effects that remind me of the N64 only much worse and the game is choppy 
 as all hell even on a high end gaming PC. EA supposedly put real ball physics in this year but 
 its pretty hard to notice them, it's years behind what Konami was doing years ago. Also it's way 
 to easy to score goals in this game and you'll often end up with completely unrealistic scores. 
 The only good thing in the game is all the official licences, leagues and modes. They even have 
 2nd division leagues for all the major leagues which is good if you want to be able to play as 
 Juventus this year. This however doesn't by any means compensate for the fact that the gameplay 
 and graphics are so horrid. PES5 (WE9I in America) is light years ahead of this game overall and 
 with patches you can get real teams, kits and players for all the major leagues and on October 
 27th PES6 will be released in Europe and it will be even better so please stay away from FIFA 07 
 at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoud11
Rating: 2.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  i wont tell you my story with fifa but this is a sumary i played fifa since 1998 and 99 and 2000 
 etc until fifa 2004 it was the most disappointing game ever and fifa 05 is sort of that but i thought 
 fifa 06 will change my thought but i saw somethin terrible i saw that it is the worst game ever 
 but if ea sports were releasing this version i mean 06 for the infants i would thought somethin 
 else:) but it was rated for every one and again fifa 07 same old story same old bugs i dont think 
 that the develpores of the game are pros i think they are amateurs and less than amateurs every 
 new fifa they dont fix any bugs they add a little improved game play byt in fifa every 1 fifa has 
 10 opposite bugs!! goal keepers are foooooooooooools i cant find a word to explain their foolishness:@ 
 ill shots and they say improved shots it is the worst shots you can find in a soccer game and the 
 worst defenders foolish players i think it is not worth lookin at they should call the FIFA series 
 from now on the series of failure i think that it is really good for the developers to think of 
 somethin new and dont release fifa 08 or even 09 but it may may result that they release fifa 2010 
 a game that it is worth called ( fifa ) and in the end i would like to tell you that i am very 
 disoppointed with the ill-fated fifa series and it's bugs and see you all soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andybright
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  As far as I can see, EA use different development teams for the FIFA club series (FIFA 2005, 2006, 
 2007) and the World Cup series (World Cup 2006, etc) .
  
  One is okay, the other is great - and having experienced this so called wonder game Winning Eleven 
 on the PC, the World Cup series definitely represents the best Football simulation available on 
 the PC. I won't waste too much time explaining why Winning Eleven is so poor, and no more realistic 
 than any FIFA game, maybe the console versions are better, but to me the only decent part of the 
 game is the fact it can be played in a window, and therefore supports the native resolution of 
 widescreen monitors.
  
  FIFA 2007 however is a significant step backwards from EA's last version. The support for game 
 pads (the only decent method of control in my opinion) is even worse than FIFA 2006 - which was, 
 until 2007, possibly the worst I've ever seen in any game. Contrast this with the World Cup offering, 
 where the game FEELs real, the control is smooth, the graphics better, and even the most obscure 
 controller (mine is an XBOX 360, PC version) is supported out of the box.
  
  My first problem is with the so called skill moves - in the World Cup version this is controlled 
 by the right analogue stick, and works so beautifully. Deft touches, back heels, 360 rotations 
 a la Figo, Tevez, Zidane, step overs, you name it, it works flawlessly - sometimes so beautifully 
 you can't believe the move you just pulled off to pass 3 players. FIFA 2007, if it's present I 
 fail to see where, on both my XBOX 360 controller - for which I had to enter the game pad values 
 manually into a configuration file - or my Logitech controller failed to exhibit any response.
 
  
  In fact most of my problems with this game fall to controller issues, FIFA 2007 just doesn't feel 
 as natural or responsive as World Cup 2006. The clue that gave away the use of separate development 
 teams comes when you find different buttons control different functions - and some fail to work 
 at all. In World Cup 2006 for example I press the Start button in the center of the controller 
 mid game and the in game menu appears. The right shoulder controls speed, the left gives the player 
 a step over faint/direction change. God knows what they do in 2007 - however one thing is sure, 
 the Start button does nothing whatsoever - even when programmed with custom controls.
  
  If this wasn't bad enough the graphics are a significant step backwards for ATI Radeon users. It's 
 not that they look bad, it's just that unless you switch off all anti-aliasing and use the default 
 800x600 resolution it runs at a crawl - ending up with a game that looks significantly worse than 
 the aforementioned World Cup 2006 version. Then we have the players themselves who as well as being 
 unresponsive to game pads, appear to have worse animated moves than WC 2006.
  
  How the official reviewer failed to notice how much better the previous version was over both FIFA 
 2006 and FIFA 2007 I can't figure out. Unless he's in the pay of EA that is.
  
  Sound 10/10 - sure, but what's the use of sound if the game looks so bad. In WC 2006 I can run 
 the game at maximum resolution with every anti aliasing setting maxed out on my 256MB Radeon 800XL 
 on a 32-bit Athlon XP 3200+ PC for a smooth, jerk free game - usually at or about 50FPS, sometimes 
 dipping to 25 or so.
  
  Then we have the widescreen issue. Prior to EA's ATI patch, this was a serious problem for widescreen 
 monitor users (me) . THe players were horribly stretched out of proportion and I was forced to go 
 back to my old 18 monitor to play FIFA. Somehow this has been resolved, because while the game 
 still doesn't allow me to set a widescreen video mode, it plays the game in my 22 monitors native 
 resolution. I insist this is the case because you can really notice an LCD screen out of native 
 resolution - the graphics are blurred and blocky, adding to the out of perspective issues. Now 
 the players are perfectly represented and the graphics remain sharp and crisp despite the enforced 
 1200x1080 resolution setting. At least this fix seems to have been copied by the FIFA 2007 team, 
 but how they managed to butcher the performance of a game that looks no better graphically than 
 WC 2006 is beyond me.
  
  I don't care about the sound - because the graphics are so poor, however there doesn't seem to 
 be any improvement over WC 2006, which is fine because sound in that game was pretty much perfect 
 anyhow.
  
  I don't particularly like Andy Gray's punditry over Andy Townsend - but that's a minor, and very 
 much personal choice. The commentary in general is as good as FIFA ever has been - which means 
 a lot of repeats, some incredibly funny comments - such as praising attackers for being good defenders 
 (which when a defender passes a ball straight to the opposition forward, then you here defense 
 is an art you know or brilliantly play by the defender has you in stiches. Not to mention What 
 a cracker or Brilliant Finish when the ball ping pongs between three players then barely makes 
 it over the line.
  
  However in general the commentary is good enough to add some real atmosphere to the game - unlike 
 Winning Eleven, which sounds as though the guy is not quite all there if you know what I mean, 
 and definitely bored with the whole thing, which I can't say I blame him for, considering how poorly 
 games play out and the lack of anyone recognisable as a player outside of the Arsenal and Barcelona 
 teams.
  
  So to sum up, FIFA 2007 has some serious flaws, especially for those that use game pad controllers 
 or have Radeon video cards. How nVidia performs I can't say, but if it's as bad as the ATI equivalents, 
 then this game is a farce. Personally if I had known how bad this game was I would never have bought 
 it before some serious patching - i. e. a complete rebuild by the team that developed FIFA World 
 Cup 2006. If you can do without club football, then my advice is to pay half the price for a game 
 that is superior to FIFA 2007 in just about every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  There is absolutely no point buying this Fifa game as it offers nothing new to the previous releases. 
 Same controls, same bugs with tackling and player AI, same dated graphics.
  
  This is a serious rip off as all theyve changed is the team rosters and the layout on menus. Oh 
 you do get some online interactive league thing, but as I'm a casual gamer and have no L33t skills 
 this section is somewhat beyond me. L33t players may like this online thing but i'm not in a position 
 to give that part of the game a fair appraisal. What is clear is that if this game didnt have the 
 FiFa license then it would not even get close to the competition outthere at the moment. The fact 
 that they have this license had made EA lazy and have not bothered bringing out a good release 
 for years. IT's about time the buying public made a stand and stopped buying this trash, then maybe 
 it would aid the better football game developers to make a play for that fifa license and expose 
 EA for the robbing charlatans that they are.
  
  Please note the review is been marked very low on the basis that they've done this already before. 
 If it was original the mark would be around 7. This review is based on the fact that i already 
 own other titles of fifa and have found they are just selling the same game year after year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEXIN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  All the time i read from everywhere before Fifa 07 came out that Pro evolution wiil certainly be 
 better than Fifa 2007. To start with i respect the fans of pro because i like pro very much. I have 
 to say that i am a fanatic fan of Fifa but i can easily recognize which soccer its the best its 
 year, and the advantages and disavantages of each soccer game since i play soccer games from 1995. Fifa07 
 is a soccer that gives you more space to do your own game in the pitch. The move of the players 
 and especially the move of the ball its something that leaves you with a gratified smile. Choose 
 to play and you will see, be more objective... and dont always listen what the magazines believe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nycpan83
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  I thought that there was an improved game-play on this version of FIFA... but I was wrong. The movements 
 are still robotics and not so realistics; when you change player the others just watch the ball 
 pass by without moving; if you shoot you don't know where the ball will go. The graphics is good 
 when the camera is on replay but not in gameplay: this because I think the colours aren't brilliant 
 (I play at top resolution) . The excellent skill of this game is only sound: nice soundtrack and 
 good commentary (I played Italian version) . But I think Pro Evolution Soccer (Winning Eleven) is 
 still steps ahead... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  well i bought it hoping they'd fix the problems with the previous one but i was mistaken.. 1) stupid 
 goal keepers and some times amazing ones , for ex you are meters from the goal and keeper stands 
 still and when u shoot he blocks it ! ! 2) the stupid player changing player mechanism .. and the 
 players just watch the ball pass by without moving
  3) leave ur defenders and they wont try to get the ball from the striker they just watch
  4) u 
 cant tackle without commiting a foul ! 5) the shooting mechanism is soo lame u dunno where the player 
 is goin 2 shoot or how much 2 press
  it got some nice moments but u\ll 4get them very soon
  i worship football and this game made me hate it
  
  the list goes on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iman79
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Believe it or not it is the best in fifa series , game play is really nice but graphic can be better 
 however it is good. shooting is compeletly improved and your direction , velocity ,.. affect your 
 shoot. free kick is improved and you can spin it by keyboard. your movement and physics of ball 
 and players are changed and have become better. when playing you can feel , you are playing football. 
 it`s highly simulation game.
  graphic can be better and lighting is medium. models get improved but can be better. manager mode 
 is wonderfull and improved.
  I recommned football lovers to try this game (specially PES lovers) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomhesoka55
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This fifa is the best fifa since fifa 2002 because when I played fifa 2002 I feel that the ball 
 is really free and that is the thing I missed in fifa since fifa 2002 in fifa 2006 I see that the 
 ball is free but when you play you will discover that is not totally free&gt;
  
  So this is one I will play &gt;&gt;
  
  In game play the game is really great and you feel that 
 you have a good game and when you just shoot the ball you that it's a real ball but the bad thing 
 in the game is free kicks, in your free kicks you feel that its hard to direct the ball on the 
 way you want but when there is free kick against you it's easy to see the ball hit your net evn 
 if your goal keeper is good (like vandersar) and there player not very well, and this is same with 
 out side shots any other thing in the game is good (not that good)
  
  sound is the thing that I like in fifa more than winning eleven so I will not talk about it
  
 
  and the referee is good and fair.
  
  ahmadjaffal2005@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuzgureanu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  When this game came out i didn`t know what to expect. I eagerly clicked the exe and started playing 
 just waiting to be dissapointed by it. I was expecting this to be FIFA '06 + 1 but as i played 
 through it and saw all the new stuff it has, i gradually stared enjoying it rather than trying 
 to find its flaws. The ball physics and the shooting mechanism are probably the biggest differences 
 as compared to last years` less than amazing game. You don`t have the same 10 or so shots that 
 u take over and over again, this time each goal is unique and this gives the replayability of this 
 game a real boost. Now passing has changed also, you can now controll to which player u want to 
 ass the ball to by how long u keep the pass key pressed. This is a very neat touch and adds that 
 little bit of extra controll you need. Also, the ball`s trajectory after hitting something is very 
 unpredictable making it very close to the real game.
  
  Some other features in the Manager mode are also pretty nice. Like the youth accademy that gives 
 you the possibility to promote young (17, 18 year old) players into your squad, these players aren`t 
 very skilled at first but their skills increase much quicker than those of the other players and 
 if you`re lucky you might come accross the next wayne rooney.
  
  Goalkeepers act more naturally and the whole atmosphere on the pitch is that little bit closer 
 to the real thing. I`d reccomend this to every FIFA fan who was dissapointed by '06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vahitman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Interactive Leagues Represent your club online throughout the season, playing the same matches 
 as the real-life fixtures. Your results, combined with the results of all the other fans, will 
 decide if your club rises to the top of their Interactive League or plummets into the relegation 
 zone.
  
  Support your club online &amp;#8211; play as your club against fans of opponent clubs with one 
 overall cross-platform table for each supported league. Build a community and help your favourite 
 club towards the ultimate goal of topping the table.
  
  Real Fixtures - They Play, You Play. Whenever your club has a real-world league fixture, you play 
 online matches against fans of your club's opponent during a couple of days playing window leading 
 up to the real match. Play as many matches as you can in the window leading up to the real fixture. 
 Online Community - The Fans Are The Club. When you join a club, you join a community - play together 
 for a common goal. See how many other players support your club and how many are online. Visit 
 the League Lobby Room to chat with club-mates or arrange matches with opponents. One Table - Win 
 Together, Lose Together. Every time you win an Interactive Leagues match, it counts as one 'vote' 
 for your club in the fixture. When the play window for the fixture closes, the club with the most 
 'votes' gets the victory and the three points in the table. The effort and skill of all the supporters 
 determines your club's fate. Picking a club Choose one club per league to represent online &amp;#8211; 
 support the team closest to your heart as well as teams in leagues less well known. If you pick 
 a less supported club, you will have more opponents to match up against and more opportunity to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asusp4b
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  ok the GAMPLAY has changed completely the boot ups from the side of the pitch are match more realistic 
 then 06.
  The graphics are better but not much better ( more lightning effects and sharper models the crowd 
 looks the same) /
  mainly the big change of fifa 07 is the interactive ligue that is a new option in the fifa games 
 and ofcurse EA copied it from PRO EVOLUTION game of KONAMI.
  Overall the games is much more fun from 06 and a bit easier ( it is not so hard to beat the WOLRD 
 CLASS level) if you want to enjoy a great soccer game you should try this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumanrbr
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  WANT TO PLAY REAL SCOCCER PLAY PRO EVOLUTION SOCCER OR WINNING ELEVEN. STOP PRAISING ABOUT FIFA. 
 I BET THAT WHO PLAYED PES OR WE HE WILL STOP PLAYING FIFA. GAMEPLAY 6
  THIS TIME GAMEPLAY IS LITTLE BIT BETTER BUT NOT THAT DIFFERENT.
  IF U SCORED A GOAL FIRST THE 
 OPPONENT STARTS PLAYING BETTER AND JUST KEEP ON ATTACKING AS LONG AS THE SCORE BOARD IS NOT LAVELED. 
 GRAPHICS 4
  THIS TIME GRAPHICS IS BAD THAN PREVIOUS. YELLOWISH PALE EFFECT. GRAPHICS IS NOT THAT SMOOTH ALSO. 
 VALUE 4
  OFCOURSE NOT A GREAT VALUE FOR MONEY.
  
  TILT 6
  DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE.
  
  I SIMPLY SUGGEST DONT BUY FIFA 07 WAIT FOR PES6 AND WE2007, IF U WANT TO HAVE A REAL FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Another new fifa... well... as always the leagues and roosters are up to date... the commentary is 
 greater than ever (I really like clive's voice) ... new gameplay as always... but this year with slight 
 improvements and disappointments... to explain more about the gameplay i should say that you can 
 score pretty easily using shots behind the penalty area (even in the world class difficulty) , u 
 can dribble easily (diffenders only watch you or attempt a foul most of the times) , you can't make 
 a through pass reach it's destination ( i haven't been succesful on this and am pretty shocked because 
 my tactic of playing is based on through balls and they just SUCK on this game) , forget about crosses 
 and corners because they are pretty hard to score with, only try scoring with the same tactic, 
 no new tactics added to game, you can't do anything about the freekicks u conceed (99% of they are 
 in the back of your net) , etc.
  the game play is good and bad... make your own choice... BUT THE GRAPHICS ARE PRETTY BORING BECAUSE 
 THEY HAVE BEEN USING THE SAME GRAPHIC ENGINE SINCE FIFA 2003 AND MADE AT LEAST 10 GAMES WITH ITINCLUDING 
 EURO, WORLD CUP, UEFA AND FIFA SIRIES!!!!!!!
  When r they really going to change it. u should get used to every aspect of gameplay to enjoy this 
 game. have fun anyway.
  
  105 SM out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  i love this game very much more than other fifa i feel its same to true but i expected the graphic 
 would be better than this its i feel the graphic is same to fifa 2005 and low than fifa 2006 and 
 the game is very easy if you can the other fifa you will feel its very easy and you will learn 
 it without any time but the sound and gamepaly are excellent .
  in the game its very easy to score goals specially in free kick from any palce corners and free 
 kicks are different from ather fifa and same to w e 9 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ee010800
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best FIFA&acute; s, but in game play it still well behind PES. Have a some very 
 good details in touch ball and ball control, much better than the oldies. The shots still aren&acute; t 
 in a good level, but i figure the next year will be a more promising FIFA. The sound is very good, 
 the chants are almost perfect, but after a wild it gets boring, the chants should have more duration.
 
  
  One of the most important thing for me, is that the formations aren&acute; t flexible, you can&acute; t 
 put in 4-3-3 a CAM or a RWM they should do like PES that you can put any player exactly where you 
 want.
  
  There are a few bugs: - the financial preview in manager mode doesn&acute; t work very well if you 
 upgrade some coaches; - another one is that in EEC (European Champions League) you don&acute; t 
 receive the bonus for winning like in the real time that is one of the most important resources 
 of the best teams.
  
  In general it is a good game to play while PES doesn&acute; t come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shak20
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  In a few words ... imagine Fifa 2006 but with more leagues , better management of your team . That's 
 all! I will just wait for Pro Evolution Soccer 6. The best football game ever!!! Fifa can't even 
 be compared with PES . It's like in PES even if you play it for 2 year , you will score new goals 
 , learn new tricks etc. In Fifa everything is programmed. For example if i go there , i will score. 
 if i go too close but not curve there is no way to score . In PES there is no such thing as robotics 
 moves. When you start playing it , you can't stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  I'm not a fan at sports games, but FIFA 2007 is GREAT! I know I'm not supposed to judge so deepely 
 but I really like this game and I play it over and over!
  
  I don't know how are the other FIFA's or NBA's but FIFA 2007 is really cool. So I would say that 
 the gameplay is perfect because you can do a lot of stuff around there and you can enjoy football 
 really good when you play this game!
  
  About graphics I don't know! Graphics dosen't deserves a big score because the faces of the players 
 and the terrain are not so great! The sound worths a lot because there is music even if I don't 
 like it: D but you can hear the supporters yelling in the gallery and other cool things.
  
  Value: I don't know if it worth's the money in comparation with FIFA 2006 or other but for me is 
 good enough!
  
  Tilt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hero_911
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  its looks like winning so much but its more better ... cause you got the ability to preform some 
 moves ....
  the great game play and the realistic game play make you feel that you are playing a real much 
 even the way of players run its like the real world... WOW
  the enviroment is alright but its misses some green thats all
  and the goals from out side the 
 18 yards is great but i think its so overdone
  the graphics is alright and the important thing the replay its great what can i say about this 
 game its so great and i cant find anthor one like it
  LONG LIVE FIFA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cAsper902
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 3, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  After getting disappointed with FIFA 06, I was pretty excited to get my hand on 07 and it sure 
 is worth the wait.... (48+ hours of download) . Its arguably the best game in the series (along 
 with my favorite 05) and the manager mode has been so addictive it has cost me two classes today. 
 Anyway, the controls have improved tremendously but still remain a bit letdown. Im actually going 
 to buy the real game in a couple of weeks just so I can play online!! Thanks EA for screwing up 
 Madden but you got you self redeemed with this one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccerdude7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  (i wrote this as a comeback to all the winning eleven fans not as a review) I haven't played this 
 yet but i can promise u it is better than winning eleven. i have winning eleven 9 and it is possible 
 the worst soccer game ever. ui would rather fifa 64 than that s*** the dribble is impossible and 
 isn't real at all. all they do is take the console version slap it on a cd and say it; s a pc version 
 yea my A**it sux. Basically wat i'm trying to say is to any of u fifa fans thinking of trying winning 
 eleven this year don't. u will be very displeased with Winning eleven cause it sux FIFA IS THE 
 BEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktContainer
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Looking at the trailer I was actually excited for this years Fifa game.
  I expected gameplay that rivaled Winning Eleven, boy was I ever wrong.
  There is minimal difference 
 from World Cup 06 and that game was terrible.
  The grapics are the same garbag since 2003 and the only noticeable improvement is that they added 
 more leagues.
  The whole player growth over seasons has been in Winning Eleven a long time ago, and it took EA 
 this long to put it in?
  I can't believe I used to think Fifa were the best soccer games.
  Now I will wait until the 20th to get my hands on the new Winning Eleven and quickly forget that 
 I played this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streisean
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  I think is by far the best fifa since '99. this is the first game from the fifa series since 99 
 that you can't play with the trick: cross+head=certain goal! also the dribling is great. and by that 
 I mean you can't do all kinds of tricks to get past defenders. the acceleration (the major element 
 to get by a defender in real life) has now 3 ways of expressing. the ball is moving verry real and 
 so is the players first touch. the GK makes mistakes just like in real life. it's a great game and 
 if you say that is like fifa2006 (which has pretty good but entirely different) that means you should 
 NOT be allowed to give your opinion about the game;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcsports93
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 kicks WE's butt, Winning eleven does not belong on PC, why, cause it sucks on pc, Fifa 
 is the top PC soccer game on the market, they have improved the game alot from last year, especially 
 the gameplay, mostly the shooting, and the corners and freekicks which are like Winning Eleven, 
 probably the only thing i like about WE.
  Winning Eleven, the graphics suck balls, the sound is horrible, and not having the real team names 
 on most teams is disappointing, oh and the play by play is a joke, the announcers sound like there 
 not even excited about what is going on.
  
  Winning Eleven belongs on the Console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  in game i see no difference from fifa 06 it's just the same. the only difference is the menu layout. 
 it still has it's crappy gameplay. my god i was looking for an immense improvement. but i was surely 
 dissapointed. the best fifa game i ever played in my opinion wa the fifa w. c 06. Now this was football. 
 it took great strategy in scoring goals whereas in fifa u just have to press shoot and it's in 
 the goal. ha! this game is not competitive at all. it's too easy. and the game play is is room 
 for much improvement.
  
  Go ahead buy this if u want an amateur football sim game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socceraccess
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  We have the chance to test Full Version of FIFA 07 and we would like to share with you our experience. 
 FIFA 07 gameplay has been greatly improved compared to previous versions of the game. Probably 
 one of the most important improvements is related with goalkeeper&acute; s performance. Even when, 
 from time to time, goalkeepers make some stupid mistakes ( well, in fact real goalkeepers do it 
 all the time ) , I believe EA Sports has found the right balance between difficulty level and goalkeeper&acute; s 
 behavior. I mean that when you are playing World Class level you will face excellent goalkeepers 
 but not perfect ones. You will find that they make fanstatic saves, some of them dramatic ones 
 ( like when they run backwards trying to catch a lobbed ball) but they are not unbeatable. You 
 don&acute; t need a perfect, accurate, strong shot from long distance to beat them. Another great 
 improvement is related with ball physics, particularly when we talk about 'saves' and 'aerial game'. 
 It seems that finally the ball has declared its independence from goalkeepers hands. When you shot 
 on goal and the ball is saved by the goalkeeper, you find that the play does not always finish 
 there. Because goalkeepers tend to really rebound the ball, probably too much, giving you another 
 chance to score.
  
  When talking about CPU Artificial Intelligence probably we face one of the weakest points of FIFA 
 07. CPU teams always tend to finish their plays in the same way : a cross looking for a striker&acute; s 
 head or long range shots. Even in World Class level the CPU makes some uncomprehensive and really 
 wrong decisions. I have played with Zaragoza against Barcelona ( World Class Level ) and I have 
 the ball 80% of the time! Of course that beating Barcelona&acute; s defence was by far more difficult 
 than beating Gimnastic one. But I had not the feeling of being facing a really strong team like 
 Barcelona. One point in favour is that CPU makes tactical substitutions ( even when sometimes you 
 don&acute; t notice it, because some CPU substitutions are announced only by the commentator and 
 not popup is shown) . You really notice that when CPU is loosing it brings forward teams lines and 
 you have more space for counter attacks.
  
  There are some nice tricks ( 360 turn, dribbles, fakes, etc) but you really need a gamepad with 
 right analog stick because it&acute; s almost impossible to make them using the keyboard. New controls 
 have been added to free kick and penalties. Before a free kick you can call a second player to 
 join the dessigned kicker. You can use him just to layoff the ball and give your kicker a better 
 angle for a shot or he can also be the one that kicks the ball. Now during penalties you can make 
 goalkeepers jump along the line, wave arms or crouch.
  
  Talking about graphics I have to say that stadiums are fanstatic, particularly Wembley one. Great 
 details, nice textures. You can check it out taking a look at the screenshots we have uploaded 
 yesterday. Players faces, even in high detail, are far from the quality of Pro Evolution Soccer 
 ones ( I guess better textures should help to improve them ) . A good graphic card is needed to 
 enjoy FIFA 07 with high details but even if you don&acute; t have it you can enjoy the game with 
 lower settings. Sounds and stadiums atmosphere are superb. When you play international matches 
 ( national teams ) you will hear both national anthems, when you play away you really feel like 
 you are visitor since home fans will get angry with your fouls and they will whistle when you miss 
 a shot.
  
  There are plenty of tournaments, leagues, and challanges to face. Manager mode it&acute; s probably 
 what will keep FIFA 07 alive for a long time. You can start coaching any team you like but the 
 you will have to accomplish more difficult tasks if you choose to manage Manchester United than 
 if you start with Hull City. You have to arrange players contracts, sign sponsors, give interviews, 
 transfer players, and take care of your club financial situation.
  
  FIFA 07 is an enjoyable game, by far better than FIFA 06. The question is always the same. FIFA 
 or PES? Even when PES 6 has not been released, it seems that Konami still leads the race. But EA 
 Sports it&acute; s back on track and now we have a real contender, with too much to improve, that&acute; s 
 true, but now going in the right direction.
  
  This is the original attribute/rating system that we used:
  Gameplay 6.5 Sound 9
  Graphics 
 7.5
  Fun 8
  
  OVERALL
  7.75
  
  http://www. gamingaccess. com/index. php? news_id=5696&amp; language=english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teefan82
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  I happened to get my hand on a copy of FIFA 07 (it's not mine) . Despite of being a WE fan when 
 it came to PC (I was forced to play FF series before that) , I give FIFA 07 a chance to prove itself 
 after MANY, MANY times to refine the gameplay.
  
  On each new release, they will say that it is looking more real, the ball is now a complete different 
 entity not fix to player animation any more blah blah blah.. something like that. And OH MY GOSH, 
 when you play it (no pls dont) , you'll see, it looks ALL the SAME. Yeah, the SAME, versions after 
 versions.
  
  Refined gameplay ? heck no. Better moves/tricks ? Hell no. Give you the feeling of controling a 
 professional football ? Ops nope. So what is new in this version, it's the year 07 hahaha.
  
  I myselft think that they are still working on the same old boring FIFA engine. Just update 
 some graphics, some players, .... and release. Why don't they try to rewrite the whole engine to 
 be able to compare or bypass the so much real WE football engine ?
  
  In conclusion, I recommend you guy pls dont waste your money and time, don't support them. Make 
 them realize that EA football game engine is suck. (I am not WE fanboy, if FF is good, I will say 
 it good)
  
  The one still playing FIFA is the one who don't know what real football is.
  Get yourself a WE or PES copy pls! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
