-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fighting Steel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fightingsteel/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 39 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Divide By Zero
Genre: Strategy
Date:     May 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game's best features are all but lost behind a poorly designed interface, insidious crash bugs, 
 and a handful of design flaws. 

 With Fighting Steel, SSI and developer Divide By Zero attempted to combine a tactical wargame with 
 a 3D combat simulation in an effort to bring WWII naval surface combat to life. To some extent, 
 they succeeded. Fighting Steel is a very detailed and generally deep game with an impressive 3D 
 engine. Unfortunately, the game's best features are all but lost behind a poorly designed interface, 
 insidious crash bugs, and a handful of design flaws.  

 Fighting Steel brings to life naval gunnery battles in the South Pacific and North Atlantic from 
 1939 to 1942. American, British, Japanese, and German navies are included in the game, and you 
 can command any one of them through a historical or fantasy campaign. If not for its other failings, 
 Fighting Steel would have tremendous replay value, as you can play a mini, short, medium, or long 
 campaign with an adjustable "random setting" that can shake up the forces at play even in the historical 
 campaigns. Also, you can play as any of the four navies, which can make things interesting.  

 
 Twelve historical single-battle scenarios are also included with the game, along with a scenario 
 editor. The editor is fairly simplistic and easy to use. With it you can create some impressive 
 fantasy engagements, such as the Yamato vs. the Bismarck or a 1940s version of Jutland with two 
 huge fleets pounding each other to dust. I was a little disappointed that the game only included 
 ships commissioned through 1942, however, since that meant no Iowa-class battleships. Of course, 
 the fact that the game only simulates surface combat means that there are also no carriers or submarines 
 - two ship types that played just a minor role in deciding the outcome of the war.  

 For the most part, Fighting Steel does a good job of re-creating the WWII naval surface warfare. 
 The game includes over 1,000 ships (from 90 classes) , 50 different guns, and 13 different torpedo 
 types. The range, effects, and effectiveness of each weapon type appear to be accurate. Each ship 
 is also rated for crew quality, crew fatigue, and night-fighting abilities.  

 Each ship class has been modeled accurately and stunningly in 3D (especially the Yamato, which looks 
 great) . Just for the hell of it, you can even deck out your ships with custom paint schemes. Weather 
 and time of day play a part in every battle, as the game will reduce visibility for night battles, 
 heavy seas, and rain. Also, you can turn on smoke screens, fire star shells, and track targets 
 with powerful search lights. In fact, the 3D engine is one of this game's strengths, just as it 
 was the only positive point in Buccaneer, Divide By Zero's last effort.  

 Fighting Steel gets another nod for sound effects, which are fantastic. The rolling, thunderous 
 roar of a battleship's heavy guns, the steely hiss of a torpedo hitting the water, and the groaning 
 of twisted metal on a damaged ship all combine to create a highly immersive atmosphere. It's a 
 little disappointing that all ships seem to have the same range of sound effects for their main 
 guns, but the overall effect is still quite impressive.  

 Campaign gameplay is very similar to Avalon Hill's Wooden Ships &amp; Iron Men, only on a larger 
 scale (since that game only gave you command of a single ship) . This is not necessarily a good 
 thing. You select ships for your cruising force from a list of all ships available on a given date, 
 then hit the "next" button to see if you're lucky enough to have a battle break out somewhere. 
 Engagements seem entirely random in this game, as in Wooden Ships, and that makes the campaign 
 feel tacked on and unrealistic. How about allowing me to assign different task forces to different 
 cruising grounds? How about forcing the player to spread his forces thinly in an attempt to hunt 
 down an enemy battleship? How about letting players react to a meeting engagement by sending in 
 reinforcements from other locations? A grand strategic view of the campaign theater would make 
 this a very different game, it's true, but the resulting game could be so much better.  

 A new interface would also help Fighting Steel tremendously. As it stands, you have to wade through 
 countless buttons and menus in order to get anything done in this game. The pop-up ship-status 
 windows are a great feature, but the rest of the interface is confusing and unintuitive. Issuing 
 navigational commands can be a particularly difficult task, and the gunnery commands are even worse. 
 Why, for instance, do my ships continuously lose targets and stop firing, even when other enemy 
 vessels are in range and I have assigned my ships a fire mode (range, battle line, or threat targeting) ? 
 When they lose one target, they should have enough initiative to start pounding on another - it's 
 that simple. Having to go through each and every ship's gunnery target menus is an extreme example 
 of unwanted micromanagement.  

 Even with these flaws, however, Fighting Steel is a good game. It's fun, it seems to be fairly realistic 
 in most regards, and it can be quite addictive. The 3D graphics are very good, and it is downright 
 thrilling to see your heavy ships pound the enemy with their 15-inch guns. Getting your fast-moving 
 destroyers in among a slow-moving enemy convoy is especially gratifying. The real problem with 
 the game, then, is its stability - or complete lack thereof.  

 Simply put, Fighting Steel is crippled by crash bugs that lock the game and the PC at seemingly 
 random moments in gameplay. Even with a beta patch from the developer (version 1.01) , the game 
 continuously locked up in battles of all sizes, at all times of day, and at various stages of the 
 action. These crashes rendered the game nearly unplayable - the only saving grace being a save-game 
 feature (which works at any point in a campaign or battle) and an auto-save feature. But these 
 are slim compensation when the game locks up every single time you try to finish a battle.  

 A few more weeks in testing could certainly have helped Fighting Steel. As it is, SSI and Divide 
 By Zero will have to work feverishly on a patch to correct the game's instability. To its credit, 
 SSI has been quick to address the game's problems thus far. Hopefully, it will be able to clean 
 the game up entirely in the very near future because there's a very good game behind the bugs. 
 Until the problems are fixed, however, purchase and play Fighting Steel at your own risk.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Prometheus92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  All right, lets jump into Fighting Steel. This was a surface game developed mainly by SSI which 
 attempts to copy the surface war of 1939-1942 and in my humble opinon, it suceeds. You can select 
 Campaigns or Fantasy Campaigns, which will give you random ships (ex. one time you do fantasy, 
 you may have Yamato or Musashi or both) . There are 3 campaigns, long, medium and short all of which 
 are fun to play. The graphics are stunning when it comes to the movement and firing of the ships. 
 The sky is the only thing that turned this away from a perfect 10 on the graphics. Ill admit that 
 it takes a little bit to get used to (I thought instead of execute plot, it said execute pot) which 
 when I got when I was only about 9 years old. The gameplay is very nice and the AI will make some 
 good decisions whether to retreat or to fight to the death. Sound is awesome especially when the 
 ships fire. You hear only a minor blast from a destroyer, yet you will hear a roar when you hear 
 the battleships fire, and they can fire a pretty far distance. This is my review for Fighting Steel... try 
 it out in my opinion :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: looksofat
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 27, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Fighting Steel. When i bought the game i was so like: Great, a ship sim. And really cheap too. 
 When i brought the game home i found out that it is, em how to say, mediocre at best.
  The starting menu is nice so i went with the first option. I have chosen the british navy, the 
 difficulty setting, the time of the campaign and, well thats it. :) After that you see a menu that 
 is all about your ships. The ones you have, the ones that are on repairs and the ones that are 
 still being built. You click the button to your first mission (i dont remember what it says anymore) 
 and you are taken to the briefing. You find out what mission it is, whether it is historical or 
 not. You can see your ships and change their colour but you cant change them. Okey, after that 
 you see the battle itself. The graphics arent very nice but it is a 1999 game so i wasnt too dissapointed. 
 The ships got some nice details but the explosions are quite bad looking. The gameplay is awful. 
 Awful. There is little strategy in this game, no manual to explain if it is at all. The only good 
 thing about the game is that you can actually fire torpedoes from destroyers and cruisers. I fired 
 more than 300 in my time playing this game and i always had great fun. The thing concerning me 
 is that only 2 of them ever hit!!! 2!! Maybe im that bad or what but still... The sound is em, 
 lacking. Most of it are the explosions and the couple of soundtracks that play in the menus. Value. 
 Hm. No. The value isnt very good. It sucks. The only reason i played the game for so long was that 
 it is so hard to learn. I still dont know some of the options in the game. Altogether this isnt 
 much of a sim. It isnt fun or realistic so i dont would have to go with: DONT BUY IT! Maybe for 
 3$ but not more. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
