-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fighter Pilot
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/fighterpilot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 5.1, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 23 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Charybdis
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For someone who's never played a computer game, Fighter Pilot might be fun for a little while.

 With its budget-priced ($19.99) Fighter Pilot, Electronic Arts hoped to create a product that would 
 provide beginning gamers an easy entree into the often intimidating world of modern air combat 
 - sort of a "Jet Combat for Dummies" with such simplistic weapons and flight controls that it could 
 be enjoyed even without a joystick yet still be challenging for more experienced PC pilots. And 
 realizing that the low price point would mean that many of the game's target audience would probably 
 be playing on entry-level systems, EA also aimed to make a game that (and I quote from the press 
 release) "looks great without extra hardware or a souped-up system" and can "be played on a standard 
 PC."  

 Those are some pretty divergent goals for a single game, and not surprisingly Fighter Pilot manages 
 to achieve very few of them. It's true you shouldn't expect a whole lot out of a game that retails 
 for under $20, and unfortunately Fighter Pilot doesn't prove to be an exception to that rule - 
 even if judged solely as a trigger-finger workout.  

 Set in the Middle East (surprise, surprise) , Fighter Pilot sends you on 24 missions that take you 
 from destroying hidden weapons in Iraq and launching counterterrorist strikes in Iran to a showdown 
 with a couple of terrorists based in Afghanistan who've been behind all the trouble from the very 
 beginning. Before each mission, you're briefed by "General Mervyn," who was your father's commander 
 (surprise, surprise) ; he'll brief you on pretty much all you need to know, but it's hard to take 
 him seriously because his voice sounds more suited to selling pennies-a-day life insurance to senior 
 citizens rather than outlining antiterrorist air strikes.   

 Mission types include fighter sweeps, ground attacks, escorting copters inserting special forces 
 teams, and protecting aircraft on rescue missions. You'll be able to pick some type of support 
 aircraft on most outings - an AWACS (increased awareness of enemy installations and planes) , an 
 EF-111 (jams enemy radar signals) , an F/A-18 or F-22 (to deal with enemy fighters) , or an F-4G 
 Wild Weasel (ground attacks) - but it's possible to win all the missions without any assistance 
 at all. When you do choose one, however, the only communications command you need to know is "call 
 for help."  

 Although there are four very different types of planes featured here - F/A-18 Hornet, F-117 Stealth 
 fighter, F-22 Raptor, and Su-35 Flanker - about the only noticeable differences between them are 
 top speed and weapons loadout. Cockpit displays can be confusing, so they've been chucked altogether 
 in favor of a "cockpit perspective" that offers a panoramic view of the action uncluttered by even 
 a HUD (and that view isn't even available in the software-only mode, where only external angles 
 are available) . That's OK, though, because you don't need to worry about stuff like fuel consumption 
 or how various systems are faring. A graphical display and remaining "hit points" show how your 
 aircraft's holding up, and while I'm not sure, I think you could probably fly for as long as you 
 like, with enemy planes emerging regularly (and apparently endlessly) from who knows where.  

 
 Assuming you maintain a reasonable altitude, the only way you'll crash one of these babies is either 
 to throttle down to zero and wait for gravity to work its magic, or point the nose toward the ground 
 and auger in on purpose. Even on the expert difficulty setting, evading SAMs and air-to-air missiles 
 requires little more than a few sharp turns and an occasional flare. And to ensure that newbies 
 make every missile count, a flashing "SHOOT" appears whenever a targeted bandit gets so close that 
 a kill is almost certain.   

 Clearly, this isn't the game for serious flight-sim fans, and any veteran gamer - even those unfamiliar 
 with flight sims - will breeze through it in a few short hours. To be fair, Fighter Pilot does 
 at least introduce the tools of modern air combat and a few tactics in an innocuous way, and there's 
 plenty of stuff to shoot at. But given how little effort was put into normally time-consuming stuff 
 like enemy AI and accurate flight physics, it's only reasonable to expect a little more in the 
 eye-candy department: translucent smoke trails are standard fare by now, and the explosions and 
 terrain graphics are merely adequate. In short, about the only folks who'll be impressed with the 
 visuals in Fighter Pilot are those who've never seen a 3D video card in action.  

 And what about those gamers without 3D cards - you know, the ones "without extra hardware or a souped-up 
 system" that EA says it's targeting with Fighter Pilot? Well, the truth here is that while Fighter 
 Pilot will run on the sub-$1500 systems it was supposedly designed for, the graphics in the game's 
 software-only mode don't stack up to what we saw in action games from two and even three years 
 ago. As far as another of the game's features is concerned - the ability to play with just a mouse 
 and keyboard - I'll have to admit it can be done, but the same can be said of a half-dozen other 
 action-oriented flying games.  

 For someone who's never played a computer game (and who has a system with a 3Dfx-based video card) , 
 Fighter Pilot might be fun for a little while. But about the only thing that would keep it interesting 
 for very long is the game's multiplayer modes (all the usual connection types are available) . And 
 without support for the game on a service such as HEAT or Mplayer, the target audience will probably 
 be as daunted at the prospect of locating opponents and establishing TCP/IP connections as they 
 presumably are at the thought of mastering a complex jet-fighter simulation.  

 In the end, the only thing Fighter Pilot succeeds in is proving that it's possible to create an 
 action game based loosely on modern-day aircraft and sell it for $19.99. If that's good enough 
 for you, then check the Yellow Pages for the nearest Wal-Mart.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ghostgamer05
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a basic (a little too basic) jet  fighter simulator. Its not a complicated simulator 
 neither is it very genuine, and for that matter  fun. One of the many things that put this game 
 off for gamers and critics alike is obviously graphics. In my opinion it couldnt have been more 
 pixilated. The missile trail is very poor and the explosions consist of simply layer upon layer 
 of fire  very amateur. If you are a PC gamer with very low expectations expect something average. 
 If you have high expectations you might as well just play a free online game as its cheaper and 
 is probably more fun. 
  Though not all is bad in Fighter Pilot. A very good characteristic is that just before a mission 
 you get to choose an escort plane. This means that apart from yourself, you get a friend to help 
 you out  and you choose his plane. It could be a radar-disrupting plane or just another jet fighteryou 
 have many different planes to choose from. Also you dont use just one plane throughout the game, 
 but you switch between 4: An F-22 Raptor, an F-19 Stealth Fighter, an F-18 and a stolen Russian 
 fighter.
  Unfortunately even though you have a not bad selection when it comes to planes, the variation in 
 the different levels is very close to nil. The WHOLE game is a mission to destroy this Iraqi chief 
 (the final level is a showdown between you and him and its a little too easy for a final level) . 
 So all the levels are based in desert and in a plane  monotonous dont you think? But you have 
 to give the developers a little credit for coming up with a quite good storyline. Your boss used 
 to fight alongside your father, who was a very skilled fighter pilot. You sort of take his place 
  but you dont fight alongside your boss (dont get your hopes up on anything dramatic) . 
  The only thing that makes the levels different is the objectives. You have simple air-to-air dogfight 
 missions, air to ground missions and escort missions. This is aided by the weapon selection you 
 have. Youve got sidewinders, phoenixes and other missiles, as well as flares for defense. 
  The dumb thing about this game is that it doesnt really simulate anything. It isnt realistic 
 at all. Its so easy that you cannot even die if you crash straight into the ground  it just flips 
 you back up! Needless to say it is an old game so if you fly right into an enemy fighter youll 
 just go right through! 
  The sound doesnt help at all either. You taunt, thats okay. But how is it that you can hear your 
 enemys taunts? What did you agree to connect radios?? The explosions and missile sounds are very 
 abysmalI dont even bother. The best sound is in the Main Menu (its just music) .
  Ive said a lot of negative things and Ive also said good things about this game. I personally 
 didnt enjoy playing it. Im not jet simulator fan but even for fans its obviously not worthwhile. 
 But if youre like me when I got it (never tried a simulator before) then its not too bad. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
