-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy VIII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/finalfantasy8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  2, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,003 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square EA
Developer: SquareSoft
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Dec 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Final Fantasy VIII for the PC is a completely inadequate conversion of the attractive yet problematic 
 console role-playing game. 

 In early 1999, Final Fantasy VIII for the Sony PlayStation sold millions of copies within days of 
 its release in Japan. Now, one year later, the epic role-playing game has become available for 
 the PC with much less fanfare surrounding its publication, probably because most everyone who wanted 
 to play Final Fantasy VIII already has. What's more, the PC version of Final Fantasy VIII seems 
 hell-bent on completely alienating its audience of innocently curious computer gamers, as they'll 
 likely end up utterly bewildered if they ever made the mistake of buying it. That's because Final 
 Fantasy VIII for the PC is a completely inadequate conversion of the attractive yet problematic 
 console role-playing game.  

 Final Fantasy VIII would have looked and sounded much better if it were originally a PC game. It 
 might look good on a television, but on the PC you'll immediately notice all the flaws in Final 
 Fantasy VIII's graphics. The characters are made of simple polygonal shapes, and they're painted 
 with blurry, low-resolution texture maps. The background scenery fares even worse; the game's characters 
 look sharper and much more detailed compared with the washed-out settings throughout the game. 
 This makes everything clash and makes the whole game look much worse than it should. You can tell 
 Final Fantasy VIII is a beautiful game underneath it all; the composition and design of virtually 
 every scene are of exceptional quality. The game has a cohesive cinematic appearance, consistently 
 inventive artistic design, and remarkably high production values throughout, even though its appearance 
 is mired under what seems like a coat of dust.  

 That's the problem: Although Final Fantasy VIII looked stunning on the PlayStation, its visuals 
 seem to lose far too much quality in translation to the PC. You'll frequently get frustrated looking 
 for the hotspot to exit a screen; then again, you'll also frequently witness some of the most impressive 
 computer-generated cinematic sequences ever made. The game's frame rate is fairly smooth during 
 most gameplay sequences, but it slows to a crawl whenever you're traveling between destinations 
 on the 3D map. Even its soundtrack suffers from the translation, because it was originally designed 
 to be played through the PlayStation's proprietary music synthesizer; but on the PC, the game's 
 epic score just sounds twangy and annoying, because most PC sound cards are ill equipped to emulate 
 the PlayStation's electronic instruments.  

 Fortunately, Final Fantasy VIII generally looks good enough that you could learn to tolerate the 
 shortcomings of its translated graphics and sound; the characters may lack detail, but they're 
 so vividly motion-captured that they'll captivate you anyway. But Final Fantasy VIII's greatest 
 technical feat has to be how it manages to interpolate 3D characters onto static backgrounds that 
 seamlessly shift into pre-rendered full motion video. There are several scenes throughout the game 
 that blend gameplay sequences with cinematic cutscenes so seamlessly and so beautifully that it's 
 impossible not to be impressed at the sight of them.  

 Though it may take some effort on your part to put up with Final Fantasy VIII's muddled visual quality, 
 it'll be even harder to deal with how the game plays. Final Fantasy VIII features a great story 
 that uses some of the most common, most obvious plot devices - love, friendship, time travel - 
 and somehow manages to make them interesting and complicated, yet completely accessible and even 
 rather plausible. But to get to the heart of the story, you must wade through countless random 
 monster encounters and other tedious gameplay sequences that will try your patience to the very 
 limits. Worse yet, because the PC version is a straight port of the PlayStation game, you must 
 navigate the game's complicated menus and controls using just a keyboard or a gamepad. Yet the 
 game's most embarrassing throwback to its console roots has to be its save-game system, which reads 
 your hard drive as though it were a PlayStation memory card. Even so, as with the ported graphics, 
 you might grudgingly learn to deal with the console-style controls. Unfortunately, coping with 
 the game's gaudy and far-too-slow combat sequences will probably take a lot more effort than the 
 game is worth. Combat in Final Fantasy VIII pits your team of characters - usually three at a time 
 - against its enemies in a turn-based battle that forces you to respond to each turn in real time. 
 The pacing of the combat couldn't be any worse; while the characters all animate smoothly and realistically, 
 they go through each motion much too deliberately. You must make your moves quickly, but the moves 
 themselves take way too long to execute. In addition, your success in combat necessarily involves 
 becoming very familiar with the game's entirely abstract, incredibly clumsy, but nonetheless fairly 
 interesting junction system. Essentially, it lets you bolster each of your characters' statistics 
 by attaching particular magic spells to the particular traits. It takes a while to learn, and it 
 grows even more convoluted as your characters gain experience and additional options and abilities, 
 but in the end the junction system does allow for some strategic depth if you give in to learning 
 its nuances.  

 As if the junction system weren't enough, each of your characters must also be equipped with a guardian 
 force, which is a summoned creature without whom your character couldn't cast magic, use items, 
 or do much of anything during battle. Guardian forces can be triggered in combat at any time, and 
 through most of the game, they'll be your most potent weapons, as they inflict massive damage to 
 all enemies onscreen compared with the damage your characters inflict with their regular physical 
 attacks. So there's no real reason not to just summon your guardians all the time; the only problem 
 is that each time you do, you must sit through a long animated sequence as the guardian executes 
 its attack. The guardians' attacks look stupendous: They cast gigantic fireballs and vast showers 
 of ice; they create floods and black holes. However, you'll have to see such sequences so frequently 
 that you'll grow bored to death of them very soon, yet you must use them over and over anyway. 
 Consequently, Final Fantasy VIII's combat is its least enjoyable element, as well as a very serious 
 detriment to the entire game. Part of the problem is that the combat has very little to do with 
 anything that actually goes on in Final Fantasy VIII. The story does little to justify the existence 
 of the junction system or the guardian forces; similarly, the random monster encounters you'll 
 constantly deal with have no bearing on much of anything. Your characters gain levels as they earn 
 experience points, but you'll soon find that the monsters they face are always at an equivalent 
 level, so there isn't even the underlying incentive that your party is becoming more powerful with 
 each victory. Then again, if you took away the combat, you'd find that there's very little actual 
 gameplay in Final Fantasy VIII; when you're not fighting, you're probably just reading through 
 onscreen dialogue as you watch your characters interact. There are few occasions in which you get 
 a chance to make a choice in the dialogue, and even fewer occasions when that choice actually has 
 any impact. The game does have a few interesting interactive sequences in between all the talking 
 and fighting, but they're very rare. As you play, you'll likely get the overwhelming sense that 
 Final Fantasy VIII would have been a lot better if you could just watch it rather than take any 
 part in it.  

 You could speculate as to how much better the game could have been in any number of ways, not the 
 least of which being if it actually took advantage of the modern PC's superior power. But as it 
 stands, there's no reason anybody should opt for the PC version of Final Fantasy VIII over the 
 original, if only because the PlayStation game looks and sounds so much better. And if you don't 
 already have a PlayStation, then you shouldn't even bother with the game in the first place. Its 
 interesting story and impressive visual design aren't enough to recommend it in the face of all 
 its ill-conceived, tedious, and irritating gameplay conventions, which are essentially impossible 
 to deal with if you're neither a longtime fan of the series nor an eternally patient player.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (32 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Prince_Diamond
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I was very surprised when I first saw this game, I didn't think anything could out do FF VII! Now 
 I think it would be unfair to say that FF VII is nothing compared to this, because FF VII is FF 
 VII. However I was amazed by the graphics and the soundtrack of FF VIII. As far as the characters 
 go, it does not have a great antagonist which was a bit dissapointing. Even so, Squall being the 
 hero in this game makes up for that completely. The storyline is very exciting from the start of 
 the game to the end of the game. Not to mention some of the name calling that occurs between Zell 
 and Siefer, and the quirky conversations between Squall and Rinoa add hillarity to the game. I 
 give this a perfect! This is due to the fact that I had so much fun playing this game and haven't 
 from any other Final Fantasy since this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  
  
  FFVIII on the PC has constant graphical problems throughout the game. I've played this game on some 
 of the latest graphics cards as well as on some of the best graphics cards available when the game 
 was first released for PC, but there is constantly ugly rectanglular shapes across the screen in 
 many places you go.
  
  You can play this game using a PC gamepad and it works just fine.
  
  Still this is one of the best JRPG's around. I live in Australia and a pre-owned copy of FFVIII 
 is over 70$ and not everyone owns any of the Playstation consoles, so if you're primarily a PC gamer, you 
 can finally see what all the FF craze is about without having to buy a console.
  
  The story is about Squall Lionheart, who is being trained at an academy to be an assassin. A powerful 
 nation is conquering weaker nations, and mercenaries are required to do special missions and Squall 
 and travels with a group of characters (some are other students from the academy and some are characters 
 they meet along the way) including Quistis (Squall's sophisticated female instructor) , Zell (another 
 hyper active student) , Selphie (a cute 17 year old female student) , Riona (a beautiful woman Squall 
 meets in another town) , and Irvine (a cowboy and sniper who lives as a loner) .
  
  The main feature of the story is the love story, Squall is anti-social and doesn't express his emotions, and 
 then he meets Riona who is bubbly and extraverted and it shows how opposites can attract and Riona 
 brings Squall out of his shell and Squall finally starts expressing his emotions towards her because 
 she had made him feel a way that no other woman has.
  
  There is some big twists in the story, and a fierce rivalry between Squall and another arrogant 
 student named Seifer.
  
  The FMV was some of the best looking for a game at it's time, the FMV has an elegant, colorful feel 
 and different to FFVII's dark, disturbing universe. The characters have realistic body shapes and 
 figures and not blocky or stumpy for the first time in a FF game. When you see Squall and Riona 
 dance, it looks so beautiful and the fact they look like real people and Riona is so beautiful and 
 Squall is socially awkward and abit clumsy with his dancing, it's heart warming and cute at the 
 same time.
  
  The other cinematics are as entertaining as FFVII, with Quistis destroying that giant, mechanical 
 spider/crab with the machine-gun, and the high speed boat moving across the water, and there is anticipation 
 when you see missles fired at the academy (Balamb Garden) , and you see giant structures transform, even 
 Balamb Garden can transform and maneuver around!
  
  The music for battles is very entertaining, you hear some great remixes of the FF battle music as 
 well as the old tunes. The music has an elegant feel, when you're at Balamb, and during certain scenes.
 
  
  If you haven't played this game yet, you should whether it be on PC or PS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow997
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Well i am really happy to play FF VIII for PC at last :)
  Because i sold my PS : ( and i have FF VIII but they are all scratched so i cant play even in emulator 
 :E
  well my sis bought for me Final fantasy VIII for PC ^^ i dot know where she get this game but who 
 cares hehe ^^
  i love this game so much, well sometimes when i see this game i want cry ... cry ... cry for happy 
 :D
  i really enjoyed this game i played it on PS for 500 hours !!!!!
  and i will play this game on my PC for 10000000000000 hours and more !!!!
  graphics are fantasctic, 
 music, sound fantastic !!!
  everythink its fantastic !! story its fantasctic :E
  well thats all sorry for my bad english see you :)
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Hope you like my reviews lol well i am newbie about that and my english its no good : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Since Final Fantasy VIII- a great game- was breaking down on my PlayStation every time Squall does 
 the Lionheart (which is obviously annoying) , we bought it for the PC. The question is: Does it 
 still have that magic?
  
  Well, I guess you can say it's a bit reduced.
  
  I know, graphics don't matter, it's the gameplay! But when you see some really, really, really 
 bad graphical blemishes that you normally wouldn't see on the PlayStation, it just detracts from 
 the experience as a whole for me. I mean, several black rectangles are blocking important stuff! 
 But maybe that's just my video card- my brand new video card- that's the cause of all of this, 
 or maybe it's just DirectX 9. I don't know.
  
  It also takes a little getting used to the controls mapped to the keyboard, although you can map 
 them yourself. And what the hell? Slot 1 and Slot 2? Why are they retained all of a sudden? It's 
 not like a PC uses a proprietary Memory Card or something! Maybe it would've made more sense were 
 it to let the player choose a hard drive destination, such as flash memory attached via USB, but 
 still, this port was probably not made with that in mind.
  
  Regardless, the game is still a real classic, and it's really, really long to boot! I wouldn't 
 mind jumping into the world of Squall and company because of its great story again. And hey, the 
 CG scenes are still looking pretty good for its age.
  
  The interface is a bit bland to be honest, but then again, that was also my gripe in the PS version 
 (although I didn't mention that in my 4-year-old review of the PS version) . But whatever, I only 
 get to have fun and some challenges in the game itself, and that's what counts.
  
  Bottom line: It's fun! But my video card is too advanced for it, I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerjpines
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  After reading the review, I was a bit confused with the complaints, and especially how GameSpot 
 ended up with the numbers they did. I'd like to address a few of their complaints, and possibly 
 shed some light on other aspects of their grumblings.
  
  Final Fantasy VIII doesn't look like FarCry. We can all agree on that. However, it's an older game 
 that was ported from an older system, and thus holding high expectations of top-notch visuals is 
 a perhaps bit unfair. In fact, the visuals are a vast improvement over FF7, which featured strange, 
 balloon-headed characters wobbling/hopping around like rubber animals. Since FF7 is widely understood 
 to be one of the better RPGs out there, we can justly conclude that the graphics in FF8 are forgivable.
 
  
  Secondly - put plain and simple - the music is great. I'm sorry Greg Kasavin, but you got this 
 part wrong. Perhaps capable sound-cards weren't widely available on stock PCs when the game was 
 released, but everyone who buys the game today will get an excellent rendering of a striking electronic 
 score. The arrangements were effective, and variety was never an issue.
  
  Lastly, gameplay is excellent. If you are a fan of turn-based combat, you will get your money's 
 worth here and more. Fights may get redundant if you are trying to travel somewhere quickly on 
 the world map, but you shouldn't have that problem if you are obsessed with leveling characters 
 like I am. You don't even have to be obsessed, just somewhat interested in improving stats.
  
  You can tell by the average user rating that Final Fantasy VIII was vastly underrated here. 
 Take it from all of us who thought the same - this game is excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safa93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 8 is a great game i ever played. It is one of my favorite game. I like it very much. 
 I played it many time. I just love it. It rocks !!! . Its superb. Its story, video, sound, music 
 i like everything. I like CD 3 the most. The song "Eyes On Me" its amazing and Its music is also 
 amazing. In CD 3 The ragnarok scenes and eyes on me music its so lovely and when squall frees rinoa 
 its such a great scene. When i fought ultimecia i thing its very difficult to win but its not that 
 difficult and i won. When I finished this game and watch / saw the ending it makes me feel so good. 
 The feeling of completing game is so cool. I tell u that it is an excellent game so, if u like 
 video games, just try it. You would say that its an excellent game if u try it / play it. So play 
 this game and give reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 7 is one of my favourite games of all time, so naturally i was happy when this game 
 saw it's light back in 1999. Final Fantasy 8 technically uses the same engine as 7 but tries to 
 be a bit more of an adult game. The Game doesn't use the 'corny' characters of FF7 but uses more 
 'real' characters, it's both fine by me though.
  
  If you've played FF7 and u finished the whole game you know it's hard to beat that so i won't be 
 that hard on FF8. The game pretty much has a very good story , not as good as FF7, but still quite 
 good. The bad part about FF8 compared to 7 would probably be that there ain't no 'fun parts' in 
 the game, at least not that much. There almost are no side-quests etc. in FF8 it's all about following 
 the main story line and sometimes you just wish you could just relax and talk to NPC's in a nice 
 town. I won't go into detail in how FF8 works , if you want to play this game i suggest you go 
 play FF7 first. If you've played FF7 and liked it then you probably like this game too but don't 
 think you will get a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VIII was the next installment after the infamous VII. Obviously it had some big shoes 
 to fill. VIII does a good job of giving its fan a good quality game with alot better graphics than 
 its predecessor. Squall is the main character of VIII. He is some what cynical and, rather cold 
 hearted. Next to squall there is a side story (i wont spoil anything here) who the main character 
 is a machine gun weilding warm-hearted Laguna. The whole story is centered around a love story. 
 With random other love twists on the side. My only real complaint about the game is that the story 
 is not very innovative and compelling. Seems like the characters are fighting for the world for 
 absolutely no reason what so ever only because they are ordered to by their institution, which 
 to me doesn't sound like a very motivating reason. But the gameplay makes up for this lack of story. 
 The play style is still turn based, but summoning and junctioning make character stat customization 
 very interesting. The idea that you level the summons to get stronger and actually attaching them 
 to characters is something never seen before VIII. Junctioning high level spells to different stats 
 allowed squal to be really powerful even at low levels. The monsters you fight also level as you 
 level so the difficulty is almost always on the same field as you are (so mass leveling is useless 
 if not detrimental if you level too much) Graphics have gone way up from where they were in FFVII. 
 The ingame cinematic sequences are so plentiful and beautiful, some of the CG movies are even acceptable 
 in todays standards. Although the story was subpar, the character development was something they 
 concentrated alot on. The emotions, the feelings they expressed seemed real. If not just the gameplay, 
 character development is another thing square did really well on VIII
  
  Overall it was a very enjoyable game. Not because of the story (cause i think it needed alot of 
 work) but because of the immersive game play and the realist character development that VIII delivers.
 
  If you have yet to play this game get it soon because the gaming industry keeps moving forward. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenberry26
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  When I started playing, FF7 was a thing of the past so I had to start with this one. I was still 
 able to play FF7 a bit though, and the transition in graphics from FF7 to FF8 for me was astounding. 
 I quickly fell in love with the game.
  
  The story is one of the nicest in the series, especially when you are looking for a love story. 
 The one from FFX is also good, but it isn't till FFX-2 that their story is finished.
  
  The gameplay is also solid. The trigger button from the gunblade keeps you busy on the fight scene. 
 I particularly enjoyed the latter parts of the game with all the GF's and massing aura. :P The 
 idea of monsters leveling up with you also makes sense for me.
  
  Overall, a very very good and excellent game. Some may argue that FF7 is still better, but for 
 me, this was one of the huge steps taken by Squaresoft to the improving of games. Having it on 
 the PC makes it all the more replayable and available to be enjoyed once again. : 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baghdig
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everybody gives a bad credit to this game but it's my favorite final fantasy game. 
 Because it has:
  1. The Best Characters
  2. The Best Story
  3. The Best Environments
  4. The Best Monsters
  5. The Best Plot
  6. The Best RPG
  7. The Best Enemies
  8. The Best 
 Mini Games
  9. The Best Sidequests
  10. It's The Best Final Fantasy Game of All Time.
  
  In this game your party memebers fallow your every move. Many vehicules could be accible. Many 
 hidden Gf's are found. The biggist world map. The Card challenges are awsome. The movies are amazing. 
 The characters are beautiful. The enemies are amazing. 2 stories are included. So this is why I 
 like this game the most in the whole series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ithok
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Overshadowed by Final Fantasy 7, this is truly a piece of art to itself. the graphics may be a 
 bit outdated at this point, but the cutscenes are beautiful, the characters you just have to love 
 and the story is a masterpiece unto itself.
  
  Squall, being an anti-hero much like Cloud in the previous Final Fantasy sets himself apart not 
 for his daring, but in his compassion for others hidden behind a guise of toughness. Playing through 
 the game you end up feeling what an RPG should make you feel, a strong attachment to the characters.
 
  
  The Summons are excellent although do get a bit old after a while with long cutscenes but a good 
 break to out the controller down is a good thing. Just whats to be expected from a Final Fantasy 
 summon.
  
  All in all and in my personal and humble opinion, the best Final Fantasy to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Shinzui
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  ... since I first saw the game, I knew I have to play it. Some time later I finally sit to my computer 
 and turn on one of the best RPGs I have ever played. From first moment to the last (and even then) 
 I was fascinated with the game. Well made characters with complicated and somehow funny attributes, 
 interesting weapons, lots of enemies and wonderful story. Of course there was more and more about 
 the game, but the best way how you can figure out, is to try it. Only minus of the game is now 
 a bit older graphics and that it was originally made for PS (it's well known fact, that many games 
 originally made for PS have not possible quality on PCs) , but to defend I have also say, it's bit 
 older and in-game videos have very good quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mero000007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  The game has a fascinating&amp; fantastic story. However I felt strange when I first began the game. 
 I tried to understand what was happening, because I hadnt seen any similar game play nor such a 
 fantastic story in a game beforehand. The story takes you inside and you find yourself in a strange, 
 unbelievable world which is completely different than what you could imagine. There are tens of 
 magic spells you can cast, many guardian forces (lets say the magical creature that have different 
 powers) you can summon, level advance system is different, items that can be worn or sold and hundreds 
 of quests waiting for you in the game. Definately my number one of all times, no newer games can 
 affect me like this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanaru
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  What have I say? That's wonderful. Not just a game: Videos, musics and the story. This game has 
 a great past. Old age and new ages. Every time this games series are populous.
  Final Fantasy VIII begin in a house. U talk your friend and she say what have must do. And you 
 going to the party. And meet a very beautiful girl. And u play dance with her. This video is the 
 best animation of I ever seen. Anyway: then you meet a stranger. Then real game is started...
 
  Actually, I want to very much words about this game. But I don't. If you like video games; u have 
 to play FF 8. Now!!! Don't waste your time read this message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  Its pretty hard to write a bad review fo any FF title. As any of us fanboys knows, the series can 
 do no wrong. So why the low rating in Gamespot for the PC version? Well, its prob cos those guys 
 already played the PS version and its pretty hard to have judge the game again using a PC layout
 
  
  High Pts: The sound & graphics. The sound is the quite simply beautiful. The soaring orchestra 
 music that you hear in game should be the de-facto standard that all games should aspire for. Graphic 
 wise, hey, we can't judge a game that is 7 years old. But the in-game movie is still amazing in 
 this day & age and that speaks for itself the high standard that the game has set up.
  
  Lows: The battles are pretty repetitive & it does get boring after some time. But once you get 
 the limit breaks going, all is forgiven & forgotten. 
  
  So hey, if you dnt owe a PS, owe a PC and has never played this game, nows a good time to raid 
 that bargain bin at your nearest PC shop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sun-Hun
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VIII was my first RPG game. Since then, I have played many others of the same genre 
 because FFVIII has truely demonstrated to me the potential of RPG games.
  
  I have heard of a few debates that this game had adversely changed Squaresoft's original style 
 of role-playing, but I think it's actually for the better. Square designed more proportionate and 
 real-looking characters, which further closed the gap between cartoony and reality.
  
  Speaking of the characters, the graphics have further improved from FFVII. The 3D polygons were 
 more smooth and the overall image enhanced. The sound was as great as usual. The gameplay value 
 was exceptionally high (I beat this game 3 times, including the Omega Weapon) . Although there were 
 minor irritable factors, such as the repetitive magic drawing, the attacks, magic, summons, and 
 limit breaks were truly amazing.
  
  There are various styles of gameplay for you to utilize. You can use predominantly use magical 
 attacks, or you can be like me and rely on physical attacks from Squall and Zell. With either of 
 these two characters, you can solo and beat the game without breaking a sweat. That is because 
 they both have greater strength and more powerful limit breaks. squall has the added advantage 
 of a 255% hit accuracy (you basically never miss hitting a target, even when blinded) . I prefer 
 Squall for a second reason, because you can press a certain button (forgot was it E or R) during 
 the attack to increase his attack by 50%.
  
  Another drawback to the game is the constant management of Guardian Force (GF) junctions. Sometimes 
 you'll be at a loss in choosing which GF is for whom. You may want to give Ifrit to Squall so that 
 he can get the STR+1 every time he raises a level, but what about Zell, is he getting anything? 
 Because of this, I personally made a very handy chart, displaying what GF skills are for whom. 
 If you're thinking of playing this game, and want this simple one-page GF management chart, just 
 message me.
  
  The storyline is a very memorable journey. You start off with Squall as a student in a military 
 academy. After your graduation, you start taking real missions. Along the way, you meet some friends 
 and discover more about what really is going on. Certain times, you may go to really whacky environments, 
 like a high-tech city or even into outer space. But the transition from one part to the next is 
 liquid smooth, so no worries there.
  
  This game is a true adventure, even more so than FFVII. If you want a thrilling adventure in fantasy, 
 then look no further. FFVIII will be sure to take you there. There's a reason why I played this 
 game 3 times after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VIII  
 Fainaru Fantaj VIII?) is a computer role-playing game created by Square Co., Ltd. for the 
 Sony PlayStation and Microsoft Windows-based PCs. It is the eighth installment of the Final Fantasy 
 series, and the second installment in the series to be released for the PlayStation, as well as 
 the second to be ported to Windows. Thirteen weeks after its release in 1999, Final Fantasy VIII 
 had earned more than $50 million USD in sales, [1] [2] making it the fastest selling Final Fantasy 
 title. To date, Final Fantasy VIII has sold nearly 8 million units worldwide, placing it as the 
 second best-selling title of the series at presentFinal Fantasy VII being first, with nearly 10 
 million units sold worldwide. [3]  and was voted as the twenty-second best game of all time by 
 readers of Japanese magazine Famitsu. [4]
  Contents
  
  Gameplay
  
  Final Fantasy VIII is a further development of the RPG engine seen in its series predecessor Final 
 Fantasy VII, and comprises three main modes of play: the world map screen, a fully 3D visual display 
 where the player may navigate freely across the scaled-down game world; the environment field map 
 screen, consisting of one or more 2D pre-drawn backgrounds that serve to represent a location such 
 as a town, with overlaid 3D characters under player control; and the battle map screen, a fully 
 3D visual of a discrete location such as a street or room, where a fight between the player and 
 enemy parties takes place. A menu-driven interface drives the mechanics of the game, and it is 
 in these that various departures from previous Final Fantasy games become apparent, most notably 
 in the lessened emphasis on traditional weapons and armor, and in the Junction magic system. Final 
 Fantasy VIII was also the first game in the series to introduce a collectible cards-based minigame, 
 known as "Triple Triad."
  
  Junction system
  
  This new system revolves around summonable monsters, called Guardian Forces (GFs) . A character 
 must have a GF assigned to them ("junctioned") before he or she can use several standard Final 
 Fantasy battle command abilities, such as "Magic" and "Item"; only "Attack" can be performed otherwise. 
 While previous Final Fantasy titles used a pool of magic points (MP) consumed by each spell to 
 limit magic use, in Final Fantasy VIII, spells are "drawn" from enemies and special Draw Points 
 distributed throughout the game's environments. Spells are stocked as quantified inventory and 
 consumed one at a time when used. GFs also allow characters to "junction" these spells to their 
 own statistics  such as "Strength" and "Vitality"  for various bonuses.
  
  Because of the flexibility and depth of this system  combined with the capability to draw unlimited 
 quantities of a spell from a single enemy  it is possible to build one's character party up to 
 significant levels of power fairly early into the game and allow them to  in most casesinflict 
 much more damage than the GFs themselves are capable of rendering. This alternative use of GFs 
 was a significant departure for the series, as summoned creatures were previously used almost exclusively 
 to deliver a single devastating attack. Other notable changes were present, as well, in that "stat 
 junctioning" replaced the equippable weapons and armor of previous Final Fantasies, and while each 
 character does retain a specialized weapon, that weapon cannot be unequipped, unlike in previous 
 games. However, a limited number of upgrades can be performed on each character's weapon throughout 
 the game, increasing its power and efficiency, as well as altering its appearance.
  
  Limit Breaks
  Rinoa's second Limit Break, Angel Wing.
  Enlarge
  Rinoa's second Limit Break, 
 Angel Wing.
  
  As in Final Fantasy VII, every character has a unique special attack called a Limit Break that 
 is only available during battle under certain conditions. Where the system differs from the previous 
 game's use of Limit Breaks, however, is that they randomly become available every time a command 
 is issued during battle, provided that character's current health (hit points, or HP) is below 
 32% of their current maximum health. As a character's health drops below 32% of their maximum, 
 the probability of accessing that character's Limit Break increases. Alternatively, the magic spell 
 "Aura" increases the probability of Limit Breaks appearing regardless of a character's remaining 
 hit points.
  
  In the original Japanese version of the game, these moves were called "Special Arts"shortened 
 to "Special" in the Status Menuand were renamed "Limit Breaks" in the North American, European 
 and Australian versions.
  
  Experience levels
  
  As in most role-playing games  and in most previous installments of the Final Fantasy series  
 experience points are awarded following successful battles. If 1000 experience points are accumulated 
 by a character, that character gains a "level", which increases that character's base statistics. 
 Unlike previous Final Fantasy games, however, the levels of randomly encountered enemies are calculated 
 based on the current levels of the player's characters. In other words, the higher the levels of 
 the player's characters, the higher the levels of the randomly encountered enemies the player battles. 
 Higher level enemies are capable of dealing outand receivingsignificantly more damage, and may 
 have newer and stronger attacks available as well. It's notable, however, that increases in a character's 
 stats as a result of "leveling-up" are minuscule in comparison to the stat boosts available through 
 exploitation of the Junction system. Some players take advantage of this fact to avoid leveling 
 up, allowing their characters to get stronger as better magic and Junction abilities become available 
 while enemies remain weak.
  
  The Guardian Forces themselves also gain levels and win Ability Points (AP) . AP is allocated to 
 allow Guardian Forces to learn special abilities. When a GF has gained the required amount of AP 
 to learn a specific ability, that ability becomes available for any character  and, in some cases, 
 the character party as a whole  to use. Also of note is that when a GF is frequently summoned 
 by the same character, it will take less time for said character to call the GF in the future. 
 Additionally, when GFs that have learned the "Boost" ability are summoned, the player will be given 
 the opportunity to increase the potency of the GF's attack. By holding down the "Select" button 
 on the PlayStation controller while rapidly hitting the "Square" button, a number in the lower 
 right hand corner of the screen will increase, representing the inrease in the power of the GF's 
 attack. Note that not all 
  
  Story
  Seifer knocks Squall to the ground with a Fire spell during an early duel
  Enlarge
  Seifer 
 knocks Squall to the ground with a Fire spell during an early duel
  
  The ever-growing hostilities of the nation of Galbadia have begun to be felt by the rest of the 
 world. Galbadia's president, Vinzer Deling, is expanding Galbadia's territories, and  some seventeen 
 years after a previous war shattered peace between the nations  the balance of power is about 
 to shift once again. The world will soon be consumed in an even greater conflict.
  Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.
  
  In response to a plea calling for mercenaries 
 to help in fending off a Galbadian invasion, the Balamb Garden branch of the elite mercenary force 
 known as "SeeD" dispatches its members and several graduation-eligible SeeD cadets, including Squall 
 Leonhart. SeeD temporarily succeeds in halting the Galbadian advance, negotiating a brief cease-fire, 
 and Squall  recognized for his exemplary skills in leadership, strength, and focus  graduates 
 to SeeD status.
  
  Shortly after graduating, Squall meets a young woman named Rinoa Heartilly, one whose attitude 
 and approach to life are apparently the opposite of his own. Assigned to help her Galbadian-resistance 
 on his first mission, along with fellow graduates Zell Dincht and Selphie Tilmitt, Squall learns 
 that a sorceress named "Edea" is the mastermind behind Galbadia's rising violence. Edea soon kills 
 Deling and takes direct control of Galbadia, turning it into an imperial dictatorship. Squall and 
 his comrades, along with his former instructor, Quistis Trepe, and sharpshooter Irvine Kinneas, 
 attempt to assassinate the sorceress, but are defeated and imprisoned.
  Students from Balamb Garden battle Galbadian soldiers
  Enlarge
  Students from Balamb Garden 
 battle Galbadian soldiers
  
  During their failed attempt to assassinate the sorceress, Squall's party learns that his longtime 
 rival from his cadet days, Seifer Almasy, has defected from Garden and joined with Edea as the 
 leader of the Galbadian army and her personal second-in-command. After escaping from their imprisonment, 
 Squall's group must work to save Garden  and the world  from Edea's wrath, as well as unravel 
 the mysteries surrounding a man named "Laguna" and his charge Ellone, whom Edea is seeking. Meanwhile, 
 Squall himself must come to terms with his rival, his ever-growing feelings for Rinoa, and his 
 own loner-based philosophy on life.
  
  As time passes, Squall begins to abandon his shell to become the leader of SeeD and protect the 
 woman he loves. Soon, the full forces of the Galbadian army and Balamb Garden  SeeDs and cadets 
 alike  meet to engage in a devastating conflict, and it is revealed that the stakes are higher 
 than anyone could have imagined: Edea is merely a tool for a greater sorceress known as "Ultimecia", 
 who resides in the future and wishes to achieve Time Compression. This spell would grant her dominion 
 over all time and space, and it is for this reason she has sought Ellone, for Ellone is the key 
 to this goal.
  Squall and Rinoa embrace
  Enlarge
  Squall and Rinoa embrace
  
  The subsequent battle with Edea forces Ultimecia to transfer Edea's powers to Rinoa, allowing Edea 
 to cling to life but leaving Rinoa frozen in a deep coma. Squall  his hard exterior finally shattered 
 by Rinoa's condition  becomes obsessed with waking her. However, Ultimecia possesses Rinoa and 
 uses her to free Adel, the sorceress responsible for the war seventeen years past, while also ordering 
 Seifer to incite the Lunar Cry, a rain of monsters from the moon. This simultaneously brings Adel's 
 containment device from space to the planet's surface, and leaves Esthar  the world's most powerful 
 nation  swarming with monsters and unable to prevent Ultimecia's plot to use Adel as her host 
 for the final stage of her plan.
  
  Rinoa, now herself once more, is left to die alone in space, and Squall, determined to save her 
 if he can, dives into the abyss after her. Rescued by a derelict spaceship floating in the planet's 
 orbit, Squall and Rinoa return from space, only for Esthar to lock Rinoa away, fearing her new 
 sorceress powers. Squall then risks the safety of the entire universe to free Rinoa, kill Adel, 
 and travel through a now time-compressed universe to confront Ultimecia in her own era. With their 
 friendship serving as their bond to reality, Squall and his friends manage to immunize themselves 
 to the effects of Time Compression, defeat Ultimecia and put an end to her schemes.
  
  Characters
  
  Main article: List of Final Fantasy VIII characters
  
  Several of the major 
 characters of Final Fantasy VIII are studentsand later SeeDsof Balamb Garden. Chief among themand 
 the cast as a wholeis Squall Leonhart, who uses a gunblade as his weapon of choice. His fellow 
 SeeDs include his former instructor, Quistis Trepe, an intellectual who battles using a whip, Zell 
 Dincht, a martial artist, and Selphie Tilmitt, a lighthearted girl who is deadly with the nunchaku. 
 Irvine Kinneas also joins the group, though he was trained at Galbadia Garden instead of Balamb 
 Garden. Irvine's weapon specialty is guns, and he makes for an excellent sniper. After joining 
 the party, he soon falls in love with Selphie. The final primary playable character is Rinoa Heartilly, 
 daughter to a powerful Galbadian general and member of the Forest Owls  though not their leader, 
 as is often misinterpreted  a resistance movement fighting against Galbadian rule. She fights 
 using an arm-bound crossbow that fires projectiles with a boomerang-like effect. She enlists the 
 aid of Balamb Garden's SeeDs in her efforts, and soon falls in love with Squall, as he does with 
 her. The relationship between Squall and Rinoa is one of the central themes of the game.
  
  Laguna Loire, Kiros Seagill, and Ward Zabac are playable characters in the game's "past scenes", 
 which take place some seventeen to twenty years before the present day events. Antagonists Seifer 
 Almasy and Edea Kramer  temporarily playable  round out the list of playable characters.
  Tetsuya Nomura's designs of Selphie (left) , Rinoa (center) and Quistis 
  Enlarge
  Tetsuya Nomura's 
 designs of Selphie (left) , Rinoa (center) and Quistis 
  
  Scenario Writer Kazushige Nojima has expressed that the dynamic of players' relationships with 
 the main character in Final Fantasy games is something of importance to him, and that he puts a 
 lot of thought into how that relationship will develop. With Final Fantasy VII, he explains that 
 Cloud's reserved nature led him to write the story in such a way that the player would be put in 
 the position of deciding for theirself what Cloud was thinking, something reflected by the game's 
 style of having the player frequently select Cloud's responses to certain situations and dialogue. 
 With Final Fantasy VIII, which also features a reserved lead protagonist in Squall, Nojima explains 
 that he wanted to give players actual insight into what the character was thinking, even while 
 other characters in the game were not privy to this information. [5] This approach is reflected 
 by the frequent use of dialogue that takes place solely within Squall's mind, in which the player 
 is able to read his thoughts and understand how Squall is thinking or feeling at any given time, 
 even if he keeps these thoughts to himself.
  
  Character Designer Tetsuya Nomura  while exchanging e-mails with Director Yoshinori Kitase during 
 the period between the development of Final Fantasy VII and Final Fantasy VIII  suggested that 
 the game should bear a "school days" feel, and as Kazushige Nojiima already had a story in mind 
 in which the main characters were the same ages, the idea worked, taking form as the Garden military 
 academies. Nojima also planned for the two playable parties featured in the game (Squall's present 
 day group and Laguna Loire's group of seventeen to twenty years previous) to highly contrast with 
 one another. This idea was conveyed through Laguna's group consisting of characters who were in 
 their late twenties and had a lot of combat experience. They were also close friends who had fought 
 together for a long time and come to trust one another. Squall's party, on the other hand, was 
 young and inexperienced, and Squall himself does not understand the value of friendship at the 
 game's beginning. [6]
  
  As part of a theme desired by Kitase to give the game a foreign atmosphere ("foreign" being in 
 relation to Japan) , the objective with the character designs was to give them largely European 
 appearances. The first character Nomura designed specifically for use in Final Fantasy VIII was 
 Squall, initially giving him longer hair and a more feminine appearance. However, Yoshinori Kitase 
 didn't feel that this design worked, and asked Nomura to shorten his hair and make him look more 
 masculine, which lead to the final design of Squall seen in-game. When designing Cloud Strife, 
 Final Fantasy VII's lead protagonist, Nomura gave him distinctly spiky, bright blonde hair, so 
 as to emphasize his role as that game's main character. With Squall, Nomura wanted to try another 
 unique angle to establish Squall's role, giving him the now trademark gunblade scar across his 
 brow and the bridge of his nose. There was not yet a complete history conceived for the character, 
 so Nomura left the explanation for Squall's scar to Nojima. Squall's design was completed by a 
 feather motif along the collar of his jacket, included by Nomura for the purpose of challenging 
 the game's FMV designers, being but one example of the demands he has consistently extended to 
 the programmers of the Final Fantasy titles as technology has advanced. [6]
  
  Also as part of Squall's design, Nomura wanted to include silver accessories, which took the form 
 of his ring, necklace and weapon. Squall's weapon, the gunblade (a revolver-sword hybrid that functions 
 only as a sword, given a damaging vibration feature by use of the gun mechanism [7] ) , was also intended 
 to offer a new way for players to control weapons in battle, though, by Nomura's own admission, 
 he feels that the weapon bears an odd appearance. [6]
  Squall's gunblade, as seen in the game's opening credits
  Enlarge
  Squall's gunblade, as seen 
 in the game's opening credits
  
  When designing Rinoa, the game's lead female, Nomura emphasized that he tried to avoid letting 
 the possibilities presented by the recent advancements in FMV technology become the entire focus, 
 believing that these innovations might tempt developers to make their female characters "too beautiful" 
 and focus more on physical appearance than personality. With this concern in mind, Nomura set out 
 with the intention to avoid making Rinoa gorgeous, and to simply make her "cute" instead. To further 
 emphasise this, he wrote a list of vocabulary and physical habits for Rinoa's character that he 
 felt conveyed this idea of "cute, not gorgeous," and sent them to Nojima along with the character's 
 design. [6]
  
  With Seifer Almasy, Nomura had originally intended him to be not just Squall's rival, but to also 
 be at the center of a love triangle between himself, Squall and Rinoa. Though this concept was 
 not thoroughly explored in the final version of the story, Seifer did remain as Squall's rival, 
 and his appearance was designed to serve as a contrast with Squall's. Not only did they both have 
 scars on their faces that ran in opposite directions, but their jackets were opposing colors (black 
 and silver) , and of opposite length (Squall's short and Seifer's long) . Furthermore, both characters 
 ended up with a gunblade for their weapon, though Squall's (based on a revolver) is particularly 
 bulky and requires two hands to be wielded effectively, while Seifer's (based on an automatic pistol) 
 is much lighter, and can be wielded with one hand. [6]
  
  On the whole, Nomura ended up employing various changes to each character's appearance before they 
 reached their final designs. Quistis was to originally be designed with a skirt, but in the end, 
 was given a long skirt worn over pants. With Rinoa wearing a mini-skirt over shorts, this led to 
 a conflict with the intended notion that one of the female characters would simply be wearing a 
 skirt. A compromise was made in this regard with Selphie's design. She was originally intended 
 to be wearing overalls, but Nomura decided that her outfit should be something of a combination 
 of overalls and a mini-skirt. [6]
  
  Irvine's design also gave Nomura various difficulties, as he felt that making him too handsome 
 would overlap with Squall's appearance, while not making him attractive enough would be rejected. 
 He settled for giving him a handsome appearance, but a laid-back and casual personality, leaving 
 the overall expectation that he would come off as less attractive than Squall due to this. As part 
 of this non-serious appearance, he was given goggles, but  with this being an accessory Nomura 
 had previously given to both Reno and Cid Highwind in Final Fantasy VII  he decided to give him 
 the appearance of an American cowboy, including the traditional hat and boots. Zell's design was 
 achieved with the notion in mind that he would look and act like the main character from a shnen 
 manga (Japanese comic books intended primarily for boys) , a concept reflected by how his neighbors 
 from the town of Balamb view him in-game. [6] Their opinion of his behavior and personality, as 
 described in the Final Fantasy VIII Official Strategy Guide, is that he's something of a "'comic-bookish' 
 type of hero." [8]
  Tetsuya Nomura's design of "the Witch," Edea
  Enlarge
  Tetsuya Nomura's design of "the Witch," Edea
  
  With Final Fantasy VIII came the inclusion 
 of three designs Nomura had previously drawn, but had not yet used in a Final Fantasy game. These 
 included the designs of Edea, Fujin and Raijin. The latter two had originally been designed for 
 use in Final Fantasy VII, but with the inclusion of that games Turks characters, it was felt that 
 Fujin and Raijin were unnecessary. Edea, originally simply called "the Witch," was a design that 
 Nomura had created prior to even Final Fantasy VII's development, a design based on the style of 
 Yoshitaka Amano. [6]
  
  As each Final Fantasy title included a character named "Cid"  usually being someone who is knowledgable 
 about the game's airships or some other key element of the plot  Nomura wanted to design someone 
 who was similar to the past Cids in Final Fantasy, but also someone who was markedly different. 
 He decided on giving him the appearance and personality of an older, benevolent character who would 
 watch over Squall's party and offer them advice about things which they didn't know, but with which 
 he was thoroughly affiliated. In the end, Nojima decided that this type of good-natured, kind-hearted 
 character would work best as the headmaster of Balamb Garden. [6]
  
  In addition to designing all the game's characters, Tetsuya Nomura also designed all of its Summon 
 Magic creatures. Aware that there was a type of "training" involved in their role in the game, 
 Nomura decided to give them all features that distanced them from human beings and gave them more 
 the appearance of mystical creatures, even in the rare cases of the game's humanoid summons. [6]
 
  Spoilers end here.
  
  Other appearances
  
  Characters from Final Fantasy VIII have made cameo appearances in five other games:
  
  * Squallalthough 
 he asks to be called "Leon" hereand Selphieas a child with a different personalityare encountered 
 in Kingdom Hearts. Also it's important to know that Yuffie called "Leon" Squal, he answered "It's 
 Leon now".
  * Seifer, Fujin, and Raijin appear in Kingdom Hearts II. However Fujin and Raijin's names have 
 been changed to "Fuu" and "Rai" respectively. Also returning in Kingdom Hearts II is Squallstill 
 being called "Leon"and Selphie, who is considerably older from her previous appearance.
  * Squall and Rinoa are playable characters in Itadaki Street Special.
  * Squall is a secret character 
 in Chocobo Racing.
  * Squall appears randomlyyet rarelyin the title screen of the PlayStation port of Final Fantasy 
 VI.
  
  Also of note is that Gilgamesh, a recurring villain from Final Fantasy V, reappears as a Guardian 
 Force in Final Fantasy VIII, with a possible oblique reference to the earlier game taking place 
 in an "alternate dimension."
  
  Locations
  Map of FFVIII's world
  
  Main article: List of Final Fantasy VIII locations
  
  Final Fantasy VIII takes place primarily 
 on a large, unnamed world with one moon. The planet comprises five major landmasses, with the largest 
 covering most of the eastern side of the map, as well as including a northern polar region. The 
 second largest continent lies to the west, and contains a large proportion of the game's locations. 
 Positioned roughly in the middle of the world map lies the smallest continent, the large island 
 on which the game begins. The remaining two landmasses are smaller and mostly desolate, riddled 
 with rough, rocky terrain, having suffered from the impact of a Lunar Cry. [9] [7] The southernmost 
 landmass is long and thin, while the other, a short distance north, is a region of broken sections 
 of land that have drifted apart; this particular region may be most accurately classified as an 
 archipelago. A number of small-to-large islands flesh out the rest of the game world, and a smattering 
 of off-world locations round out the game's playable areas.
  
  In designing the world of Final Fantasy VIII, Director Yoshinori Kitase expressed the desire to 
 go with an international theme, giving attractive foreign designs to not just the game's characters, 
 but also to its various locations, using the style of internationally familiar places, while maintaining 
 a fantasy atomsphere. Inspiration ranged from ancient Egyptian and Greek architecture, to the city 
 of Paris, France, to an idealized futuristic European society. [6]
  
  Reception and criticism
  
  As with other games in the Final Fantasy series, Final Fantasy VIII 
 has been the basis for many works of fanfiction. As the character backgrounds, post-game events 
 and political and historical settings of the game's world are not fully explored within the game 
 or by official materials such as the Final Fantasy VIII Ultimania Guide, there has been much room 
 for interpretation and expansion on the part of fans.
  
  Final Fantasy VIII's reception has not been entirely without controversy, however. Its gameplay 
 deviates from that of previous installments in the series, with such notable innovations as the 
 Junction system and a lack of character equipment. Also, some fans disapproved of the lack of Magic 
 Points (MP) . As such, some fans of the more traditional elements of the Final Fantasy series were 
 disappointed to find that this installment bears significant differences to its predecessors. As 
 such, the game is one of the more polarized in terms of overall reception among fans of the series.
 
  
  Within two days of its North American release on September 9, 1999, Final Fantasy VIII was the 
 top-selling video game in the United States, a position it held for more than three weeks. [10] 
 Aside from grossing a total of more than $50 million within the first 13 weeks to follow, [1] [2] 
 in Japan, it sold some 2.5 million units within the first four days of release [11] , and during 
 2006 was voted by readers of Japanese magazine Famitsu as being the twenty-second best game of 
 all time. [4]
  
  Musical score
  Cover art for the Japanese soundtrack
  Enlarge
  Cover art for the Japanese soundtrack
  
  Nobuo Uematsu composed and directed the soundtrack 
 for Final Fantasy VIII, which was released on four compact discs by DigiCube in Japan, and by Square 
 EA in North America. Additionally, a special orchestral arrangement of selected tracks from the 
 gameperformed by Shiro Hamaguchiwas released under the title FITHOS LUSEC WECOS VINOSEC.
  
  The score is best known for two songs: "Liberi Fatali", a Latin choral piece that is played 
 during the introduction to the game, and "Eyes On Me", a pop song performed by Chinese singer Faye 
 Wong. The latter song was released as a CD single in Japan and sold over 400,000 copies, [12] making 
 it the best-selling video game music disc ever released in that country until the release of "Hikari" 
 by Utada Hikaru for Kingdom Hearts. "Liberi Fatali" was even played during the 2004 Summer Olympics 
 in Athens during the swimming games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaetonium
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow... where to begin?
  
  Final Fantasy VIII was the much anticipated follow-up to the god that was Final Fantasy VII. I 
 had loved VII so much that I went around playing all the old ones in anticipation for VIII's arrival. 
 In short, VIII blew me away. 
  
  VII's graphics were amazing for its time, if not a bit weird, but VIII's graphics were drop-dead 
 gorgeous for their time and a good while afterwards. The FMV's are still impressive today, as countless 
 other companies still can't make the same quality Squaresoft made in 1998. The detail, the animation, 
 and the variety of styles were just jaw-dropping. 
  
  VII's characters were impressive, but the level of depth given to VIII's characters wiped the floor 
 with Cloud and crew. Many people don't like Squall, which to me is nothing more than a testiment 
 to how great a character he was. You weren't supposed to like him when he acted like he did. Amazingly, 
 Squall was just like me at the time, if not a little more shy than I was, so I bonded with him. 
 I understood how he felt... much more than your average run-of-the-mill "hero." I could also see 
 myself in Seifer at other times, and it was interesting to see the two sides of myself portrayed 
 in these rivals. To this day, they're two of my favorite characters. 
  
  Now, Final Fantasy VII's story was amazing, and this is perhaps the only area where VIII doesn't 
 beat its record-setting predecessor. Nevertheless, VIII's story is equally as impressive, just 
 completely different. It was more about Squall growing up and dealing with his emotions than beating 
 the final boss or leveling up, and I can't thank Squaresoft enough for going down that route. Sure 
 it was a little rocky, being a video game and having to be translated, but it was touching and 
 heartwarming, two adjectives I don't use too often. 
  
  Next, the music. What can I say... I have the official soundtrack and the piano collections and 
 I still can't get enough. The music is simply the best of any video game ever, only rivaled by 
 other Final Fantasy tunes. It's beautiful. 
  
  Lastly, the Draw system, while widely criticized, fit the game perfectly. This wasn't a world of 
 mages and knights riding on horsebacks... this was a modern... if not post-modern RPG and it made 
 more sense for "spells" to be drawn than for people to have magic powers that they were born with 
 or learned. Spells were like items, and they were treated as such. 
  
  This is perhaps my favorite game of all time and more than deserves the 10 rating I give it. It's 
 gameplay was addictive (I've beaten the game more times than I probably should have,) the graphics 
 were and still are impressive for their time, and the music was absolutely beautiful. Final Fantasy 
 VIII is truely a game for the ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is marvels tooooo marvels it is one of my best game what u can say about the best RPG 
 collection in the hall of the world maybe it didn't have the best garfics but we can talk the game 
 play in badle of it.
  
  the game is from a company one of the best companies in the world what u can say about a company 
 what can make maney diffrence with one 
  RPG game that they could fire on all the rpg games in all the stores.
  
  i will give a hint 
 this game is beutefull too marvels no one love the kind of this games and just leave it to go when 
 i played this game i stopped at somthing i trayed again and again and again playing the game from 
 the first
  then i just beat it of and ended the game isn't that marvles.
  
  the game with many monsters just do draw on every monster who is very big and u see that he is 
 very good in fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid8807
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  One thing you can say about the FF series is that their stories are long, in-depth, and elaborate. 
 FF8 story is no different. Now the story starts off with members of the Balamb Garden known as 
 SeeDs. SeeD is a special task force. The group of SeeD is lead by Squall (hero) . Squall and his 
 teammates have been assign to assist a small liberation group trying to free the town of Timber 
 from Galbadian control. While on assignment, it turns out that the country of Galbadia itself has 
 been taken over by an evil sorceress. SeeD next mission is then to stop the evil sorceress from 
 taking over the world. From here the story starts to unfold. Along the way members of SeeD will 
 start to experience flashback in a dream like sequence of a man name Laguna. The flashback will 
 help tell the all important big plotline of FF8 story. The presentation and story telling of FF8 
 is done beautifully. You have a blend of the present day story featuring Squall unfolding while 
 at the same time experience yesterday's stories about Laguna. The question is which of the two 
 stories presented to us is the main focal point of the story? And who indeed is really the main 
 character of FF8, Squall or Laguna? This is a beautiful and somewhat sad story. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orasion_Seiz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  When most people think of Final Fantasy, its just an ordinary role playing game. But the eight 
 installment in the series is very different from the previous games. Final Fantasy VIII features 
 a very unique love story that will touch the heart of anyone who plays the game. Its very out of 
 this world (dont know if thats the right thing to describe it) and its also changing without notice. 
 So prepare yourself for a fantasy to remember.
  
  Squal is studying to became a SeeD member (a special force) in a rather magnificent school called 
 Balamb Garden. Not probably your ordinary school but lets just say its got the latest stuffs when 
 it comes to a higher education. SeeD's are elite warriors who are sent all over to the world to 
 to do special mission to whoever will pay them. As Squal prepares for the SeeD exams, an accident 
 during a sword practice with his classmate and rival Seifer puts him in a hospital bed. But that 
 doesnt stop him taking the exams. As the story goes on you will found out the true meaning of SeeD, 
 the truth about Squal's life and meet new friends as you travel. Not to mention your going to stop 
 a powerfull force from destroying the world. The storyline is well formulated and as you play through 
 the story plot will change everytime.
  
  Final Fantasy VIII features the junction system in which Guardian Forces (summons) and magic spells 
 are junctioned to the characters to buld up their attributes. You can also select your battle commands 
 when you junction them. Also you cant learn any magic spells here. The draw command allows to gain 
 magic spells from your enemies. Also there are draw points around the world were you can stock 
 up your magic spells. When you level up so as your Guardian Forces. That allows them to learn new 
 abilities so you can junction them to your characters. As for the weapons and items, you can buy 
 them in shops in exhange for some small amount of cash. There are junk shops so you can modify 
 your weapons but you have to gather several items before it can be modified. And of course there 
 is still the Limit Break feature. You can only use them when our HP is critical but still its one 
 of the best aspect during a difficult fight.
  
  As this is a PC-version, having 3D-acceleration available, the game looks great, for it's quality. 
 The graphics may not probably the best, but not being the worst The FMV's are really amazing and 
 its well balance. From the moment you started the game you will already be taken to a breathtaking 
 FMV. The sound and music of the game is excellent. Final Fantasy VIII has one of the best musics 
 on any other rpg's ever created, it is just amazing. They fit perfectly into a situation like during 
 a boss fight or by just strolling around in a town. 
  
  There is no doubt Final Fantasy VIII is just amazing. Its very serious buts its also fun. You will 
 yourself spending almost 100+ hours on this world of fantasy. There are also tons of sidequest 
 to do in the game so that will keep you occupy for a very long time. Though the junction system 
 maybe difficult to many beginners, it can take a while before someone get use to it. Nevertheless 
 with a fantastic story who cares if its difficult. Final Fantasy VIII will never die on everyone's 
 heart.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonym144
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I have this game for both the PC and the Playstation, and both are excellent. I enjoy the fact 
 that they had done away with the "Plug this into your weapon" type and made it more broad spectrum 
 style. You don't just "find" thing laying around, you can actually draw the magic, and sometimes 
 Guardian Forces, from your enemy. Saying that this game is a lame mock-up of the Playstation version 
 is sheer foolishness. This game, PC OR Playstation, is one of the best RPGs I have played in a 
 long time. I got it shortly after it came out, and have played it off and on since that day. The 
 graphics were new and exciting, the gameplay was easy to control, the characters were deep, and 
 the overall design was well thought out. The only thing I can say bad about this game (besides 
 the lame review given by Greg) is that they could have done a better job with the character's reactions. 
 Other than that, it's one I would recommend to anyone who like RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbong09
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  I agree that the FINAL FANTASY 8 is very very fantastic!
  This is my most favorite RPG and this game rocks! ^__^;
  Everytime I hear this game, it makes 
 me sooo happy!
  I remember when my friend finished this game and I saw the ending part of it, I almost killed my 
 friend with joy because finally I watched or saw the ending part of FINAL FANTASY VIII and that 
 makes me feel sooo good !! =)
  Honestly, I found this game really hard but I tried my best to play it normally and I realize that 
 it's not that hard...
  So guys, I wanna say I really love this game.. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This is possibly the WORSE FF game to date, which is good considering how much I liked FFVIII, 
 the most underatted Final Fantasy. But sadly this PC version is problematic and, in most cases, 
 glitchy and occasionally laggy.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Final Fantasy VIII took, like all Final Fantasy games, a turn away from the series and tried something 
 completly different. After the one dissapointment of FF7 (not classes) FF8 brings back a class-like 
 system, altough it isnt directly influenced by classes. It also has an upgrade system that gives 
 a whole new take on weaponry.
  
  Graphics: 5/10
  Woah... the graphics in this game BLEW MY MIND. FF8 showcased some serious work here, especially 
 in its many cutscenes. But this version suffered HORRIBLY to the PS version in this aspect.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  Again, another breakthrough for FFVIII. Great musical scores and sound FX's, 
 but that wasnt showcased here on the PC. It just didnt hold up!
  
  Overall: 5.3/10
  FF8 is an awsome installment to the Final Fantasy series, but this PC just suffered. Sorry Square, 
 keep it to the consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holysoldier000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome the gameplay and storyline is ahead of its time and it fully details characters. 
 the graphic are ahead of its time. most other games back then had **** graphics. and the battle 
 system is god because as u grow so do the monsters. but i can c how u could get mad about that 
 ... if u suck. they made it that way so level up quicker u moron. try other final fantasies c if 
 u level up as fast as this 1 my file was unstoppable squall :lvl 100 Zell level : 100and irvine 
 lvl 100. this a hint if u wanna beat the game no prob get selphie 2 lvl 100 so she can do The End 
 a long but worth it limit break kills ANYTHING in 1 move even bosses useful on ultimecia. the final 
 boss. plus i am looking 4 1 if any1 kno where i can get 1 or if sum1 can mail me one i'll make 
 it woth ur while i have been looking for this game 4 AGES but its soooooooooo hard 2 find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwnummelin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not talking about the mobs getting a little better stats, I'm saying a T-Rexaur and Ruby-Dragon 
 can kick your ass at lvl 100.
  
  The music is composed by Nuburo Uematsu (composer for all FF-games except FFXI) and as always; 
 it's superb. 
  
  The gameplay is actually what YOU put into it, Synthing the best weapons, sidequests (chocobo, 
 triple triad, etc.) , Getting the most powerful GF and all the hidden bosses (som of them lead to 
 new GF's) and finally, the fight against the toughest boss of them all; Omega Weapon (fairly easy 
 if you've put enough effort into the other sidequests, and get Hero or Holy War, if not it can 
 get pretty painful)
  
  And when you finally round it and get that looong ending, you just want to play it all over again
 
  
  It's totally worth playing today, if you're not all hung up in graphics (Remember it's made back 
 in 1998) . 
  
  Best PS game there is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  I'm not Final Fantasy's biggest supporter; I disliked nearly all of them until VII. Final Fantasy 
 VIII, however; is a solid and well written RPG that suffers from some minor issues in the area 
 of storyline and gameplay.
  
  In Final Fantasy VIII you play as an anti social workaholic known only as Squall. As the story 
 unfolds; so does Squall's character and how he perceives things changes. Final Fantasy VIII has 
 an interesting cast of characters and a good plot; unfortunately it's plagued by occasional last 
 minute (and poorly executed) plot twists and unnecessary scenes that just don't have any reason 
 to be there.
  
  Final Fantasy VIII's gameplay is the same as any other; you enter battle and wait for your little 
 bar to fill up then you can attack with either a normal move, a magical move etc. FF8 tried to 
 introduce something new which ultimately killed the gameplay a bit; introducing monsters that level 
 up while you do. This system can make the game occasionally frustrating because the higher your 
 level; the more difficult battles will be (shouldn't it be the other way around?) Also I did not 
 like the Draw system; I can't explain why it just didn't appeal to me at all.
  
  The graphics in FF8 are okay; the character's aren't lego people like FF7, but they're not the 
 greatest in the world either. The backgrounds are about the same high quality pre-rendered backgrounds 
 as FF7 and the cinematics are even better than its predecessor's by having more detail.
  
  The sound in FF8 is decent, even the PC versions. The sounds are crisp and clear and while the 
 music was degraded to MIDI like FF7s it doesn't suffer as much as FF7 did. The chorus that plays 
 during certain musical tracks are still present and the midis sound surprisingly close to the original 
 Playstation version.
  
  Final Fantasy VIII is a great RPG with a solid storyline; it is often heralded as the Black Sheep 
 of the Final Fantasy series, but I find it to be one of the better games. It's a polished game 
 that has several problems with the story and gameplay, but still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakey88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:56 am PT
Review:  Although FF8's graphics aren't so good, i really liked this game.
  The story made me cry LOL and i heard that it was one of the best storys ever. 
  It's a game 
 based on a romantic story, adventure, and a touch of comedy.
  i loved the time-shifting thing in the story, it makes u wonder, think and sometimes confused.
 
  The main character is Squall Lionheart, who has the strongest limit breaks in ur party, followed 
 by 5 more characters. There are ofcourse more characters u can play with e. g. Laguna, but u get to 
 play as Laguna and his guys in another period of time, in Squall's past.
  
  You just need to give this game a good amount of playing time then u'll realize that it was worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldenboy467
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 7, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my third game review, but unlike the first two reviews, I really was disappointed in this 
 game. Final Fantasy VII was my favorite game to date (and still is one of the best games of all 
 time) . My expectations for the next game in the series were higher then any game could realistically 
 live up to, I admit that. But this game is the worst of the Final Fantasy series in my opinion. 
 
  
  Here are the positives  Card game could land you valued items in the main quest and good graphics 
 (although I have seen better for a PC game because the graphics were not updated from the Playstation 
 version) .
  
  Here are the negatives  Boring story, poor save feature, GFs take forever to animate, and you 
 cant rename all characters. Those are the minor ones. The big ones are the junctioning system 
 and leveling up design. The junctioning system requires you to junction magic to all your stats. 
 To avoid handicapping yourself, you have to steal 100 spells for each type of magic for each active 
 character. This takes 10 minutes per magic and is about as exciting as watching paint dry.
  
  The biggest problem is that you can become weaker by leveling up. What were they thinking?! 
 Your enemies level up as you level up, but they can gain points faster and be harder to defeat. 
 You can avoid leveling up for the entire game until you get a bonus for key stats that make you 
 extremely powerful as you level up. This strategy makes the game way too easy, and makes your enemies 
 a joke to beat. This system is terrible unbalanced and the game is was either too hard or way too 
 easy, but never just right.
  
  My advice, is to save yourself the frustration and dont play this game.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuronCloud7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  I've been looking for a game like this for awhile and I found it FF VIII. I thought nothing would 
 come close to FF VII, but VIII nearly did. As soon as I saw the opening FMV, I was hooked. This 
 game was like a movie: great FMV, cool & romantic characters , satisfying story, and the graphics 
 were some of the best I've seen on the Playstation. Also the characters had very strong and complex 
 relationships.
  
  Words can't explain how absolutely beautiful the graphics are and the sound was stunning, which 
 was made possible by Nobuo Uematsu (a composer and the king of videogame music) . FMV sequences 
 had great sound effects, but could of added some voice acting during the sequences.
  
  The gameplay was great, but fell short with the magic system. All of FF VIII's magic had to be 
 drawn from a draw point or a enemy. Also FF VIII introduced several new systems for you to learn: 
 the GF (Guardian Force) system and the junction system. The GF system is basically your summon 
 monsters. After you beat a GF it joins you, it acts like a member of your party (levels up, earns 
 Ability Points, ect....) . The junction system is a bit confusing at first, but it works.
  
  It starts with Squall Leonheart a student of Balamb Garden (a military academy) and this relentless 
 drive to become a SeeD member. After training, he and his friends (Zell and Selphie) are sent out 
 on their first mission: out to triumph over the Galbadians and to capture President Deling. Things 
 turn for the worst as a powerful Sorceress named Edea steps in and also steals your rival (Seifer 
 Almasy) . Along the way you are joined by Quistis (your mentor) , Irvine (a member from another Garden) , 
 and Rinoa Heartilly a free spirited young lady who changes Squall's life forever. The connection 
 that Rinoa has to the story is unforgettable and the plot will capture you mind.
  
  This is personally one of the best games to ever bear the name "Final Fantasy". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northypoley
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2004 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I seriously couldn't thing of anything or anyway to put down this game except for one little, minor, 
 not really problematic issue, and this is the fact that the enemies and bosses level up as you 
 do. I really don't know why this version of the game got such a low rating, but I still love it 
 no matter what others thing of this game. This games story is the best, the touch of romance in 
 it is just beautiful. The music, sound are just amazing, the theme "Eyes on Me" is my favourite 
 theme song of any game. The gameplay is innotive and engrossing. Let me explain. Since you can't 
 out level your enemies any more, you must now rely on the 'junction' system. You need to get spells 
 to boost up you stats, and I often find myself just looking for and absorbing all the different 
 kinds of spells in the area. The summons, or GF, is also unlike other summons in other FF games, 
 you could actually boost up their attack power by repeatingly pressing a button when the 'x' isn't 
 on the screen. Finally, the graphics, they are superb, they look great and the characters are full 
 of expressions, I like the grahics in FF VIII then the ones in FFX. I can't express how much I 
 love this game with words, but this is my favourite game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:20 am PT
Review:  (All scores are for the PC version, and given at the time of the game's release, not in the present.)
 
  
  Ah yes, Final Fantasy VIII (PC) -- I remember it well. I had just come off the awe-inspiring experience 
 that is FF7 for the first time -- my first Final Fantasy game (I have since played the entire series) . 
 Naturally, I was expecting something of a similar nature in FF8. The demo seemed very promising, 
 with its crisp (especially compared to FF7) field graphics and astounding CGI cutscenes. So I was 
 quite excited when I got the real thing.
  
  The game didn't disappoint in giving a great first impression. The opening CGI and music, as well 
 as the seamless transitions from field graphics into CGI slightly later in Balamb Garden, were 
 shockingly well done. I was immediately placed into the atmosphere of the Garden (a boarding school 
 for young fighters trying to make it into SeeD, an elite military group) , with its sunny gardens, 
 its many fascinating inhabitants and interesting facilities. Immediately one learns of Squall, 
 the game's hero with a bad attitude, Quistis (his instructor who apparently has the hots for him) , 
 and Seifer (an unruly dude that clearly has a score to settle with Squall) . Soon enough, one meets 
 Rinoa through a breathtaking CGI. Rinoa is obviously going to be a Squall love interest, but her 
 intentions are mysterious. Eventually, Squall and friends make it into SeeD (which is in the middle 
 of a war between the various nations) and are given the dangerous mission of assassinating Edea, 
 an apparently evil sorceress. In the meantime, your party starts getting inexplicable (playable) 
 dreams featuring Laguna, who's some kind of journalist/soldier wannabe.
  
  Sound intriguing? Oh, it is. This is where everything goes downhill. The game's first disc (of 
 4) starts of very promisingly and is, generally, able to keep up the quality throughout, even as 
 it raises more questions than it answers (just like in many Final Fantasy games) . But, after this, 
 starting with one cheesy revelation concerning Edea and your party members (you'll see what I mean) , 
 the story takes a rapid plunge into something decidedly un-FF-like. You will start wandering from 
 one contrived plot point to another, eventually negating any kind of emotional involvement you 
 placed into the story in the first place. The game becomes a random hunt of sorceresses through 
 time. Much of the earlier intrigue is abandoned (for instance, the Quistis and Seifer relationships) . 
 Laguna's relationship with Squall is eventually revealed, though very artificially. The only bright 
 spot is the Squall-Rinoa love story, which I found pretty damn touching. But that's about it. This 
 is still Final Fantasy, and it's got a good reasonable story at heart, but it's just not that great. 
 A 7 maybe. I will TILT this game by (8) , however, due to to the strong first disc and high production 
 values.
  
  GAMEPLAY (6) : While the story is "good" at best, it's important that the gameplay itself is fun 
 so that moving through that story doesn't feel like a chore. I'm sad to say that this game was 
 the weakest, in terms of gameplay, of all the FF games I've played. It seems Square tried to be 
 unconventional with the battle system and other ideas -- admirable -- and simply failed to give 
 you something fun -- unfortunate. Everything about the gameplay was very unorthodox. For one, you 
 do gain experience and level up, BUT THE MONSTERS level up with you! It's an interesting idea, 
 but it leads to (1) the question "Why level up?" (perhaps that was the idea?) , and (2) some serious 
 imbalance issues. Allow me to explain (2) . You see, there is a Junction system, which lets you 
 draw quantities of spells (e. g., Fire, Ultima, Curaga) into your party and then attach them to 
 your stats. For instance, attach 99 Ultimas to your HPs, and you will have 9999 HP, even if you 
 are level 10 or something like that. So while it's interesting FF8 doesn't force you to find lots 
 of boring battles, it's also interesting that it PUNISHES YOU for levelling up! You see, since 
 monsters stats (including HP) will always be constant relative to yours, add in junctioned spells, 
 and you can steroid yourself up beyond this. Which means, if you have a lower level, and steroid 
 yourself up then the monsters will still have low HP while your attack, etc., will be really high. 
 But if you have a high level, your attack, etc., will be no higher than otherwise (due to the junctioning 
 maxing everything out) , while your monsters will be considerably stronger. It makes no sense. Now, 
 to get spells you draw them at draw points, but all the good stuff is on bosses, which compels 
 one to keep losing the battle until you got 99 of the spell you want from the boss -- lame. Hilariously, 
 you don't get money from any monster -- you get PAID at certain time intervals, no matter where 
 you are. The higher your SeeD rank, the more you get paid. How do you rise in rank? :-) You take 
 a written true/false test on the FF8 battle system. So if you just find out all the right answers, 
 you can be a rich man before fighting a SINGLE BATTLE. Interesting, but WTF? More stuff: You get 
 summon monsters (GFs) that you usually beat to adopt. It's very cool how they can learn abilities 
 to help you during battle. What's not cool is that you're supposed to BOOST their attacks by hitting 
 a button at the right time. That is just really, really lame in an RPG. And the final kick in the 
 groin: Squall's main limit breaks (special abilities that appear only when a character is near 
 death, i. e., yellow HP) are so powerful, that the key to winning the harder battles at the end 
 is to keep him near death so that he can repeatedly deal huge damage. Why, Square? Why?!
  
  GRAPHICS (7) : This was a surprising score. The CGI is quite amazing -- although not particularly 
 frequent -- a 10, and the field graphics are quite pretty, with nice adult character models (9) . 
 But, for some reason, now the battle graphics are of low quality. The spells and magic look wonderful, 
 as usual, but the character models are really horribly aliased. This is especially annoying for 
 Rinoa. She's breathtakingly beautiful in the CGI, but in battle she's got a too-sharp nose and 
 otherwise very polygonal-looking body. Something like that might look OK on a PlayStation, but 
 with high-res PC graphics it looks really bad. The background graphics during battle are also really 
 bad by FF standards. Namely, some textures stand out unfavorably. The same is true of the map graphics. 
 It's sad to see this game improved so much on FF7 in terms of field graphics and CGI, but lost 
 so much in battle and on the 3D world map.
  
  SOUND (8) : The opening and closing themes are great. The in-game music is solid Square-quality, 
 though not that memorable. The sound effects are OK, as usual.
  
  VALUE (10) : This, like in most FF games, is really great. It's a very long game (30-60 hours?) , 
 and there is a multitude of things to do. There are supermonsters that are very hard to beat (you 
 don't have to beat them) , and many side quests and secrets. All of these present just the right 
 amount of challenge: A dedicated gamer will be able to find the clues and items necessary to do 
 them. Since the story is a bit convoluted, you might want to play through the game twice or thrice, 
 and each time you can accomplish something new. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
