-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy XI
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/finalfantasy11/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 4,318 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Oct 28, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Final Fantasy XI is an online RPG that manages to break the mold, if just barely -- but, actually, 
 that's no mean feat. 

  By now, it isn't easy for a massively multiplayer online role-playing game to distinguish itself. 
 Years ago, games like Ultima Online and especially 1998's EverQuest set the standards for this 
 unique style of gaming, which today spans a seemingly countless number of similarly styled games 
 that look identical on the surface -- and, in many ways, actually  are  virtually identical. The 
 inherent novelty of coexisting along with numerous other player characters in a persistent world 
 has pretty much faded during the past several years, even as the monthly fees for these games have 
 risen, while their gameplay hasn't really advanced -- most MMORPGs still revolve around highly repetitive, 
 time-consuming combat. Meanwhile, social interaction tends to be a means to an end: You need allies 
 to be able to kill monsters more efficiently. Now, into this oversaturated category of games arrives 
 Final Fantasy XI, which, if nothing else, carries a powerful brand name. Though the Final Fantasy 
 series obviously is better known among console gamers, it's just about as famous of a series as 
 they come. Final Fantasy XI is equal parts EverQuest and Final Fantasy, clearly deriving gameplay 
 fundamentals from the former, but presenting them in the distinctive style of the latter. The result 
 is an online RPG that manages to break the mold, if just barely -- but, actually, that's no mean 
 feat.  

          Final Fantasy XI may be a port of an online RPG for consoles, but it offers even more depth 
 and content, and better looks, than most of its competition.     

  Interestingly, Final Fantasy XI is actually a port of a PlayStation 2 game, which was first released 
 in Japan early last year. The North American PS2 version of the game is slated to be released in 
 2004 alongside the PS2 hard drive, making this the first time that a Final Fantasy game has debuted 
 on the PC prior to on a video game platform on this continent. When Final Fantasy XI first launched, 
 it experienced many of the growing pains that many online RPGs experience in the days following 
 their release -- server instability, game balance issues, exploits, and so on. The good news is, 
 these issues have basically all been taken care of, so what you're getting out of Final Fantasy 
 XI is an online RPG that's fully ripened. The game is stable and lag-free on a broadband connection 
 (don't even think about playing over a dial-up connection) . The character classes (called "jobs" 
 here) are balanced, and each is respectable in its own right. There's a considerable amount of 
 content for players of all levels, including content from a full-on expansion pack, which was released 
 as a separate retail product in Japan. The gameplay, though not drastically different from that 
 of other online RPGs at a glance, has some unique and interesting features.  

  Furthermore, if you're expecting that an online RPG originally designed for consoles and clearly 
 derived from EverQuest would seem simplistic -- or ugly -- by the genre's current standards, you'd 
 be mistaken. It's true that Final Fantasy XI is simpler in some ways than most other MMORPGs, but 
 the simplified aspects -- your character doesn't need to eat and cannot grow fatigued from running 
 too much, for example -- are mostly to the game's credit. Not all such omissions are praiseworthy, 
 however. There's no player-vs.-player aspect to the game currently, though one is planned, and 
 because Square Enix has delivered on its past promises for additional content (by introducing a 
 higher level cap for player characters, new jobs, unique in-game events, and more) , there's reason 
 to be optimistic about this game's ongoing development. Additionally, Final Fantasy XI features 
 better graphics, sound, and music than the vast majority of games like this. Since any Final Fantasy 
 XI player will inevitably end up staring at those graphics and listening to those sounds for long 
 stretches at a time, their quality does make a big difference.  

          The world of Vana'diel is consistent with the style and theme of many other Final Fantasy 
 games.     

  Online RPGs are some of the most inaccessible games out there, for reasons that include their lack 
 of an offline component, their steep learning curves, the time commitment they typically demand 
 from the player, and their relatively costly monthly fees. Unfortunately, Final Fantasy XI doesn't 
 buck any of these bad trends. In fact, Final Fantasy XI seems to do its worst to give you a negative 
 first impression. Its mouse-and-keyboard control scheme is functional, but entirely unconventional, 
 so it will take a good few hours to get used to it. Even prior to that, the time it takes from 
 the moment you first open the box and begin installing the game to your hard drive to the moment 
 you first set foot in Final Fantasy XI's world of Vana'diel is longer than an hour, between the 
 extensive amount of time required to merely install the game data (more than five gigabytes' worth) 
 onto your hard drive, the time it takes to patch that outdated data to the latest version, and 
 the time it takes to slog through the game's convoluted front end, entering several different registration 
 codes along the way.     

  The front end warrants a closer look. Final Fantasy XI is really just one facet -- but, certainly, 
 by far the biggest attraction -- of Square Enix's proprietary PlayOnline service, which has been 
 translated directly from the PlayStation 2 to the PC. On the PS2, this self-contained service's 
 offerings, including e-mail and a friends list, seemed to make sense. On your PC, you probably 
 don't need another e-mail address. PlayOnline features another game, TetraMaster, in addition to 
 Final Fantasy XI. Access to it costs another dollar per month on top of the $12 and change it costs 
 per month to remain subscribed to Final Fantasy XI after your first 30 days, which are free. TetraMaster, 
 which originated as a minigame in Final Fantasy IX, is a multiplayer card game reminiscent of Magic: 
 The Gathering, and it can be fairly addictive. However, Final Fantasy XI could easily suck up all 
 your spare time by itself, and it's costly enough as it is.  

          Getting Final Fantasy XI up and running for the first time is a chore, and the controls 
 take a lot of getting used to -- but your patience should eventually be rewarded.     

  Want to have more than one character on your Final Fantasy XI account? That will cost you, too: 
 The first one's on the house, and any additional character slots cost $1 apiece on top of the monthly 
 flat fee. Highway robbery, perhaps, but one of Final Fantasy XI's innovations is that it lets you 
 change jobs freely. Sick of your warrior and want to try being a white mage, the Final Fantasy 
 equivalent of a healer? You can go right ahead. You'll start back at the first level, but there's 
 no penalty for leveling up in parallel as each of the starting professions, which also include 
 the monk (a martial artist) , the black mage (specializing in offense-oriented magic) , the thief, 
 and the red mage (a jack-of-all-trades) . So you really don't need more than one character slot 
 to experience most of what the game has to offer -- except for the different player races, which 
 include male and female humes (humans) , elvaan (like elves, but tougher-looking) , tarutaru (munchkins) , 
 mithra (cat girls) , and galka (hairy ogrelike guys) . However, like in most online RPGs, the character 
 races in Final Fantasy XI look much more different than they actually are in gameplay terms. Each 
 merely has a slightly different leaning (tarutaru are inclined toward magic, while the galka have 
 relatively more hit points, for example) , but none is restricted from any of the jobs.  

  When creating your character, you also decide which of the three regions of Vana'diel will be your 
 home: Bastok, a mining town in the middle of a desert; San D'Oria, which looks like a medieval 
 fortress; and Windurst, the most hospitable-looking of the three. Each, of course, has similar 
 amenities and is a viable starting location for new players. And, reminiscent of the three analogous, 
 competing realms of Dark Age of Camelot, players hailing from each of the three kingdoms of Final 
 Fantasy XI will have a chance to undergo missions in the name of their country. These relatively 
 high-level objectives give you some more incentive beyond just gaining more levels by killing monsters, 
 though they do overlap with that all-important goal.  

          The gameplay is superficially similar to that of other online RPGs, but it has enough unique 
 twists to make it compelling.     

  You can choose your starting kingdom, but, strangely enough, you can't choose the server on which 
 your character will live. This is another one of Final Fantasy XI's slaps in the face to more-casual 
 players: Basically, if you and a friend both wanted to start playing Final Fantasy XI together, 
 the game seems to go out of its way to make it difficult for you to get together. It's possible 
 to keep re-creating a character until the game "rolls up" the server that you want; but what you're 
 "supposed" to do is purchase an item in the game called a world pass, which allows a number of 
 other players to create characters on (not transfer existing characters to) the purchaser's server. 
 There's probably some way to defend the logic behind this system -- maybe it helps ensure that all 
 the servers are equally populated, or something -- but it's bizarre, at best, and it's a substantial 
 deterrent for prospective players, at worst. Also, the servers are international -- expect to see 
 plenty of high-level Japanese players (who had a significant head start in the world of the game) 
 right off the bat.  

  When you go at it alone, Final Fantasy XI's combat is initially very straightforward, and even 
 boring. Like in other online RPGs, all you do is target an enemy and initiate attack mode, causing 
 your character and his or her new enemy to exchange blows until one of them dies (player characters 
 incur an experience penalty if they're defeated, unless they're resurrected by a white mage) . As 
 your character uses his or her weapon of choice (including bare hands, swords, scythes, axes, lances, 
 bows, and more) , over time, you'll learn special moves exclusive to that weapon category. These 
 moves can be pulled off only when you've charged up your tactical-point meter past 100 percent, 
 which naturally occurs after a few minutes of fighting.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (205 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 16, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Here we are with Final Fantasy XI, the title that takes it for the entire series and sets an insurmountable 
 pathway that can't even be tread upon by its ever so popular successors. Man do I love speaking 
 with sarcasm and cynicism, this disaster couldn't deserve it any better than a helpless animal 
 caught in a trap because of failed genetics.
  
  Now this will be particularly brief because there isn't a single pro in Final Fantasy XI:
  
 
  --Cons:
  
  *---The graphics are equivalent to a PS1 game and couldn't be any more choppy
  *---Character 
 movement seems unnatural with severe lag and foot movements entirely out of synchronization with 
 their associated sound effects
  *---Each character model is unoriginal, they are expressionless at all times, they do not have 
 texture on their bodies, and there is little variety
  *---The environments always tend to be dull with little to no other interaction aside from ravaging 
 beasts in the unseen wilderness waiting to smack your back and kill you even when your twenty feet 
 away from them while they do it
  *---The music is soured and uninspiring, there are few actual soundtracks
  *---Your interaction 
 level with the outside world of NPCs is grim as there aren't any voiced dialogue, let alone little 
 to no gesturing, and they can't service you anything at all
  *---The game mechanics are the worst I have seen yet: skill isn't a variable, it's tedious, monotonous 
 "leveling up" that can only determine victory from defeat in every and all situations
  *---You will always be reliant on secondary players -- "Parties" -- to progress through the game, meaning 
 that if you aren't able to find anyone then you will wait x number of minutes or hours in despair 
 over why you even wasted your money on this trash because everyone else partially smart who had 
 once played also knows it is trash and won't be able to help you for that very reason
  *---The mechanics don't offer little to any variety and are about as bland and ad hoc as you can 
 conceive
  *---There is little to no reason to progress in Final Fantasy XI aside from speaking to socially 
 intolerant child A, B, and so on
  *---Children who have nothing better to spend their time with will cash in extra dollars for Square 
 Enix so that they can continue bringing back life to this walking pile of trash for bonus years 
 without stop
  *---It is one of the worst social personas in the world to be known as a player of this game in 
 front of people who have social lives and want to get somewhere in their life aside from speaking 
 to virtual children across the world
  
  I understand I had mentioned some of the pure negativity in this abysmal title and not nearly all 
 of it, but I had to throw this small review out there to vent frustration over those who choose 
 to waste their life away for this mess. If you are planning on playing this game, however, than 
 get out of the dark corner in your house and make real friends instead of virtual ones: that's 
 the bottom line.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothTDL
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is a great and fun loving MMO that all FF fans should play. The game would prob. 
 also appeal more to those who have experience in MMO's, considering its a bit more difficult to 
 jump into and get the hang of things. I will warn that the controls themselves will scare many 
 people off because its something totally different than the usual w, s, a, d keys. However, you can 
 change it to those keys if you choose to. The UI itself isn't so bad but will take a few minutes 
 to familiarize.
  
  Once you kick things off though and get a grip on the controls, the game offers a massive world 
 which to explore. You'll start out in a major city basically have to pay attention to what the 
 NPC's are telling you, it's a little tedious but if your'e patient and follow what they ask you, 
 they will guide you to the outside world, where your quest truly begins.
  
  The music in the game is truly amazing as expected. I was surprised with the graphics considering 
 how old it is. It's still a beautiful game, but you will be able to see its age as you progress.
 
  
  Overall, Final Fantasy XI is a solid MMO. It should not be compared to others, as the game sets 
 its own standard. IF you are a true FF fan, you'll fall in love with the game regardless.
  
  I will say though, considering how long it took to install the game, playOnline viewer, waiting 
 for my trial key, and then updating everything. I was seriously about to jump in my car, drive 
 5 mins to GameStop and try the Xbox version instead. (Which has a 30 day trial instead of 14)
  
  -Seph 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birthofastar
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 29, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has the worse "Free Trial" system I ahve ever seen, I have to go through more security 
 codes than I need to get money out my damn checking account. You have to download this, enter that, 
 do this, get this, heck I had to wait 33minutes just to access the download this is complete garbage! 
 The entire purpose of a Free Trial is to attract potential buyers, not turn them away. This is 
 the equivelent of going to a car dealership with cash in hand to buy the car you wan't, and then 
 before you do so the salesman puts you in the most pos rundown beatup sob car they can find on 
 the lot, and then durring the test drive the wheel falls off and then you run out of gas, and then 
 you have to walk all the way back to the dealer. That's how bad this "Free Trial" Installation 
 Process is! Not to mention it took almost 2 hours to get through the paperwork alone. But wait 
 there's more! If you think installing it was God awful wait till you try uninstalling it! It's 
 the same process in reverse! Bottom line.... AVOID AT ALL COST!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezro01
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game with RL Friends when it came out to enjoy during the winter break of 2003. I have 
 to admit in the beginning I was addicted and had a lot of fun. Met a lot of people and everything 
 was going great! 
  
  Story is ok. Controls is NOT user friendly. You will meet a lot of people because the game forces 
 you to group up after level 15. (The Dunes for those who knows what I'm talking about.) Items are 
 ok, but it will take a lot of time and effort to obtain. Graphics at the time when it came out 
 was just right, but can't compare to other MMORPG's out now. Tech support is non-existant. Fee's 
 are about $15 a month plus $1 for every character you make. If you quit the game, you have about 
 3 months to resubscribe until your avatar gets deleted for good. And if you do decide to come back 
 and play again, too bad, you have the buy the game again full price! (learned this the hard way) .
 
  
  Installation n updates of expansions and patches took the whole day to do. You will need about 
 5-8 hours more after that to get used to the environment, controls, talk to city NPC's and be ready 
 for your quest.
  
  The economy is shot to hell now I believe since people have been buying gold to progress faster 
 in this game. There's not that much gears in this game and at certain levels everyone starts to 
 look the same.
  
  What else can I say? If your a hardcore gamer and love the FF story and the way the japanese designed 
 the UI then go for it. Prepare to spend a lot of hours grinding. If your a casual gamer like me, 
 who has school, work, family and a girlfriend to feed then don't even waste your time with this 
 game.
  
  After a year n a half of on n off playing, I finally quit the game, only to find the itch crawling 
 through my back in 2006. I had to buy the game all over again and once on, realized that there 
 is barely anyone to level with. Everyone got on to WOW. So I finally quit and tried WOW.... playing 
 WOW made me realize how much I wasted my time with FFix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narakusmiasma
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  I played for all of 15 minutes. I couldn't log out fast enough. 
  
  I didn't even manage to kill anything because I couldn't figure out how to actually fight something. 
 I can't even properly review this game because I couldn't even figure out how anything worked with 
 all the insane and confusing menus. I had a hard enough time just trying to move around the city.
 
  
  I tried this game back in 2002 and I recently wondered if anything had changed. Maybe the graphics 
 or even some fundamental mechanics (I had some hope) . I was very disappointed to find out that 
 nothing at all had changed. There is still the strange controls that never feel intuitive or even 
 sensical. Maybe it does with a PS2 controller, but not with a keyboard and mouse.
  
  When I did finally manage to figure out how to move out of the main city I started in, I tried 
 to engage in battle to quickly find out that no one had even given a hint of how to go through 
 combat. When I tried to look for help in their help menu, I was rather unsurprised (at this point) 
 to find that any useful information apparently was not included in my 14 day free trial.
  
  Save yourself a lot of frustration and confusion and possibly even some tears by playing something-ANYTHING 
 else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funnimationgt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  if you want a game that cant seem to get old after 300+ days of game play i suggest you pick this 
 up. i have played the game for over 4 years and have over 500 days of game play and i still love 
 it. there are so many things to do in the game but they also require a lot of your time but in 
 the end its worth it. getting some of the best gear in game can take you literally years but when 
 you get them nothing else seem even close to it. the game will be best enjoyed after you group 
 up, solo play is mostly pointless for most bosses some you even need 30+ players spending 5-6 hrs 
 to beat. i recommend you find yourself a linkshell and begging to fight some more team needed bosses 
 because team work is the only way to beat the most powerful bosses. you will end up making many 
 friends in this game and spend a lot of time chating in parties so getting a voice chat program 
 will help with the boredom when lving up. so i conclude with, until this game goes offline i will 
 keep playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerkitten
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  It has been about six years (or five to us Westerners) and four expansions ago, when Final Fantasy 
 XI (FFXI) was released. For games, especially MMORPGs, this is close to eternity and FFXI is certainly 
 showing signs of its old age, not only in its visuals, but also in terms of user-friendliness. 
 Or lack thereof, for that matter.
  
  
  
  For PC users, there are means and ways to tweak the visuals and the UI to some extent, making some 
 game features easier to use and providing some badly-needed convenience. Unlike the guys at Blizzard, 
 though, Square Eenix aren't too keen on people using 3rd party modifications, especially since 
 using them provides an unfair advantage over PS2 and Xbox360 users, who are cross-platform compatible 
 with PC gamers.
  
  
  
  Dated UI and visuals or not, FFXI still has quite a few active players today. The main reason, 
 apart from the Final Fantasy title, is probably how Squeenix manage to bring people together like 
 nobody else could. Apart from the aforementioned multi-platform compatibility, the game features 
 a clever translation system, which allows Japanese, English, German, French etc players to form 
 groups and communicate without trouble. All the races and jobs, stuff from "Nice to meet you!" 
 to "I'm sorry, I need to go!", battle orders and tactics, all the important stuff can be translated 
 with a simple press of your tab key. So, if you want to say "Hello!" to your multilingual party, 
 you just type it out and use the translation feature and your message will appear in whichever 
 language the folks in your group have installed their game in. Very cool!
  
  
  
  Before you set foot into the world of Vana'Diel, you'll face the single-most tedious installation 
 in gaming history, especially when installing some or all of the available expansion packs. Setting 
 up and patching "PlayOnline", the virtual gaming platform behind FFXI, means a herculean effort 
 in itself. And until you've finally installed everything you need, you may as well go to bed, go 
 watch a movie or mow the lawn or all of that stuff combined, as the auto updater will keep you 
 waiting for several hours, regardless of how powerful your connection might be, since the updater 
 will literally check tens of thousands of files and compare them to possible newer files on the 
 update server. It downloads them afterwards, installs them, compares once more you get the idea.
 
  
  
  
  After getting all of these annoying procedures out of the way, you get to create your first character, 
 starting off by choosing a race and gender. Unlike many other MMOs, your race will make a huge 
 difference on FFXI and your health, mana, physical strength etc greatly depend on your race of 
 choice. The huge, hulking Galka, for instance, get insane amounts of hit points and they're stronger 
 than any other race. On the other hand, you won't see an awful lot of them becoming serious mages. 
 The tiny Tarutaru are the exact opposite of the Galka and make excellent spellcasters, but they're 
 very fragile and probably not your first choice if you're going to be a warrior type. The other 
 races, Humes (aka humans) , Elvaan (elves with ape-like body proportions) and Mithra (a race of 
 sexy cat girls, which inspired more than one piece of dirty fan-art) are all fairly balanced. Once 
 again, the "Humes" are the proverbial jacks of all trades with balanced stats, which neither suck, 
 nor excel at anything. Elvaan lean a bit towards the more physical jobs, but they also make okay 
 spellcasters. And Mithra, you guessed it, are the most agile and dextrous of all the races, making 
 them excellent thief and ninja types.
  
  
  
  While your race is a permanent choice for obvious reasons, you may change your class (or "Job", 
 as they're called on FFXI) anytime you wish, simply by entering the nearest Mog House and telling 
 your trusty Moogle you'd like to switch professions. In fact, you'll start out with only a few 
 basic jobs and unlock the more advanced ones by finishing the corresponding job quests. The system 
 is pretty handy, because you may unlock and play all of the available jobs and level them individually. 
 That way, you don't won't have to start a new character in order to try a new job. In fact, playing 
 alternative characters is not the most desirable thing to do, since earning certain privileges 
 and benefits such as the use of airships or chocobos often requires lots of time and patience and 
 most people don't get much fun out of doing this more than once. Besides, each additional character 
 raises your monthly fee by 1 USD (or 1 Euro, respectively) , which is kind of a ripoff, considering 
 how many characters you get to create per account on other MMOs without additional costs.
  
  
  
  Another interesting twist to the job system is how, upon reaching a certain level, 
 you get to choose a "sub job". In doing so, you'll get certain benefits from other jobs to your 
 main job. For instance, a paladin with a warrior sub job will get to use the warrior's defensive 
 stance and their provoke ability. A black mage "subbing" white mage will benefit from an increased 
 mana pool and gets to cast healing magic. Naturally, not every single main/sub job combo makes 
 sense and chances are, the community won't invite you to parties if your job combination of choice 
 gets too exotic, but it's still a pretty decent system.
  
  
  
  Gaining levels on FFXI works strictly through combat. There are missions and quests, but those 
 exclusively raise your faction rankings and level caps and unlock special privileges and jobs. 
 You'll be spending most of your time teaming up with other players to kill baddies for experience 
 points. Unlike other MMOs, though, FFXI is a lot more on the tactical side. Combat is relatively 
 slow-paced and most of the time, your party will be facing a single foe at a time. Basically, the 
 whole strategy isn't all that different from similar games, either. You get your heavy duty fighters 
 to provoke the baddies and take the hits, the healers keep the tank alive and the damage dealers 
 make sure to dish out the best they can, without provoking the monster into attacking them instead 
 of the tank.
  
  
  
  With the huge selection of available jobs, these tactics do get some variety, though. For instance, 
 rather than using a defensive paladin to soak up all the monster damage, some people prefer using 
 1-2 ninjas, who are equally effective against most baddies, with their high evasion rate and their 
 ability to summon shadows, which will take the hits for them. Dragoons are particularly effective 
 against flying baddies, thieves can attack monsters for insane damage, whilst tricking them into 
 believing the attack had been dealt by whatever character they're hiding behind. Melee characters 
 can coordinate their attacks for special group combos and mages can top them off for a little extra 
 damage causing a so-called "Magic Burst". 
  
  It's all very tactical and a party is only as powerful as their weakest member. Or the one, who 
 sucks the most at playing their job, to put it bluntly.
  
  
  
  This is probably one of the game's greatest flaws. With a very few exceptions, you'll always be 
 forced to team up with other people, as most jobs aren't very capable of doing things without a 
 party. And you had best remember the few players out there, who actually know what they are doing! 
 Unfortunately, you'll run into your fair share of healers, who go afk in the heat of battle without 
 warning, potentially killing off their entire party. There are tanks, who wouldn't provoke monsters 
 if you paid them money to do it. And there are damage dealers, who dish out as much as somehow 
 possible to show off their insane strength, whilst permanently moaning about the "useless tank", 
 who will have a hard time trying to keep the monster focused on them.
  
  
  
  Combat can provide insane amounts of fun with a well-organized team of capable players. But it 
 can be equally frustrating when you keep on dying, because people don't know how to do their jobs. 
 And this isn't WoW  death results in harsh experience penalties, which may even cause you to lose 
 a level. This is especially frustrating if you've just geared up on brand new armor for your newly-acquired 
 level and suddenly you'll find yourself unable to wear that stuff after a level-down.
  
  
  
  For as strange as it may sound, though, death penalty has its advantages and most people 
 wouldn't want it removed. You will often find yourself in situations, where it's best to sneak 
 past monsters, which would easily beat you in a fight. And instead of just running through, to 
 see how far you'll get and eventually shrug off a couple deaths on the go, you will use stealth 
 and protective spells and potions, which will turn you invisible or make you impossible to hear. 
 And your heart will skip a beat whenever one of these spells wears off or a baddie walks up to 
 you and you're starting to wonder whether your protective magicks are going to work with it or 
 not. You will want to avoid dying at all costs  as it should be.
  
  
  
  Sadly, many of the more important quests are incredibly hard to finish without the help of players 
 several levels above your own. The whole sneak/invisibility procedure I've mentioned above is something 
 you'll find yourself doing all too often and gets particularly annoying in full parties of six, 
 with spells such as invisibility having random duration timers, meaning they could last anything 
 from ten seconds to several minutes and you need to get a whole bunch of people through an area 
 alive. 
  
  And since you depend on the help of stronger players pretty much all the time until you finally 
 start reaching the level-cap yourself, you will likely feel somewhat weak and powerless throughout 
 the biggest part of the game. But that's just another bit of the "social aspect" within FFXI.
 
  
  
  
  FFXI has a much stronger focus on team play than most other games of its kind and there's an overwhelming 
 amount of friendly, helpful players, who will gladly support you with your missions and quests, 
 just for the fun of it. The downside is, of course, that you won't get any fun out of this game 
 if you want to do things on your own. A useful portion of decent, enjoyable solo content is one 
 of the many areas, where FFXI is sorely lacking by today's standards. 
  
  
  
  Another one would be crafting and gathering jobs. No matter whether you're into fishing, woodworking 
 or mining, it's all equally tedious, expensive and frustrating for newcomers. Your fishing rod 
 tends to break all too often, you'll run out of bait and you'll catch a fair share of rusty buckets. 
 Due to the insane competition, selling crafted items means offering them at the auctioneer for 
 a price lower than the amount you had to pay for the crafting ingredients, meaning you'll actually 
 LOSE money from crafting, until you start capping your skill levels! On top of all that, there's 
 an overwhelming amount of rules, factors and myths, which may or may not have an influence on the 
 result of your crafting attempts. Rumor has it, that college courses on FFXI are already being 
 planned. :P
  
  
  
  The auction-house, whilst being the first of its kind on any MMO, is functional at best, with the 
 maximum amount of auctions a player may set up at a time being only seven. Making money can become 
 a painfully slow process that way, especially with the limited storage and inventory space you 
 get. On top of that, you get to pay insanely high fees for creating an auction, depending on where 
 you are trying to sell your stuff  only the 2 main, "independent" auction houses are linked.
 
  
  
  
  FFXI doesn't use guilds or clans in a traditional sense. Instead, the game utilizes so-called "linkshells" 
 and players can be part of an infinite amount of them and switch back and forth between them by 
 equipping the corresponding link pearl. Basically, they work like guilds and you get to chat with 
 the members of your linkshell, team up and go on quests together, but the possibility to switch 
 from one shell to another at any given time adds a rather unique twist to the system, which can 
 be both a blessing and a curse.
  
  Of course it's fun having the possibility to check out several linkshells if you need help with 
 a mission or you just want to chat and everyone in your shell of choice is busy or offline. Some 
 shells are fun and social and chatty, others focus on endgame content and beating up the toughest 
 baddies and bosses. With shells being less "permanent" than conventional guilds, you're not forced 
 to join and stay with just one.
  
  Of course, with people being able to come and go as they like, you'll rarely ever find any persistent 
 groups of players, as everyone keeps moving on from one shell to the next. It's a double-edged 
 sword.
  
  
  
  You might also feel somewhat irritated with the means of transportation on FFXI. It's perfectly 
 normal to spend up to 11 minutes of real earth time waiting for the next boat or airship when you've 
 missed the last one by a few seconds. If your party is waiting for you in another city and you 
 want to reach them by airship to go on a quest together, telling them, "I'm just flying there real 
 quick" usually means they can sit and wait for you for another 20 minutes. Boat trips can become 
 even more time consuming than that and some ferries are popular targets for sea monsters and other 
 baddies. 
  
  
  
  FFXI is very slow-paced, but every level-up, every piece of class-based armor, every time you get 
 a new airship pass, your chocobo license or just a higher rank, it feels like a real achievement! 
 You don't just go out, kill bad guys and gain levels nonstop. There are situations, where you will 
 have to stop, even if it's just because you've reached your current level-cap and you have to go 
 on a quest to raise it. And there's a good chance you'll have to try some of those quests more 
 than once, because many of them aren't on the easy side.
  
  
  
  Patience is required for everything you do, even if it's just looking for people to team up with. 
 While certain jobs are practically wanted in every party, it may take several HOURS (!) for others 
 to get a party invitation, when they don't fit with the regular cookie-cutter setup. Healers and 
 tanks are rare and sought-after, but it's a lot harder for damage dealers to find people to play 
 with, especially dragoons. And with FFXI featuring practically no serious PVP (there are some possibilities 
 here and there, but most people don't bother) , class-balancing is practically non-existent. For 
 instance, ninjas and dancers have handy skills, which let them take on strong enemies all by themselves 
 with little to no downtime in between battles. Beast Masters get to tame their own pets and they 
 can very well level up all the way from 1 to 75 (ingame maximum) using only their pets and no parties 
 at all. 
  
  
  
  The majority of jobs couldn't even dare dream of soloing effectively enough to seriously consider 
 that a possibility to gain levels once you make it past level 20. At the higher stages of the game, 
 it's perfectly normal to get killed by a baddie, which is supposedly "easy prey" to you (the game 
 rates baddies from 'too weak to be worthwhile' to 'impossible to gauge!') , depending on which job 
 you're playing. It's classic Final Fantasy  where the white mages heal, the warriors dish out 
 and the thieves deal the most damage on distracted targets. There are no healers in this game, 
 who kill hordes of monsters with life-draining magic or rogue-types, who jump baddies and shred 
 them to tiny bits in open combat, using only daggers and leather armor. Some jobs specialize in 
 combat, others in support.
  
  
  
  Final Fantasy XI is not a game for everyone, even if you're a big fan of the classic, job-based 
 games of the franchise and/or MMOs in general. The game designers are starting to implement features 
 to make the game more accessible to newcomers, allowing veteran players to temporarily lower their 
 levels in order to team up with inexperienced folks (much like the mentor system in Everquest 2) , 
 but in terms of depth and complexity, FFXI and the ever-popular World of Warcraft are worlds apart, 
 with the former being rather overwhelming even to the more seasoned gamers. You have to earn the 
 right to use chocobocs and airships, quest for all your class-based armor and unlock higher level 
 caps through quests and the harsh death penalty will slow your progress, keeping you busy for ages 
 on your way to the endgame stuff. 
  
  
  
  If you take the time to get drawn into the game and you get the hang of its complicated mechanics, 
 then FFXI will truly feel epic  for as overused as that term may be today.
  
  You will never feel like you're just one out of a thousand people on your server, who are whacking 
 monsters all day to level up as quickly as possible. You explore, go on dangerous missions, solve 
 quests full of huge cut-scenes, which feature you as the main hero of the storyline. There's an 
 incredibly wide selection of unique jobs at your disposal, the game world is really huge and the 
 eargasm-inducing soundtrack and the ambient sound effects bring everything to life. You can walk 
 through the fields, look at the sun, which shines through the leaves of the trees with corny lens-flare 
 effects and you can even hear the whispering of the wind in the trees. It's all very basic and 
 simple, yet so effective. It's easy to close your eyes and imagine what Vana'Diel would look like 
 if it was real, despite the dated graphics and the blurry, low-resolution textures.
  
  Like most MMOs, FFXI has been losing players particularly since WoW got so popular and AoC hit 
 the stores, but the community keeps getting new members here and there until this very day, so 
 there must be something about that game, other than just the popular brand name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkeynin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Alright, let me start by saying that this is going to be a mixed review. As someone who played, 
 quit, and then played again only to quit again, I can say that this game is a great idea but a 
 little flawed in some of the execution. Secondly, I can state that the customer support for this 
 game has been 2 for 2 on being unpleasant (as noted on my gamespot blog) .
  
  The Good:
  -The graphics are beautiful (for the PC, that is) and the world is huge! Until you hit 20 and get 
 your chocobo license, plan on spending at least 10 minutes to a half an hour just running around 
 from place to place.
  -The people range in terms of helpfulness and maturity during groups. I've had experiences where 
 bored high-levels decided to power-level our group just because they could. I've also had people 
 join a group only to try to do nothing but stay close enough to get some xp ("Hey guys, I'm gonna 
 go AFK for a bit. I'll be really quick! I promise") . Essentially, it's no different than any other 
 online game.
  -Flexibility and creativity is central to this game. Don't like your job class? Switch it out! 
 Once you get the sub-job class open, you can have fun creatively mixing and matching your classes 
 to your own playing style.
  -The music. Some of the best zone music I've ever encountered. Great for enhancing the mood.
 
  
  The Bad:
  -The party dependence. Enjoy solo'ing? Too bad. Very few jobs can solo in this game effectively, 
 and trying to gain levels without a party is an exercise in tedium. Sure, online games are meant 
 to be "social games," but that doesn't necessarily mean I want to be social all the time.
  -The low population. Unless you pick a highly populated server, getting a party together is going 
 to be more difficult than it should be.
  -The length of time since the initial release. This means that there are a lot of higher levels 
 on each server. So trying to get a party at any of the low to mid-levels can be tricky. The only 
 plus to this is the availability of power-levelers and randomly generous players ("You look new 
 to this game... here's a 100K zeny! Buwahahahaha")
  -The aggro range of mobs. This is a difficult game for us explorers since the mobs in this game 
 are tenacious! They don't quit until you're dead, zoned, or they're dead. Thankfully, the number 
 of aggressive mobs in the lower levels aren't too high...
  
  The Ugly:
  -The customer support for this game. If you do any of the following: Go to a third party website, 
 use anything not licensed by SquareEnix, use the internet for anything but playing FFXI, then anything 
 that happens to your account is your fault. Period. The customer support hours nicely coincide 
 with the average work day so if you have an issue that needs to be resolved, you need to use up 
 your lunch break or take time off work. There is no weekend support.
  
  If you like Final Fantasy and Online gaming, than this is the ultimate game for you. Need something 
 quick and fun though? Than look elsewhere. This game is for the patient.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game is ridiculously hard for it own good, unless your prepare to drop everything in your 
 video game collection for it!
  The crafts are impossible to level compare to other MMO's, and unless you have a full day of free 
 time to waste to gain yours own mat's, you'll end up frustrated and spending more time farming 
 than progressing! 
  End game content turns into pure work and frustration, and unless your really making bank, or role 
 playing as a girl, sense it seems most guys show favoritism in the game to help girls more lol, 
 it will become a game of hating than enjoying! 
  You'll also never see a final relic (the best weapon you can get) , unless you plan on playing for 
 a year or even more, seriously!
  This MMO is also party based, meaning? 
  That if your social skills with people are weak, you will surely get bored quickly or find the 
 game less appealing compare to people who have friends in the game already! 
  
  There also a lack of indepence in this game from beginning to end! Everything must be done in a 
 group, which can become a problem in most cases based on your time of play, sense not all players 
 are pst or est, and there also languages barriers in this game, sense not everyone english speaking 
 folks, and the auto translation system they have in the game makes you look retarded to most, cause 
 there no actually communication, and it sometimes hard to get your point across using it, which 
 = a confused party, and in most cases limits people's options from getting into a great end game 
 linkshell (guild) in the game! 
  PVP (player vs player) is also lacking by the fact you have to pay for it, and no great gear can 
 be obtain from pvp in this game, so it basically optional! There also a time barrier to it, where 
 at certain times through the day you can pvp instead on your own time, which really makes the game 
 less appealing if your a RPGMMO pvp player at heart!
  
  In conclusion this game is more fitting for one who is a veteran to MMO's, and used to the system 
 of how things go, and have the time on hand to invest into this game and love party based games!
 
  New players should stay away, unless you already have friends in the game willing to help, cause 
 I can insure you , that being a hardcore FF fan, not every fan going to like this game, cause it 
 FF! 
  Still would give it try, and you also get a 10 day free trail, so no harm there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGamer911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Some MMORPG's are bad like Archlord, and others are great like World of Warcraft. Final Fantasy 
 11 is almost as good as World of Warcraft. Square Enix has created an online game that many people 
 would like to play. With great graphics, amazing music and sound effects, and countless quests, 
 Final Fantasy 11 is addicting and full of content. I've been playing this game for a few days and 
 I like it so far. My character is only a level 6 though........ Well anyway FF11 is worth the monthly 
 fees, and any gamer should play it. I just don't get what some gamespot members have against this 
 game. The only bad things about FF11 is that you have to pay to make more than one character. That's 
 kind of messed up. Anyway, I'm reccomending this game to all gamespot members. Guys you have to 
 play this game! If you don't , at least play it for the free 30 days. You won't regret it. Then 
 after you play it, you can play World of Warcraft, Eve, Everquest 2, Dark Age of Camelot. (1 Month 
 Later ) Guys its me again. I now have different thoughts about final fantasy 11. Although it's 
 a great game ,after a while the monsters get so strong that you have to party up. Thats where the 
 trouble kinda begins and ends. You might spend 30 mins waiting to make a party or maybe even hours. 
 In this time period you might not get alot of EXP. That's pretty much the second bad thing about 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I have never been a big rpg fan, to slow, and repetitive for my taste, but i've always respected, 
 and appreciated all that went into the best rpgs. The story, presentation, graphics, and music 
 are most impressive, usually second to none. I tried my hand at ff7, after the second disc i couldn't 
 believe there was a 3rd, too epic! Take five steps "Fight, take five steps "fight"... rinse and 
 repeat Bleh! lol Basically i'm a Fps, sports, and action gamer. FFXI however is another animal. 
 I have been playing this game for over four years, bought and played all the expansions. This game 
 is still beautiful to me, it is a masterpiece in just about every category, the environments, the 
 character models, and animations are still better than alot of the newer mmos. It may not be the 
 easiest mmo out there, but the rewards are huge, even bigger payoffs after you max out your job, 
 hook up with a good linkshell to do events and such. The l33t will find themselves in "Endgame" 
 linkshells, if you get a good group of friends, there is big fun to be had. With all the expansions, 
 this game keeps getting better and better. Final Fantasy XI Online FTW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xGollumx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Preface: I've been playing this game since the North American PS2 release. I have 2 characters, 
 one has 5 level 75 jobs with dozens upon dozens of merits, and the other character is a level 75 
 Black Mage. I've participated in almost every single activity this game has available. I've tried 
 other MMOs, and all have fallen short of my expectations, and I've always come back to FFXI.
  
  So many MMOs these days completely lose the point of what an MMO should be. They seem to focus 
 on single-player game play set in an environment where other players occupy space. What's the point 
 of that? MMO should be about community. It should be about banding together to defeat foes, working 
 as a team. That's where FFXI shines. You won't be soloing much in this game, unless you're either 
 masochistic, or choose to play as a beastmaster (which is borderline masochistic.) The game virtually 
 forces people to work together as a cohesive unit in almost every aspect. From leveling up, to 
 fighting some of the toughest monsters in the game, quests, missions, etc. They almost invariably 
 require a balanced party.
  
  Some words of warning though. This game is not for people who don't like to work with other people. 
 It is also not for people who lack patience. Nor is it a game that you can log into for half an 
 hour and achieve much. This game requires time to do much of anything. And lots of it. Whether 
 it's trying to get a group together to grind out some XP or knock out a quest or mission, you'll 
 find yourself taking a while to prepare, travel, and eventually get to the goal and (hopefully) 
 win.
  
  Things build very slowly at the start for someone new to this game. Like many other MMOs, your 
 character is nothing but a newbie at the start. He'll have very little skill in anything, bad gear, 
 diddly-squat for money, and no clue what to do. You're basically plopped down in your home nation, 
 and what you do from that point is completely up to you. The game tries to nudge you in the direction 
 of starting the chain of missions for your home nation, and that will help to give some direction. 
 Your best bet is to befriend a veteran player who can mentor you though. Listen to what they say, 
 because they'll more than likely give you some sound advice.
  
  There are so many aspect of the game that are excellently done that it's hard to pick where to 
 start. I guess having the capability to keep your character and choose a new job at any time is 
 one of the attractive qualities of the game. As you progress through the game there are many obstacles 
 to overcome. Things like getting an airship pass, unlocking access to certain areas, questing for 
 things like key items, maps, etc. All of that is linked to your character. It's wonderful to be 
 able to go into your house and select a new job and not have to worry about grinding those same 
 quests again. Repetition of quests is not my idea of fun.
  
  Another great concept is the ability to tack a subjob onto your main job. This is what really separates 
 FFXI from a lot of other MMOs. A Samurai with a White Mage subjob will be significantly different 
 from a Samurai with a Warrior subjob (and a SAM/WHM will also be laughed at, but that's a subject 
 that's best for forum fodder.) Besides subjobs, the obvious way to customize your character is 
 via gear. There's tons of gear. Some of the more mundane items are easy to get, and typically the 
 best gear is incredibly difficult to obtain. Beyond subjobs and gear, there's merits to further 
 customize your character. Merits are points your character earns once he has leveled to the cap 
 (currently and probably forever at 75.) Merits allow a character to enhance statistics or unlock 
 job specific abilities. There are only so many merit points that can be spent in each area, which 
 was very wise on Square-Enix's part. This way not all players can be the best at every job they 
 level. They have to choose wisely which stats to enhance.
  
  There are some drawbacks to the game. Square-Enix has been notoriously bad with progression. Where 
 other MMOs have released expansions that add newer and more powerful items, SE still to this day 
 has not added better or even comparable gear to the gear release 5 years ago. To compound this 
 problem, the monsters that drop this gear are world spawns on 24 hour timers, and the items are 
 a low percentage drop rate on top of it all. This means that every end game player that desires 
 these items are constantly camping the monsters that drop them. And, if things weren't bad enough, 
 many of the people who camp them have resorted to botting the spawns, meaning that the chances 
 for players who do not cheat to get claim on them is very, very low.
  
  Other bad things about the game is the perpetual excuse given by Square-Enix whenever a technical 
 problem surfaces. The dreaded "Playstation 2 limitations." They love to toss that out there as 
 a reason to not do something, like give players additional inventory space, or repeated use of 
 the same armor/weapon models, etc. Crafting is also pretty bad. Many items that can be crafted 
 just aren't worth anything, and will often cost more money to make than they will sell for. Almost 
 every piece of crafted gear has a quested item or item that drops from a monster that is better 
 than the crafted piece. The better crafted pieces are typically very very expensive.
  
  This brings us to another problem in the game: earning in-game money. This is probably one of the 
 most difficult games to earn money in. There's negligible loot dropped from most normal monsters. 
 Typically the rare monsters (they're called Notorious Monsters, or NMs for short) are the only 
 ones that will drop items worth anything, and of course those monsters are heavily camped. Earning 
 money is one of the most challenging aspects of the game. I'm not sure if that's a good thing or 
 not.
  
  I really have only barely scratched the surface of the game in this review. I've not even gone 
 into any of the hundreds of activities this game makes available to players... chocobo raising, 
 brenner, farming, assault, campaign, salvage, einherjar, the list just goes on and on.
  
  The bottom line is it's a game that you should never, ever find yourself bored in. There's always 
 something to do. It may not be exactly what you had in mind. For instance you might want to get 
 in an experience points party with your Dragoon, but a party for a dragoon is hard to come by, 
 so you will seek for hours. In the meantime however, you can go off while seeking and craft, or 
 mine, or take part in campaign, solo a little bit to gain skill with a weapon your character isn't 
 very proficient with, etc. If you're able to get past the steep learning curve and make friends 
 with a veteran who can help guide you, and your a person that has lots of patience, this is a game 
 you will play for years and come back to again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Once again another only online game fails to stand up to WOW. Final fantasy 11 is what you might 
 like to call an 'above average' game. It mananges to be addictive and sometimes quite fun in a 
 variety of ways.
  
  I will start of first by saying, when you start this game, you will have absoulute no idea what 
 you are doing. Yes, all games are like this but i wouldnt say it has a tutorial. You are left to 
 figure everything out from other players or for yourself. They needed to make the game's tutorial 
 in every area easier. When you start a skill, you wont have an idea what to do, what you need or 
 where to go, making it annoying.
  
  Unless of course you are high leved in a skill it is way to hard to make 'good money' for new or 
 learning players. This game will always teach you something new even for the advance players. The 
 leveling of charcters is ok. Decent job choices and even the use of many 'side jobs' to give your 
 character a boost in areas such as health. Pretty good graphics and ok online story to add on to 
 the FF series. 
  
  You also have an easy entry into your clan, but the only problem is to make some of your own you 
 may have to spend alot of money which is a good idea so there arnt like a million clans. The payment 
 is a bit of a rip off, unless its gone down since i last played it but since its not 'the best' 
 it should be more than $20. It also has annoing downloads that can take ages depending on your 
 internet. A very long installation process but can prove to be worth it. This game also has outside 
 chatrooms and clans so you can chat and email your friend and also some downloads.
  
  The biggest let down about teh game is the combat. Unlike other games were you can press buttons 
 to attack or just click like mad to attack like WOW and oblivion or any other RPG games, this combat 
 is uninteractive and boring. Unless your a mage you really dont have much clicking to do. As warriers 
 or any other fighters unless you want to use a special ability or power you dont need to do anything. 
 It might sound cool for all you lazy people out there but its not. You charcter just does the same 
 boring hit over and over, blocking if you have a sheild and mabye getting hit. You just attack 
 a monster then sit back. This games pointless, pointless fighting made it unatradective to hardcore 
 players. The armour variety and weapons variety in this game is good with heaps of cool abilitys 
 and side quests. 
  
  Overrall, if you need an online game and if our bored of WOW or watever you play then get this 
 game. A decent online RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is different from most MMO's in the fact that you really need to party to get anywhere 
 in this game. Unlike WoW where you can basically play the entire game without having to interact 
 with other people, Final Fantasy almost requires you to. Leveling up takes time and patience when 
 your alone because you don't earn that much experience to begin with. The game is a great way to 
 make new friends because people tend to be a lot friendlier then on WoW. If you need help in this 
 game people tend to help you, and even when your fine people will still help, probably because 
 they know what it's like to be where you are in the game. The game is long but the story (so far 
 for me anyways) is pretty good. The problems with this game is really on the whole money issue. 
 It's a huge problem when it comes to making money early in the game. For people who want a MMO 
 where people are willing to help you when you need it and want to meet new people, I suggest this 
 game. Don't get me wrong, I like WoW but, you can really get to level 70 in three days if you really 
 wanted too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serdall
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This was the first MMO I've ever played, several years ago. I keep on going back to it from WoW 
 and vice versa. There are many ups and downs to the game.
  
  First off, you might as well buy the guide book. Besides the fact that it's very useful, you will 
 want something to read for the 7 hours download time. But once you start up, it doesn't end there.
 
  
  It took me another good 10mins to actually figure out how to move (no one would tell me) . Once 
 I mastered that, it took me a while to find where to "kill things". Cities are huge. The second 
 you enter the game, you're on your own.
  
  2 hours later, I'm starting to get a feel for the game. Having fun killing bunnies, leveled up 
 once and I can't wait to get more spells and abilities. 
  
  20 hours later is nothing new. A few more spells. But you're still killing bunnies. And that's 
 all there is to do until you reach level 10.
  
  Level 10 is finally reached! Z0mg! Now you have to travel across a giant area to get to valkum 
 dunes. If you come near something it will agro you (and eventually kill you) . Sending you back to 
 the city (half hour of walking away) or if you've picked up a few friends, you call bug a friend 
 to come out and give you a raise. Which by the time they get there, might be an hour. 
  
  Eventually you get to the designated area, and form a group! Just hope there's people to form a 
 group with, otherwise you'll have to wait. My record is waiting 6 hours before a group came (This 
 was at a higher level though) . Once you get in a group, 99% of the people are pretty nice and mature. 
 The game is fun and you will always always need to rely on people in the game. Partying is 90% 
 of the game and it all you will do. 
  
  The monsters are tedious. I've killed bunnies in the ronafaure area, la theine platue, valkurm 
 dunes, the list goes on. In fact, most of the monsters in the game are the SAME exact thing. This 
 gets boring because as you level up, I don't have 6 level 50's getting wiped out by a RABBIT. The 
 same one I killed at level 1, just way stronger. Occasionally though there are big and strong monsters, 
 but it gets very old seeing the same ones repeated.
  
  Making money? HARD. In fact, I have NO idea how to make money, and I'm level 55 in the game. You 
 can farm crystals (Don't forget your signet!) which gives you a little money, and the occasional 
 drop from monsters you can vendor. There are skills in the game, where you create items with specific 
 materials. Although I find this more of a waste of money. Oh well, everyone else in the game is 
 rich but me, so I guess this is just my personal problem. 
  
  So, what is there good about this game? Cause - I always find myself coming back to it. Well, the 
 graphics? AMAZING. There have been plenty of times where I have to stop playing and just gaze at 
 the sunset on the beach. The scenery is well put together and I have not met a game that can compete 
 with it. The graphics are a little outdated, but still very beautiful.
  
  The people are very friendly. Most of the time they're too willing to help you out on a quest (which 
 the few available seem impossible without help) It's a good thing too - because if they weren't 
 I don't think people would progress too far. If the game was a little more populated, it would 
 turn out very well. 
  
  I still love partying. And getting a group of real friends always adds a bit more love to the game. 
 The line up of jobs is good for the game too, and adds way more replay value (It's an MMO, duh!) .
 
  
  Overall, I liked the game. Especially as my first MMO. It has the taste of a final fantasy game. 
 However - I do not think this game is for everyone, and if you're not a very PATIENT person, you'll 
 probably not want to pick up this game. However - if you do have the patience every once in a while, 
 this game can be very fun. The game is the hardest MMO I've played, but that Isn't always a bad 
 thing - it creates a challenge, unlike WoW where everything is pretty easy. Give the game a try, 
 get to level 10 and have some fun :)
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eckolocke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  How do you measure a MMORPG? Staying power? Sense of accomplishment? Content? Fun Factor? Graphics? 
 4.5/5 of those is not bad. While the argument continues whether an MMORPG should tailor to the 
 casual solo gamer (read: WoW) , I continue leave and breathe the beauty and complexity that is FFXI. 
 Easy to pick up and play? No. Worth the time and effort? Absolutely. Would I try to convince everyone 
 to play? No. This game is not for everyone. ADD 12 yr olds need not apply (again read: WoW) . It 
 may seem i'm taking pot shots at the successful giant, but the truth is, these days in game i hear 
 a lot of "I use to play WoW but it got boring quick and now (I'm Back!) ". So my suggestion: Ignore 
 the 8.2 score gamespot gave it and the 12 yr olds that troll the forums. Go pick up the starter 
 pack and try it out for 30 days. Make up your own mind! But me personally, I wouldnt play any other 
 MMORPG out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlciceman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is frustration, confusion, and annoyance for the first 10-15 levels. Thats all the bad 
 i think i can say about this game. After you get out of your starter areas then the game turns 
 to butter with static parties helpful people, and once you figure out what your doing you will 
 love this game. The game offers many different classes from you to choose from. I think the graphics 
 are amazing The sound has much to be desired. A good buy if your looking for something to replace 
 wow. Also the game is only 20$ us. for ffxi and all 3 expansions thats a deal.
  
  end game is not limited to just raiding and being board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI:
  The first online Final Fantasy, I have play FFXI for well over four years, during which I have 
 met plenty of ... interesting people, got involved in the drama of world dragon fights, and have 
 explored basically everything there is to do on this game. It is one of the best MMORPGs out right 
 now, but I find that Final Fantasy XI is based more on the hardcore players, and the casual player 
 get left out.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  The gameplay in FFXI is basically all group based, you can't do anything without a decent party; 
 getting a party tend to be a long waiting process for certain jobs, like my job Dragoon for example, 
 many people think Dragoons arn't that great because of the jobs we get stacked against (Dark Knight, 
 Warrior, Monk) so we are basically a last resort for a party. Another thing is gear; people expect 
 you to HAVE certain pieces of equipment at a certain level... now some pieces of equipment take 
 hours upon hours to get just by trying to kill certain Notorious Monsters (NMs) that are constantly 
 farmed by bots. But if you manage all your equipment and have a good job, then the gameplay in 
 FFXI is fun, the monsters are challenging and always fun to fight. I gave this category a six, 
 just because of the fact that casual players get left behind when it comes to this game, most everything 
 you do will require you to stay online for four or five hours, and with that just getting a party 
 can take an hour or two.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Like music in all Final Fantasy games, the background music is wonderfully done. Environmental 
 sounds are perfect and not annoying, the monsters sound like they are suppose to, Chocobos still 
 go Kweh. The sound in this game is just great.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics in the game are sweet, all of the armor has it's own look, the weapons look really 
 cool, and the characters themselves are really well done. The monsters in this game are stunning 
 (take Fafnir for example) , once you watch a video of a alliance fighting Fafnir, you want to do 
 that; I remember sitting in Dragon's Aery just to see Fafnir. The enviromental graphics are also 
 well done. All areas from Valkrum Dunes to the Garden of Ru'Hmet are just fun to walk through and 
 look at.
  
  Story: 10/10
  When hasn't a Final Fantasy story been amazing (not counting X-2) ? When you make your character, 
 you get to pick your nation of allegiance, Bastok, San d'oria, and Windurst. When you first start 
 the story line (level five-ish) you only get quest-like jobs, but as you go up in ranks, the story 
 gets more in-depth depending on your nation. Then you also get the two expansion stories of Rise 
 of Zilart and Chains of Promathia, which both have their own unique and interesting stories.
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  Why 7.5? Because of the huge gap SquareEnix has made between casual players 
 and Hardcore players. Without being able to put a large amount of time in this game, it really 
 isn't worth getting; but if you do have five+ hours to put into a game each day, then you won't 
 be disappointed with Final Fantasy XI. I just find this game to be way to stereotypical on jobs, 
 it's like you HAVE to have this gear to be considered a good player. But besides that, Final Fantasy 
 XI is a good time, plenty of jobs to unlock, it will take you a long time to get to the max level, 
 but once you do you unlock so much new content that you will be busy for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andraxal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story varies depending on what nationality you're from, or expansion you're playing. 
 The story revolves around the world of Vana'Diel and it's heroes, villains, and castdowns. The 
 main story of Final Fantasy XI has sparked two expansions based soley off of the main story, there 
 are however side storys too not based off the main one. The story changes depending on where you're 
 from, and it only deepens the lore of this game. The three nations are Windhurst; a bustling nature 
 town where magic is common place, and it is ruled by the Star Cybil a prophet, naturally inhabited 
 by the short statured Tarutaru, and the cat like Mithra. The story of Windhurst revolves around 
 an old hero who mysteriously disappeared after saving Windhurst from an invasion of Yagudo; bird 
 like Beastmen. Beastmen are a highly intellegent unfriendly organized opposition to the main countries. 
 Bastok is a high traffic highly technologically advanced city which uses only the latest weaponry, 
 goldsmithing, and weapons. The story from Bastok is about the rage and enslavement of the 2nd citizens 
 called Galka which are giant burly bear humanoid type characters who're used as dumb muscle most 
 the time. Humes, obviously humans; are the main populace of Bastok. The story is actually the closest 
 to the main story of the Shadowlord, because it's where the Shadowlord came from. This extention 
 of the main story features Roagrimm The Taleskeeper who when reincarnated keeps memories of his 
 past life, and Zeid The Darknight of legend. This splint explains how the rise of the Shadowlord 
 begins, friendship, love, and genocide will spark the flames of war in this epic side of the story. 
 The story of Sand'Oria is about the Elven knighthood of the midevil like castlry of Sand'Oria. 
 About the destruction of the sister city of Tavnazia, ancient weapons long past, ties to the religion 
 of Altea, and the fall from grace of Royalty. There is one more major nation called the Dutchy 
 of Jeuno, which is neutral in all respects and allows everyone in the country, and doesn't descriminate 
 against any races. Here is where the leaders of the three countries meet and create treaties and 
 trade agreements. This place seems like the ideal country, devoid of corruption, however corruption 
 is the least of Vana'Diels worries as the deadliest of enemies of the 7 races lie in secrecy, ruling 
 the three nations behind the scenes working toward a dark objective in the Expansion of Rise of 
 The Zilart. So back to the main story about the Shadowlord, you'll eventually learn from the cruelty 
 the Galka face, and the suppressed anger, he was created through one of the hidden/extinct Dark 
 Crystal fragments and turned into the very esscence of rage and hate. From there he would conduct 
 a massive genodical war against the 5 races of Altena, Elven, Hume, Galka, Mithra, and Tarutaru. 
 He'll shake the foundation of history's weave when he wages war against all 3 countries, and comes 
 close to anhhilating them, when he is destroyed by 6 warriors called the Crystal Warriors. The 
 real story picks up after this because you'll find out he's being revived by his loyal Beastmen, 
 and he's even more deadly and powerful. You'll find out who the Crystal Warriors really are, and 
 they're quite far from being heroes. You'll learn the truth of The Taleskeepr, the heritage of 
 the Galka, The Shadowlord, and The Darknight of Legend; Zeid. The final boss of the main story 
 is the Shadowlord, and he's quite large, weilds a gigantic sword, and implodes quite often to decimate 
 you. The story of each nation will also extend past this as the last half of the story of each 
 nation is different I will not spoil it for you. Gameplay: Gameplay. Hmmm. This is THE best part 
 of this game. There's so much to do, and you can easily play years and not accomplish much. There's 
 so many things to do from crafting, exploring, getting new equipment, finishing Dynamis, finishing 
 missions, getting legendary items, or simply getting married in game. Crafting is possibly my favorite 
 gameplay element. You take simple items and put them together with small crystal shards to synthesize 
 a new item. Each time you do so you may go up a point, and when you gather ten points you level 
 up in that craft. Sound easy? Wrong, dead wrong. To get them to high levels it takes hours upon 
 hours to raise, not to mention millions of gil to do, which is not easy to comeby in this game. 
 The economy is something that is quite unique to this game. Everything revolves around gil, the 
 more you have the better you are. You must farm items, craft things, or defeat enemies to gain 
 it. Each nation has it's own economy, and prices are different at each city. Items are sold through 
 places called Auction Houses were bare minimum prices are set and players bid on items and the 
 highest one will be the one who retains the item, whereas the player who set up the item gains 
 the money. It's a 100 percent safe transaction, so no one gets ripped off. You thought tax in real 
 life was bad? Well you have it in game too! There's tax on items you put in the Auction house as 
 well, from a few gil too even a couple thousand depending on how much you want for it! There are 
 tons of secret enemies who spawn once an hour, every few minutes, every few days, or even an hour 
 once a day. There are battlefields you can go to fight hardcore boss battles to earn incredible 
 booty. (Treasure kind, mind you.) You can even participate in Player Versus Player where you fight 
 against other players which is ALWAYS fun. This game expands every few days, and there's ALWAYS 
 new content, jobs, everything you can think of, down to Chocobo Raising. Music: The music in this 
 game varies GREATLY. Some of it is so great it would make even the most hardcore rapid Final Fantasy 
 adict shed a tear or two. Some of it is dull and lackluster. The main games music, without expansions 
 is very good. There are a few pieces which add such atmosphere, some with choir, some with bells 
 and whistles. One such piece which vastly stands out above the rest is the song called: Distant 
 Worlds. This one is so beautiful that I instantly named it one of my top 3 favorite songs of all 
 time easily. Of course most of the game is done by Nobuo Uematsu, there are other lesser known 
 composers who've worked on this game as well. Some of it ranges from hard rock songs, rapid war 
 drum beats, irish jig songs, quiet calm new age to vocal pieces. The soundtrack to this is very 
 good, and is too expansive to cover everything-however restassured that the music ALWAYS matches 
 the moment. When you start a battle the battle music plays, when you die you hear your own death 
 throws and grunts, when you're in the most forboding of places you'll hear eerie sound effects 
 which only excite you through the quiet ambiance, even when you're facing the great Avatars, or 
 summons as most people know them, exciting battle music unique to the battles take place. Final 
 boss battle songs are also very original, and the one for the main story sounds a lot like Red 
 Wings only done with more drums and a guitar. Graphics: Graphics here are very well done for a 
 MMORPG of it's age and grandiosity. I'm surprised it actually looks this great for being such a 
 massive game. Everything looks good in this game, but there are a few repititious enemies with 
 different names or color pallets, and a few lack luster backgrounds, however there's everything 
 from the bright and exhuberant to the dark and forboding. Every color in the rainbow is inserted 
 into this great Final Fantasy installment. Replay Value: The replay value of this game is so great 
 it far surpasses that of any, and I mean ANY other game I've EVER played. There's so much to do 
 once you restart a new character, always new friends to make, new groups to hang out with new adventures 
 thanks to Square Enix. Replay value alone is more or equal to the first play through. This game 
 also never ends so you'll likely never finish it, even getting the jobs to the highest levels can 
 take years or months. Final Note: THE best Final Fantasy I've EVER played. Such a shame it's considered 
 an exiled and forgotten Final Fantasy because of the genre of MMORPG. It's very good, and time 
 consuming, trust me it'll eat away at your life before you know it. You do have to pay a minimum 
 of 12.85 per month to play but money very well spent. The only thing keeping this game from getting 
 a perfect score of 10 is that the customer service is TERRIBLE. I mean it's so horrible it was 
 one of the reasons I quit. This as an overall game is quite well done, and one of the best I've 
 ever played; well worth the 9.5 I'm giving it. I recommend it to any MMORPG fan, avid Square Enix 
 fan, or the common Joe Shmo. This has been an unbiased review from a member of S. E. E. (Square Enix 
 Experience) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacedog1973
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a period of 2 years. It had its ups and downs good times and bad times.
 
  
  This was my first experience of an MMORPG and at the time it blew me away. The vastness of the 
 world - it just kept growing! The amount of things that could be done, it never ended - it seemed 
 that this was the game for me!
  
  Probably during the first year it hit me - I had invested so much time and money into this game, 
 it was difficult to stop, to throw away what I had worked hard to get. And yes, after a while, 
 playing this game was work - I had to research on the internet what missions to do to obtain what 
 are relatively simple things.
  
  The most simple things in this game are stretched out to take ages to complete. The economy is 
 massively corrupted by gil farmers and bots and gangs that sell gil online for real cash. Anything 
 of real value cannot be usually purchased unless you have millions of gil or complete very difficult 
 quests which you will have to search for players in order to form a team to complete. Searching 
 for teams in itself can be a major pain. At a point, it is not worthwhile going solo - the monsters 
 are tougher and can only really be taken down in a group for a reasonable return of xp. Getting 
 groups becomes harder the higher level you get until you can spend hours waiting for a team to 
 come along.
  
  The combinations of race and Job are broken as well. You will be forced to either find a combination 
 that has been proven over and over again to be sucessful i. e a tarutaru mage - or make things amazingly 
 hard for yourself. And you can bet that if you have the 'wrong' combination, finding a team wiling 
 to take you will turn into a sad joke.
  
  Anyway - the worts part of this game is the time you will spend in it. Its an amazing time sink 
 and a waste of life - if played properly it will sap your will to have a normal social life and 
 instead turn you into some part human part ffxi hybrid - not fun. Thats the danger of this game 
 - its too addictive for its own good and for anyone else's. There are plenty of players that for 
 some reason are able to play this game every day for 12 hours or more. I don't need to tell you 
 that this is unhealthy, but the game will take those hours and turn them into a minute achievement 
 that can only be maintained by a repeat the following day.
  
  I can't force people to stay away from the game - but to advise people of the risks of his game. 
 You will not GET a sense of achievement really, because by doing that ingame, you will have to 
 sacrifice something more relevant, more tangible and more meaningful - your life.
  
  Not all MMORPGs do this, so it isn't a pattern. City of Heroes for example offers a far more healthy 
 balance of grind and reward and does not reward complete dissosociation with real life - and it 
 is here where FFXI fails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  This MMORPG is definatly one that likes to hide. You always hear about WoW, Flyff, Runescape, Guild 
 Wars, Silk Road, Warcraft, ect. but never ever FFXI.
  
  Why is this game so different? What separates this game from the other MMORPGS? This MMORPG it's 
 exactly too addicting but it's extremely fun to play and you will force yourself to play alot because 
 it's fun. Unlike WoW which brings almost no fun factor, this game has that factor. This isn't opinion 
 too. I've asked several people who have played the game (even ones that don't play the game now) 
 and they say the exact same thing.
  
  FFXI has got to be the biggest and deepest MMORPG I've played. It's vast and visually graceful. 
 From the dusty and worn roads of Bastok, to the windy colorful spring feeling of Windurst, to the 
 overly medevil feel Sandoria, and to the majestic Jeuno. Even beyond these key 4 areas, there are 
 many more vast areas to explore. The 2 expansion packs add onto these even more. And not just 1 
 or 2 areas - the expansion packs add like 5-10 each.
  
  The game's story and plot is also very well done for an MMORPG. It's that classic Final Fantasy 
 plot with all the twists and turns you wouldn't expect in an online format. This story actually 
 matters while doing quests and missions unlike WoW which is really just do whatever the hell you 
 want to because it don't matter.
  
  The point of the game isn't to just reach the maximum level either. It's about making friends and 
 exploring the game together whether or not in story relation or just because you want to check 
 out the game. In games like WoW or Flyff, you almost never really form a party for too long. Only 
 to pull off the quest. Even then, you don't get the full party experience like you should - playing 
 with out people together as a team. Hell, in WoW, I think I got in more fights against other players 
 just being in a single party!
  
  While partying in FFXI, you get the full thing. Every party member counts in order to level up. 
 You need that WHM to back you up, you need that BLM to help wipe the enemy out, you need that SMN 
 for all the buffs, you need that THF/NIN to help keep hate to minimum, and that SAM/WAR to help 
 deal the damage. Every party member is willing to die for that WHM!! In WoW, you'll never ever 
 experience this I garuentee 100000%!!
  
  Not to forget the ammount of customization to your character. You get to choose from a large ammount 
 of really cool weapons and armour that actually make a difference when you put them on. You can 
 change your job to anything you like at any time, and later you can sub them to double the meaning 
 of your main job.
  
  The enemies in the game are very very cool and are ALWAYS different. It's not like WoW or any other 
 MMORPG where you fight lets say a lvl 1 bandit that has a red bandanna and then later fight a lvl 
 70 bandit that looks EXACTLY the same with a blue bandana! No, the lvl 1 goblin looks comepletely 
 different then the lvl 72 goblin. Thats what makes the difference and thats what shows that the 
 developers actually care and give a damn. As for Blizzard, I cant say the same.
  
  The game is also cheaper as it's $10/month and $1+/month for every other character you make. Not 
 to forget that you get games like Tetra Master and hopefully other games to come.
  
  This game is so underly ratted and underlooked that it's hard to believe. So I suggest you go pick 
 this game up and give it a whirl. I highly do and for any FF fan this is a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falru
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy fans all know that in some deep dark corner of their heart they at least once felt 
 a desire to play some type of multi-player variant to the series. Well, here it is. Final Fantasy 
 XI has to be one of the best MMORPG's available now, but only if you appreciate the type of gameplay.
 
  
  Pros:
  
  First, I'll start with what's good about the game.
  
  A multi-player variant of the Final Fantasy franchise is definitely an exciting idea, and Square 
 Enix did well enough presenting and designing it. Players can choose from 5 separate races that 
 all have slightly (sometimes not so slightly) different stats and HP/MP growth rates. You may choose 
 from three different nations to be your starting location: Windurst, San d'Oria, or Bastok. They 
 also have a choice to a, compared to other MMO's, vast amount of different jobs, usually referred 
 to as classes in your typical MMO. Currently on the scene are Warrior, Thief, Red Mage, White Mage, 
 Blue Mage, Black Mage, Samurai, Dragoon, Puppetmaster, Corsair, Bard, Paladin, Dark Knight, Summoner, 
 Beastmaster, Monk, Ninja, and Ranger, totaling 18. The level cap for each job used to be 50, but 
 is now 75 following the Rise of the Zilart expansion, which is higher than most other games but 
 it is to the games credit seeing as it added many, many new things to each job including but not 
 limited to each classes own unique set of armor commonly referred to as Artifact Armor or AF.
 
  
  The quests in this game are sometimes generic, but sometimes rather nice, which is rare for a MMO 
 (but come on, this is Final Fantasy) . Some of the mission storylines that you follow when completing 
 the quests for the nation of your allegiance can be quite interesting and make you feel that the 
 NPC's around aren't just mindless machines put there for decoration. While we're on the story of, 
 well, story, I'd like to point out that you generally don't buy a MMORPG for it's storylines, they 
 are more meant to pass time by and any offline-rpg worth it's salt will more then surpass any MMORPG 
 in story and depth, so you shouldn't get into these games expecting Hollywood quality story telling.
 
  
  Now onto combat. Combat in Final Fantasy XI is definitely reminiscent of other games in its category; 
 you fight by marking a target and initiating auto-attack mode, but unlike most other MMO's there 
 are many other things besides attacking that a player can use. For instance the TP system, which 
 involves charging up a gauge that lets you use powerful skills appropriately named Weapon Skills 
 that change depending which weapon type you are using. Some of these weapon skills, mainly the 
 low level ones, are rather unimpressive at best but that can be easily accepted seeing as they 
 make you appreciate some of the higher level skills that are quite impressive. Coordination is 
 essential in this game, and some people may prefer being a one-man army over depending on others 
 to play their party. I however find it to be quite enjoyable and a good representation of classic 
 Final Fantasy partying. A great feature of combat is the Skillchain system, where 2 or more party 
 members use their weapon skills in the correct order to form an additional attack. This attack 
 is elemental based, which is then used to create a Magic Burst which involves a mage casting the 
 same-element spell upon the monster and getting a (sometimes significant) damage boost. There are 
 also Job Abilities which are gained as your character levels a job and are all unique to each job. 
 This helps define a job as it's own individual class, although there are some repeated job abilities 
 amongst the damage dealing jobs.
  
  While this game can definitely not be counted as a ideal PvP game, the PvP system (named Ballista 
 ) is pretty much what you'd expect it to be; two teams that beat each other up. Although there 
 is the twist on how to score, and I feel it's a good twist but that's more based on your own opinions. 
 The way you score is by digging up small stones named Petras and the goal is to throw the Petras 
 into the Rook. However you may only do so after you or someone in your party has defeated a enemy 
 player and you have gained Gate Breach status. This adds a interesting quality to the combat that 
 can do quite a few good things. For instance, the melee damage classes cannot simply camp the melee-weak 
 mages all day and all night and still get points, they must still score without dieing, and a mage 
 is rarely on its own unless it wishes to be killed, so sometimes its teammates can succeed in avenging 
 the fallen mage and instead gaining gate breach themselves.
  
  Cons:
  
  There is undeniably some grinding, mainly EXP parties, but honestly, name me a MMO that DOESN'T 
 have grinding.
  
  There could be a little bit more variety to the character faces and hairstyles, but it is adequate 
 that you don't usually see repeats in exp parties or other team activities.
  
  Real-Money Trade (RMT) is a bit of a problem on this game, which sometimes imbalances the economy. 
 However Square Enix has made quite some progress fixing this and banning many accounts. I believe 
 they have already removed well over 90 billion gil (this game's currency) from banning gil seller 
 accounts.
  
  Takes quite a while to get out of the low levels.
  
  There are many different things to learn on how to get an ideal party and can be intimidating for 
 beginners, but it's very satisfying once you've mastered it and have a great party going.
  
  Teamwork is rather demanded in this game, it's very difficult to solo past level 20 or so if 
 you're not a Beastmaster, the soloer job in this game. Many quests also require a party of people 
 to complete, but if you're a team player like myself you won't be bothered much by this.
  
  PvP enthusiasts might find the PvP system a bit lacking.
  
  Bottom Line:
  All in all, Final 
 Fantasy XI is a very teamplay-based game, and if teamwork and coordination aren't your thing I 
 can easily say the game isn't for you, in fact, most MMORPG's aren't for you. It's quite a good 
 game that, as the GameSpot review mentions, manages to rise out amongst most generic MMO's and 
 deliver some rather unique and interesting features. It may not be perfect, but it's definitely 
 one of the best MMO's today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  As a true to heart Final Fantasy lover ,I was a little worried that this one would not be as good 
 as the other but .To tell the truth it turned out alot better then i thought that it would .Yes 
 the grahpics are not as great as they could be but still these people that made this game but there 
 heart and soul into it .And what did they come out with for the pc this kick but game that you 
 have endless things to do .In this game you can be just about anything you want to be thow it does 
 not have the story line the other games do it still has a point that no matter what Final Fantasy 
 XI should come out on top !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this game was definetly headed in the right direction. There is a lot about this 
 game that's very VERY inticing. There are a couple of things wrong with it though. This is pretty 
 much your standard MMMORPG with a Final Fantasy twist. You can fight, craft, party up, sell, and 
 explore
  
  The job system in this game is awesome. There are a few flaws with it though. If you choose to 
 get an advanced job at level 30 you must start that new job at level 1. This is upsetting because 
 once you get a taste of the higher level content you must completely start the game over as your 
 new class. The crafting system is somewhat ok. It doesn't offer anything worthwhile until you spend 
 A LOT of money and time. A VERY LONG time. It's pretty crappy to get started though so it's probably 
 better to just not start at all.
  
  The battle system is ok. It's just that the engine of the game itself is completely tedious. As 
 soon as you hit around level 18 you can pretty much say goodbye to soloing. If you try to level 
 by soloing it will take FOREVER. What this means is that not far into the game every time you log 
 in you can't really do anything but put your party flag up and wait. Sometimes you end up waiting 
 for a very LONG TIME.
  
  The music is awesome for the genre and the sound effects all work pretty well. It has the Final 
 Fantasy touch.
  
  All in all the game isn't missing any Final Fantasy taste to it. But with a slow engine and excrutiatingly 
 slow gameplay it gets hard to want to keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfehunter
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Well, i played this game for a while and I have to say that it's completely terrible, for the first 
 ten levels you'll be ok, you can solo and kill monsters till you go blue in the face. After that 
 point it becomes pretty much a necessity to be in a party to get any form of good XP gain. Most 
 of the time getting a party will take you hours, so for anybody that wants to sit at their computer 
 and do nothing for hours on end while you try and get a party together, this is the game for you. 
 Graphically the game's ok, it's not exactly impressive and the textures are washed out but it's 
 not so bad that you cant stand looking at it.
  
  Also the music has got to be the most annoying, repetitive garbage that has ever been put into 
 a game. You have bagpipes playing in a major city.
  
  Traveling takes forever and if you die on the way to wherever it is that you're going, you have 
 to go back to your home point and start the entire trip again. This is a completely un-biased review, 
 i've been a fan of the series for years and have completed all of the other games in the series, 
 and this just does not live-up to the final fantasy name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altriak
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I see my friends have super poor taste in games. I should talk to them about that. 
 Anyways...
  
  Gameplay - This game is all a grind-fest. Granted, there are some quests that can be obtained, 
 but they are so hard to find! Nearly 90% of the people you talk to are irrelevant to anything you 
 need to accomplish. In fact, a lot of them have the same dialog! Storyline-wise, it just didn't 
 seem compelling. I'll be honest and say I couldn't go longer than playing 15 hours of the game 
 and all I did was kill some bees and bats. That's another set-back of the game -- you have to kill 
 stuff for a long long time before actually gaining anything.
  
  As for controls, they're horrible and unintuitive. You really can't customize any of your controls, 
 and everything is done using a click of the mouse button. Not only that, there are some really 
 weird design decision such as when menus are on the screen, the game screen is disabled so you 
 can't select anything until you exit out the menu!
  
  There are other weird design decision too -- like being unable to restore your health without resting 
 or casting? Or maybe I just didn't stay in the game long enough to actually get any of that stuff 
 (15 hours though? Come on...)
  
  Graphics - I'll say that the graphics would be really good for 2001's standard. But they take a 
 hit because it's a game that you have to constantly pay for with *today's* money. Landscapes seem 
 barren and large with enemies sprinkled in between.
  
  Value - There are free MMORPGs that do pretty much what this game does. I feel ripped off enough 
 having to pay 20 dollars and 4 hours worth of installation to put 8 gigs worth of garbage on my 
 computer. Try Maplestory or Rappelz. Much better grind-fest games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TidusLeonhart
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Square-Enix finally gave what most Final Fantasy lovers begged for: FF Online.
  At a glance, the game is visually stunning, and lag isnt really a problem becuase its quite rare 
 do to fix's etc.
  
  I must warn anyone interested in this game (for either PC or X360) , that the installation time 
 is absoulutly ridiculous. It takes up to 6 hours of watching a white screen with a blue bar getting 
 longer and shorter before you can actually get into gamplay. When you actually do get into the 
 ganmeplay, dont expect much. There are nbo tutorials, your just thrown into your chosen nation 
 and you have to go find out everything for yourself becuase the intruction booklet given is simply 
 a waste of good paper. Gameplay its self, as i mentioned before, is very slow and is nothing new 
 to the gaming world. Combat is very dull. Why? If you are casting a spell, and your attacked, you 
 must start again. Also, the game relys heavily on group play from levels 10-75. Grouping is difficult, 
 sometimes you could wait for up to three hours and still not get a group. The difficult thing about 
 this game to accept is that to play it, you really do have to spend a LONG time. It does eventually 
 feel like work. Unless you are above level 25, travelling around the world is very time cnsuming 
 and dangerous. The only option to move quickly is to find a white amge and pay for a teleport becuase 
 your traport is very limited until you obtain the 6 hour quest for you chocobo -.-
  
  I don't think theres much else to be said about this game, other than the fact you are pit into 
 the world of Vina'Diel witha a variety of people. By that I mean people who don't even speak your 
 langauge and oher console payers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RageOfBlades
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is definately a gorgeous game where accomplishments actually means something. Its true 
 that the game starts out with hard concept like the need for others to accomplish almost anything, 
 but thats what makes this the game that relates to Final Fantasy. Lets take a look back, has anyone 
 ever played a Final Fantasy game that was ever solo. Other than the new release Final Fantasy VII: 
 Dirge of Cerberus, there is no such thing. This is why SE (SQUARE ENIX) made this decision in the 
 first place.
  
  As for the general idea of the game, there are multiple quest and various missions that emphisizes 
 on storyline and the need for an organized party. In this game you are either a leader or a follower 
 but definately express your opinions about a strategy, some leaders are forced into that positions 
 in order to get something done and some are just way to confident about themselves, not all leaders 
 are perfect. With the new updates they are making some parts of the game alot easier for players 
 like CoP, but accomplishing them still is a challenge.
  
  One of the major issues (GIL SELLERS) , SE with their strive for great service are cracking down 
 on many RMT (Real Money Traders) for selling game currency for game currency. But most importantly 
 is there STF ( Special Task Force ) that target enhancement modifications that off balance the game. 
 Eventhough they prohibit any mods to this game, STF doesn't bother to find display modifications 
 like Experience Bar, Party Technique Points (TP) , etc. that some players have, instead they are 
 thinking of making some of their own windowers to help out players (Everyone needs to get to their 
 desktop sometimes, either for AIM, music or other things) . To prove a point that SE is doing their 
 best at stopping illegal actions of players just check the price of game currencies, FFXI 1 mil 
 gil = $20 - $45 ( ^_^ You can pay for a nice luxurious trip to almost any vacation spot if you 
 have FFXI Gil) compared to other top games like WoW 1000 gold = $5, EverQuest 100k Platinum $7.50.
 
  
  Now back to the part where Accomplishments Do Matter , in this nice game community, you actually 
 do make a name for yourself being the best at PvP or having the best gear, or most importantly 
 having the best playing skill (depends on the player, some new players make high levels look like 
 noobes) . When asking another person's name in a group they can easily tell you who they are, since 
 friendships and reputation is large part of the game. Even RMTs are well known and looked down 
 upon, sure normal players try all they can to work around the rules, infac some even made a contest 
 on how to piss RMTs off or getting them killed without getting in trouble with SE. Yes players 
 might know the buyers and sellers of the game currency and so does SE but without enough proof 
 even SE can't bust them. Every server has their heros either being strong, having the best gear, 
 or just having a great personality can make players one of them. This can't be said for games like 
 WoW where ranking is most important and the only person players tend to remember are your friend 
 from real life and your enemies in the virtual world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segaraptor
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  The graphics are technically pretty good, but it's the distinct and lovely art style and rich cultures 
 of the races that make it such a work of beauty. The music is quite nice, as well, but I found 
 myself listening to other music while playing. Another, less important complaint is that it took 
 6 hours to fully install and begin playing FFXI! That's a long time to have to wait to start a 
 game. Far too difficult to be worth it, in spite of its great beauty, FFXI leaves me wishing. It 
 leaves me wishing I was the hardcorest of the hardcore, which is what you need to be to really 
 get anything out of the game.
  
  Too bad, too.... because it's so beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danz409
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  for anyone thats played any MMORPG i would HIGLY recamend this one. iv played ultima online for 
 many years not knowing what i was missing tell a buddy told me about it. at the same time a buddy 
 told me about WOW and i gave both a shot at there free trials... less to say i spent about 2 hours 
 on WOW before calling them up canceling my subscription and sticking with this game.. my only downside 
 to this game is the over wanted monsters that only spawn once in a blue moon are highly camped 
 by RMTs (Real money Traders) to get the items and sell in game for currency to sell for real cash 
 on the net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  i ,like many gamers, grew up with final fantasy and have not found one of the games i had not liked, 
 till now, though ill try and keep this as unbiased as i can but needless to say i was really dissapointed 
 with this square enix game.
  The basic premise is you play a character of your own creation in the world of vanadiel, you form 
 partys quest and fight monsters for xp and gil.
  
  right?
  
  well, no, not really no.
  
  To begin with the towns include around 200 npc's and only 15 to 
 20 have any actual relevance to the game in any way, sure there are quests but they are simple 
 and bland, like the landsape itsself, but ill get to that.
  you spend the first few hours selecting creatures, then attack and then sitting back and watching 
 as your character fights, yes you actually have to do nothing till you learn higher skills. trouble 
 is that as you level you require 2000xp just to get to lvl 8 which is obscene for an mmo, AND as 
 you level up creatures give you less hp so the stronger you get in this game the longer it takes 
 to level.
  and the month subscription fee is more like a almost secret way to get people addicted, cus by 
 the month has gone by you should be around lvl 20 havign put ina few hours and almost getting to 
 fight big bosses and get your own chocobo!.
  
  to bad you must wait a month to get any of the good stuff.
  see what they did there?, they try 
 and reel you in to paying the subscritption fee, i dont know about you but i believe somethign 
 is onyl worth a monthly fee if it is a great fun experience during gameplay and with a great community, 
 final fnatasy 11 unfortunatly has neither.
  
  creatures dont drop money you must get a spell cast on you to get items which you must then auction 
 sometimes for around 100 gil each in the beginner area, too bad items like a single potion are 
 600gil EACH!
  
  Its an unfair game mechanic and lacks the simple get in and play fun factor the ff games have, 
 even crystal chronicles.
  
  sound wise this game is pretty good, very reminicsent of the crystal chronicles gamecube game.
 
  graphics wise it surprised me by being very poor everythign is jagged and polygonal with trapezium 
 shaped hillocks and bland porridge type colour pallete that seems reminiscent of killzone.
  to put it bluntly this just isnt final fnatasy its a blnad, unimaginative and boring videogame 
 with a virtually nonexistent community that seems to think that merely haveing the final fnatasy 
 name makes up for the many faults of this game.
  the long and short of it is this game is a poor game and an even poorer rpg, and definatley not 
 worth a subscription fee, there are many free mmorpgs such as silk road, maple sotry, nostale, 
 trickster ect. that dont cost a dime and are much mroe vibrant ,colourfun, easyier to get into 
 adn most importantly FUN.
  
  this is a mediocre game for hardcore final fantasy fans and no one else, deinfantly not worht a 
 monthly fee, this gets a thumbs down for me, avoid this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXLlendarXx
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing FF11 for about 2 years now, People are nice, the game is just wonderful. Many things 
 to do you can hardly get bored of it! Expansions came out quickly but hey more jobs and spells 
 . But no Voice overs but who cares Square Enix works on it hard and makes it great =D. There is 
 3 Expansions so far; Rise of Zilart, Chain of Prothomia, and Treasures of Aht Uraghan........ and 
 Coming This winter of 2007 another Expansion on the way : Wings of The Goddess. Square Enix has 
 Finaly out done themselves by proving they can make it to 11 and is growing! Battles in Final Fantasy 
 XI can get a little hecktic but hey it's all good in the end there is many jobs to choose  
 Mage, White Mage, Red Mage, Blue Mage, Summoner, Dark Knight,   
 Ranger 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbie_sla
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  when you start in the world of final fantasy XI you are quite literally just chucked in the deep 
 end. i know when i started i had no idea what i was doing and was actually quite frustrated due 
 to the hours and hours spend installing registering and updating. after you get over the i have 
 no idea what i'm doing stage the game starts off slow. you head out and start to fight, and at 
 lower levels this seems tedious but should keep you entertained just enough to get you to the group 
 content which is much more eventful. when your level 10 or so garb a group and start the smacking. 
 group combat is (for me) the highlight of the game. as you progress you will gain weaponskills 
 which allow you to do special attacks which are assigned an element. when two weaponskills are 
 used close together a skillchain may happen if the elements of the weaponskills are of a certain 
 type. this skillchain will deal extra damage. can be made into higher level skillchains and can 
 allow the mages of the game to deal extra damage when they use a spell which corresponds with the 
 new element of the skillchain. if any of you didn't understand my rant about skillchains, put it 
 this way, skillchains makes combat interesting and different from the usual MMO.
  
  the further you progress the more diverse your groups will be and the more fun you will have. the 
 combat system apart from skillchains is extremly basic. instead of the usual bar which you can 
 place items or skills on you have the classic final fantasy layout which allows you to chose attack, 
 abilities, items etc. that being said you can make macros to make selecting abilities to use slightly 
 easier. that being said this is not like WoW where you gain skills every 2 levels. it is usually 
 every 5, there are less skills than WoW but... it seems like they are not needed in final fantasy 
 XI.
  
  the world is vast and sometimes can be a huge annoyance due to the size of it.
  
  this would seem to be more of a rant of the combat system but it seems to be the highlight 
 for me due to the weaponskill system but that being said this is not the game for everyone. huge 
 amounts of time are usually required before any benefit can be gained. the more you play the better 
 jobs you will unlock, the more diverse your groups will be and the more fun you will have. proceed 
 with caution fellow adventurers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  you will love it if u give it a great chance to try it, and then mark my words, cause your gonna 
 like it alot and it will grow more in you if you choose the best party to play with .
  
  as for the non rpg lovers, i got a friend who don't like rpg's and specially online, and when i 
 tryed too convinse him, so he went and bought the game and playd it with me and were actualy at 
 the same party and we r all 5 of us and our leader who's the one convinse me to buy it .
  
  believe me, most of the players who are playing world of warcraft, is actually was in FFXI, but 
 they went cause they want something new to play with . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaggotBroc
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  this isnt a bad mmo like everyone makes it out to be.... ppl say that its not agood because i cant 
 pvp... not true u can on the ballista mode... and ppl play it for a month get no were and think they 
 noe the game in and out... which is funny cause it takes a long time to get anywere which is how 
 an mmo should be.... and comparing it to wow is stupid just because there mmos they dont push for 
 the samething wow goes for a action packed pvp instance running repeat of the same thing day in 
 day out i have a 62 on wow and i just stoped playing because ppl cry to blizzard and blizzard rushes 
 to nerf while in finaly fantasy the japs just tell us american cry babies to just get used to i 
 or play that job if ur tired of loseing.... which brings me to another point.... final fantasy 11 
 has a bit more freedom then most mmo's cause the company isn't hounding the game so harshly as 
 other companies do.... promotes a friendly atmospher and a easy laid back sence of party (groups) 
 with other players. Anyway if your seeking to pwn some noobs final fantasy 11 isnt for u go play 
 wow or get fps games to do that, but if what your looking for is nice graphics and community fun 
 fifi 11 is for u! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj2121
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This was my first foray in to MMORPG's to date. From this experience I do not think I will play 
 another anytime soon. I have enjoyed all the other Final Fantasy games and thought playing one 
 online would be fun. It was fun to create my own Final Fantasy character and get to go around the 
 world. A couple hours into I started asking myself Where is the story? . There was a story but 
 it was an after thought in my opinion. I never found myself connected with the story because I 
 would constantly have to stop the main quest to get my levels up. The monthly pay was not too horrible 
 but still when I can pay once to play much better Final Fantasy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixdown
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is the one and only Massive Multi-player Online Role Playing Game in the Final 
 Fantasy series. MMORPG's are notorious for requiring hours and hours of play, and participating 
 in a gargantuan playing world that holds around 2,000 players at a time. The different between 
 FFXI and other MMORPG's is as follows:
  
  First of all, this game has more variety than any other MMORPG on the market now. There are over 
 20 jobs, and you can take each one to level 75, which takes a great amount of time and work, but 
 is ultimately very rewarding. And, even after that, there is so much armor and additional abilities 
 to unlock that it never ends, even with one of the 20 or so jobs. Each of the jobs is vastly different 
 from the others, with completely different equipment to wear, different spells and stats to get, 
 etc. Every character plays a different role in a party, or six people who fight together for exp. 
 Some jobs support, others protect, and others deal damage in varying amounts with varying techniques 
 and skills to master in doing the best at their jobs. Another thing that will stand out is the 
 amazing detail in the graphics, or at least in the sky. Like many MMORPGs, there is a never-ending 
 clock that tells you what time of day it is, obviously. But as the clock changes, the sky changes 
 accordingly. The sky is the most amazing one you will see in any game, weather changes often, and 
 depending on which areas you are in, it may right, snow, and tons of other kinds of weather conditions. 
 All of these look so real it's hard to believe that you're not actually in the world of Final Fantasy 
 watching the sunset.
  
  The controls are fairly simple, if you can master them at first. There is no need for the mouse, 
 really, and it's quite simple to communicate with your party and others while fighting. They give 
 you very convenient ways to meet and connect with other players and make plenty of friends who 
 will help on your journey, and trust me, you'll need plenty of them eventually. A few draw backs 
 are the fact that starting can be very difficult depending on the job. However, once you get started, 
 it's a lot easier, but that depends on what job you choose to start with. However, money making 
 seems to be very difficult for any job, and some things are far over priced at times, but that 
 makes it all that much more rewarding and real. Another problem is that you basically have no option 
 but to party once you get further into the game. Soloing becomes pretty much impossible at a point, 
 but that's just the way this particular game works, and it's not a terrible drawback, if you're 
 good at your job, which comes with time. Bottom line, FFXI is one of the, if not the, best choices 
 for MMORPGs right now, even over the new LOTRO to be released in a few weeks, which I found very 
 disapointing (sp?) due to it's simplicity and lack of variety. This game will keep you playing for 
 years and years, but keep in mind it is an MMORPG, one that actually requires more attention than 
 the average game of this time, however you will find that it is very rewarding as time passes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose420
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  STORY
  
  A great war has worn the people of Vanadiel. the 3 nations, Bastok, Windurst, and San doria pull 
 together past their differences to face a mighty foe. a couple decades have past and Vanadiel seems 
 at peace, and you brave adventuror start your adventure, and hope to make a name for yourself.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  since an MMO has lots of different features, too much to just mash together, and changes as you 
 play along, i will break this review in this order: Character Creation, First levels, Mid levels, 
 Advanced levels, PvP and economy. Character Creation:
  
  in FFXI you may choose from 5 races: the Humes (humans) Elvanns, Tarutarus, Galka (all male) and 
 Mithra (all female) . Humes are the very balances and felxibale race, and do well in almost every 
 job available. Elvanns, unlike other games who call them Evles usually, are slower than humes, 
 but are stronger and can take more hits and have high MND wich goes towards healing and magic def. 
 the Tarutarus are the small magical race. they have low physical stats, but are the best race to 
 choose for any mage class. Galka are big, BIG brutes. just by looking at them you can tell theyre 
 the more physical class of the bunch. Mithra are the swiftest. they're also the race that will 
 cause males who plays this want to fix their pants &gt;.&gt; *uh-hem* when you start you choose 
 from the basic MMO variety of jobs, warrior, the basic tank, white and black mage, healer and nuker, 
 their and monk, dmg/sec. and redmage, wich is bacicly everything kind of mixed. but as you play 
 the game and do different quests, you can open new jobs. now your thinking but, how am i going 
 to play it, i dont want to make a new character! good new for you people, you dont have to. in 
 FFXI, if you choose warrior (WAR) at the beginning of the game and latter decide a black mage (BLM) 
 looks way more fun to play, all you have to do is go to your home in the city, and change your 
 job. this encourages you to play around with different jobs without creating a new character. though 
 you will have to start back at lvl 1 for that job.
  
  also, at a certain level you can take a quest to have another job, a subjob. with this abillity 
 you can be a BLM/WHM (black mage/ white mage) and you can nuke and heal your party. your subjob 
 adds stats and is caped at half your main job level, so if your lvl 30 BLM and sub WHM, who is 
 at lvl 35, it will only be at lvl 15 and your only allowed to access spells youve learned up to 
 that lvl on WHM. this adds a new element entirely to the game as you can mix and match different 
 jobs to find the best mix for your party (though most have been found and noted on FFXI sites and 
 most everyone is expected to use them to get a party) Early levels (1-30)
  
  in this part of the game, most jobs dont have all their abilities, if any. for newbies, this is 
 the time to learn your jobs place in a party, and how to use it well. for example, if your a WAR 
 you should learn early on how to hold hate and keep the enemy on you as your WHM and BLM wear it 
 down and keep you alive and your other Party members help you out or help take out the monster. 
 you'll also learn skill chains (SC) as you use a weapon you gain exp for that weapon. as you lvl 
 up that weapon your learn different special attacks for it. use these in a party to add extra damage. 
 use 2 correctly and close to eachother causes a SC. this adds more damage to the enemy, and mages 
 will learn that they can preform Magic Bursts (MB) after each differnt SC by casting the right 
 element. this adds more damage to the spell. as you progress, more and more SC and MB will open 
 up, and will be a vital part to every party if they want to survive.
  
  Mid Levels (31-60) at lower levels you might see a couple extra jobs like a Paladin (a warrior 
 who is more defensive and wears heavier armor and learns white magic, at the expence of atk ) and 
 a Dark Knight (a warrior who is more offensive who looses most of his defence but learns Black 
 magic) but now you should see them more often as lvl 30 is when you can quest fo these extra jobs 
 and many do so. also, by this point, most jobs should have all or most of their abillities (except 
 mages) . this changes the gameplay up a bit as new mixture of jobs will be seen more often. for 
 example, Dark knights (DRK) learn their famous soul eater ability, where they looses hp per hit 
 but adds emence damage. with these new abilities, different tactics on how to use SC are used and 
 how jobs are selected for partyss. Theives are usually passed on earlier levels, sinc Monks do 
 more damage in the same amount of time. but now Theives have Sneak Attack (attack behind an enemy 
 do huge amounts of damage) and Trick attack (adds damage when attacking behind and ally and puts 
 all hate generated on that player) . with SATA (Sneak Attack+ Trick Attack) Theives become a almost 
 must for partys as they help keep hate on the tank, wich is important as more powerfull healing 
 spells from WHM are being casted more often.
  
  at level 50, you jobs armor becomes available to be quested. the armor set is supposed to add the 
 most to your job, but most dont seem to do so, as other equipment add alot more. but the set does 
 add decent traits and is more easily attained then other stong armor. also around this time, partys 
 are even more difficult to find due to many doing their Matt quests. to get past level 50, you 
 must do a quest to make your level cap level 55. at level 55 you'll have to do another quest to 
 make it 60, and so on till level 75. partys become harder to find since, many either stop partying 
 to do these quests, or go back and level another job (like me) Advanced Levels (61-75)
  
  by this time, more abilities are learned and (to my knowlege as ive never reached this level) more 
 BCNM are easier to defeat BCNM (burning circle notourious monsters) are very hard boss fights that 
 usually have very hard to get items. these items are usually very usefull, or very valuable to 
 other players to trade to ;] PvP
  
  their really isnt any player vs player option besides the game of Balista in FFXI. you must be 
 level 30 and have done a quest to get your license. the game (in my experience and server anyway) 
 usually isnt that popular, at lower levels anyway. mainly, 2 teams have to fight eachother to earn 
 the right to score on their Rook they must find stones in the ground and travel to the other teams 
 rook and throw them in at the right time and score for their team. the highest score wins. other 
 rules also are in the game, but usually varry match to match and i cant remember them all. Economy
 
  
  the econ of FFXI is has been inflated EMENSOULY as i remember it. at the begining idk how much 
 everything cost, but when i last played, 100,000 gil was mere pocket change. also, most money is 
 gained through the Auction House (AH) , and most items are too. this seems well and all, but most 
 items are greatly inflated due to what a many blame the people who guy gil instead of working for 
 it. so when a person puts up an item 10,000 more than its work, and someone who doesnt care since 
 hes bought so much, other sellers see this and start raising their asking price, causing many to 
 pay this. also, this makes it hard on newbies since its pretty hard to make gil. quest dont give 
 much, the highest ive seen was 20,000 i think, most way less, and mony dont pay. to make money 
 without buying it online, is to farm maybe days on end for items to sell or use to make other items 
 with to sell for more.
  
  but that aside, players can join guilds to craft many differnet items. from the guild you can learn 
 differnent recipees to make new items, and to take off caps on your synthasising level to make 
 better items. this route to riches takes time, lots and lots of it, and lots of money if you have 
 it. if not, add about 2X the amount of time for farming for crystals and other items needed for 
 the item. though, if you have the patience, this is a very good way to make money. other ways are 
 fishing, and actually farming as to growing plants. Batteling
  
  as with most MMO, its all about the auto attack. just point, click, get close and attack. for melee 
 anyways. different weapons can attack faster and cause less damage, or slower with more damage. 
 as stated above, SC and MB causes timing and teamwork to pull off. casting spells is a little different. 
 mages will have to select the spell and point and click. they will have to think when using spells 
 though, as many cause lots of hate and will have to watch their MP so it doesnt run too low, causing 
 the party to wait for it to restore after each battle. unfortunatly, fighting monsters is the only 
 way to gain exp. doing quests only gives items or gil. though, this doest push people to join partys 
 more often to gain exp. also, to get any good exp, you will need to join a party as weak enemys 
 give very low exp and monsters that give you decent exp are too hard to take alone, as you will 
 need to rest up to 5 minutes after each fight. this is good and bad, you will party often wich 
 adds to the comunity as i met many new friends through good partys, but its very hard to solo, 
 which i know many like to do. but for those that do, there is a job for that you can quest for, 
 although not ment for soloing, many do use it for that with great success.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  graphic wise, FFXI is one of the best looking MMO's out there. the animations 
 are very crips and character models and enviroments are very detailed for an MMO, unlike most ive 
 seen that look a bit like a game from the late 90's IMO. Sounds is also great. like any good FF 
 game, the soundtrack is fantastic, as many areas have their own soundtrack as you enter them. my 
 favorite is the Chocobo Theme song that plays while riding one :]
  
  OVERALL
  
  a great MMO thats a little underapreciated by many with WoW in the market place. the community 
 and gameplay will have you hooked for quite a while. though some will play this and think WoW is 
 much better, idk though since i havent played WoW yet. though for someone who hasnt played WoW 
 and want an MMO that will always be helpfull, kind, and mostly considerate, this is the game for 
 you. a little note as well. what i liked about this game, idk why though, is its text screen. unlike 
 most MMO ive played, their text boxis small and is barely noticed when players are typing furiously 
 at you and tucked into a cornor. in this game however, it takes up about 1/3 of the bottom of the 
 screen, but not too much where you think its in the way, and with no activity, it will lower down 
 line by line till its all gone till another text is entered by a player that can be heard or a 
 system message, but only goes up to reveal what that message has to say, not the whole thing. this 
 IMO is great since you can more easily be in contact with your party as their message is usually 
 hard to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I played this game from 2003 to 2006. I still think about some of the good times I use to have. 
 I stopped playing because a lot of my friends stopped playing and the game was interfering with 
 my life too much. This game requires a huge amount of patience and dedication. But, it will pay 
 off if you're willing to put in a lot of your time and risk destroying your social life at the 
 same time. What's great about this game is the party mechanics and at the same time this is also 
 a huge flaw because most jobs require parties to level up. There are a lot of jobs to choose from, 
 however, there are jobs in this game that are highly valued over others which will sometimes make 
 you feel as if you have to force yourself to play a certain job. Some jobs will require more patience 
 and skill than others. I think the graphics and character designs are well done. A lot of people 
 say they aren't, but maybe it's because I played it on a good computer. End game is pretty dull, 
 unfortunately. In order to partake in End game you must join a linkshell, and remain loyal to it. 
 No problem with that, it's a team based game. The problem with end game is the camping and god 
 battles which will take a lot of time to complete. This is the best MMORPG I've ever played. I 
 never played World of Warcraft, but I know it's not as complex and aesthetically appealing as Final 
 Fantasy XI based on what others have said. I will wait for the next Final Fantasy MMO. Great job, 
 Square Enix., you have made another true gem. If you're looking for a deep, enjoyable, and challenging 
 MMORPG FFXI is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  okay. to be totally frank this game isnt all that. i ts overated, gameplay is lifted from a MMO 
 and the story is basically a ripoff from various mmo's u can tell who is gonna do what to whom 
 in the first hour of the game. i know this will sound stupid but firstly id like to say what a 
 MASSIVE screwup they managed to do with the summons. everyone i know who has played this agrees 
 the ne summons are rubbish we want the old classics back. s econdly the gameplay is completely 
 broken with a little luck every boss can be downed with a link system b4 he even scratches u what 
 a big dissapointment. it was a good idea but the fact that u can change 1 char and restart the 
 link with the new one and repeat this process another 2 times makes boss battles normal they aint 
 even bosses anymore the summoning system needs to be taken back to any of the old summoning since 
 they were better then this.
  the character development system ensures that all ur characters will be wearing similar armor and 
 using similar weapons at the end of the game also takes away some of the gameplay since everyone 
 can so everything with no REAL discernable difference. a BIG dissapointment overall if u really 
 want to play a GOOD final fantasy game either get FF3 on the DS (which btw is BRILLIANT) or u can 
 wait for FF13 and hope its not a complete failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyneo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  OK ... even if ff11 came out at the end of the third generation of mmo doesn't mean that ff11 was 
 a flop .Beautiful sound and graphic huge maps and many many class who you can also mix a sub job 
 that was a perfect combo ,but the thing is ,it's getting old, and people knows that their many 
 more other mmo in the market right now . FF11 was made for hardcore gamers like myself lol if you 
 play ff11 for like a year or more playing wow afther that is a walk in the park ff11 is hard i 
 got to admit it but not that hard is so much nicer when you don; t act like a retard and start studying 
 the game for once and learn to understand it you will c that ff11 had everything to be the best 
 except minor point like not be able to jump or go in the water or not be able to have your own 
 mount even if that had change in the past few months . But anyway the game is changing and evolving 
 like all the other mmo's and if you want a good challenge ff11 is for you other wise good luck 
 youl need it. Anyway SqyaEnix had just annouced recently that they are starting their next mmo 
 to be ready in c ouple of years from now so until then have fun ^^ ... Ivalice Online hmmmm sounds 
 good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OdinB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is certainly a game only fan favourites will enjoy, purely because they will ignore the flaws 
 that open the game. Another point is that this game is for real hardcore RPG gamers as months need 
 to be invested just to develop your character.
  
  The games interface is not exactly user friendly and people who have never played a MMORPG will 
 find it very difficult to adapt to quickly. It is also difficult in the sense that there is no 
 real tutorial to the game for new players and there is no in-depth description of game-play and 
 mechanics which you get in the previous Final Fantasy games.
  
  The map is also very unfriendly, players a forced to run around the world looking for a item or 
 monster that are not indicated on the map. And once you have the item you need to remember where 
 you got the quest from as there is also no indicator for the person who gave you the quest.
  
  However the lack of starting information a-side the their is an amazing amount of depth the 
 game. Players will find themselves investing hours and hours just to improve their crafting rank.
 
  
  Other areas are job combos, where you develop a characters main job and sub job to perform damaging 
 combo's to an enemy.
  
  I could also right pages and pages of whats good about FFXI but to simply, FFXI is a under appreciated 
 due to the fact other games have come along and condensed the game into shorter and easier versions 
 for anyone to play which is where FFXI fails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Wow... one of the only reviews I'll talk in first person... because when one reviews an MMO, it SHOULD 
 be a very personal thing.
  
  I'll go point-for-point
  
  Sound: The biggest disappointment for me. I went in and actually changed the sound files to suit 
 my needs -- and in doing so, I brought in alot of reprised Final Fantasy themes for orchestra. It's 
 hard to really emphasize how much this game could have benefited from a fully orechestrated soundtrack... but 
 suffice it to say, the presentation would have benefited immensely. As it is, battle music is probably 
 the highlight while the rest is its bane. Sound effects are actually HIGHLY impressive and, as 
 stated in many other reviews, the game even details various spells with their own unique sounds 
 giving each its own identity of sorts.
  
  Graphics: For 2004, which is when I picked up the game for PC, the graphics were fine. Today, in 
 2007, they will probably disappoint. Though, I must point out that I prefer these graphics to those 
 in WoW any day of the week. The game's visuals shine through via its unique art style and have 
 a more realistic appeal to them than those of WoW. Unfortunately, there really isn't as much character 
 customization as there aught to be in a game with 100s of thousands of players. Consequently, you'll 
 be seeing alot of yourself in the form of clones throughout your journeys.
  
  Presentation: By far, this is FFXI's strongest aspect. The game nails the feeling of its mythos 
 perfectly. Spells sound so natural, you'll wonder why other games don't implement them the same 
 way -- Cure spells have a rising pitch which gives an appropriate snese of healing, lightning spells 
 crackle and crunch as they course through an enemy, and enhancing magics conclude with a glittering 
 sound as little magic particles dance around the appropriate character. Various special abilities 
 like sneak attack , soul eater , warcry , jump , and provoke really sound as you might imagine 
 they should.
  
  Longevity: This game is LONG! Did you hear that? LONG! There is enough content here to keep you 
 playing for many years... and then some. That said, the end of the game (that is, when you reach 
 the game's highest level of 75) , is, ironically, when the game becomes somewhat tyring. Getting 
 into high level linkshells (the game's equivalent to guilds) can be challenging and the need to 
 always have a huge aliance or party in order to accomplish things can really drag down the game's 
 tempo. If you're willing to sit for hours and not really get anything accomplished, the few times 
 you are able to do things as a group are very rewarding. Personally, at my age, I just don't have 
 time to sit around an do nothing in a virtual world... I could do that in real life, and do so for 
 free.
  
  System: The battle system is very engaging... probably the most fun I've had in any RPG, let alone 
 MMORPG. There are things like sneak attack , provoke , weaponskills , skillchains , and magic bursts 
 which add a TON of strategy to fighting. Consequenty, there seems to be a clear-cut right way to 
 fight battles and, after four years of testing, players will quickly beocme irritated if you don't 
 uphold the status quo. Also, for all of the variety added by the game's numerous jobs, there seems 
 to be much favoratism towards certain jobs, and resultantly, certain party configurations due to 
 apparent flaws in the game's allocation of abilities across all jobs ---that is to say that FFXI 
 could benefit tremendously from job balancing as it seems to favor those classes which use one 
 handed, faster-attack style weapons (ala Monks, Wariors, and Ninjas) . All in all, take care deciding 
 which class to play... doing so can make for an extremely easy ascent to 75 or an extremely miserable 
 one.
  
  Finally, the game is just old by today's standards. If you haven't already played FFXI, or just 
 can't resist the urge to see what the FF mythos might be like online, then you really shouldn't 
 bother starting this game. Hold out for Square's next MMO or play one of the more modern offerings 
 available today. As for the amount of time I put into the game -- chalk it up as wanting to protect 
 my investment; that is, I put so much time and moeny into this game that, at a certain point, it 
 became difficult to just throw it all away when I should have probably hedged my losses and moved 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musician2009
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I've never liked Final Fantasy. So I decided to give FFXI a try. Now I have a personal vendetta 
 against all Final Fantasy fanboys. This game is a waste of time, and the gameplay is almost impossible 
 to learn. In FFXI, if you don't have a party at all times you are literally never going to be able 
 to do anything. Soloing is IMPOSSIBLE. The system of the economy is impossible as well. One piece 
 of worthless armor costs up to 100 money/gil. This is a waste. Don't buy it. This is the worst 
 game on th planet and doesn't deserve to be called an MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfarjamie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are pretty much the best out of any MMORPG ive seen so far, i mean like 
 i dont know any other mmorpgs with bump mapping and pixel shader's, detailed shadows, nice looking 
 models and textures, the only game with better effects would have to be guild wars, seeming as 
 FFXI doesn't have any water cube maps (ripple and shine effect on the water.) But asides from the 
 water everything else is great the models are nicely detailed and better than most mmorpgs ( Graphics 
 are definitely better than WoW's) .
  
  Myself i am a WoW hater but i have played it and i hate it for my own reasons but thats just my 
 opinion.
  
  FFXI has a long game life span, theres 18 jobs, and you can gain up to 75 levels on each + Merit 
 points (Stat bonus points acquired from exping after lvl 75.) It would take you probably at the 
 least 1 or 2 months to reach lvl 75 on 1 job, myself i still haven't gotten lvl 75, my dragoon 
 is stuck at lvl 52 and theres no tanks or healers out there, the only real downsides to this game 
 is that you got to be patient, you will have to wait for a party, and RMT's Who basically camp 
 all the Nms (Notorious monsters) which drop valuable items, In my opinion its easier to make money 
 fishing moat carp or doing BCNM's. The ability to change your main job/class and sub class (you 
 can obtain a sub job/class at lvl 18) makes this game even better, so theres no need to remake 
 another character if you want to play another role in the party, just go to the mog house and change 
 your job and start leveling, I dont think anyone in this game has ever got lvl 75 on all jobs, 
 end game of this would be getting lvl 75, but id say true end game and mastery of it would be getting 
 everything, all lvl 75 all quests maximum fame, and then you get regular updates with new quests 
 and events (recently added chocobo raising =) .) This game is perfectly balanced in all most every 
 way, every job has a role in this game and everyone that ended up hating this game and quitting 
 it to WoW is probably stupid, whiney and impatient, believe me you will not like this game if you 
 are really impatient or not in for a challenge, this game is pretty much the hardest mmorpg i've 
 ever played, allthough i would say leveling perhaps is a lot faster than other mmorpg's once you 
 get into a good party.
  
  You'll find most WoW kiddies or people who don't like this game quit the game about lvl 10-20, 
 which is quite low (and also in valkurm dunes.) Which is no where near where the fun starts and 
 that is probably the most boring part of the game, but if you keep at playing the game you'll be 
 lvl 25 in 2-3 days after getting lvl 10, if you keep playing the game you may find it boring you 
 may find it exciting, if your a dd job you could stick on the tv and watch the tv while you auto 
 attack till you get more skills or into battles that require more concentration, eventually you'll 
 find time flies by when you play FFXI, as did i, i played from about 1pm to 5am and it only felt 
 like 10 mins for about every hour.
  
  The gamepad support this game also has makes the game even more enjoyable as most mmorpgs require 
 you to use the keyboard and mouse, (Like WoW.) But ffxi is very compatible with pads, and the controlling 
 and total game play experience is enhanced with a pad as you could pretty much play with 1 hand 
 or feel a lot easier not having to press any keys on the numpad. So go buy a XBOX 360 Controller 
 for Windows or something plug it in, configure it on FFXI and play with it, most mmorpgs cant allocate 
 the right analog stick or controls feel buggy or too fast or you cant change the buttons (Lineage 
 2 is one of those games that don't suit game pads well, nor can you change the buttons or axis.) 
 But with FFXI plugging in a pad makes the game feel exactly like a console game with nice smooth 
 and calibrated (Yes analog sensitivity is nicely added so you can run or walk at a certain speed 
 =) . )
  
  The game doesn't feel trashy at all, it feels more realistic, WoW looks like a bunch of cartoony 
 **** with blob shadows and bad looking models and tiled textures.
  
  FFXi is more built for realism, the scenery and characters look more realistic ( Please forget 
 about the fact of cat girls, long necked elvaans and tarutarus.) but in the fact of everythings 
 pieced together well, the nice economy, the nice community (And the scummy community of RMT and 
 scummy people lol.)
  
  FFXi will grow on you, you may not like it at first, but at least play it for 6 hours a day if 
 you can or spend all your free time on it, learn from other people and get at least to lvl 30, 
 i don't recommend going straight to a advanced job once your lvl 30 though, i recommend leveling 
 to at least 37, but if you want to get more into the game get to lvl 50 because then you will find 
 the game more interesting with more stuff to do as some people get lvl 30, get advanced job then 
 quit while in dunes yet again. The game does get more fun although slow and boring at the start, 
 you could say this is the games own way of kicking impatient people and whiners out of the game 
 without having to ban them because of violations of whining and shouting and cursing.
  
  The only people that like WoW are Kids who go on about RAID RAID OMFG IM N00B WoW is a obsessive 
 game for kids who are impatient and want to reach lvl 60 in 2 weeks and do crappy Raids which i 
 never hear wow fanboys stfu about, Raid Sucks get over it lol, Funniest thing is that most people 
 that quit ffxi go to wow, then i get them on msn saying about how much WoW Pwns way better than 
 ffxi because they have lvl 60 char and doing raids all the time and all this crap which i dont 
 really care bout because they quit ffxi at lvl 15 because it was too hard for them and took too 
 long to level Lol.
  
  FFXI allways makes me want to come back at it for more, even if i never reach lvl 75 (all my friends 
 have gotten like lvl 75 im still not past 52 lol..) Ill still play the game generally because its 
 fun and i spend most of my time socializing on it, i suppose FFXi is a game for people with lives, 
 you may say they dont have a life for playing the game all day but what is a life to be honest, 
 Its a social living, and ffxi is a very social game so i suppose youd have no life to sit there 
 all day playing a game, but if its ffxi it would be a different matter as you could play it with 
 your friends, have a good time from home with say 6 friends or something all of you get ffxi bring 
 over your pcs and network them up together and all play on ffxi and EXP together with a pack of 
 beer.
  
  Best thing about ffxi is that basically every item a enemy drops is sellable (apart from unsellable/exclusive 
 items like quest items.) so a bat could drop a wing and you could get a stack (12) of them and 
 sell it in the Auction house for 1k or something, or trade the wings in for fame at san d'oria, 
 or use them in alchemy. Every item is useable, sellable and has a purpose with quite a fast range 
 of items, quite a huge database of enemys and different npcs, quite a lot of spells and abilitys.
 
  
  Overall id have to say, Graphics are great and realistic based, Sounds are great quality and realistic 
 sounding, Bugs are minimal there ain't many left i think, Community is nice, The game is hard and 
 challenging and requires patience but has a very long lifespan for 1 game (+ 3 expansions and maybe 
 more to come.) .
  
  As a hardcore Final Fantasy Fan (Not fond of Sony though, they sux =3. )
  Id have to say FFXI 
 is the best FF made, and possibly the most challenging, long lasting best mmorpg out there (Others 
 would argue and say WoW, But all the people that play WoW are kids anyway rofl who are impatient 
 to level and want to play with a bunch of cartoony or rather crappy looking models.)
  
  FFXI Pwns, go buy it and sign up for it, price is good for buying the game and monthly fee isnt 
 expensive either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  It's really hard to pick a place to start with the game. Final Fantasy XI is one of those rare 
 games that comes along that only a select few will find real joy in. Gameplay is open-ended in 
 Final Fantasy XI. You are the savior of Vana'diel, or at least that's what the story would have 
 you believe. Obviously everyone that plays is the savior, but we'll just leave it that your character 
 is the great one. The game uses the job system from the older Final Fantasies and has around 18 
 jobs (this being a review encompassing all of the expansions as well which includes Rise of the 
 Zilart, Chains of Promathia, and Treasures of Aht Urghan) with only 6 selectable at the start of 
 the game. You need to obtain level 30 before unlocking any advance jobs. Now, everything is skill-based. 
 Your weapon, evasion, magic ability, and certain abilities are rated on skill level with a max 
 according to your job. After about level 10 with any job, you're going to have to find a party. 
 Most decent parties should consist of a healer, black mage, some damage dealers, and a tank. The 
 tank being the character that attempts to keep the enemy attacking him while the healer maintains 
 the tank's life. The dynamics of the party system here require precise timing and coordination. 
 Sound a bit complicated? Believe me, it is. The very steep learning curve for the game will be 
 an instant turn-off for some, so before you consider investing in the game, be willing to have 
 a lot of patience and time. Now every job has a two-hour ability that's usually extremely powerful 
 in exchange for the limitations on how much you can use it (i. e. only once every two hours) and 
 several lesser abilities that can range from 30 seconds to 20 minutes to use again. Each weapon 
 has a set number of weapon skill attacks, similiar to limit breaks, that can be used by attacking 
 the enemy repeatedly. The enemies themselves are varied and many. You'll find the cheating pallette 
 swap later in the game, but for the most part there's a solid variety. Some monsters are aggressive 
 and attack on sight, sound, magic use, or health levels. All combat is real-time. If you can see 
 a monster and it's unclaimed, you can attack it with no loading other than the brief time it takes 
 to pull your weapon. There are a lot more details to get into about the gameplay, but I hardly 
 have the room to do so. Suffice to say, you're going to be spending a long time playing this game 
 to learn everything. Possibly longer than you have or it will exist. Each job takes a lot of refinement 
 to understand.
  
  The problem with the graphics is that they are basically PS2 graphics presented on a computer. 
 You'd expected a lot more out of them, but for the most part, they're pretty decent. Character 
 models are good looking and the environments are pretty detailed if only a bit grainy. The game 
 plays fine in dial-up or broadband, though the latter is prefered, and the only slowdown in the 
 game is likely due to a weak graphics card or a bogged down hard drive. Still, you have the option 
 to turn down some of the effects to compensate for this, but this only further degrades the graphics.
 
  
  There's not much to say about the sound. It's sort of there really. There's no vocal work in the 
 game, but the background music comes across quite nicely. Battle music is usually pretty intense. 
 Sound effects for the game are one of its strong points. Every spell or abilities has its own unique 
 sound.
  
  Most of the value comes from what Square-Enix does in adding content. This isn't the expansion 
 packs that I speak of, but the usual seasonal updates. They are always balancing and tweaking jobs 
 to prevent abuse and make lots of efforts to disuade real money traders (RMTs) from unbalancing 
 the gameplay and economy. Every expansion also has its own bonuses, usually in the form of another 
 story addition telling more about the history of Vana'diel. There are so many quests to undertake 
 you'll likely feel overwhelmed. The only drawback to this is that some require groups of people 
 so you might have trouble doing some of them unless you have friends or have joined one of the 
 game's linkshells.
  
  Final Fantasy boils down to either being a game you absolutely love or absolutely hate. There's 
 very little middle ground and you're likely to not find any casual players. I no longer play the 
 game due to money constraints and the fact that I simply played it so much that I burned myself 
 out on it. If this is your first MMORPG, you might leave with frustrated feelings. In short, Final 
 Fantasy XI takes utter dedication to get the most out of it and many may not have the time to do 
 so.
  
  The good: Very deep, complex gameplay, lots and lots of value, constant updates to fix any bugs 
 or problems, fairly affordable.
  
  The bad: Graphics are pretty outdated, sound is so-so, steep learning curve will turn a lot off, 
 very long investment time before you get the most out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biggproof
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is a game for someone who doesn't have a much of a life. You really have to pour countless 
 hours into it to simply put a dent into finishing it. It does have it's fun moments when you're 
 in a good party and bashing monsters for good exp. You won't stand a chance leveling up by yourself. 
 Again, unless you sacrifice lots of sleep or get fired from work. You will not finish this game. 
 Lets say you do somehow finish all the quests in FF11, you will have paid over $200 for the 2 years 
 it took to finish it. So my advice to potential buyers, unless you have A LOT of time on your hands 
 don't make the purchase. WoW is a much better value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tharx75
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is most definitely not for your average gamer. The game takes an extraordinary 
 amount of patience to get anything done. If the player does stick with it, it's one of the most 
 rewarding experiences to be had with Final Fantasy.
  
  Gameplay: Final Fantasy XII's battle system is based off of the system of fighting used in XI. 
 The enemies are present on screen, whilst wandering around the particular zone they were assigned 
 to. The entire game is really based on teamwork and the trust you have to put into the other players 
 to do their jobs, which sometimes is a real pain in the rear. For instance, hitting your opponents 
 grants you Technical Points (TP) and once your TP gets to 100%, you unleash a Weapon Skill (varying 
 upon which type of weapon is currently being used) and if another compatible skill is used after 
 about 2 seconds and within 5, another effect appears, called a skillchain, causing extra damage. 
 Also, as with every Final Fantasy there's the main story. XI has several stories that tie into 
 everything (The 3 nation stories, the main story and the Treasures of Aht Urhgan story) . The main 
 story spans the first set of rank missions for your particular nation (1-6) , then it leads into 
 the Rise of the Zilart expansion and then into the Chains of Promathia expansion, and finishing 
 up with 3 quests after CoP completion.
  
  Graphics: They're pretty good on the PS2 and the X360. PC is a different perspective, because with 
 any PC game, the graphics vary depending on the setting used. It can be real ugly, or real pretty.
 
  
  Sound: The sound effects themselves are pretty well done. The music is just epic, for an MMO. The 
 music does tend to sway the emotions of a particular setting, whether it be in a cutscene for a 
 progression of one of the stories, or if the player is traveling through an unexplored area. It's 
 nice that Square does implement new and different music for some of their holiday events, namely 
 the Christmas and summer events.
  
  Value: Well, it depends really. The players are charged monthly and by the amount of content IDs 
 owned. $12.95 for the first and $.99 for each additional. With the Vana'diel collection, it's easier 
 paying for the first month of play (collection comes with base game and all expansions plus one 
 free month of play) .
  
  I highly enjoy this MMO. It's fun to meet whacky, weird, intelligent, whatever types of people 
 that play the same game. New friendships can sprout here and there and usually is actual friendship, 
 not the make me a high lvl item in craftslol or ur totally highlvl lets go kill stuff and get tresurlol 
 types.
  
  Wanna contact me inside FFXI (not that anyone really cares) ?
  
  Name: Thar
  Server: Lakshmi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belwar555
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  First thing that comes to mind is the non-stop BAGPIPES. You usualy play online games for hours, 
 and hearing the same instrument playing 3 - 4 same songs is just to much. I was lucky that i didnt 
 have time to play more than 2 hours at a time. Trying to get the music out of my mind i stared 
 playing. First thing i created my charecter. The thing that surprised me is that you have to pay 
 to creat a charecter, and if you want to creat a second charecter, you have to pay again, plus 
 the monthly fee. After finaly creating a charecter (elf) , I saw the intro movie which left a good 
 impresion, making me whant to play more. Another thing is the anoying controls, wich were hard 
 to get used to after about 2 years of WSAD. I went out into the gate and battled my first enemy 
 - a strangly looking rabbit. I didnt quit like the thought of being able to use abilities only 
 once per 30 minutes, but a least the battles were quite realistic, and you could see if you can 
 defeat the enemy or not.
  
  The other realy anoying thing is that you have to find a realy speific shop to sell stuff, and 
 half the loot I got ussualy been destroyed (by me) .
  
  It was pretty hard for me to find the mission giver, as in the manual it sayd the gate keeper neither 
 were he was, or how he looked.
  
  You had to talk to half of NPC's in the city (which was to big for me) to get 2 - 3 quests, and 
 then another half of the NPC's to finish it, ending up getting 5 gold per hour.
  
  The missions didn't explain were to find the enemy, so another waste of time, after which you would 
 rather do grinding for 2 hours.
  
  The world is too big to travel easily by foot, and the chikens are hard to get at low levels, making 
 you travel for 15 minutes to kill a sheep you cant defeat, appearing a the very beginning and starting 
 the marathon again.
  
  But again, this is my point of view, so if you dont mind all the hard, boring things at the beggining, 
 you might as well enjoy whatever is at the end of the game, which I bet is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riker_McCloud
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, in all my years of playing different MMORPGs this one game is the most I have ever 
 took breaks from playing. Literally from what people are talking about in other reviews about you 
 just get dropped into a world and you have to figure everything out yourself without so much as 
 a little hint describes Final Fantasy XI right there. This game is hard as crap when you first 
 play and if you have no friends to play with, ten fold that difficulty. I was first addicted to 
 the idea of playing but now what is the point? I play here and there but lately it just goes down 
 hill and I can't seem to stagger back to the game. Sure this game is great for people who have 
 no life and want to complete everything or want that insanely hard challenge, I don't mind playing 
 a very hard game but this one... My God, there is no telling how many times this game has got me 
 mad at the fact most of the quests you have to do for armor or limit breaks (breaking your lvl 
 cap in order to get higher up) and you expect to know what your doing when you don't unless you 
 actually ask others and even then sometimes they won't know or won't even help you.
  
  Granted this game has its ups and downs, but combat as in most MMORPGS is tedious and if your into 
 doing your on combat movement with a weapon and blocking whenever then stay away from this game. 
 Auto attack makes the whole process boring. Sure its great for people who don't like to press a 
 button to swing but people who say FF XI is a realistic MMORPG, they are wrong since its not. It's 
 not realistic to stand like an idiot and wait 5 seconds to swing your weapon when you could be 
 swinging again or blocking their attack. One word describes this, WTF?! Thats my beef with any 
 mmorpg these days that consider to be realistic , auto attack isn't nothing. I rather watch paint 
 dry than to stare at the screen wondering when I'm gonna hit next. Another about this game is you 
 have to have a party to be able to do ANYTHING! Thats right, you can solo if your a Beastmaster 
 sure. Try to solo any other job and you will get your arse handed to you unless you spend days 
 on end killing easy prey monsters or decent challenge ones and sometimes even match if your lucky. 
 If you like to solo alot and party for the big events such as huge dungeon runs, play World of 
 Warcraft, at least you can solo without having to deal with idiots who can't play their job : Example 
 is Valkrum Dunes and anyone thats played FF XI knows what I'm talking about.: All in all, if you 
 really want to play this game then make sure you have alot of friends. Otherwise it won't be fun 
 and you will be just wasting your time and then saying to yourself, What's the point of playing 
 when anything I do on here is basically meaningless and not even fun? No point in grinding hours 
 on end just to get 1-2 levels and getting Relic armor, bah, waste of time when getting high in 
 the game doesn't really mean much and that occurs in most MMORPGS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimazuxi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is the best final fantasy and the best MMO to boot. Here is my review
  
  Gameplay : Great! teamwork, and you always work together! the fighting system is superb with all 
 the jobs. Dark knight, black mage, warrior, red mage, blue mage, etc! Graphics : Okay for any pc 
 game, but i've seen better, but graphics arn't needed with this fantastic game!!!
  
  Sound; GReat sound , especially in the unlockable areas. It makes the game that much more fun to 
 listen too
  
  Value : Worth every penny, the expansion and the game are worth it all!!!!
  
  Reviewers tilt 9.6 in all
  
  Superb
  
  ~Worth getting , i wouldn't recomend passing 
 this game up
  ~Shimazu
  ~Alexander
  ~75rdm 75 blu
  ~Send me a /tell if your on
  ~I'll help you out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamorhage
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Final Fantasy series ever since I first played it on the Playstation. 
 FFVII remains to be one of the best RPGs to date on any platform in my oppinion. The second best 
 RPG experience I had was on the dreamcast playing Phantasy Star Online. Being such a big fan of 
 that game I couldn't wait to have the biggest RPG franchise available as online play. The final 
 product however failed to impress me.
  
  Don't get me wrong Final Fantasy XI is a fantastic game. The graphics look impressive with loads 
 of armor and weapons to get your hands on. The battlesystem works, even though it can be quite 
 dull depending on what job you're playing as. Red mage seemed one of the better jobs to get some 
 excitment on the battlefield. However once you get past level 15 you'll depend on forming parties. 
 And here's where the problem kicks in. It can take ages to form a party online and you'll need 
 to kill mosters over and over again in the same spot untill your level is high enough to move on. 
 The tricky thing is that your teammates need to be no more of less then 1 level form yours.
  
  In other words you'll need to play this game as a full-time job to get some satisfaction out 
 of it. Because if you only play a couple of hours (a day even) you will never find people to hand 
 out with every time you go online. And unfortunatly there's no way to level up on your own. If 
 they would've made this game a bit more accesable for solo play, I would've still been playing 
 it.
  
  Unfortunatly I didn't have the time for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixsense
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  So, American Squaresoft fans waited with bated breath for the newest game in the famed Final Fantasy 
 line to come overseas from Japan for just over one year and five months. After such time, these 
 fans really had to honestly question getting the game. ''Will it be what I expected? The masterpiece 
 of online gaming that I have envisioned for so long?'' or the doubtful ''There is no way the game 
 will woo me; it has taken so long to come over... there must be something wrong with it.'' Who wins? 
 Honestly, neither really do. The first perspective I looked for was if there was going to be a 
 story interspersed between my outings to the killing fields. Honestly, I really didn't think there 
 would be one. Much to my surprise, accompanying missions, quests, and even in just talking to NPCs 
 cutscenes emerge, with exchanges that slowly build a literal world around the graphical presence 
 of a kingdom. Lines of tension are evident between some of the characters, true to Square form. 
 At the same time, though, the story isn't an integral part to the game. As long as the pertinent 
 points are taken from the dialog, such as where to go and what to do, the story is irrelevant to 
 the gameplay. Really, it seems to be just put there for the Final Fantasy veterans, because it 
 is what they have come to expect from Square. In the era of heavy emphasis on graphics, Square 
 has never ceased to disappoint it's fans really since FFVII made it's way to the Play Station. 
 XI continues to this point, but at a cost. If the computer running the game can handle high resolutions, 
 large textures, and bump-mapping, the game looks fantastic. At times, I sit back and marvel at 
 the window I have into this online world. The weather is astounding, with rain coming in sheets; 
 the moon is a work of art as it rises over Vana'diel; the characters move fluidly and naturally. 
 It is truly impressive. By the same hand, the game can look horrid and pixelated when run on a 
 drastically less powerful system; such is the nature of the beast in the PC gaming world. From 
 the Massively Multiplayer Online RPG view, this game does most things right. The economy works 
 amazingly well, with PCs being able to have their own persona Bazaar for unwanted or crafted items, 
 and there is a citywide auction that provides a fantastic market for all items in the game. As 
 for craftsmanship, there is a full range of skills to choose from, and items to make through those 
 skills. The fighting system is acceptable, with the standard of trading shots with an enemy until 
 one party gives out. Parties are made fairly easy by the use of a party seeking flag. There are 
 some downsides to combat, though. Targeting is very clunky, and at times downright impossible. 
 There have been many many instances where I have been slain because I could not switch what target 
 I was attacking. Socially, Final Fantasy XI is quite quiet. From my experience, most players go 
 about their task of mopping up whatever foe, rather than spending time in idle chit-chat. It is 
 quite the different experience compared to EQ or UO. Also, the Japanese players are on the same 
 servers as the American players, creating a language barrier. This really is less of a problem 
 than one would think, as there is a minimally functional auto-translate feature, and emoticons 
 seem to cross all language barriers. Overall, I find myself being quite happy with Final Fantasy's 
 gaming experience. There are flaws, yes, but they are quite overcome by solid enjoyable gameplay. 
 It really stands out from other MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game just sucks. I really don't know what else to say. It just drops you into this big open 
 empty boring world, and expects you to figure things out.
  
  The city you start in is FRICKING HUGE!! Fighting critters and going back and selling junk and 
 wandering the city is like pulling teeth. You killing stuff, which isn't much fun. And then you 
 do that a while, and you're like, I'd like to go back to the city.... way.... WAY over there.... 
 
  
  And after a few times, you just... don't want to anymore.
  
  I didn't get far into this game. I just didn't see any reason. It got boring SO fast. I like online 
 games. I've played several to DEATH. This one just didn't get me. It was boring, and it's vastness 
 is overwhelming and confusing.
  
  Where do I go? What do I do? What the crack is this little red... thingy, used for.
  
  From 
 a useability perspective, this game is trash. I really can't recommend it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosoma
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  FFXI Pros - Unique races, creative jobs, expansive zones, numerous quests, and has many expansions 
 that allow for thousands of gameplay hours.
  
  FFXI Cons - Slow installation process, terrible economy, many jobs end up equipping identical elite 
 gear, very dry end-game, boring and tedious experience grinding on repetitive monsters, quests 
 are so uninformative you resort to online guides at all times, job classes are unbalanced, some 
 jobs are completely worthless, and the crafting system is the worst in the history of MMORPGs.
 
  
  I was once a great FFXI player. My first job to 75 was my Dark Knight, which was lackluster when 
 compared to the pre-patch Rangers and their game-breaking damage. I then took a few other jobs 
 to 60 and became bored with killing crabs, beetles, and crawler worms. After a long break, I came 
 back to the game and leveled NIN to 75 and finished most of the end-game material in a few months. 
 Just when I realized that the game was nothing more than taking a job class with a pitifully small 
 number of skills to level 75, I decided that it was time to quit.
  
  The millions of gil that I made didn't mean much at the time because of the rampant gil-farming 
 problem that plagued every server. After looking back at how much money that I had spent over the 
 years just to play the game, I figured that I should at least try and sell my account. Anyway, 
 that is ancient history to me, and the game is done.
  
  If you are looking for a good MMORPG try World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  I began playing Final Fantasy XI with my brother over three years ago. For the purposes of my upcoming 
 review of Final Fantasy XII, I will review the ongoing MMORPG now.
  
  FFXI is a great game. No doubt about it. In the absence of a strong on-going plot that followed 
 the players progress, there was instead a new type of game-play to explore. A job system that could 
 be easily switched and doubled up was something that no other MMO had done before. The races weren't 
 vastly different from one another in terms of skill, and any one of them could take any job they 
 please, thus creating an easier job atmosphere, rather than be locked into something you may eventually 
 be unhappy with. You could also hold two jobs at once making yourself into a hybrid of whichever 
 combination you please. A very cool idea.
  
  FFXI also practices in use=skill idea. In other words, when you swing your sword, you get a little 
 bit of sword skill and when you cast magic you get some magic skill. This is a better idea than 
 just making you an expert form the start and just biding your time for a level to purchase a new 
 spell.
  
  The world itself is very beautiful and the environments actually have effect on you interactions- 
 For example, only during certain phases of the moon would fish be plentiful in certain areas, or 
 only at night do the undead come out to play. Though the zones are not seamless they idea of a 
 loading screen can provide a difference in uber lag, escaping a monster, but also a sense of boundaries. 
 Monsters were placed accordingly to these zones and their particular placement actually has some 
 logic to it. Pretty cool.
  
  The auction house is also something AMAZING in this game. Genius. You spend money to buy equipment, 
 there's no avoiding that, but then you can sell it back through the auction house at the same price! 
 WOW! This creates a market that is balanced, more so than other MMOs have been, and you can make 
 a profit easily while maintaining your bankroll throughout the levels. I miss the FFXI AH while 
 subjecting myself to Wolrd of WarCraft and its horrible system of soul bound items. In WOW their 
 auction house is a MONEY PIT. But that's another story.
  
  FFXIs biggest downfall is its leveling system. I mean, ouch. You want a level? You have to group 
 to get it. no Ifs ands or buts about it. The first ten you might be able to get by yourself for 
 the most part, maybe a few more after that, but after those first few zones you're either in a 
 group or not going at all. I don't appreciate that, and its the reason I quit the game. When I 
 log onto an MMO, there's no a stitch in me that wants to wait an hour and a half to be picked up 
 by a party to gamble in it's demise because of a noob healer or something. So overall, very good, 
 but in need of room for improvement. Go Square Enix!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarlosOmnis
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy; a game series that needs no introduction, but Ill give one anyway. Basic order 
 of the day in the Final Fantasies is take a group of people (a party) through an engaging storyline, 
 while fighting many monsters with glorious magic and flashy skill sets. This is Square Enixs (SE) 
 first attempt at a  (MMORPG) , and for the most part 
 it is a joy to behold.
  First things first; the graphics. The best way to describe the visuals is that they do what theyre 
 meant to, pull you in. Theres no jaw-dropping pyrotechnics here, however theres also no sickening 
 images that will make you wince in horror. Sometimes they can suck they joy out of learning a new 
 weapon skill or spell by not looking impressive enough to mimic the amount of time that it would 
 have taken to achieve the ability to use them, other times they can make it all worthwhile.
  Areas that are meant to seem dark and uninviting do so well, same as there are some areas that 
 warm your heart to enter, but at no point are there any visuals that will make you stop and stare 
 in wonderment, nor come back at a later date just to experience them again, and it can be argued 
 that without these key traits, the graphics arent up to scratch, and if they arent amazing you, 
 then they will be boring you, which ultimately starts to hollow the experience.
  More often than not, the sounds do disappoint, many a time did I find myself muting the system 
 to turn on my own music, and that in a way removes part of the reality that youre meant to be 
 escaping into. Without the sounds of swords slicing or the roar of fire spells exploding, theres 
 less chance of you forgetting the real world, escaping into the universe of Vanadiel, (FFXIs 
 game world name) and becoming one with the game.
  Sound effects aside, sometimes the BGM can wow you, sometimes. The first few times you hear the 
 fight music itll bring a smile to your face. But slowly but surely that smile turns to a grin, 
 to a sneer and finally into a grimace. And thanks to the insane amount of time you can spend fighting 
 in one zone, it really can seem like GBH to the ears. Occasionally the score is mixed up, like 
 when you join a party youre treated to a new track, or when youve just trekked miles to a boss 
 fight you get an impressive orchestra blaring at you, but again, their novelty soon wears off, 
 and youre stabbing for that mute button once more.
  Now were getting into the main show, the game play. At its best, its a complete joy, youll 
 find yourself eating faster, going to bed later, going out less, just to maximise the amount of 
 time you spend in this world.
  At its worst, the very thought of going on it for a second will sicken you, and you could go weeks 
 without even giving it a second thought.
  This is because its style is very much take it or leave it. You begin the game, youve chosen a 
 race (hume, average in everything, elvaan, an elf type race who have the highest strength statistic, 
 TaruTaru, a child race who are the best mages, Galka, massive beast like creature who have the 
 highest HP or a Mithra, basically a humanoid cat who make the best thieves or ninjas thanks to 
 their quickness) youve chosen a job (the beginning six are warrior, your basic melee with shield 
 properties, monk which is your hit first ask questions later class, white mage who cures allies, 
 black mage who uses dark magic to damage foes, red mage who is a jack of all trades master of none 
 and the thief who steals and utilises back attacks to harm foes) , and you leave the confines of 
 your home city (forest based for the elves, open plains for the children and cats, and barren desert 
 for humans and beasts, although you can choose any city regardless of race, theres a small reward 
 for choosing the correct location) and begin to fight. You fight alone for a while, and then 
 it becomes inefficient to fight alone (time: experience ratio wise) so you join a party now to 
 level up. You fight with a party, reach a certain level, then move onto the next area (experience 
 gained is proportional to the monsters level difference from yours) . And thats the game. You 
 spend hours in an area, then youre powerful enough to move to the next area.
  However it cant be all fighting, there are crafts to level up also. These are as follows: cloth 
 craft (which mainly creates light armour mainly used by mages) cooking (entails the making of various 
 foods that increase statistics for a fixed period of time) alchemy (makes potions, medicines and 
 other things such as ninja tools that are used to cast spells) leather craft (slightly heavier 
 armour used by classes like thieves and red mages) smithing (metal based armour for the heavy jobs 
 like warriors and paladins) goldsmith (jewellery such as rings and earrings) woodworking (makes 
 mainly furniture which you place in your own house for mainly appearance purposes; there are some 
 benefits but these dont make enough of a difference to put any conscious effort in to obtain) 
 and fishing (self-explanatory) . Aside from fishing, all these crafts require you to choose a crystal 
 (fire, wind, ice, dark, light, lightning, water, earth) and then choose a set of ingredients to 
 create a product. These remains the same all the way through the levels bar the ingredients you 
 use and the amount of gil (in game currency) used to get them.
  Fishing is a bit more involving in that you actually have to fight with the fish to catch it, 
 but the tedium with this craft still kicks in, just takes a little longer than the others.
  And this is essentially what the game offers, either fighting for endless hours to become powerful 
 enough to fight in different better areas, or standing beside the auction house (where most of 
 the games trading takes place. Players place goods on sale for a price of their choosing for 
 others to purchase) crafting again and again.
  Now from the general attitude of my overview of this, you could be mistaken that this is a bad 
 thing, but as I previously mentioned, you either love it or hate it. The thought of looking at 
 your character fight the same monster in the same spot for days could seem like bliss to you, it 
 could also be your dream to watch your character craft the same thing over and over in the vain 
 attempt to have a higher number beside a craft (the levelling up of crafts is very temperamental 
 after you reach level 50 or so, becomes cruel post 80 then near-impossible post 90) .
  I myself did enjoy this for a long time, every spare second I had was spent on this game, and time 
 I didnt have to spare was spent also. But then for one second I doubted the game, and thats when 
 the world Id lived in for over a year (pretty much non stop playing too, only breaking for work, 
 sleep, and the occasional social activity) came crashing down and I failed to see the point in 
 continuing.
  So in essence, while the illusion last, this game can be heaven on earth, no worries bar whether 
 youll find a party tonight (certain jobs rarely get invites, whilst others receive a constant 
 slew of them) or whether your friend in Japan has the money to pay you back tonight. But as soon 
 as the illusion fades, your love for the world dies, and you lose sight of why those countless 
 hours where spent on this game.
  Theres an additional category that I feel should be discussed when talking of an MMORPG, and thats 
 the community. The people sat across the world in front of their computer screens have more of 
 an affect of how the game plays than anything the developer throws in there. Unfortunately, this 
 games community is, for the most part, is very, very self-minded. Now, I hear you ask, why is 
 this unfortunate? Surely the only reason why we play these games is to please ourselves, not some 
 faceless person halfway across the world, but therein lies the biggest hurdle, its impossible to 
 do anything in this without the aid of others. Gaining experience in any job is impossible solo 
 from around the 30 mark, and even getting to there is no mean feat. Gaining certain armour, doing 
 quests, completing missions all become completely dependant on the help of someone else. The only 
 thing designed to do on your own, crafting, in the grand scale of things is also dependant on others, 
 as you need to become powerful to earn the gil or find the ingredients in the first place to perform 
 it.
  As a result, this makes the game, very, very unenjoyable for a beginning adventurer. You can only 
 receive help if you can help in return, while this is a very fair rule, obviously someone new has 
 nothing of interest to someone whos been here for a while, so they get stuck. And then their mind 
 decays into the same attitude, so when they get into the position to help others they wont, theyll 
 find themselves handing out insults to someone who merely asked how to use a new ability theyve 
 just obtained. So in finality, people are leaving all the game all the time at the higher echelons 
 (such as myself) , but theres an impenetrable barrier to prevent new people from joining the game, 
 and that spells the end of a game when its player base is steadily declining.
  So in the grand conclusion, for all its faults and flaws, Final Fantasy XI, in my opinion is every 
 bit as good, as its forebears, while the illusion lasts. And its a very fragile illusion; all 
 it could take is one too many insults from another player, the unimpressive, tinny sound of an 
 axe cleaving into your last nerve, or entering a new area just to fight a slightly differently 
 coloured monster for a bit more experience to fight more slightly differently coloured monsters 
 offending your eyes yet again, and the bubble could burst, and the very thing you were in love 
 with, becomes the very thing you despise most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 2.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  When this game was released in North America it had already been out for a year in Japan. The existing 
 players took advantage of this and perma camped all npc's that dropped low level items and placed 
 them on auctions at outrageous prices. It was so bad that level 60 items that were considerably 
 better cost less then level 10 items.
  
  The language barrier is also huge. In off hours if you didn't speak japanese you were hard pressed 
 to find a group. Coupled with the horrible in game translator unless you brought friends with you 
 chances are you spent most of the time solo.
  
  Soloing was extremely boring, and difficult as the game is quite hard. It was near impossible to 
 travel long distances being there was no fast form of travel other then chocobo's which for some 
 reason seemed to range in cost to use them.
  
  Level progression was quite slow, and you'd spend most of the time killing the same looking npc's 
 for hours hoping to level. When you got an item at level 10, it looked the same as an item at level 
 20. Everyone looked like carbon copies of each other.
  
  Farmers, that is, people who sold items in game at outrageous prices so they could then sell the 
 gold online was rampant. So bad that it pretty much ruined the game economies.
  
  This game isn't worth the bother.
  
  Graphics looked like PS2 quality, very grainy, with anime 
 style.
  
  Gameplay was lackluster, slow to progress, with little to no feel of advancement since you look 
 the same as everyone else.
  
  If you value being in the Final Fantasy World this is for you, if not stick to the single player 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamez504
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I personally disliked this game. It had its good points, the graphics were good, the sounds are 
 fair. Now if this was your first online game you've ever played, then i suppose you'd be blown 
 away by the quality of this game.... but if your a World Of Warcraft player such as myself, then 
 its the equivelant of being slapped in the face by a wet kipper. For a start the games battle system 
 sucks! You have to press about 4 keys on your keyboard and then run at the god damn monster to 
 even start atacking it! For the classes you can choose.... well there just stupid. I tried myself 
 as a warrior type guy, and you start off with about 1 or 2 moves, that i think both have an hour 
 cooldown! I mean is it just me or could the producers of this game not be arsed to develop the 
 characters extensivly. My major problem with this game is the fact that you can only have one character 
 without having to pay extra to get more. Which really is ridiculous. Then there's the problem about 
 quests, they are ridiculously under developed, on most games there is a huge variety of quests 
 but on this its a miniscule amount. Now i'll talk about the story line, THERE BASICALLY IS NO STORY! 
 there are a few missions for your capital, which is just an excuse for a story line! I wont even 
 go into the professions in this game, because they jsut baffeled me completely. Ok im sorry, i 
 have been a little cruel on this game here, and yes it is pretty good if you had no other online 
 game experience. To be honest though, just stick with World Of Warcraft and guild wars or something 
 like that, because i am a huge fan of Final Fantasy and this really didn't do it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse_ShinRa
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite MMORPGs. I played alot of MMOs. EverQuest, Planetside, City of Heroes, EverQuest 
 2, World of Warcraft and tons more, but Final Fantasy XI is my 2nd favorite. MMO..
  
  The game is fun it self, The reason I think it gets bad reviews, is because of Final Fantasy fans 
 and Square-Enix fans that can't play it.. They say stuff like its not a true Final Fantasy or its 
 not Final Fantasy. For all thoughs you say that, let me say this. It is Final Fantasy and it counts 
 as a Final Fantasy. Square always said Final Fantasy is ment to be different. Also this mainly 
 ment for MMO fans.
  
  Moving on.. The good and bad..
  
  I played this for a really long time, I quit 2 years ago, I played as Samurai. I just got back 
 into game about a week ago. Going for Blue Mage this time. I hate how Square gets rid of you character 
 if you stop playing for 3 months. Its not like other games like EQ where stop and come back anytime 
 and you character will still be there. The job systems isn't like anything for another MMO, you 
 get sick of one job, you can play another without starting over..
  
  I also love how every place has a story behind it. You can learn about it by doing quest or whatever. 
 Making Gil can be problem in as well. SO learn a craft early on.. Don't start one when your like 
 lvl40 or whatever.. XD
  
  Auto translator is the best it help bridge the gap between Japanese and English players, so that's 
 a big plus..
  
  I play on the best world ''Sylph'', lol. Anyway, I'm glad I got back into Final Fantasy XI. Its 
 a great MMORPG and its about teamwork and helping others.
  
  ~Good~
  1. Job system
  2. Auto translator
  3. Solid community with frequent player events.
  4. Always something to do. 
 ~Bad~
  1. Not for solo players (why play MMOs just to solo beats me)
  2. Huge time investment needed (so if u a weekend gamer, not for you)
  3. I love FFXI, but I can't 
 wait till Vanguard : Saga Of Heroes
  comes out.. XD
  4. economy isn't the best (getting better though)
  5. Looking for a party can take hours sometimes 
 and I mean hours..
  
  ~Over All~
  
  FFXI, is fun if you don't mind using teamwork and helping others. There is always something to 
 do in the game, learn and gain.. You use skill in game not games like WoW where you can just spam 
 ability's till you win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tristanll
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  I could go out strongly with saying that this MMORPG was one of the most hyped games to date. I 
 could also claim that this game is one of the most to not live up to it's hype. I could also compare 
 this game to games that were hyped, but definately didn't live up to it. Games such as Lineage2.
 
  
  Background:
  
  The game throws you into a character creation screen with the ability to create one or two characters. 
 You sadly enough have to pay 0.5$ for each character you want to further have.
  The client that runs Final Fantasy XI and another game that's included (Tetra Master) is quite 
 catchy. Unlike many other clients to other MMORPG's, this client actually makes you believe that 
 the game itself will be just as pretty as. You are terribly mistaken.
  
  Character creation:
  I may be a bit shallow, but since I'm reviewing a MMORPG game I'm expecting 
 to have somewhat of a freedom when it comes to creating your alter-ego . This game offers eight 
 hairstyles and faces, along with two, three different hair colors at most. No extreme hair colors 
 or hairstyles you'd so bad want to have to make your character stand out are included.
  It goes so far and painfully that the hairstyles and faces aren't even separated. You can't for 
 example combine that pretty androgynous face with that short-cutted hairstyle you saw. Oh no.
 
  It goes as far as it doesn't even allow you to edit the character face. You can't choose the eye 
 color or if you want facial beard or not. Not even the characters physical appearance. Meaning 
 - the dream you've had about the flat-bearded man with wrinkles and white medium long scabby hair 
 you've always wanted to train to become a legendary hero.. sadly enough doesn't exist.
  There are quite a variety of different races, all charismatic and expressing their personality 
 in one way or another, but with just as limited options.
  
  Gameplay:
  After you've thrown together your character, you get to pick a name and the server. Here's another 
 of the games many downs. You can't pick which server you want to play on. So if you and your friend 
 want to go on adventures together you are forced to buy a world pass from a local store and give 
 him the code to your server.
  You also get to choose from three starting locations, whilst the fourth main city comes later on.
 
  We are now standing dropped off in a town square, introduced by the background story our city 
 has, which is followed up by a conversation 3 NPC's are holding. You do get some starting money, 
 but where the location of the NPC that supposed to give you the information isn't really pointed 
 out. You have to try yourself through the menu of the game to find the map, scroll through the 
 different types of pins there are to find out that the NPC is actually less than 50meters away 
 from you. So.. if you desperately ran around the town looking for the NPC, feel free to run all 
 the way back.
  There is also no tutorial in the game that should guide you to how all the functions, different 
 menus or where to start looking for what. Another aspect of the game that's a total down . MMORPG's 
 are often big, broad games, and if you have no idea about how everything functions, it can get 
 very frustrating.
  
  Solo/Party &amp; Level system
  
  Up to lvl 10 you are really free to run around and kill enemies without limitations. Once you get 
 to lvl 10, you HAVE to party, or else you won't get anywhere.
  Simply stated: FFXI is a game that forces the player to team up with others, because some enemies 
 are too strong to take on your own. Makes sense.
  Then again, it's a game, and even if it's supposed to be realistic, you should be able to interact 
 with others when you want to, not when you want to get further in the game.
  Once you die in combat you basically lose 1/4 of the experience bar, and can even get a lvl DOWN. 
 This can be very frustrating to players lvl 10+, since the ammount of experience you lose takes 
 a great ammount of time to recoperate. Another frustraing aspect of the game is the distance you 
 have to travel between towns and experience spot. Mounts and faster travel services aren't avaliable 
 until around lvl 20. You can rent a Choccobo, but it costs money, and it runs off as you unmount 
 it.
  The many cool subclasses of the game such as Dark Knight, Dragoon, Ninja and so on aren't avaliable 
 but after lvl 30+ which takes quite some time to reach. Once you've changed class you have to start 
 all over from level 1.
  A good aspect is that your primary class is a solid ground for your new class, meaning you can 
 get benifits from both classes, creating one unique class.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are simply put - gorgeous. The areas and enviroments are wide, nice detailed and vivid. 
 Nothing, absolutely nothing beats seeing Bastok at night or at sunrise. It's simply beautiful.
 
  The game can however tend to look rather dull and grey once alot of players are on the screen 
 at the same time, since they tend to look alot like eachother.
  
  Overall:
  Final Fantasy is a mixture that fails most of the time as it tends to be too challenging. You can't 
 enjoy the game yourself, since you actually have to party up with others to get somewhere. Sadly 
 enough Final Fantasy departs itself from the other games in the series, not delivering a unique 
 character creation similiar to the other games, which according to me would make this game unique. 
 Who wouldn't want to look like a cool mixture of Cloud and Sepiroth?
  The game becomes yet more frustrating when you find yourself to spend more time on running back 
 and forth between cities and areas than you do on enjoying the game itself.
  I may be another one of those hardcore Neverwinter Nights people that loved servers such as Siflige, 
 but what I'm seeking in an MMORPG is that you should be able to take a break from all the action, 
 chat and socialize. And roleplay your character. I think that's a valid point many MMORPG's these 
 days are missing. It's all slash, slash, rinse, lvl, repeat , and FFXI sadly fails to stand out 
 in it's category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadaj316
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Veteran Final Fantasy players may be hideously disappointed in this game, although if like myself 
 you're not scared of a little bit of change this game can become highly addictive.
  
  Obviously this game is a LOT different to any other Final Fantasy, the difference being it's online 
 and multiplayer with no particular strict storyline to follow.
  
  It's relatively easy to learn about things in the game, NPCs are a great help and guaranteed in 
 your town or area there are a lot of people willing to help you if you're stuck. The higher level 
 characters and mentors are also brilliant and more often then not if you find a nice enough one 
 they'll help you with a quest.
  
  Fighting solo can be a bit boring, unless you're going for a real challenge. I find partying and 
 meeting new people the greatest hype of the game. Everyone is really friendly and its great getting 
 to know people in different countries.
  
  I put the learning curve at more than 4 hours as I'm still finding out new things as I'm going 
 along.
  
  All in all I think this game is brilliant, it's a welcome change from the other Final Fantasy's, 
 it was defintely worth trying something new with the franchise.
  
  I HIGHLY recommend this game to all people who enjoy online games and even possibly to those who 
 would like a slower paced game than World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godek
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I am 14 years old and been a final fantasy fan now for 7 years..... Ive played all the final fantasy 
 game but at one point i hated them until i played final fantasy 7 from then on im all about final 
 fantasy..... In 2004 i read an article talking about final fantasy XI for the ps2 i thought i was 
 dreaming but i was not from then on i was onto my dad over and over about it until i found out 
 it came out for the pc aswell...
  
  So i bought it and played for days and weeks on end doing all nighters, but it came to a point 
 were, i was like were do i go now i leveled up to level 29 and the game got so slow, and my tolarance 
 for the game dropped it got borring really quickley, then i got into a party which in final fantasy 
 is really easy to do, the xp is'nt great in areas and leveling up is really hard... But it makes 
 such a change than going out all on my own....
  
  What this game manages to do is keep what final fantasy is known for its great graphics and this 
 is something everything notices when people compare this game to other mmo's out at the moment...
 
  
  Final fantasy has an incredible selection of theme music which catches in your head whenyour playing 
 this game.... The most memorable themes tunes is when you enter cities such as Sandoria or Bastok.... But 
 what final fantasy fails to add is the memorable theme tune when you win a battle a song which 
 has been in final fantasy for so many years.... But on the whole its something final fantasy manages 
 to do so well and also make the game interesting, and not some of the songs you get off games and 
 want to turn off straight away.....
  
  The down sound of the game is the long updating which can make many people pull out their hair..... When 
 you finaly install all the discs and set up your account, you need to update the game you would 
 not hink it would take to long but if you are unlucky you maye waiting for 16 hours and when this 
 happens you wish you could kill your self on the spot.... There is a problem with this update..... If 
 you are one of the unlucky ones you may get an error code were after 5 hours of waiting for the 
 update the update would go off and say lost server connection this is a problem Final fantasy has 
 quite alot and appears in many message forums over and over.
  
  When the update is done you get to make your character here there is alot of different of hair 
 face and eye types and make a charcter that suits you.... You have a few race to choose from.... From 
 humes to elevens..... You also get to decide your class either a warrior or white mage red mage 
 or a blck mage or a monk or a thief if you want a job like that...... But dont worry there are more 
 jobs you can unlock when you are level 30..... But at level 18 you get sub jobs here you can have 
 2 jobs warrior/monk or white mage and warrior and so forth..... But getting to level 30 takes time 
 and patience and when you reach level 30 and get a new job back to level 1 you go and off you go 
 to level up once again.....
  
  The game has huge amount of content and many islands to visit you can travel by foot Chocobo the 
 famout giant chicken known as by many.... Boat or airship..... It takes time to get a chocobo and 
 longer to get on the airship or save up 500,000 gil and buy a passport...... But if you think this 
 game is oh yes im so going to get it..... Dont forget Online games dont come free it is 15 dollars 
 a month plus and aditional 1 dollar to make a character.... This can be quite pricey but dont worry 
 the first character slot is free..... Also you get a 30 day free trial if you dont like it just 
 stop it its that easy..... In the game you have many things to do such as crafting items to fishing.... This 
 can be very relaxing and very rewarding....
  
  The gameplay for final fantasy XI IS VERY SUPPRISING it changes its normal battles to were you 
 see a monster in the open, and you can get straight into battle and fight without any loading times.... You 
 can fully customise the armour and weapons or sheilds you use, you get given a house to were you 
 can customise how you like and make your moogle happy... When you die you dont loose items but you 
 do lose xp which you earned ,this can be a downsde to players if you spent hours gaining it but 
 its a price to pay for beng careless...
  
  Final fantasy XI is an uplifting experience to final fantasy with many changes which make it better 
 in fact but also bring it down... But all the whole if you are a final fantasy fan this game is 
 a sure try but major fans of the games maybe in for a shock of the way it is when the game is playing..... But 
 one thing it does manage to do greatly is its mission design were it actually has a storyline which 
 many online games fail to have..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkhavans
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. It has ALOT of stuff to do. With the release of the new expansion, there 
 are now 18 unique jobs to choose from. All of the areas are unique and large. There are hundreds 
 of notorious monsters (boss like monsters) And there is a craft for everyone. Theres everything 
 from cooking, to chocobo digging. Now onto the graphics. If you own a PC with a high end graphics 
 card, then you can perform registry edits to make the game look better than any MMORPG ever created. 
 The PS2 versions graphics aren't very good though, so I reccomend the PC version over the PS2 version 
 just for that. And the new Xbox 360 version is not much of an improvment either. Final Fantasy 
 XI is constantly being updated with new items, quests, monsters, missions, and much more. The level 
 cap in final fantasy is level 75. However, the experience required to get levels 1-63, is how much 
 it'll take you to get from 63-75. Also, this is a very social game, and not reccomended to anyone 
 that hates parties. Most jobs are not solo, however, if you have alot of gil or just pure soloing 
 talent, you can get away with it. There are a few jobs such as beastmaster, puppetmaster, summoner, 
 red mage, and a couple more that can be great soloers with the right subjobs. The music in final 
 fantasy is great, however, if you do not own the computer version, you may find yourself getting 
 annoyed by it and turning it off. With the PC version you can change the music with your own. This 
 is forbiddon by the ToS but there is an extremely small chance you will get suspended for it. As 
 there is no way Square Enix can tell. The learning curve on this game may be easy for some people, 
 however, I found myself confused when I first started. But fortunatly, most people are very helpful 
 and it shouldn't be a problem getting help. Once you figure out how to get going, everything is 
 pretty straightforward. I have played World of Warcraft, Guild Wars, and everquest. They're all 
 great, however, I found myself getting bored with World of Warcraft. And again, the graphics dont 
 even come close to comparing with FFXI. The starting fee for one character in this game is 12.95$ 
 a month, and 1.00$ for every other character. A great value in my opinion. There are approxamatly 
 18,000 characters on each server and at any given time there are at least 2-6 thousand characters. 
 Getting friends in this game is easy. Some people say this game is boring, it sucks. Theese are 
 the people that have no respect for hardcore gaming. Or just truly suck at gaming and have no right 
 to say anything about this game. I am now at 400 days playing time and will never stop. Also, FFXI-2 
 has been announced, we do not know when it will come out though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimmshock
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  I played Final Fantasy XI for over 2 years and got nothing out of it. Sure the over all feeling 
 of the final fantasy world was strong which is the only thing that kept me coming back for two 
 years it left me bored to tears. The release of WOW eluded me for I was still hypnotized by FFXI. 
 Once I started playing WOW I realized right away I didn't have to stand waiting in one spot for 
 two hours trying to lvl. This game is for slow thinkers. There are far better MMORPGs on the market. 
 SE is hiding behind a popular franchise and marketing sub par games. I'm starting to wonder if 
 SE even thinks about the fan base before they slap the final fantasy name on something. They are 
 dragging it's good name through the slop of greed and complacency. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinegrinder
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  the final fantasy series has alway held me close to RPG games but with the realese of there MMO 
 all i could think of was what took them so long?! with gorgous graphic and gameplay that is right 
 up there with the finest MMO's. This game mainly fouses on the battle and the job classes (im a 
 lv 23 blue mage) . Also this game is a consuming giant both time and finacually but besides the mothly 
 fee and the fact that if you want to be at a high lv in this game you must surrender your soical 
 life to it this game is a joy to play i must give it recommedation to anyone who loves the FF series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kornera
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I am a three year player of Final Fantasy XI and i say that it is a brilliant game over world of 
 warcraft. Most MMOs usually make you run around by yourself and run into a few people time to time 
 and chat, Final fantasy is more of group oriented events. The beginning levels can be very boring 
 being alone but once you hit around level 10, by that time you will have the game system memorized 
 and how to play your job and begin making experiance partys. When you hit level 18 you than get 
 to put on a sub-job which adds the abilitys of another job available to your main job such as a 
 warrior having black mage spells or a thief having the ability to cast white mage spells. When 
 you hit level 30 than you may choose from a larger veriety of jobs such as Dragoon, Summoner, Ninja, 
 Blue Mage, and so many more. The Story lines from the expansions are very interesting, possibly 
 more interesting than the normal Final fantasy games and the music is something you could listen 
 to for hours 'pon hours. If you are one that enjoys playing online with others, you love final 
 fantasy, pick this game up, and be drawn into another world made from Square-enix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bocastar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Stunning graphics. When I first started, I enjoyed running around and just looking at the whole 
 world, which looks real enough to me. The gameplay was fast, not counting when you needed to look 
 for a party. 
  
  Unfortunately, soloing was left out of the game entirely. You need to have a party to be able to 
 gain levels in a quick time. Even fighting monsters that "checked" easy were sometimes hard.
  
  The job system is brilliant. Switching in between any job you want is great, so I don't have 
 to start new characters if I want to try a different job.
  
  The battle system is amazing as well. I've seen other games that make you have ridiculous attack 
 moves; flipping while slashing, attack moves dont match up to when the enemy is actually hit, etc. 
 The timing on this game is perfect. 
  
  The part I didn't like the most was the lack of PVP, which I think is crucial in an online game. 
 They needed some sort of PVP outside Ballista, which was only recently implemented. And it was 
 too much of a pain to gain a lisence to partake in any of those matchs, and there were only matchs 
 at certain times of the day, which was very.... limiting. 
  
  So expand PVP and add more soloing and this game would be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu1515
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  This game was the first online game by Square-enix
  
  ( Currently Square-Enix have Announced another MMORPG, but has been un-named, could be another 
 FF Title)
  
  This game of course had beauty, the classes from origonal FF's, Cid, and Airships, This Game was 
 looking like it was Staying true to the FF series.
  And Unfortunalty it did, this game was basically a slow version of one of its games.
  
  The 
 Game is amazingly slow, i cant express how slow it is. The Graphical User interface is terrible 
 aswell, it stays true to a FF game, but when trying to click on the Fight or abilitys youd have 
 to go through the whole options "Abilitys Attack" and stuff, witch made it alittle bit anoying 
 when you needed to do something "now"
  
  The Game cant really be played at all solo, witch is really annoying as its not easy to find people 
 who are doing the same stuff.
  
  Anyway, heres a E-Mail i Sent Square-Enix via Playonline.
  
  I was so please when I bought 
 FF11, I love online games, I also love many of the other FF series.
  
  Unfortunately, FF11 has been a disappointing game.
  
  Whats the reason?
  
  It isnt user 
 friendly.
  
  As I started out to play, I realized the user interface was slow and awkward, there isnt a GUI 
 at all, there should be a basic interface there at all times, showing abilities, items and other 
 menu parts. Also, the mouse's pointer is small and hard too see, clicking on something small thats 
 moving like a monster is frustrating because you constantly miss and open the Chat/general menu, 
 sending the mouse to the bottom of the screen, witch is annoying if you miss the target more than 
 once.
  
  The monsters... you have to rely on a "Check" system, staying true to the fact you cant see the 
 monsters true "level" but unfortunately, if you cant see the monsters true level, you often end 
 up getting a check message saying "Easy Prey" but this monster can still kill you (a level system 
 would be the best way to go) , any attempts to run and you find you have to run out of the area, 
 witch can be a long run, death when flee-ing is often. And whats worse is you will loose XP, you 
 shouldnt be able to down-level, when you reach 0xp after dieing.
  
  Battles, when engaging an enemy, you have to draw your weapons, but you stop moving when you do 
 this, witch is a 2 second animation, you should have to stop running when you draw your weapons, 
 this can cause the monster to get away.
  
  Quests, they dont provide enough "rewards" I didnt notice any EXP for handing any quests in, 
 sometimes you will only receive an item or GIL, receiving EXP however would make questing worthwhile. 
 Also Quests dont have a "Level", I got a Mission quest and that was sending me into a place at 
 least 5 levels higher than what I was, plus the fact I couldnt solo this area, even if I was the 
 correct level.
  Quests dont offer enough details on what you have to accomplish, just a short description. You 
 need to add information on things like "Where the NPC will be, where you can get hold of this quest 
 item, what you will get from the quests"
  I wanted to do the starting quest where you help the Free Goldsmith in Bastock with the Copper 
 ignot, after joining the Goldsmith guild, it didnt tell me how to get my skill up. After looking 
 on Allakhazam. com I found you needed copper nuggets, witch are very hard to get hold of. It mentioned 
 a person sold them, but I needed to get on the Airship and fly to another place. After locating 
 the Airship Bay, it said I needed an Airship Pass and 200gil, although it doesnt mention where 
 you get these Passes.
  
  Abilities, it doesnt show you clear enough that you "Learn Ability" I was thinking... when do 
 I get new stuff? I didnt notice till level 6. Also, the "Steal" ability almost always fails.
 
  
  I have played Square soft and Enix's games and loved them, but... I know you can do better, youve 
 tried to make it like an RPG, that is slow, and objectives can only be done in a Party, not everyone 
 will want to join a Party or be able to find one. With Massive Multiplayer Online Role-Playing 
 Games, you must make things fairly quick to save time, or you will get people slaving away at there 
 PC for longer trying to do 1 thing.
  
  Also, I would love to see an MMORPG from you for the Nintendo DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquallLeonVIII
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This seems like the first mmorpg to actually have a storyline. This game has many different missions 
 for each storyline. You can do missions for your nation, Zilart, Chain of Promthia, or treasures. 
 Each has unique cool storyline. This game has one of the most mature communities out their and 
 a great battle system.
  
  Gameplay- The battle system is unique and uses tactics. In the game once you hit 10+ you seek party 
 and once you get one it is amazing. You use tactics, each class plays a role in battle, you fight 
 in unique locations, you talk with your party members and you fight interesting monsters. This 
 game has great gameplay and the best for a mmorpg so far. 10/10
  
  Graphics- Nice looking enviroments with good details and immersive areas and towns. The style of 
 the game is great. 9/10
  
  Sound- Great battle music, the missions have great music, the enviroments have nice sounds, and 
 also do the towns. 10/10
  
  Value- This game has a great battle system, music, and etc... This is probably the best mmorpg 
 out their so far but i'm keeping my eye on warhammer online. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidersR2Nice4U
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  this game is loads of fun and you will never stop playing it. it is a never ending game that will 
 take hours of your life but it is worth it. getting to level 75 (max level) takes hard work but 
 it is worth it because going through the game is not boring one bit. waiting for a party can be 
 boring at some points but you can always talk to your friends or help other people while your waiting. 
 you have to pay a $12 a month fee for it but it is totally worth it. you will never get bored of 
 it. it is just so much fun to do everything it offers it keeps you busy even when your level 75, 
 not to mention all the jobs you have to choose from, like i said, best MMORPG ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsevil1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about two almost three years ago. Back then I was new to MMORPGs and diden't get 
 that far into it before I quit. Now jump to few years later. I buy new copy of it to give this 
 game one more chance, and this is what this review is about!
  
  
  Gameplay: Its MMORPG so expecit 
 to talk to and play with other players alot and I mean ALOT. Also expecit to go around killing 
 things and gaining experance points and things like that, and some other stuff I dont have time 
 to list.
  
  Graphics: If you asked me about them years ago I would say amazeing... but now I would say there 
 just ok. The player and NPC models are good but the enviermint dose not look so good, manly because 
 they look sorta pixled and muddy
  
  Sound: Better than the graphics by quite a bit. The music and sound affexes sound good but the 
 music loops alot.
  
  Value: This game has ALOT to do so it will keep you busy for a long time.
  
  Overall: Its a 
 good game time for it.
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: strutter_uk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  ... it will take over your life though.
  
  I've been playing for two months now, and although there is alot to learn very quickly to get to 
 grips with the game, the community on the whole is very friendly and helpful. Within 10 minutes 
 of starting the game a more experienced player was asking if I needed any help, etc.
  
  In two months I've got two of my 'Jobs' upto Level 24 and 21, this has taken probably 4-5 hours 
 every day for abour 7 weeks. I think to get the most from the game this is the amount you will 
 need to be playing. For example as I've levelled at a similar rate to 'friends' in-game you can 
 party with each other and therefore work better together.
  
  The graphics may look a little dated now, but as with all FF games they are still very pleasing 
 to the eye. It does take a long time and a lot of effort to achieve anything, but in my view it 
 makes rewards feel that much better!
  
  It is my first MMORPG so I can't say if I think it's better than WoW or Everquest, but before I 
 finally bought this game I couldn't see much in appeal of this type of game. Now I am wishing I 
 started playing when it first came out!
  
  If you like FF, and you want to try a MMORPG you definitely cannot go wrong with this at all. It's 
 polished, smooth and very playable.
  
  Top marks to Square-Enix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DNA_Remix
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I have played FFXI for about 2 years. In truth i had a lot of fun in FFXI. It has some of the greatest 
 classes in an MMO, good job/subjob system, battle system based on teamwork. In the beginning levels 
 its quite easy, just a little grind outside of your major city depending on your race. This is 
 will take a couple hours. 
  
  Gameplay: Really fun for the first couple of months, but it starts to slow down with finding parties 
 becoming increasingly difficult. Another big problem is that is it pretty much impossible to solo 
 past 10. So you cant really solo some exp while your waiting for a party. At later levels it is 
 just to repeatative and time consuming.
  Score: 7/10
  Sound: WOW, the soundtrack for this game is totally awesome. I even bought it seperatly. As all 
 of the Final Fantasy series games, this one also packs a great soundtrack.
  Score: 10/10
  Graphics: I really love the graphics in this game. The character models need a little more variety, 
 as youll come across the same char model as your own many times. Besides that, the cities, scenery, 
 mobs, and characters look fantastic.
  Score: 10/10
  Value: 2 years ago, i would have said GO FOR IT, IT ROCKS! Unfortuantly now it is BROKEN. There 
 are too little players. I left the game a while before the XBOX 360 version. So I have no idea 
 if there population is back. It might still be worth your time.
  Score: 7/10
  Tilt: I LOVE THIS GAME! PERIOD!
  
  Here is my experience with the game
  
  After about 12 
 levels of the grind comes the good partying. Back when I first started on my Hume Warrior there 
 wasnt World of Warcraft, so FFXI had lots of players. You would probably move on to Valkrum Dunes. 
 This was lots of fun if you got a good group. One of the problems about this party system is that 
 if your a class that isnt necessary or can be replaced or doesnt get good moves till later levels, 
 partying can be a big pain. All damage classes have this problem. As a warrior finding a party 
 wasnt that much of a problem, i was a tank, therefore needed in the group.
  
  As you start to make friends, you start to make very good groups. Triggering EXP chains. This is 
 the reward of having a good group. If you kill monsters fast enough, you start to get extra exp 
 for the kill. This could increase your EXP/hour signifigantly. If you had a good group, you would 
 have a lot of fun. Everything is more hecktic as you race to get EXP Chains.
  "OMG PULL ANOTHER NOW!"
  "White Mage Out of Mana!"
  "WE DONT NEED HIM"
  "USING 2-HOUR ABILITY"
 
  "WERE ALL GOIN TO DIE"
  
  In FFXI, if you die you lose a significant amount of EXP, and can even lose levels. This is why 
 having a crappy group sucks. This makes the game frustrating, as some people are fairly stupid.
 
  
  At 18 you get your subjob quest, which allows you to have half your level into another class. For 
 example If i was a 18 WAR, then i could be a lvl 9 of anything. I was 18Warrior/9Monk. This adds 
 a litlle variety to your character.
  
  A big problem with final fantasy is the economy. If you want better gear, you have to buy it from 
 the AH. Prices were inflated when Gold Farmers took over. This was increasingly difficult for lower 
 levelers to buy gear. This was extremely frustrating for me. As i had to mine constantly to get 
 money. I eventually resorted to fishing botting to make money.
  
  Basically the game starts to get boring in the early 20s. Your fighting different monsters, but 
 its mostly the same. Waiting 30mins to a hour waiting for a party. Then fight kill, fight kill.
 
  
  The loot system in FFXI is pretty bad. Nothing of worth really drops, and there is really no rolling.
 
  
  For relief at level 30, you can unlock the advance classes. I unlocked Dark Knight, one of the 
 best melee damage dealers. It was fun as a different class, but once again i had to go through 
 the exact same things my warrior did.
  
  Somewhere inbetween there you get your chocobo license.
  
  At later levels you need to play 
 at least 5 hours a day to get anywhere.
  
  In conclusion, i had a lot of fun with the game, but now that WoW and other MMOs have been realeased. 
 A lot of the community has left, making finding parties even more difficult. THIS IS FOR HARDCORE 
 RPGers/ MMOers.
  
  GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsukiyono1501
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy has to be one of the most well noted games of all time. Every Final Fantasy involved 
 one player controlling a multitude of characters in order to try to vanquish the world of the bad 
 dudes LOL. Final Fantasy was always thought to stay that way pretty much, and then came Final Fantasy 
 XI, the game that brought back the elements that we loved from other Final Fantasy games and threw 
 in a few twists of its own. This game probably brought the most shock between all the Final Fantasy 
 fans, but luckily, well for me anyway, the new change from game console to PC was quite refreshing 
 and actually pretty fun.
  
  Gameplay: Final Fantasy XI is the first Final Fantasy game to be introduced as an MMORPG, in which 
 the people we talk to aren't always NPCs but may well be another person from a different place 
 in the world. This offers an excellent change in the fact that our experiences change always, but 
 old FF veterens might feel uncomfortable with this fact. Good thing though, is that this element 
 is easy to get used to. In this game, the player will control one character from any given class 
 that they choose in the beginning of the game, whether it is a sword-wielding Warrior or the high-on-demand 
 White Mage. Classes can be changed at any given time, if you wanted to. For the first few levels, 
 Characters can fight monsters by themselves and still get decent enough experience to level up 
 within a reasonable amount of time, but after that, experience will be so hard to get that characters 
 have to party up with other characters in order to fight harder monsters and gain more experience. 
 This is probably one of the most feared things when starting on your first MMORPG, but after awhile 
 it is quite fun, since the people you are fighting alongside with are actual people. This might 
 also make it harder, because now, constant party coordination is needed because your actions can 
 either kill the monster, or kill the party. Everyone has their own role and must fufill it in order 
 for the party to function correctly. For example, if you are a warrior, you should be taking hits 
 for the mages, and mages should constantly be healing and supporting the party via spells. Money 
 isn't gained buy monsters anymore (well it can, but at 10 gil per monster if your lucky, you're 
 looking at 100 monster battles just to get 1k) . Most players gain money by using the auction house 
 to their advantage. The auction house is used to sell and buy items that characters use or don't 
 use and is the most efficient way to gain money steadily.
  
  Graphics: FFXI graphics offer some of the best graphics I have ever seen. In the beginning of the 
 game, we are given the option to create our own character and make them look anyway we want to. 
 This gives us a special connection to our characters and helps with the overall effect of how we 
 feel about the character. The landscaping is very large-scaled and every place is very distinct 
 and unique in its own way. Everything blends in with each other so well and makes us feel much 
 more confortable with the overall surroundings.
  
  Sound: The themes of different places and areas are all very unique and match with the way the 
 place looks as well. All the various types of music in this game have very distinct things about 
 them that set them different from anything else. For example, battle music has a very distinct 
 bass sound to it that gives it much more of an edge than a couple of bagpipes playing a joyful 
 tune to one of the cities.
  
  Value: Overall, FFXI is very vast and the options are pretty much endless. With so much to do and 
 so much flexibilty, people can come and go as they like. When you pick up this game, expect to 
 spend a looong time and dedication on it. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ffenix
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Three years ago, FFXI was the first MMO that I truly enjoyed. I stopped playing FFXI because it 
 became so addicting that it almost affected my college life.
  
  Today, I returned to Vana'diel and even though a lot has changed, the core gameplay is essentially 
 the same. FFXI is by no means a graphical powerhouse nor is its music pleasing to my ears. There 
 are still the annoying aspects such as the 6-hour installation and configuration (including 15000+ 
 update files to download and install) and the boring first 10 levels of improving stats. However, 
 despite all of these annoyances, I'm still having a blast playing it.
  
  It's really difficult to describe why I love this game so much. I played a few MMOs before FFXI 
 but none came close; Ragnarok Online was fun for a couple of months before that became repetitive, 
 and Lineage 2 was full of basement dwelling a-holes. Maybe because there are people who helped 
 me progress in the game. Maybe because there are other things to do besides from killing monsters 
 such as fishing, mining and harvesting. And maybe because I get to meet some really nice people, 
 which is becoming a rarity on the Internet.
  
  Getting used to the game will take some time. Although many would argue that the menus are cumbersome, 
 it does get easier. If you're playing FFXI on the PC, a gamepad (preferably a gamepad similar to 
 the PS2 or X360 controller) will make it easier to speed through the menus. Figuring out the game's 
 economy will be part of your growing pains in this game. For example, I bought an armor at the 
 Auction House for about 6 times the price from a bazaar/shopkeeper NPC (non-playable character) . 
 And of course, there are monsters that will kick your ass early on if you're not too careful.
 
  
  If you can get past the big annoyances, don't mind the outdated graphics and sound, and the boring 
 first 10 levels, you will eventually find something to love about this game. This is one of the 
 few games where the reward is worth the long and arduous struggle.
  
  In a Nutshell:
  Pros: Countless things to do. Many different jobs and job combinations. Low price point for the 
 installation discs. Great story and NPC characters. Nice-looking graphics. Players are generally 
 nice (and perhaps nicer than in some MMOs) .
  
  Cons: Stupendously long installation and updating time. Graphics engine is ancient. A long grind 
 for newcomers or players from level 1 to 15. Starting the game requires logging on twice, once 
 on PlayOnline, and the other on FFXI itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  The world of Vana'diel stands at the brink of war. Three powerful nations, united in their plight 
 against the beastmen forces, look to their last hope -- brave adventurers like you!
  Will the beastmen gain the upper hand, and thrust the once-peaceful Vana'diel into another war? 
 Step into the world of Vana'diel and journey forth on grand adventures with players from all across 
 the globe!
  FINAL FANTASY XI is the first online game in the award-winning FINAL FANTASY series. How you play 
 is up to you, with limitless possibilities for adventure. Set out on your own to discover the countless 
 secrets of Vana'diel, or form a party with your friends to purge the beastman forces and bring 
 home sensational spoils! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loic54
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 20, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Yeah well, I don't usually do game reviews, but I thought I might anyway. Why? Because I'm **** 
 ****ing bored, that's why. Anyway, this is quite obviously a review of Final Fantasy XI. PC version, 
 cos I haven't played the PS2 one. Yuss!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Seen screenshots? It looks right good doesn't it? Well, it does, but not as right good as screenshots 
 would imply. Let me cover the positives first, however. Firstly, the animation is fantastic. Everything 
 moves smoothly and with character, mad props there. Also, the character models are surprisingly 
 detailed polygon wise, another good thing. What is perhaps most impressive looking in the screenshots 
 is the draw distance. You can literally see for miles. However, once you see the game in motion, 
 it becomes far less impressive due to things popping up seemingly from nowhere. By things popping 
 up I don't mean small things like enemies or rocks, I mean HUGE ****ING MOUNTAINS. The "crags" 
 are a prime example. These are impressive looking, denture like structures that are used as warp 
 points, and they are bloody huge. They are the primary landmarks in Vana'Diel, but upon approaching 
 one, you might see half of it suddenly appear. A few steps later, and the other half magically 
 materialises before your very eyes. Not good.
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Sound:
  
  Not too much to complain about here. Sound effects are pretty much standard Final Fantasy fare, 
 which is by no means a bad thing. As for the music, it reminds me most of FF9. By that I mean, 
 well written, pleasant and yet totally forgettable. Oh well, still pretty good.
  
  Score: 8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  There is no denying that playing FFXI is enjoyable, and there's 
 no denying that with a joypad/keyboard combo the controls and interface are slick and intuitive. 
 I think the main problem with FFXI is that they FORCE you to play as a team. Now, partying up with 
 people and fighting enemies is definitly good fun, but being FORCED to do so just plain sucks. 
 By the time you get to Lv11, the experience gleaned from managable foes is so small, and the next 
 level targets so vast, that if you DON'T party up you're going to be stuck there for months. This 
 wouldn't be a problem if it wasn't for the fact that getting a party composed of people that aren't 
 total, useless morons isn't an easy task. No offence to the average FFXI player, but GODDAMN. I've 
 seriously only had a party of strangers that knew what they were doing twice at the most. Another 
 huge problem with FFXI is the Missions. Missions should be the primary reason to play a MMORPG, 
 but in FFXI this is totally highjacked by both their irrelevance and the crappy rewards they glean. 
 It doesn't take a genius to work out that spending 3 hours gaining 2 levels and getting enough 
 items from enemies to sell for mega-bucks is more worthwhile that spending 3 hours doing a mission 
 that will reward you with 12exp and 60gil. It's because of this that no-one wants to do missions, 
 and thus, the entire game becomes one big power-levelling exercise. It's a damn shame.
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Summary:
  
  FFXI is a strange beast. As polished and enjoyable as it is, 
 it has some SEVERE flaws that ruin the game experience somewhat. The worst thing about these flaws 
 is that they should have been spotted and rectified during Beta testing, but unfortunatly weren't. 
 Having said that, it's still a good fun romp and should keep you entertained for a decent period 
 of time, despite the flaws.
  
  Final Score: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stray18
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Quote from the Review:
  "Online RPGs are some of the most inaccessible games out there, for reasons that include their 
 lack of an offline component, their steep learning curves, the time commitment they typically demand 
 from the player, and their relatively costly monthly fees. "
  
  ..... Yer and? Thats a MMO!
  
  "for reasons that include their lack of an offline component"
 
  
  .... ROFL! I cant belive Game Spot actualy let this guy write this! its a MMO!!!
  Massive Multiplayer "Online"!
  
  Any way, to the game!
  
  I have to say after playing WoW 
 I got alittle S**ty with MMO'z. Then I watched Advent Children and just went nuts! So I got this 
 game like 4 days ago. And I am telling you, for any FF Fan this game is the Shaffizell. I have 
 to pull myself away from it every damn night! 
  
  People will say the Interface is bad, in some ways it is, but I still gose back to its roots at 
 the FF series.
  
  The game is worth more then what GS rated it, or the retard that wronte the review, maybe this 
 was writen when MMO'z where not that populer. But then, you would be really red faced now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lambalot
Rating: 2
Date: May 16, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  I mainly play World of Warcraft, but took a break from it to try new games, so i thought i'd try 
 this. As soon as i started i was bored, the graphics were terrible, gameplay was to hard to get 
 into and the controlls were hard along with the Camera angles. Maybe it is good for people who 
 have low spec comps and if u havnt played World of Warcraft then maybe you would like it, but coming 
 from WoW its very boring to play. Heck this game is worse than Final Fantasy X-2 (which was also 
 dissapointing) So if anyones thinking of buying this game DONT, buy World of Warcraft or theres 
 some new games coming out like Warhammer Online (2007) and if you like Lord of the Rings they are 
 bringing out an Online Game which looks good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- A little unfriendly at first, but when you get the hang of it its easy to use. Its VERY 
 HARD TO LEVEL, if you dont have 5+ hours a day... stay away!! The sad thing is that you cant jump 
 or swim whitch sucks because I came from WoW and that uses alot of jumping and swiming but other 
 than that AWSOME!!! 9
  
  Graphics- As good as graphics go for small sytem specs, Runs great on my 1.6 ghz pent 4, GeForce 
 6200, and 512 ram. So its a good choice for ppl with slow comps. 10
  
  Sound- Musical score is SUBERB, I love the music, its just so... WOW!! 10
  
  Value- I will 
 be poppin' this game in YEARS from now I can tell. 10
  
  Tilt- Not for everyone but definatly a MMO Thats more hardcore than WoW. 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the411monkey
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 9, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  FFXI decided to be different and venture into the world of pay for play online. It basically is 
 an MMORPG game, at least that is what I believe it to be. 
  
  You are able to select your race and sex and minimally (very minimally) customize that character 
 with 8 hair/face styles and the height of them. Thats it. I ventured into about over 2 hours of 
 playtime. And I have accomplished nothing. I even have problems finding the store to purchase armour 
 or weapons. I took a look outside of the village, and there was pop-up you wouldn't believe. Tree's, 
 buildings, enemys, all strattle in as your progress forward in the world. Not even of the highest 
 graphical quality, and doesnt live up to the FF name.
  
  The soundtrack and even the worlds themselves feel like they were stolen from a Legend of Zelda 
 game. The combat system is very slow for real time based, you just stand there and your character 
 attacks. And how can an enemy bite you when you are yards away? The world and villages are poorly 
 designed. The included map doesnt even give the slightest hint where to find anything. 
  
  I have played many MMO's but this is by far the worst. Clean up your act Square Enix, and stay 
 out of areas where you dont belong: MMO's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy is one of the best RPG series ever, spawing over 10 games. The series has always 
 been sucessfull, since it started way back in 1987. In 2003, Final Fantasy XI came, after it had 
 been in Japan for a number of years. The reason i review this now 3 years later in 2006, is cause 
 of World Of Warcraft. World Of Warcraft has like FF11, taken a lot of my time. WOW is meaned to 
 be the best MMORPG. You may allready have seen my World Of Warcraft review, which i gave 9.4. Is 
 Final Fantasy XI just as good, better, or worse then WOW?
  
  The game dosent really have a storyline to speak of. All we know is that Humans are at war agasint 
 the evil forces. Pretty standard for MMOPRGs.
  You just start by making your character, and then you enter Vana'diel.
  
  The character creation 
 is really great, and there is 5 diffirenet races to play as, and each race is good at some things, 
 while another race may not be so good at it. Heres a short discrption of them:
  
  Galka: Equivalent of Humanish Bears - Male Only Great Health and Defense
  Mithra: Equivalent 
 of Catwomen - Females Only Great Dexterity Bonuses
  Tarutaru: Equivalent of a Tiny Elf - Male or Female Great Magic Casters
  Elvaan: Equivalent of 
 an Elf - Male or Female Great Strength and Mind
  Hume: Equivalent of a Human - Male or Female Average with all Charasteristics
  
  It may be 
 a good idea to start playing as Humes, since they are good at everything, but its fun to play 
 as another race, in order to find out the diffircenes. After you have created your character, you 
 choose your starting point, and kingdom. Strangely enough, you dont get to choose server, so it 
 can be pretty hard to play with a friend. When you first set into the world of Vana'diel, you have 
 no money, bad weapons and armours, and you dont know where the hell things are. It can be hard 
 to get out of the city you start in, but when you do, its rewarding. Then you get into all the 
 battles. The battles are like WOW, you target an enemy, and attack it. Really simple. Later you 
 get spells, and powerfull attacks, which makes combat quick. Most of the game lies in exploring 
 the world of Vanadiel. You have to do quests in order to really get anywhere. Those quests may 
 want you to get through a dungon, deliver items, defeat enemys, and so on. If a quest is hard for 
 you, you can either level up, or get a party with you. FFXI is a game, where you might want to 
 be friends with everyone, cause everyone is extremely helpfull. There isent any player-vs-player 
 aspect at this time, but one is planed. Gaining levels is simple, you defeat enemies, complete 
 quests, and get EXP. But if arent carefull, you might decrese a level. Everytime you die, you 
 lose EXP, and it can really be a pain in the butt, when you have spent hours in leveling up, die 
 a number of times, and all those hours of effot is lost forever. It isent like other MMORPGs 
 where you lose all your items, and some money like Everquest. Althrough EXP lost is painfull. If 
 you have enough money, you can travel with an airship, or buy a chobobo, which are infintely awesome, 
 and fast. There is a lot to explore in the world of Vanadiel. Secert dungons, treasures, villiages, 
 and so on. A great new system is the support system. For example, you play as a warrior, when you 
 reach a certin level, you can make a support job. If you take another job like white mage, and 
 raise it to a certin level, you can combine the job with the warrior job, and you will get all 
 the warrior, and white mage abilltys. Its a good system. This game is unlike anything you ever 
 have tryed before. Its really good. The downside however is that the game is slow at start, and 
 it reminds too much of Everquest (even through this is better than Everquest) . Another downside 
 is the requirments, but i will get to that later.
  
  The graphics arent as impressive, as it where, when it was released in Japan, but its still good. 
 Better then most MMORPGs. The only game that can challage this games graphics is World Of Warcraft. 
 The game is lag-free, frame-rate free, everything is just perfect. The character models are good, 
 and enemy design are good.
  
  The sound is good. Theres a nice, and peacefull soundtrack, and some sound effects are nice, while 
 some effects could have been better, and no voice-acting can make the sound feel shallow.
  
  Final Fantasy XI is one of those games that gets better with time. There have been relaesed 
 many content updates. This games lifeplan is unlimited.
  
  A big downside is the games requirments. The game takes amost an hour to install, and theres then 
 lots of updates you have to get in order to start playing. If you install it at this moment, you 
 may have to get so many updates, that it takes maybe 10 hours or more! Be prepeared to spend a 
 weekend updating the game. You even has to pay for playing this game. It costs 12$ a mouth, after 
 the first 30 days, which are free. Worse is that if you want to make another character, you have 
 to pay extra. The first one is on the house, but you have to pay 1 extra buck in order to make 
 a new one. Fortunely, theres good reason to stick with your one and only character. You can go 
 to a moogle house, where you always can change your job. If you want to play the game on PS2, you 
 have to buy a 99$ hard disk, and thats really a kick in the nuts, since you also have to pay for 
 playing the game. A good thing though is the Play Online communtiy, which is a program, which also 
 needs to be installed. You get a new email adreass, plus other things. A bonus you get is the Tetra 
 Master game. Its based on the card game from Final Fantasy IX. Its a good extra. 
  
  So is FFXI just as good as WOW? Yes it is. Even through the game is slow, and really expensive, 
 once you look past it, its unlike anything you ever have played before. If you had to choose which 
 game you would buy, i would not help you, cause either game is just amazing. Buy them both if you 
 can afford it. If you in either case FFXI, you will have hours of fun. Once it graps you, its 
 hard to let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebbeebbe
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, so first of all i'll talk about the graphics: They might not be very new and beautiful, but 
 they we're very good for the time it was released, and stil now, its pretty good for a mmorpg, 
 they are easy on the eye, so you dont get tired of playing it (unlike games like WoW where the 
 game is built up of 90% primrary colors.. but enough about that..) .
  
  Then the community: I have played ALOT of mmorpgs, and so far, no other mmorpg has been even close 
 to this community, the people there is very very helpfull, and there is alot of mature players, 
 so you wont see the typical: OMG LOLZ I ROXX0rZ OWN J00 LOLZ!, things you might find in other new 
 mmorpgs.
  There is alot of servers. and all is pretty populated, there is about 700 000 player accounts created.
 
  
  Party system: Final fantasy XI is a VERY VERY time consuming game, if you want to get to a decent 
 high level (there is 75 lvl's) . Another problem is that when the japanese players are on, you will 
 have a hard time to get a party if you dont know japanese. And yes, you need a party always to 
 level.. you can solo up to level 12, but then you really should get a party until level 75 or whatever.
 
  The party can consist of 6 players, and should always have someone who heals, and someone who 
 deals the damage, buffs is also a good thing to have while in party. (Like for example, bard, who 
 can cast spells that gradually restore hp and such.)
  
  Job/Class system: FFXI Has a very unique job system and is built up like this: You start off choosing 
 1 of 6 jobs: Thief, Warrior, Black mage, Red mage, and white mage. After that, at level 30 you 
 can choose to get a advanced job, there are alot f adv. jobs, and you have to quest to get one.
 
  But over to the job system, at any time in the game, you can go into your Mog House (the place 
 you live in, keep your stuff etc) and change the job into what you want! So if you chose white 
 mage at level 1, and want to try out Thief instead, you can, just change the job. You can do this 
 all the time, and there is no limit to how many times you can change. This also goes for adv. jobs, 
 when you aquire them. 
  At level 17, you can get a sub job, wich works like a second job you have at the same time as your 
 main job, so you can for example be a Whitemage with Black mage as a sub job. The white mage will 
 be as strong as it would be at that level, but the black mage will be half the level of what the 
 white mage is (you have to level the sub job too of course, cause you dont get exp for the black 
 mage as you have it as sub job for the white mage) . 
  Example: you have a level 20 white mage, and a level 13 black mage, so your job is Whitemage/Blackmage, 
 the whitemage would be level 20, and the black mage would be level 10, because the black mage becomes 
 capped to half the level of the white mage.
  
  There are alot of other stuff to do in the game, for example fish, or craft items and become more 
 proficient with that type of crafting. 
  There is also a auction house where you can auction items you have bought before. You also have 
 a bazaar, wich is your own personal shop, wich people can buy straight from you.
  
  Sadly, there isnt much PvP in this game, it has ballista, as it is called, but its not THAT fun. 
 Altough pvp isnt really the core in this game at all, so it doesnt really matter.
  
  I dont think there is alot else to say, except that this is definently the best mmorpg i have ever 
 laid my hands on, and i still shake when i touch the box i once got many years ago :-)
  (btw, i've played over 1200 hours now, thats a sign a game is good^^)
  
  ~Ebbe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShengLong2005
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  OK, First things first, Final Fantasy XI is a Competitive/Co-operative (Party-Based) Online RPG 
 (CORPG) , rather than a MMORPG, at heart. Therefore, Any issues which are exclusive to this minority 
 genre are only going to be touched upon.
  
  When you boot up the client in PlayOnline, The first thing you hear is Nobuo Uematsu's infamous 
 Prelude Theme, a staple of Final Fantasy menus. for a long time.
  The updating, well, First time, you will be waiting upwards of 2 hours for the game to start, but 
 it is a multi-gigabyte beast, so that's not a slow speed, and the Prelude is still playing.
  Once the game begins proper, You are introduced to the world of Vanadiel by a CGI movie, which 
 explains about the invasion of the Beastmen, your major target in the game, and the draft that 
 your characters are part of.
  There is plenty of allowance for characters, even though the game hardly offers you much choice 
 in customization options.
  
  In the game, cracks begin to show in the facade, and I have to say this...
  It's all the fault 
 of the players themselves, rather than Square-Enix, since it's the players themsleves who have:
 
  1) ... sent the game's currency into recession, by excessive Gil farming and 'black market' gaming.
 
  2) ... forced new players to work to job system stereotypes to even get their player into a party, 
 destroying the Co-Operative part of the CORPG banner.
  3) ... resorted to racism, with japanese players only even approaching a US or European player if 
 their character looks kawaii enough.
  These three activities make FFXI a chore to play.
  The recession in the currency means that the few Gil you get at the start of the game can't even 
 buy you a lot of entry-level items, The stereotyping of classes means that classes like Monk, a 
 strong class in the games, becomes a minority, and lastly, the racist attitudes of the Japanese 
 mean that you sometimes have no allies...
  
  Other issues, unrelated to the problems for a starting player, involve the fact rare items are 
 camped for, a issue that should have been fixed by a GM ages ago, the monster difficulty at entry 
 level is horrendous sometimes, and a lot of classes are missing key items or spells when they enter 
 Vana'diel, since they are equipped similar to the original Final Fantasy (A basic kit bag, with 
 maybe something thrown in that is specially made for your class)
  
  However, Bugs are still a problem.
  The cutscenes are poorly managed, with players being locked 
 into them when they start, and players who aren't on that mission being forced to wait, while being 
 attacked sometimes, for their allies to return, the game forcing you into full-screen mode without 
 allowing you a Windowed Mode which makes a unexpected Firewall issue a chore to fix, since leaving 
 Full-Screen Mode causes the game to crash into PlayOnline, and the servers are often being bug-fixed.
 
  
  Overall, Square need to reset the currency, get the GMs to order players to actually play the game 
 rather than be a bunch of elitist morons, redo character generation so that Mages can at least 
 cast some spells from startup and also make it so that low-level players don't end up spending 
 most of their time going back into the field after respawning.
  
  Come on... This is your Final Fantasy for the online gaming market...
  Save it from becoming 
 another Spirits Within... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  okay this one you play a final fanasty character that you made up all by yoursellf but like i said 
 inthe other review for the ps2 and the only reason im oding this reveiw because i want to rewie 
 every game in my collection now like i sadi in the other one this was not a good idea think aobut 
 it in the real ff game you play a hero and save the worl all by yourself but in this one everyone 
 is a hero and sorta takes the fun out of that that you were a hero all by yourself against the 
 world in the real ff game now the gameplay i got to admit is fun but is just like every other one 
 out there with a ff twist in and thats is it and the graphics still are so amzing in this game 
 as always as they are in the ff world and the osund it was lacking in this game and somtime when 
 i was playing there would bew no sound for houres
  and that chartlies word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eternal15
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI although a good mmorpg to date is a great game to play with friends and even make 
 new friends. The game however is very time consuming. If you plan to play the game seriously make 
 sure you have a good 4-5 hours dedication each play time otherwise you might get frustrated that 
 your not achieving much. Although I think it's a great game I have seen bad things happen to people 
 who play it. Some suffer from the same addiction that has befallen many (search widows of everquest 
 on google..) with many other mmorpgs. That said it should be played in moderation.
  
  Now onto the good stuff! The game has an interesting battle system that allows you to party with 
 up to 6 players and then form alliances with up to 18 different players! The quests and missions 
 are an interesting addition to the game. Although some missiosn require skilled players and some 
 even full alliances of 18 people they really allow you to experience the story first hand instead 
 of through some other character. Your character is basically your identity on ffxi. The community 
 is varied and this is also good and bad sometimes (Those who have played the game understand what 
 i mean...)
  
  It doesn't have the top tier mmorpg elements such as world of warcraft but it's a good mmorpg none 
 the less. I'd reccommend if you have a lot of free time give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  In this game FF11 you pick a race and then your jobblack mage, red mage, white mage, warrior, thief. then 
 custimize with the face ect.., then starting town.
  
  Graphic arent the best but not bad once you adjust to them there fine.
  
  Gameplay well to 
 me at first wasnt that fun then about 45minutes later i got into it you get used to the battling (which 
 is really fun) you start doin quests ,makin freinds, and buying different weapons and gear.
  
  The game is pretty old but very populated (alot more then EQ1) starting town aint to populated 
 but u find alot of people goin on.
  The quests are relatively fun but get kinda but in a good way. 
  Auction house in game is kool 
 people in the towns are nice and helpful.
  Overall this is recommended to ne mmorpg player
  I played World of Warcraft , Guild Wars , Everquest 1 & 2 and RF online.
  heres ny ratings comparing 
 FF11 and the others
  
  FF better then WOW FF just seems alot more fun.
  
  FF is tied in my rank with guild wars.
  
  ff is just better then eq 1 & 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: han258
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I agree with many people that this game is kind of hard and challenging. But that is the point 
 why it's fun! I've experienced mmorpg's like WoW, Lineage II, Guild Wars, RO, etc. so I can find 
 out the differences. FFXI is a bit old but it is not outdated, its graphics is still in the top 
 range and the game is just getting better. This mmorpg is unlike other mmorpg where you can just 
 solo almost to the max level, this game actually wants you to party with other players in order 
 to do tons of quests, battles, and leveling. That is why I choose this as the best (in my own opinion) 
 mmorpg. If you can just do everything by yourself, then why don't you just get an offline game, 
 which is much better in everything. The game story is extremely well put, it's just like a movie, 
 but just put it into a in-game version. Besides leveling, game missions and storyline are what 
 worth playing too.
  
  As for language problem, it's actually not a big deal. In my friend list, almost all Japanese understand 
 English, and as for those who don't know English well, FFXI has a translation system which they 
 use pretty well.
  
  Now the game is at a really reasonable price.
  If you look for long, enjoyable mmorpg, get this.
  If you look for fast-soloing mmorpg, consider 
 other mmorpg's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzvvolf
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I believe this was the first MMORPG that forced you to team up, play for hours upon hours to get 
 anywhere, and then take it all away from you if you died. It showed us that companies didn't need 
 to have souls or know what people wanted to make an online game, just to slap a franchise name 
 on something and it would call to thousands of teenage fanboys to play, and play, and play. Most 
 of the time, the game is offline anyway for maintenance, and yet these kids still subscribe. Why 
 should they care? It's their parents' money.
  
  Like most MMOs today, the user base is extremely juvenile. Whether you actually want to party or 
 not is irrelevant, as you are forced to team up with 14 year-olds that can't spell, think, or press 
 a button at the right time. If someone leaves, you're stuck sitting around waiting to track down 
 another person. If you aren't at least level 60, this will take an eternity, if you even have a 
 party in the first place. Now, I would think that if you wanted to spend money waiting, you would 
 go to a theme park, a movie theater, or a restaurant on Friday night. Any of these activities would 
 be more worthwhile in the long-run than playing a broken game.
  
  To make a long rant short, this game was playable, albeit a reluctant play, when it was new and 
 there were plenty of new players. Now, everyone is high level, and no one wants to go through the 
 hell of Crawler's Nest again. It is now broken unless you buy a character that is high enough level, 
 or decide you want to limit yourself to the single job of Beastmaster. Since there are much better 
 choices out there (like WOW) , I suggest pretending this game isn't, and look forward to the release 
 of FFXII which will hopefully redeem this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sschacha
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is for the retired people, or for those who do not have a social life whatsoever. i played 
 this game for 2 years, ( i finaly quit) and in all honesty i feel like i wasted 2 years of my life. 
 by camping mobs for 4 hours, to looking for a party for 3, and with every death i loose half my 
 xp and lvl down. not fun if you ask me. sure the graphics are cool and all, but i dont enjoy them 
 when i am lying there dead asking random japanees people for raises. and thats another thing i 
 should bring up. half the people who play the game and 90% of the high lvl characters are Japs, 
 no effence to them or anyhting, its just really hard to play the game when you cant tell the person 
 to stop pulling when he speaks a different language. so for all of those who are out there druelling 
 to get this game, i emplore you not to. Go for World of Warcraft. best game ever i have found so 
 far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebecca_Girl_1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was my favorite game for along time but now i'm waiting for Final Fantasy XII to come 
 out for pc so I can play that because forom the looks and graphics of this game theres no doubt 
 it's going to stink and I love this game it's my favorite oc game for pc becaus eI play it everyday 
 and I've beaten it almost 16 times I'm inbetween the game but anyway if your looking for an awesome 
 game and you like games like fantasy violence or any violence than this game is definetly for you 
 and who hates this game i'm totally not going to be your freidn because you have to admit this 
 game rocks the series of final fantasy right?
  
  Please Reccomend My Reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Though the market is already saturated with massively multiplayer games, Final Fantasy 11 has managed 
 to distinguish itself through a tough love processextremely tough love. Despite incredible curves 
 kicking the average player in the teeth, the juice is worth the squeeze, so to speak.
  The story distinguishes itself straight off the bat, giving the player an amazing CGI cut scene 
 introducing the player to the plight facing Vanadiel; the beastmen invasion. Its now some time 
 after the initial war, and the main countries, Bastok, Windurst, and San Doria are in a cold war. 
 Fighting for influence in the many areas of the games, this translates to where you can set a respawn 
 point when you die, as well as the ability to take part in your nations conquest. This takes place 
 in completing missions and killing monsters, which give you conquest points to spend on items from 
 your nation. Though you start in one nation, you can move to another at any time you please, increasing 
 the content.
  The gameplay has many conventional formulas that work, but 11 adds some twists of its own. At any 
 point, you can change your job on your character. Dont like fighting as a warrior? Switch to a 
 white mage, or try a monk. This cures the ailment that most mmos suffer, in that when you max 
 your character, youve only got end game content, but with Final Fantasy, you move on to the next 
 job. Its a pretty cool convention, and it removes the necessity for creating multiple characters.
 
  The story is the greatest aspect of this game, as the missions you partake in actually make you 
 a part of the story rather than just an observer. Its engrossing to see story unfold around your 
 character, and the missions as well as the cut scenes are varied and entertaining. 
  In addition to English players on the servers, Japanese players compose a great deal of the population 
 as well. In order to bridge the language barrier, Square has designed one of the most effective 
 auto translators that make partying with other players a snap. Simply type a segment of what you 
 want to say like congr, press tab, and pick Congratulations from the list. Its brilliant, simple, 
 and quick, and in the heat of battle works extremely well. 
  The elements that distinguish this game and keep the fan base coming back for more had better be 
 good though, as this game is unbelievably brutal to anybody who doesnt have 3 hours to spare for 
 a gaming session. Passed level 10, you need a party, and a party is going to take anywhere from 
 5 minutes to an hour depending on your class. Generally damage-dealing classes take the longest, 
 and healers take the least amount of time. Making your own party is probably going to take you 
 as much time, as if your party doesnt have the right composition, its nearly impossible to effectively 
 grind, and thats exactly what it is. 
  Money is extremely difficult to accumulate at lower levels, as very few monsters drop money. The 
 main method of making money is farming items dropped by monsters, such as ores or leathers. These 
 items are in turn taken to the auction house and sold for whatever you can get for it. The system 
 is well implemented, but for someone starting out, the process is difficult and tedious. As a mage, 
 I found buying all of my spells impossible due to the limited amount of money I had.
  Traveling is also an extremely tedious process, as getting from one place to another can take up 
 to a half hour with a teleport from a high level friend or an expensive chocobo to help out. This 
 problem is compounded by the limited inventory space for your character, which forces you to take 
 trips to go sell your items and run all the way back.
  The game has an amazingly deep and complex crafting system, which gives the players the ability 
 to make almost every item in the game with components found throughout the world. The skills range 
 from the simple fishing, all the way to goldsmithing, which allows you to translate worthless ores 
 into valuable items. The problem is that so much time, money, and know how are required that it 
 becomes almost impossible to level your skill without a guide. 
  The graphics for a four-year-old game designed for the Playstation 2 are fantastic. The models 
 are crisp, the animations are fluid, and casting a simple and mundane spell like cure still looks 
 great. The monsters are treated to the same effort, with lizards, bats, cats, and wombats all looking 
 great, even after you smash their face in. The environments are incredibly detailed, with environmental 
 and day-night effects altering the look as well as the bestiary. 
  The sound is awesome, with the musical score highlighting the whole experience. Fighting even a 
 wee beastie treats you to an epic score, which places the backdrop for killing a sprout. On a personal 
 note, this is one of the few games where I havent turned off the music and sound effects because 
 theyre enjoyable long after youve heard them for the thousandth time. Theres no voice acting 
 in the game during the story scenes, but there really doesnt have to be. 
  This game is a terrible choice if youre not looking for a serious investment of time, but if youre 
 willing to put up with the incredible curves require to participate in the content, youll be rewarded 
 with one of the greatest experiences found online thats only getting better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  FFXI is amazing for so many reasons, not without its faults, but it does so much more than the 
 other MMORPGs.
  
  I started playing this game 2 years ago, and tho i have taken my breaks, ive always held it in 
 high regard. It takes a while to get used to, controls and enviroment, but you find yourself addicted 
 in the end.
  Its such a big world, so many areas, so much diversity!!! With so many job classes, everyone has 
 a different outfit! Though at early levels, its all the same, but once you are into it theres so 
 much to be done! Quests can be repeataive, but the missions are very intresting and rewarding! 
 Great and intresting story line, without a clue what is going to happen at all! Unless someone 
 ruins it for you lol.
  
  This game keeps you playing, downside to it though is the XP and skill-up for crafting GRIND that 
 is really really long and tedious, tho lately items were made to speed it up, it is really annoying 
 and what made me want to get out of there. But i want to get back into it to find out where the 
 story leads to!
  
  Graphics are pretty impressive, the waterfalls, beaches, storms and everything are really impressive. 
 tho before new lighting advances, but im sure the nxt online game will be better. Sound... is just 
 sound :)
  Gameplay.. very intense, but repetative at times, requires full concentration and true teamplay. 
 Which is the point of this MMORPG, its all teamplay, you cant really do ANYTHING on your own! as 
 everyone plays a part of the team. 
  You can spend hours just fighting, exploring, travelling on fast chocobos, or teleporting, running 
 your little businesses by helping people get around, or just helping people in general. Seeing 
 the intense landscapes, going on PvP if thats your thing, or just lazying around the town centers 
 talking! So much to do, but so little time! 
  
  Best thing? is defiently the community, ive met some amazing people on FFXI, everyones nice, and 
 its all pretty cool. you do get some annoying immature ones from time to time, but its all good 
 in the end. 
  
  Its a shame the game wasnt made more openminded, but i guess they made it so to keep people playing, 
 and not make it to easy to remove the challenge, cos thats what it is, a true challenge... that 
 requires a LOT of spare time!
  
  Anyway, this is defiently a game to be remembered. 
  
  But, if your like me, and a FF fan, this game has nothing to do with the FF series, apart from 
 the name and a few items, but its good non the less, just my other FF fan mates dont like it, lol. 
 
  
  Best MMORPG ive played yet, but not without its faults 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  There have been countless MMoRPGs out there that we have played that were all similar in one way 
 or another. Go to so and so, slay so and so mobs to finish this quest (excluding Ultima Online: 
 Renaissance) , obtained frivolous, easily beaten quests and return to finish... Etc. Final Fantasy 
 XI is revolutionary in that it requires really nothing of the sorts, or at the very least not in 
 such proportions as others do. Quest 1-2 you may have to acquire an orc axe from beating local 
 orcs, but such things are rare in their epic and difficult quest systems. 
  
  In fact, the only "Slay so and so" quest that they really have is to unlock the Dark Knight class 
 in shedding the blood of 100 monsters using the "666" delay sword. Final Fantasy XI does something 
 that is rarely seen in MMoRPGs to date, and challenges the player to work hard, make friends, and 
 dedicate themselves to each task they do. Each class in FFXI is unique from each other, aside from 
 the ability of getting sub jobs that allow other spells and abilities, and each jobs requires different 
 tactics in groups depending on the level of the job.
  
  The amount of quests in the game are plenty, not counting the main quests that you do to become 
 different ranks within your nation. The conquest system allows for each nation to take over every 
 territory in the game except the opposing nation's main cities, and the rewards for doing such 
 are vary from local sales of native items, to rare items sold by the Nation's guards.
  FFXI delivers a new "feeling" to even veteran MMoRPG players with its new combo renkai battle 
 system, tactics depending on classes in your party, quests and game play, and the telling of the 
 many stories in the game that NPCs have been apart of. Also, the main stories in the game are entertaining 
 as well, and make it as if your character was the sole main character of the world, especially 
 when you get to the first expansion content when the mysterious boy hands you the ancient amulet 
 that people are looking to obtain. Personally, I liked the cut scene with Bahamut when the expansion 
 content started for the first time.
  
  Obtaining the Artifact armor, or "Level 60" armor as other MMoRPGs sometimes refer to it as (Namely 
 World of Warcraft) , is an epic quest rather than mindless dungeon raiding. Each piece of armor 
 of each set portrays a story of sorrow or regret or sacrifice to allow it to come into your possession. 
 You need friends to acquire such armor, but the story, look, and power of the item is more than 
 adequate compensation for it. The stories of the Artifact armor that I have obtained (Samurai, 
 Red Mage, Paladin, Dragoon) , were interesting, with paladin being the most difficult and rewarding 
 story wise. With the some 212 days of game play that I currently have in the game since it was 
 release I still have around 85% of the game's content to go through and experience firsthand; namely 
 the artifact armors among others.
  
  Game play: The game play is incredibly complex in just about all terms. The battle system at higher 
 levels, and even lower levels depending on the classes, is very in-depth and demanding. Setting 
 up Renkais, maintaining hate, judging the schematics, or whatever you have to do depending on your 
 role and class in the party you enter into. The various quests that each class has, the optional 
 quests throughout the game, and the main quests themselves still keep me entertained and pop up 
 when I am not even expecting them to. The new expansion that will soon reach our shores will also 
 include an entirely new continent, more quests, more story, and three brand new classes that are 
 the Blue Mage, Corsair, and Puppetmaster. The ability to acquire a party is also top notch in this 
 game, as you can make it public all around the entire game world so that people can contact you 
 without you spamming channels obnoxiously to get help or a party. Also, lag is virtually non existent 
 in this game, with very few if not any bugs or glitches to speak of or to notice while playing 
 the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty good on MMoRPG standards, without lagging someone's 
 computer needlessly. The areas are relatively diverse from one another with the exception of the 
 deserts in the game, but even then you notice a large difference in what is present. The water 
 animation is adequate if you have an up-to-date video card and driver to be able to show it, as 
 well. If you do not, however, it will just seem to stand still and do nothing.
  
  Sound: The music and sound in the game is actually pretty nice in the game, with new music in each 
 new town you enter and area you explore in the world. Even the battle music varies depending on 
 the area, as higher level areas tend to have different music than lower level areas seem to have. 
 Everything seems to be pretty much in order in this area.
  
  Value: The value of this game is pretty much top notch, and offers many different things to the 
 genre in terms of ideas. If one has the patience, maturity, and skill to get to high levels with 
 the help of friends the experience this game delivers is second to none.
  
  If people are wondering or questioning my MMoRPG history I will be put down the games I have 100+ 
 hours in playing and have adequate experience in.
  
  Ultima Online: Reniassance.
  EverQuest
  Graal Online.
  Dark Age of Camelot
  Final Fantasy XI
  PlanetSide (PvP)
  Eve 
 Online
  World of WarCraft
  Everquest II
  
  Most Recent:
  Rising Force Online. (PvP)
  Dungeons and Dragons.
  
  Also, I'm keeping my eye on Ragnarok 
 2 Online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is one of those games where it appears that there is very little middle ground on the oppinions 
 of the players, you either love it or you hate it. I personally like the game but there are factors 
 within that stopped me from playing.
  
  If it were not for the title there is no way of knowing this is a Final Fantasy game what so ever 
 it simply doesn't have the feel of the other Final Fantasy titles in the series not even remotely. 
 This is a shame as I am a huge fan of the series and had high hopes for this one, alas those hopes 
 were not realised.
  
  Upon purchase of the game installation took well over an hour and I dont have a low end system, 
 then setting up the account is the worst I have ever seen for any MMORPG it is very long winded 
 and rediculously over the top and the full process will take you well over an hour even when you 
 know what your doing.
  
  Once you finally get into the game you are presented with the strangest control system that I have 
 ever known for a PC game but knowing this is ported from the PS2 I was percistant and once you 
 do get used to it the system does work very well.
  
  One major thing to note, if you want to play this game with a friend ensure you both begin at the 
 same time as you can not join any world at will you are randomly thrown into one of the 32 world 
 servers. To make it so another will join you on the same server you require a World Pass which 
 you purchase in game with in game money and you must give your friend the 10 digit world pass code 
 or they will not get into the same world as you.
  
  Once you are finally through all of that and you begin to play the game you will notice the game 
 runs quite slugish and slow and not through bad system performance just from how the game engine 
 runs. This can be annoying at times as it can take a while to get to where you want or need to 
 go and also leveling in this game is a lengthy affair even throwing down the gauntlet to EverQuest 
 for leveling speed.
  
  You can not solo play this game either, very quickly you will see that you need a well ballanced 
 party at all times to get anywhere in this game and taking note that upon death there is a XP penalty 
 it can be quite frustrating when you get into a party and there is one idiot getting you all killed.
 
  
  This game is an aquired taste and apart from a few small things like the presence of Chocobo's 
 and Airships it simply doesn't feel or play like you would expect a Final Fantasy game to, personally 
 I would strongly recomend buying this one with caution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krow_xxvii
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  From the very first time I played this game, starting in December of 2003, I was hooked. I described 
 the game, very broadly, as "Grand Theft Auto 3 meets Lord Of The Rings." This is true in some aspects, 
 it's a full 3D environment, you can interact with nearly everything you see. You cannot, on the 
 other hand, KILL everything you see, like in Grand Theft Auto.
  
  The graphics are great, not nearly as pretty as WoW, but the gameplay and substance make up for 
 that.
  
  The questing isn't nearly as tedious as other MMORPGs that i've played, which puts this game at 
 the top of my favorites list.
  
  Interacting with so many people, helping and being helped by so many players, and the overall social 
 aspect of the game is just amazing. No game I have played, to date, can even compare to the social 
 aspect of FFXi. It's unbeatable in that field.
  
  The motivation to keep me playing is incedible. There are so many things in-game that make me want 
 to keep signing back on. And the fact that I can change jobs, without losing my overall progress 
 in the game, is just supreme over any other MMORPG out there.
  
  Then the user interface. I love it. It reminds of the older FF games, but modernized for MMO capabilities. 
 It is extremely easy to navigate once you get the buttons down, and making your own macros is just 
 an incredible asset in this game.
  
  I'm addicted to this game. And I hope many more people join the ranks. Now with the release of 
 the 360 version, I'm seeing a lot of new faces, and I welcome them all.
  
  Long days and pleasent nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhacker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  First of all, I think the merit of these reviews should always be questioned when you see a negative 
 one. I just read a review of FFXI where the reviewer only played for 10 hours. He probably never 
 got past the Valkurm Dunes (the first real party area) . I doubt he was ever even in a party!
  
  First of all, you -cannot- lay judgment on a game that you have barely played. And yes, for 
 Final Fantasy XI, 10 hours is nothing. I'm here to tell you the good and the bad of this game, 
 and I'm going to be as honest as I can. As an owner of City of Heroes, City of Villains, World 
 of Warcraft, Guild Wars, and Final Fantasy XI (for PC and PS2) , I think my opinion is worth something.
 
  
  -Graphics-
  
  I don't know who said that WoW graphics were better than FFXI graphics, but they were crazy. This 
 game is absolutely beautiful. It's graphics are very cinematic, with wonderful 3D rendering. 
 
  
  -Leveling-
  
  You start out at Level 1, just like in all MMOs that I've played. You start out with basic equipment 
 and basic attacks. This is probably the most boring part of the game. You most likely don't know 
 anyone, and you might have 1 magic ability if you're lucky. From here, everything picks up. You 
 get more and more abilities, weapon skills, and magic, which must be learned from scrolls. At roughly 
 level 10, the need for a party becomes necessary. You'll be spending the majority of your grind 
 time in parties (unless you're a beastmaster) , so you'd best learn your job's role in battle.
 
  
  Honestly, the grind time (time it takes to level) in FFXI isn't as bad as it is made out to be 
 by WoW fanboys. There are now new items in the game that increase the amount of EXP earned in battle, 
 and they help considerably.
  
  -Job Classes-
  
  There are many, many job classes, and more coming with the new expansion on the way, but you can 
 only start out as one of six - Warrior, Monk, Thief, White Mage, Black Mage, Red Mage. All the 
 classes are very balanced, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. Even though the starting 
 six are considered basic job classes, they are still just as respectable as the advanced job classes, 
 such as Beastmaster, Dragoon, Samurai, Ninja, etc.
  
  Another really unique thing is that you can change job classes at any time during the game. Tired 
 of being a black mage? Switch to warrior! It almost eliminates the need for more characters, which 
 cost $1.00 more per month per character.
  
  -Missions and Quests-
  
  Unlike in other MMOs, missions on FFXI often take a lot of time to complete. They increase your 
 rank of your home country, giving you more priveleges. One mission in particular, known very widely 
 as 2-3, will take a few hours to complete and involves traveling half-way around the world.
  
  Quests, on the other hand, are usually fairly quick, giving you small rewards and increases 
 to your fame, which gives you priveleges and access to other more rewarding quests.
  
  -Crafting-
  
  I cannot review this too much because I am a very low-level crafter, but the 
 system is very deep. Crafting takes a lot of time, and a lot of money. But once you get good at 
 it, you've got it made.
  
  -Story-
  
  One of the greatest things about this game is the storyline; it is beautifully done. It's not half-done 
 like in other MMOs. As you progress through the game and the missions, you get involved deeper 
 and deeper with the world of Vana'diel. Cutscenes help accomplish this and make the game more cinematic.
 
  
  -In Conclusion-
  
  If you're looking for a stable, well done online game, with a cinematic flair and a little bit 
 of Final Fantasy kick, and don't mind spending a bit of time, I encourage you to try this game 
 out. As far as MMOs go, it is very affordable (The game is $20 by itself, and with the expansion 
 only $30) and $12.95 per month. If you don't have the time to commit to the game, at the very least 
 10 hours a week, I think you would not find this game very enjoyable. This game is an underrated 
 bit of online fun in an age where mindless cynical WoW fanboys run rampant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziabatsu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, FFXI, the first online final fantasy installment of the series. Ok, i'm going to go through 
 this best I can while keeping it short at the same time.
  
  Alot of "Final Fantasy" fans will say that FFXI is a bad game, some of the claims may be legit, 
 but not many. FFXI is NOT like other final fantasy game's. You walk around a map, see a monster, 
 choose to attack it or not, and just like in the FF games, you end up in a party ALOT and can't 
 do much of anything if you don't party. But why even play a game online if you don't plan on playing 
 with other people? Especially when a game is based around PvE and Quests? Alot of things can get 
 people down in this game. Leveling, looking for a party, hard quests, gil farming (which due to 
 gold farmers is a pain in the a**) . But the quests are fun, the PvE is great (if you let it be, 
 ex dont play to power level) , and looking for a party gives you time to do thing's like farm/craft 
 etc. Now on to the main review.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay takes some getting use to for PC and PS2 users, you may see alot of complaints about 
 them, but hoenstly, I've never had a problem with them, and once you get use to them, you can do 
 alot of things using just 1 hand. The menu's themselves may be kind of annoying to navigate at 
 first, but you get use to it aswell, and for easier battle's make macro's . Ex CTRL+1 = Cure.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are really good. I hear some negitave points on this, and I really don't 
 see why. The graphics are still some of the best out there as far as MMO's go. They are smooth, 
 and everything just fits nicely in this game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is nice when there is sound. Alot of places you find yourself in for hours will have 
 no music at all, just some windy noises which is kind of a bummer because when there is music it's 
 really nice... Except for Sandoria... I don't like scottish music, lol.
  
  Value:
  Well... This game is kind of odd in the replay value, as in it makes you replay it, lol. When you 
 get a subjob you have to level a new class as if it were level 1. If you don't do this, you wont 
 get a party... easily. But It's really not bad once you blow past the lv 10-20 parties, they can 
 be full of unexperianced players making it hard to get things done, and also quite a few deaths 
 along the way. But the game really is pretty fun to replay if you don't totally hate leveling a 
 character. It's fun to meet new people, party up, and adventure a bit.
  
  Overall it's a great game. It's the only mmorpg since Ultima Online and Anarchy Online that's kept 
 me around so long. The quests are great, just as good as any FF story, the PvM is fun, and the 
 community can be great or you can hate it equally... But I suggest this game to anyone. The game 
 is does take alot of time though, but if you don't mind that, it's a great game to get into. Now.. 
 if only I could find out where these gil sellers live so I can beat the s**t out of them... Lol. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hershey07
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is the only MMORPG in the series. Some fans were disappointed and some fans were 
 very impressed. 
  
  This game can literally just steal you're life cause you will be playing this game 24/7, it is 
 very addicting! The community in the game is great, some people can be jerks but not all. The leveling 
 in this game since release date has improved but it is still a pain to level. You will just notice 
 yourself leveling forever.
  
  FFXI can last you about a year or even more but it ain't free, it costs $12.95 each month, and 
 $1 per character. I thought the $1 fee charge was ridiculous. But that does not stop others from 
 playing this game. 
  
  Overall Final Fantasy XI is just a decent MMO you can play, but don't play it if you're not a patient 
 person because this game is very time consuming. If you want a decent MMO grab FFXI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vangaren
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game is what I would believe to be at the height of MMORPG quality, I have played countless 
 others including: Everquest 2, WoW, Guild Wars, and DAOC, and none of them can seem to match up 
 to this game's sheer playablility and friendliness to noob players to an MMORPG game. You can spend 
 countless hours on this game and acomplish only a small portion of it's true design. The combat 
 system is very fun to use, though I do say if you're are more into a hack and slash constant control 
 type MMO I'd recommend Guild Wars or one of the others I've listed, but if you're used the traditional 
 style of the FF games, and like to have a little more plan and strategy to your attacks then FF 
 wins there hands down. The environments in this game are beautifully set up and very detailed, 
 although the sky does tend to create lines across the screen sometimes.. : (. There are many jobs 
 to choose from as well and more coming with the new expansion "Treasures of the Aht Uhrgan". These 
 include: Warrior, Black Mage, White Mage, Monk, Ranger, Beastmaster, Red Mage, Blue Mage, Corsair, 
 Dark Knight, Paladin, Thief, Summoner, Ninja, Samurai, and Dragoon. The crafting system in the 
 game is very fun to use and allows you to make very useful items. Overall I believe this game is 
 addicting enough to keep you playing for years and it's constant updates keep adding more content 
 such as quests, missions, areas, and jobs. One of the best things about it is that you are constantly 
 learning how to play it. Basically if you're a fan of the series or not, this game is above all 
 one of the best MMORPGs on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ssouljah
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  After years of soul searching I came to the realization I am a Gamer nothing more nothing less... 
 I sat at my high School Comp Lab for hours instead of going to class... I spent my Senior Year 
 wasting away at the computer waiting watch and discovering more about Vana'dael and when it came 
 out me and my friend skipped school and set it up.. Right as we got into the world we were impressed 
 the graphics the people the sound... I was so amazed we played 24 hours straight... and then passed 
 out.. But, After months of time leveling we started to uncover the story and the world unraveled 
 2 years later we still come back to FFXI and although I'm a 75 Samurai I still enjoy killing the 
 random enemies encountered... This game can't really have a replay value its a never ending world 
 always changing and reforming... I have met so many new people and This game truely meets Square 
 Enix standards but, I say But there should have never been a number placed on this game FF is a 
 world to your own an experence you take in this game leaves you sleep deprived and pale as a ghost 
 mistaken for a vampire cause of your compliction and the fact that your only break when in a exp 
 party is to grab a red bull and crapp your brains out after you chug it... If I were a talking 
 to a person looking to buy this I would ask them 2 questions 1 do you love your girlfriend? 2 Do 
 have a Job? Cause say goodbye to sex and money cause gil buying and hours without sleep waiting 
 for a party is in your future... All in all stunning sound and beautiful graphics drive you into 
 the rich story line that only SquareEnix can deliver... After years of waiting You can say that 
 FFXI lives up to the hype but, falls short in compare to its predancestors... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnar136
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for probably a year. I found i just loved the beauty of the game, the friendliness 
 of the community and my linkshell, and the feeling of acomplishment. And what a feeling of acomplishment 
 this was. The one thing i found the game lacks is the ability to just turn on your pc and play 
 for like an hour. Not only does soloing become practically impossible after level 10, but groups 
 are a necessity. These groups are also extremely hard to come by at times. Because a group requires 
 such specific players (tight level difference of 1 to 2 levels, a healer, a tank, and DD) it can 
 take hours to find a party or at least one that actually earns you expirience. Thats the thing 
 though, the entire point of the game is level grinding. Quests are too few and far between and 
 the main storyline requires you to be higher levels just to survive to see the pretty good cutscenes. 
 Death penalties are also pretty high being about an eighth of your expirience wich probably took 
 you an hour to earn in the first place. I found what kept be going for all 45 levels i lasted was 
 the community. My linkshell was great and extremelly helpful. When you finally do find a party 
 after an hour fighting can be very entertaining. I think what really kept me going was the desire 
 to be a higher level so i could get to do the better content of the game. In the end, i had to 
 give up the game do to school and feel better off without it though i still do miss the community 
 a bit. It is a friendly addictive game that could use some much needed improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mathias1869
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I was very hesitant to step into the MMORPG scene. Since the quality of the game really depends 
 on the community and the development team, I wanted to start out with an MMORPG which was sure 
 to be around for a while and one that would have a dedicated fan base. I soon narrowed it down 
 between two games, either FFXI now or WOW when it came out (this decision was made about 2 years 
 ago, long before WOW) . Not wanting to wait, I entered into the world of FFXI, and a little more 
 then 2 years later, I am still playing on a fairly regular basis.
  
  Gameplay: FFXI is not too innovative, it does what almost every other MMORPG has done or will do 
 in the future. It's strength is that it does it very well, and I think offers more of it then what 
 is included in other games. At the time of it's launch, no major bugs were present, and there was 
 already a large community playing, along with many things to do. It's almost too many things to 
 do, and when you first start out you will be spending a lot fo time just getting familiar with 
 the environment. I think it was about 7 hours before I actually entered into any type of combat. 
 The fact that you can do everything possible in the game with one character only adds to how overwhelmed 
 you feel in the beginning. 
  When you actually do start fighting, you will be fighting worms and rabbits. Get used to them, 
 you'll be killing these things throughout the entire game. You probably won't start out in any 
 parties until about level 10, which is good since it will be about this time that you grow tired 
 of the tedium of killing monsters by yourself. I'm not going to say that this game eliminates the 
 xp crunch between levels, because it doesn't. You will be spending a lot of time fighting small 
 monsters with others. However, it is these parties which will remind you why you are still playing 
 this game. As you join and fight with different groups of people, you will be changing your strategy 
 and playing style for each one (even more emphasis is placed on strategy the further you play) . 
 Because of this, you will need to experiment with different combinations of jobs, equipment, and 
 races, and will find that you soon need to learn your niche or you will not get anywhere. This 
 took me a while to find, a ridiculously large amount of time, and I'm surprised I didn't stop altogether. 
 However, I eventually figured it out, and I doubt it will take you as long as it took me, so don't 
 worry about it so much. Once you do all this (which will probably take a couple days so don't give 
 up) , you will find a very enjoyable game. Add in PVP, BCMN battles, the campaign's, a slew of crafting 
 options, an extensive fishing system, a stable and well-observed economic system, and the insurance 
 that the development team really watches and listens to the community, and you find a game that 
 is fun to play every so often, if it doesn't suck you in completely.
  
  Graphics: They look nice, and that's all their meant to do. The game does a good job at handling 
 large amount of characters on the screen at once, which you will often encounter in large cities. 
 However, nothing spectacular here.
  
  Sound: The problem with the sounds and music in this game is that you will here them so much it 
 will make you sick. I play with the sound off, which is a shame since it is pretty good, but I 
 have just heard it too much. Unless you enter a new area in the game, you will probably be doing 
 the same.
  
  Value: I would make this higher if I could. This game is HUGE, I cannot stress this enough. You 
 could count the people who have experienced everything in it on one hand. I have been playing for 
 500+ hours and have only really seen about 1/12 of the game (and this is a liberal estimate) . The 
 major updates, there are about 4 each year, add enough to last you until at least the next two 
 updates have already been released. Even though the fees are slightly higher then other MMORPG's, 
 you get a lot of bag for your buck here. 
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I rate this high because I play and enjoy FFXI, and do not think that the other 
 4 categories give justice to the quality of the game. Since this is a final fantasy game, you can 
 expect it to be around for a LONG time. The newest expansion, treasures of aht urhgan, looks be 
 the best one yet. I will suggest you only start playing if you have some kind of group you know 
 in game, as it helps to have the support. Otherwise, I fully support this game, and have been content 
 with it far longer then what I expected. Maybe WOW is better, but I don't care, this has given 
 me more then I ever wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer3X
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been a big fan to the Final Fantasy series since the hey day of FF1 on the NES. Every game 
 in the series is excellent and revamped the genre in their own way (except for FF X-2 & Mystic 
 Quest) . This game is no different due to the fact its the 1st FF online.
  
  This game presents tons of depth. You start out by selecting your race from a Hume to the Elf. 
 Afterwards you select what nation you will be from... Windurst, Sand 'O Rian, or Bastok. After 
 that you select from a slim choice of jobs to level and advance through the game. When you reach 
 a certain level and meet the requirements you get to take on sub jobs which is a secondary job 
 combined with your main job to further strenghten your stats by having the power of both... somewhat. 
 The sub job is usually no more than half the level of your main job so you have to pick another 
 job you want to sub and level it as your main until the required level is met to place it as your 
 sub. Later, once you aquire level 30 or higher you can undertake the advance job quest opening 
 up even more jobs to level at your content. Not a bad way to keep you occupied for months at a 
 time.
  Graphics and story isn't too bad either but depending on what order you take on certain quests 
 the story can get confusing.
  
  Two bad things to note about this game.... you will find that you can't do nothing past level 10 
 without help from other players. You are basically at the mercy of others but their are usually 
 a ton of players online playing that will be more than willing to help..... sometimes!! The 2nd 
 bad thing is the gil making process and overpriced equipment, especially at higher levels. Making 
 funds in this game takes too long considering a Level 57 Scorpion Harness cost 16million gil and 
 the best I found in making funds is around 30,000 gil an hour. You find that levelin is easier 
 and faster than making gil which is completely unbalanced. Also the presence of gil sellers really 
 ruin the experience for true online gamers. They steadily camp the Notorious Monsters who drop 
 the best items and equipment just to make a profit in gil and sell the gil at outrageous prices (in 
 real money) to the common gamer. Not a good thing in which I believe Square shouldn't allow such 
 scenes to take place.
  
  Overall this game isn't bad but there are other MMORPG available a lot better. If you decide to 
 give this one a shot I reccommend the PC version which is better in every way compared to the PS2 
 and X-box 360 Versions and its cheaper in cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy has been released for few years now. This is a game that changes with time, but Gamespot 
 have't been updating reviews, so I'll update it for them.
  
  Final Fantasy has gone through minor changes throughout the years. The most disappointing change 
 would be the second expansion pack. The biggest problem with the expasion pack would be that to 
 explore the areas you paid money to go to, you need to work hours and hours of time on the missions 
 to finally have the access to them. The missions are quite difficult as it requires many people 
 and cordination of that many people, but once you get through you will have access to new areas 
 and certain items that can only be acquired by going to those areas. 
  
  That is quite disappointing and the most disappointing of all is lack of new jobs. However, that 
 is about to change with the new expasion pack that is scheduled. 
  
  Jobs would be another problem Final Fantasy XI would have. There is lack of balance with the jobs 
 as FFXI is requires highly planned party in order to level. A party consists of 6 members and any 
 less or more would really hurt the pace of getting experiance points. To have successful party, 
 the game requires the party to have following types of job. One tank, three damage dealers, one 
 healer, and one support job. However, there is only two jobs within the game that can be the tank, 
 the job that requires you to take hits for the party, those two jobs are ninja and paladin. Also 
 support jobs lacks too with bard and redmage being only support jobs. Summoners can be support 
 jobs too but they arent very effecient at it and a redmage or bard is really required from mid 
 levels to high levels for their ability to have the party regain their MP. Healers are whitemages. 
 Redmage and summoners can replace them but it will be less effective without their party protection 
 spells. So we have five jobs that covers three members of the parties. while there are blackmages, 
 dark knights, monks, warriors, rangers, theif, samurai, dragoon, and sometimes summoners to fill 
 three spots of the party.
  
  what this means is damage dealers are less in demands. If you pick one of those jobs other than 
 blackmage which currently with the new update is highest damage dealer, you will have tough time 
 getting a party. Being Darknight means you might not have a chance to level or gain any experiance 
 points within a day. There might be weeks without getting a party. This is definitely not a game 
 for people who would play moderately. This game requires you to have certain amount of commitment.
 
  
  Also having to require such demanding party set up also means it requires every player in that 
 party to have good equipments for the party to be successful. If one of them lacks skill or equipments, 
 the party is very likely to suffer in terms of gaining experiance points. In recent days, everything 
 in FFXI is quite expensive. It also means making money is easier too because whatever you sell 
 is that much more, but compare to what you make, the price of items you need would be unbelieveably 
 expensive. Sometimes, the rate the price of the item you want rising is much faster than the rate 
 you are making money. This might be by far the most frustrating aspect of the game. 
  
  However, all these end up being the charm of the game. The party set up is quite frustrating and 
 the option of playing solo is out of question, but because of that you get to meet more people 
 and the experiance of that becomes much more enjoyable than other MMORPGs. The requirement of party 
 needing to act as a team makes the players rely on each other. In the end, the party ends up being 
 more satisfying than other MMORPGs. Also the balance of each jobs are fairly good. There are certain 
 advantage that some jobs have such as red mage who can kill high level monsters on their own, but 
 other jobs like paladin are in demand because they are needed to tank for even higher level monsters. 
 In the end it finds a way to have certain balance. 
  
  Also because of such requirements of teamwork in this game to get ANYTHING done, often the LS (FFXi 
 verion of clan sort of) becomes more like family in most cases. FFXI play mechanic itself just 
 helps to bring people closer together. 
  
  The graphic of the game is dated, but the style of their design allows it to look prettier than 
 it is. There are interesting looking monsters and characters here and it wouldn't hurt your eyes 
 to look at them. 
  
  The music is subpar compare to other Final Fantasy games, but definitely higher quaility than 90% 
 of the other games out there. This is SquareEnix product and the production value is upthere with 
 other game of theirs.
  
  This isn't fast paced game, it requires alot of timing, not just constantly bashing on keyboard. 
 There is a need to pace yourself and it requires alot of paitiences. If you lack those qualities, 
 perhaps you can refined those qualities by playing this game.
  
  There aren't many MMORPG that is quite hardcore as Final Fantasy XI. Lineage II comes close but 
 even that game doesn't match when it comes to requiring so much players to come together as a team. 
 Such simple thing as leveling up isn't so simple in FFXI. However, the reward in the end is fairly 
 good. There is so much to do and due to the difficulty, it is unlikely that a person will get it 
 done in their lifetime. Still, the joy of becoming high level to help the lower level players are 
 satisfying. The people you meet and bond as a team is another great aspect of the game. Also meeting 
 Japanese people are also fun too. In the end the ones who stick by this game long enough will enjoy 
 and those who couldn't will forget this game quickly. I say about 6 months of playing reguarly 
 will determine if you like this game or not. Anything shorter would mean you saw 1/100th of the 
 game itself and wouldn't know what you missed out.
  
  If you are fan of MMORPG who wants a game that makes you interact with others more, this is definitely 
 the game for you. If you like to be a loner, this you should look the other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Reaper
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is acually pretty fun. But lets have a look at all the most annoying problems that people 
 "get used to"
  
  One of the problems is that the chat box takes up half your screen, even though you could set it 
 lower, it still gets annoying. 
  The music plays the same things over and over and over and over again. It gives me a headache.
 
  The combat is slow, It is very unrealistic, If you attack something, it will attack you back... you 
 willl wait around 5-more seconds before you attack again. You hit it, you draw back your weapon... 
 stand there for a bit, then attack again. Unlike other mmos such as WoW and Lineage2, you're in 
 fast pace battles.
  
  The next thing that realllyy pissed me off were the menus. Most mmos have a bag for your Inventory 
 at the bottom right hand corner of your screen. Or wherever. But FFXI refuses to provide this convinience, 
 You have to scroll through atleast 40 menus (exagerated of course) before you select what you want. 
 Instead of having your equipment and items in an inventory. They split them up to either give you 
 a hard time, or make it easier (not sure how) . 
  
  Equiping your character... most mmos have a icons for the place where the equipment is supposed 
 to go (ex: Helmet for head gear, gloves for hands, boots for legs) In FFXI they're blocks with 
 words that say head, body, hands, legs. sometimes you might click the wrong one while trying to 
 equip gear. In most mmos, you click the gear you want to put on and it automaticly 
  equips it. But in FFXI you have to go to a block and slowley select your gear.
  
  There are 
 so many look-alikes in the game. Wearing the same armor same everything. There is no pvp what so 
 ever... or maybe there is and i havennt found out yet, but everything else is pve. 
  
  About the combat again, The menus are such a pain in FFXI... in most mmorpgs, you get QUICKBARS 
 where you can just select the abilities you want, sure there are key-bindings. But what about the 
 people without USB keyboards? but anyways, instead of having quickbars for easy access, FFXI forces 
 you to select "abilities" Job abilities, weapon abilities, magic. (I might have forgot to name 
 some) once you select your abilities or magic, You will find many many abilities you slowley scroll 
 down and select what you want, press back and back to the battle and you realize you're already 
 at half health, then Too late you're dead....
  
  The "TP" What the hell was the point of the TP!?!? On weapons skills, you use TP. TP is the blue 
 bar that gains when you hit your target or when your target hits you. Once you get enough TP you 
 get to use your weapon ability. THis is what usually happens: You start the battle, you have around 
 60 TP, You want to use weapons ability on your target... but you dont have enough TP, so you wait 
 for it... then your target is dead, and you have almost no health... and your TP will drop. and it 
 starts all over.
  
  NOW HEALING WAS VERY VERY ANNOYING!
  You have to kneel down to heal, this takes a while... because you're just kneeling. I dont think 
 you can gain any health by standing. So what you do is grab something to eat from the kitchen and 
 come back. Maybe take a bathroom break. Most mmos let you heal while standing, slowley. In lineage 
 2, you heal faster while sititng and a bit slower while standing and running. In WoW, you heal 
 slowley while standing, but it doesnt make much difference if you sit, so you eat. It takes atleast 
 7 seconds to heal in both games. In FFXI it takes 2 mins.
  
  Questing -- Not knowing what level quests and missions are sometimes, you feel scared to take the 
 risk of dying while on the job. If they told you what level is recommended for these missons or 
 quests it would make FFXI life alot easier. instead of having to run to your destination for an 
 hr and realize its too high. 
  
  Grinding ---you level up by grind, grind yes grind the horror word for most people, ill tell you 
 that it is slow, and un-exciting. Unlike grind in L2, Lineage 2 has quite a bit of grind, but alteast 
 its quick exciting combat with loud noises and screams. In FFXI its "THUMP".........5 seconds "SLICE"....
 
  and it takes forever. You have to "CHECK" the monsters around to see if they are an equal level. 
 Which doesnt take too long, but by the time you check, somebody else might have taken your monster. 
 Most MMOS show level, or color for example (Red is hard, blue is easy, grean is medium, yellow 
 is warning) but instead, "Checking" says "Decent challenge, incredibly tough, tough, easy prey" 
 i have to admit it is pretty cool, but its something that i dislike.
  
  THIS IS MY LAST THING... i have more, but its 1:15 am and im tired
  
  If youre to lazy to read 
 the manual, what they do at the beginning of the game is give you an adventure coupon. Most MMOS 
 give you a good idea of whats going on. but in FFXI, they give you a coupon, get you to take it 
 to somebody, and you're on your own. Most newbies would think "... ok so now what?..." because they're 
 expecting more... but FFXI just throws you into the world in 25 seconds of gameplay. 
  
  The chat box again, Most mmos have seperate chatboxes, or a different window while talking to an 
 npc. most of the time, you will find yourself asking, "What is the npc saying?" The NPC talks in 
 your chatbox. making it difficult to tell whether its the player saying it, or the npc. if you're 
 near a crouded area, it will constantly go up, making it hard to read. Once it hits the top of 
 the chatbox, there is a small window over your chatbox, showing what the npc said. which is great, 
 but wouldnt it be easier to have an alternate window!?...
  
  There are so many things thrown at you all at once at the beginning in the game, you dont know 
 whats going on, making it hard to learn.
  
  Some people say that this game has a "Nice" community. But i think there is NO such thing. I see 
 people saying "BASTOK OWNS YOU!" and "SCREW YOU NEWB" all the time. Sometimes when im fighting 
 a creature and im losing, people would wait until i DIE so they can claim it for themselves....
 
  
  Not saying there isnt any nice people, there are some people that buff you on their time when you 
 respawn somewhere, there are people that will help you in need, give you free items and such. But 
 i think thatas pretty rare.
  
  And what about the People taking the game a little too far? They start talking a whole new language 
 "Thy Knight claims you thy enemy from Sand d'oria. I shall smite the with thy sword of light!" 
 ... like cmon, when i check you. I see you're holding a bronze sword with a 1 defence shield and 
 a leather vest...
  Yeah its a RP game... but do you see anybody RPIng? ... no, instead you make yourself sound wierd. 
 IF more ppl Rped then it would be fine....
  
  And the people that are totally LIFELESS? I see people that ask others to have SEX with them... you 
 know, its OK to think female characters are hott and sexy... but asking them to cyber? Now that 
 is wrong. Then thers the nerds that try to be "Gangster" and pick up languages such as "Yo, homie, 
 and crib" .. They could be acually "gangster" in real life... and talk like that, or they are onlyu 
 talking like that because its their only way being cool in a world to themselves and away from 
 real looks.
  
  There are so many problems with this game, that there is hardly any time to spot any glitches in 
 the game... i havent seen any. there are probably quite a few, but are they noticable? 
  
  There are a few great things about this game, such as the graphics and ....
  Graphics....  
 menu animations are pretty cool. making money isnt all too hard....
  
  Dont get me wrong, the Game is very addicting... well it grows on you. 
  
  
  THE END.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJ2828
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  First, this game isn't a complete loss it just has some drawbacks. The first one being the cost 
 of this game is higher then most other games of this type. You will have to have additional characters 
 to hold items that you will need later on (mule characters) . Most games allow you to just create 
 more characters not FFXI you get one character for each account for free you will need additional 
 accounts at 1$ per account for others. Second, the economy is very bad. Inflation is out of control 
 in the game. To much seperation between really good items and not so good stuff for what you pay. 
 This is probably because the game lacks a real solid community base like other games like world 
 of warcraft. Third, soloing for exp of any type is impossible. You have to be in a party to level 
 for most jobs. So, choose your job wisely you may want to consider leveling up most of your jobs 
 at a similar pace if you always want to find a party or play as a healer job like whm they always 
 seem to be in need. Lastly, rank is a bit of a joke it is simply about who you know and not always 
 about what you know. Play if you wish but there are better games out there imo. Cya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thamer1
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is a good game and it's one of the best online games i have ever played and it showed a whole 
 new way of RPG online then any other game .... but the game lately was getting from bad to worse 
 and the inside world of the game is the same every time you go to another world the same colors 
 the same ground the same everything there's nothing new in the game i've played it for two and 
 half years and it got bored when i got a high lvl in the game not like the other games it gets 
 fun when you get a high lvl ... also the prices in the game are overrated and there is no way you 
 will be getting money so fast ..... this is only my review if you wanna play the game i won't stop 
 you .... but belive me dont waste your money . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reuce
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy is in no way a Final Fantasy. Although it includes many popular FF traditions such 
 as Cid, Chocobo's, and much of the same magic, it does not bring to the table the same thrilling 
 plots and storylines it's previous counterparts have. It does not make you cry, it does not make 
 you laugh, and it does not make you feel for the characters. There is no voice acting for the NPC's, 
 and the cinema scences are somewhat bland and less dramatic. However, what FFXI lacks in it's plot/storyline, 
 it excesses in immersive gameplay and tons of quests and optional games to play. Ballista, for 
 example, is a game that players of certain level groups and qualifications join together into two 
 teams to try and find "petras" and throw them into goals to score points, all the while fighting 
 other players. Another game is Sky, a battlefield of sorts where players fight gods far abovethe 
 earth in the, you guessed it, sky. Not to mention other activities like BCNM, garrison, conquest, 
 and Notorious Monsters. However a downside to this is that many (if not all) of these games require 
 you to be level 20. Sadly, leveling is not as easy as it should be. Finding a party to level with 
 can be long and tedious, and being in a party after awhile gets mundane and boring. And the games 
 75 levels and 15 available jobs, it can take a LONG time to be able to do anything fun at all. 
 All in all Final Fantasy XI is a very good MMORPG. If you like constand action, and a pulling plot, 
 this game is NOT for you. However if you enjoy playing with other people and a willing to be patient 
 and diligent while leveling your character, you will surely be pleased with all Final Fantasy XI 
 has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amineve
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I would consider it just the same as the ones before it.
  
  But the multiplayer changes everything.
  
  The story is A+ , one of the best but theres a big 
 problem...
  
  It takes quite a while to see it!
  
  Leveling takes forever on this game , you get bits of the story over time.
  
  The gameplay 
 depends on which job you pick."jobs are fun! = ) "
  
  But leveling can get boring at times.
  
  You cant solo much in this game , it was made to be 
 played with others.
  
  There is one more problem ... gil is a very big problem in this game... it would take to long for 
 me to get into that but im warning you about the gil! "60% of the players in final fantasy 11 are 
 gil buyers"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a playable game, instead I got a big heap of junk. The customer service for Play 
 Online is abysmal, confusing, probably the worst customer service out of all the MMO companies. 
 It will make you wonder if the people on the other end, actually live on the Planet Earth.
  
  This game is an ordeal to install, unlike other PC MMOs, unlike other PC games. Creating an 
 account is also an ordeal.
  
  Once you get in the game, you are presented with some of the worst graphics and gameplay I have 
 ever seen in an MMO. The one good thing about the game is the music. The music is nice, not great, 
 but nice. The interface is HORRIBLE. The look of the game is horrible. The game is defintely not 
 newbie friendly, or hardcore friendly for that matter. 
  
  The game economy is ruined, by farmers. It's obvious that Square Enix does not care about its own 
 creation, because the game is basically unplayable because of this. An MMO is dependant on its 
 community, and this game has no community, and a dead economy.
  
  Play another MMO, any MMO. Don't enter the world of Final Fantasy XI. If you expecting classic 
 Final Fantasy (some of the best games available) online, it's not here. What is here, is the biggest 
 heap of junk, available for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VintaO
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:58 am PT
Review:  Okay. Final Fantasy XI... Wow...11.... So many titles for one series.. ANYWAY! Back to the main point. 
 This game is great for any people who do not mind paying $12.99/mo (+$1.00 for every each additional 
 character) , and putting up with the total lame-o's who ignore everyone's advice and do whatever 
 they please AND insult you for doing the correct skills/equip/fighting methods for your job.
  
  Final Fantasy XI is a MMORPG (Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) , Square-Enix's 
 first. The game consists of six beginning jobs: Warrior (WAR) , Monk (MNK) , White Mage (WHM) , Black 
 Mage (BLM) , Red Mage (RDM) , and Thief (THF) . These are the jobs you can choose at the beginning 
 of the game, change between at first until level 30, where you can do quests to obtain the advanced 
 job options of: Summoner (SMN) , Dark Knight (DRK) , Paladin (PLD) , Ranger (RNG) , Ninja (NIN) , Samurai 
 (SAM) , Beastmaster (BST) , and Dragoon (DRG) . Coming soon in the Treasures of Aht Something-or-other, 
 Blue Mage (???) .
  
  In each of the parenthesis are the brief names of each job (except for Blue Mage, which is still 
 undetermined) . These are used for quick-chat (not a feature, just means a fast message for when 
 you're busy and don't have time to type out long posts) , and in the equipment discription windows.
 
  
  A feature of this game is the Support Job system, which gives you the option of using a second 
 job to obtain more abilities or spells. For example: putting WHM as a support job for BLM gives 
 you the ability of using WHM spells up to the WHM level as a support job. As a support job, WHM 
 is half the level of BLM example: BLM lv 22 would have support job of WHM lv 11.
  
  There are certain jobs you want to put as the support for certain main jobs. These are:
  WAR: 
 Unless in solo-play, do not put a mage or or the Ranger job. DRG, PLD, DRK, and BST are for you 
 and your party to debate.
  MNK: Use THF, WAR, or WHM mainly.
  WHM: BLM, SMN, RDM (Sometimes) , MNK (Rarely) , do not put any melee other than MNK or RDM as your 
 support.
  BLM: Pretty much the same as WHM, but no MNK, and WHM instead of BLM.
  RDM: WAR, THF, MNK, NIN, WHM, BLM. I think SMN might be an option, but it is not something I would 
 personally reccomend.
  THF: NIN, RNG, WAR, MNK, and on rare occaisons: BST.
  PLD: WHM, MNK, THF, or WAR only
  DRK: BLM, THF, WAR, and for solo-play: WHM.
  RNG: THF or NIN 
 is most common.
  NIN: WAR, THF, MNK, or SAM are most prefered. You can also use WHM for solo-play.
  SMN: Any of 
 the mages.
  DRG: WAR, THF, MNK, SAM. After 25, you want WHM mainly for one of its skills. (I'm not going to 
 be a spoiler. =) )
  SAM: WAR, NIN, THF, MNK.
  BST: NIN, THF, RNG, MNK, WAR, WHM.
  Blue Mage: No info, yet.
  
  Now, these are just the support jobs that people prefer for you 
 when you are in a party.
  
  Each job has its own special ability that can only be used once every two hours. (This is my last 
 bit of info/spoiling, and I'm done with this Review.)
  WAR: Mighty Strikes: Makes every attack a critical hit.
  MNK: Hundred Fists: Continuous attacks.
 
  WHM: I can't exactly remember the name, but it heals every party-member within area of effect.
 
  BLM: ManaFont: No MP used for spells.
  RDM: Chainspell: Cast spell after spell without taking a delay.
  THF: Perfect Dodge: Dodge attacks 
 for a set amount of time.
  SMN: Can't remember name, aplifies Avatar's power.
  SAM: Cannot remember skill or effect.
  NIN: Mijin Gakure: Sacrifice life to deal damage without 
 losing EXP.
  DRG: Call Wyvern. If you can't guess what this does.... wow.
  BST: Can't remember.
  RNG: Can't remember.
  PLD: Can't remember.
  DRK: Blood Weapon: Use 
 "Drain" w/out using MP every time your attack hits for a short amount of time.
  
  Well I hope this review helps you decide to get this game, and helps you out with the info you 
 need to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabadiah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Cost:
  $40-50 for game
  $15-20/month roughly
  $1 for each additional character
  
  Worth the cost?:
  The cost of the game, yes. The monthly cost? Probably not.
  
  Maintenance/Updates:
 
  -Quite often, actually
  -After installing the game, HUGE update. For Dialup, approx 10-15hour download.
  
  Amount of 
 time spent waiting: 
  100+ hours
  
  Keep reading for a true review from a dedicated long-time player:
  
  The best part of FFXI 
 has to be the first few months of playing. You are a "newbie" at this time, and everything is an 
 adventure to you. You could really care less about gaining experience points, as you are focussed 
 on exploring the huge world that is Vana'diel.
  
  As you progress through the game, it slowly loses the feel of adventure, and gains the addicting 
 feel of enhancing your character. You no longer care about exploring, you are now focussed on getting 
 to a higher lvl, and possibly being the best, which is VERY hard since there are so many end-game 
 players now.
  
  The Experience Point system is based around forming parties and killing monster after monster in 
 a specific location. The "best" location for gaining experience points at the level of your character 
 is normally decided by those who have trained another job at that level. This means that, if you 
 plan on taking one job to the cap (Lv75) , and then plan on taking another job to cap, the scenery 
 is almost the exact same as the last time. This is from the lack of different locations that can 
 be used for good EXP gain.
  
  FFXI is not for someone who wants to level their character quick, unless they have a neverending 
 amount of full days to dedicate to their character. What takes the most time in FFXI is waiting 
 for a party. After level 15 or so, soloing your exp becomes harder, and takes longer. To seek for 
 a party can take a very long time, or can take a short time. Sometimes there is no one online that 
 is your level, so you can't start your own party, and you can't join one. This means, at a low 
 lvl when you can't really solo monsters that make you money, you are forced to wait... and wait... and 
 wait.
  
  Another thing about FFXI that is very time consuming, is making money. Lately, there has been a 
 rush of people buying Gil (which is the currency in FFXI) off of some gilselling websites, which 
 in return completely ruins the economy of the game. Frankly, it would be hellish to join FFXI now 
 as a newbie, because everything is so expensive.
  
  Although I listed the negative side to FFXI, that doesn't mean in my years of playing i hated playing 
 the game. I have made some very good friends, some that I even found to live near me. Also, depending 
 on your graphics card, FFXI does a fine job impressing people with the graphics that are displayed. 
 I have a fairly older GeForce FX graphics card, (5200 to be exact) and the graphics wow'd people 
 I invited over to see the game.
  Another thing that makes the game great is having friends you know personally playing on the same 
 server. This way you can explore and experience the game with a bit more excitement, and create 
 some great memories.
  
  It may sound somewhat "nerdy" the way I am describing the game, as if it was an important thing 
 in my life, but it was in a way. It took a lot of time that I could have spent doing other things, 
 and now that I think about it, I wish I had. I recently quit playing FFXI due to the economy becoming 
 pretty much ruined, however I have made sure to keep in contact with the friends I have made.
 
  
  One more thing: The "100 or More Hours" spent playing actually means "150 days of literally sitting 
 at the computer screen". 
  150 x 24hours... you do the math. That's not even 1/5th of the playtimes some people have who started 
 AFTER I started playing. This game is truly for someone who
  a) Is still in school (NOT college/university) 
  b) Has a lot of spare time
  c) Is willing 
 to dedicate their spare time to this game.
  
  If you don't have a lot of time to dedicate to the game, get Guild Wars or something, which doesnt 
 take as long to do certain things.
  
  I hope this helps anyone who is planning on getting this game, and I hope I didn't turn you off 
 the game too much!^^ ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikedM
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  Well I've been playing FFXI for about a year and a half now. Yes it's time consuming so what. Yes 
 you have to play with other people, sometimes that sucks but most times its great. Yes lvling jobs 
 is slow and everything is over priced. So what there are people for Japan and other countries that 
 play use the autotranslate function. I've read alot of the reviews on here and I'm like wth?. OK 
 so you've played a job to lvl20 so what your really still wet behind the ears till atleast lvl 
 50 , or you have 40 hours play time come on. I've played more hours on this game than I've actually 
 worked ths year and I've never called in so I could play. Yes the servers suck , SE tries to fix 
 what they can and sometimes make it worse, so what. I used to think this was about lvling jobs 
 , it's not. For myself and most people I know this game is about meeting new people everyday and 
 making new friends. Do I recommend this game? Yes, if you have the time that is if you'll find 
 the time. So don't bash it cause you dont like noob PT's at low lvls cause there are noobs at lvl75. 
 This is social game , less you want to be a loner Beastmaster but even they can't solo 
 
  
  Just can't stop, someday I will but for now I'm content with the day to day hastles fo this game.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalJester
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Breathtaking. This MMORPG from square is their best game yet... there are so many open ended possibilities. 
 It has the addictivness of WoW and the graphics of Guild Wars, but it is nothing like those 2 games. 
 It has no lag atall, everything is in proportion (quite unlike final fantasy i know) the cities 
 are city size and you can even get lost in them if you take too many wrong turns. Airships, chocobos 
 and boats allow for many means of transport also. The character customisation is slightly lacking 
 but the gameplay more than makes up for it. There are more levels that WoW (70 on this compared 
 to 60 on WoW and 20 on GW) the maps are larger and items more extensive. The servers are reliable 
 and strong and always on running new technology eliminating Lag (as said before)
  
  It seriously is an addicting game, you may get too addicted.
  
  One slight flaw is that there 
 are quite a lot of japanese players on the game, not that many anymore but the servers are mixed, 
 the people however are nice and friendly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaemmons
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The Graphics aint too bad, thats about it.
  Sound: pretty crappy.
  
  The Game:
  To be honest with you the game overall is a pretty boring, yet very addicting expeirience. 
 after you install everything youll go through a lot of registration bull crap, Then when you think 
 yuour geeting ready to start playing an update screen pops up saying to update the game. IT TAKES 
 3HRS TO UPDATE THE GAME. i dont have some crappy dial-up connection. i have cable internet. and 
 it still took 3hrs. Then after waiting and creating your character and picking your town, you watch 
 the fairly long opening video. Then they let you go without telling you almost nothing, Youll find 
 yourself when you start walking around aimlessly looking for somewhere to go. Then after about 
 a day of asking people to help you and tell you what to do you finally get the hang of it a little. 
 Once you start gaining exp (which youll be doing about 90% of the time.) youll be fighting monsters 
 to gain it. all you do to fight is click on the monster and the computer does the rest. This is 
 a very boring process. Youll start out soloing your exp till about lvl 9 or 10. then you must join 
 parties to keep gaining levels. partying is a very boring experience. first youll wait an hour 
 just to from a party. then youll spend hours and hours on end till you gain a level, which takes 
 about an hour and a half to gain a level. In parties youll find yourself spending countless hours 
 replacing left members and gaining exp. youdd fiqure if they were gonna make it boring to exp they 
 would make it quick or slow and fun. but its both very very slow and very very boring. This is 
 most of the game, gaining expeirience. you can also do quest though, which are mini missions, some 
 of them are complicated and fun, and some of them are very easy and quick. And missions are the 
 main adventures. Youll almost always need help from better player to complete missions. they are 
 very hard and time consuming. most of them anyway. As for the chatting and community aspect, it 
 is set up very well, some of the higher level players youll run into are a-holes. 
  
  The Money: For PS2 version
  Game+HDD --- 99.99 SRV
  Keyboard --- probly 20 bucks
  Network Adpater ---- 
 39.99
  monthly Fee --- 12.95!!!
  Yes, people, its a rip-off.
  first they make you pay over 150 dollars to buy the game, then to be butt holes they charge you 
 12.95/month to keep playing the game, if you want more than one character, +$1/month.
  
  The Sum:
  T sm it up, FFXI is a very boring game, But you will oddly find yourself coming back 
 for more and more because this game is very addicting!!!!
  No Joke! 
  
  Threres alot of other things you can do also, like crafting, adv. jobs (hich you have to get lvl 
 30 to get 1st,) , fishing etc... theres a whole lot more to it folks, 
  
  If you are a hardcore FF fan you might be dissapointed but maybe not, if your new you might like 
 it. Just keep in mind that it is a very complicated game and very time consuming.
  
  That pretty much wraps my review up
  Thanks for reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenspall
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:05 am PT
Review:  First off, let me just start with my personal view of an MMORPG, i can't see the point in MMO's 
 where you can solo the whole level ladder, WoW does this and i believe its the games major flaw, 
 why spend all that money to get online, to solo all by yourself?
  
  Its this reason i love FFXI, sure you could say its party reliant, but thats only because its party 
 system absolutly destroys everything out there, past level 10 your going to have to party to gain 
 exp (less your a beastmaster) 
  
  after finding your party the action really kicks in, as every class has a job in a party, from 
 healing, to maintaining agro, to joining in a skillchain, to training that add to safety, you have 
 to be alert in FFXI is certainly not for the casual gamer, but i personally love that.
  
  The graphics look a little dated, but more than hold there own, and AF armour still looks superb, 
 everytime i see it, the general landscape and cities are very nicely rendered, and all the cities 
 have an almost "home sweet home" feel to them
  
  As for the music, its FF you expect nothing less than good quality music, calm areas have soothing 
 songs, where as battles and areas of danger, the mood quickly changes to an intense rythym, weapons 
 and spells also sound crisp.
  
  Overall i believe its currently the best MMORPG out there (though imo, ragnarok 2 is shaping up 
 to be sweet) sure its a bit party dependent but if you want to solo, theres better games than the 
 likes of WoW for one player anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCarter05
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is a good game, however it doesn't have the final fantasy feel to it.
  At the start of the game you have a choice of races, but you probably know about them, they are 
 hume, elvaan, galka, mithra and tarutaru.
  Final Fantasy is a very slow paced, time consuming game, i was mainly dissapointed with the boring 
 battle system, double click, attack and watch your character battle it out with a monster or "mob" 
 if you like. I have played Final Fantasy since last christmas, and lately havnt played much of 
 it, im ashamed to say that the highest level i reached was 35 dark knight, but that was because 
 i could not stand to level for to long and ended up making new chars. 
  The game is pretty hard, its not really the game itself, its the economy, its pretty damn hard 
 to make alot of money and you will literally bore yourself to sleep when farming, in case you dont 
 know what farming is its fighting endless hordes of mobs and retrieving a stack of items to sell 
 off, a stack is 12 of the same item, yes 12, and you dont get a drop every time you kill something.
 
  Music is rather annoying, not like any other final fantasys, battle music sucks, and some places 
 dont even have music at all, so you will be listening to your footsteps or spells nearby.
  The game doesn't have many towns like other final fantasys, the 3 main places are bastok, sandoria, 
 and windurst which you will find pretty dull after a while, and the music really does get to you, 
 the community is OK, there are the occasional dicks running about, also there are gil sellers that 
 camp nm's (notorious monsters) that drop rare things day in day out, and that is another thing 
 that is irritating about the game, notorious monsters, who really wants to sit there for hours 
 on end staring at the same thing on your computer screen waiting for some nm to pop up? and whats 
 worse, you may not even get the nm because there will be so many others camping it.
  Overall final fantasy is an OK game but a bit dissapointing compared to its previous games, give 
 it a go if your a die final fantasy fan, or maybe just enjoy playing mmo's, but i can tell you 
 there are alot better games to play out there like World of warcraft, or even Guild wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeoh
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:22 am PT
Review:  Well, it is rally good game. Quests are fun, designs are good, good party system... ect.
  
  But it came from PS.. this is major major disapointment. Graphic is really poor. First i thought 
 graphic is pretty good until i saw a bird with 2 pixel. After that low texture quality and repetitive 
 effect start really annoyed me.. Also low resolution is really pissed me off. PS like control of 
 all the menus is really hurting game experience alot. For last, i really wanted to have jump and 
 i wanted to experience free-fall: (
  
  Well, i hope this game was originally made for PC:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kafuffle
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I've read alot of reviews for this written by people who seemingly weren't expecting to be immersed 
 into an online world when they decided to play an MMO. First of all let me get a few things straight, 
 this is a completely real-time environment, it takes time and the people you play with are real. 
 You can't always just go out recruiting, if you want to do something and nobody is interested at 
 the moment, too bad (hmmm that sounds familiar ;) kinda like real-life) . While you spend alot of 
 time lfg (looking for group) , the thing to keep in mind is that as you get to higher levels, more 
 areas open up that you can go harvesting/farming/mining in without fearing normally aggressive 
 monsters. With a world-wide search engine emcompassing all players who wish to be seen, you can 
 be anywhere in the FFXI world lfg doing whatever you feel like until someone invites you. This 
 game encompasses 6 'jobs' which a player can begin with (double that are unlockable through specific 
 quests post lv30) in any of 3 nations. These nations compete for global dominance and your nationality 
 also determines your eligibility for Ballista (PvP) matches. As my title suggests this game is 
 not at all for the casual gamer, I have invested over 1000 hours into my character over 2 years 
 and there is still a whole world out there to explore (espicially with the near constant updates 
 from Square-Enix containing more new areas, monsters, quests & gear) . The graphics are absolutely 
 phenominal if your PC can run the game with all it's config maxed. The sound (though in itself 
 quite good) is much like any game, after so long in the same area it gets muted in lieu of the 
 stereo. This game is an absolute masterpiece in it's genre and I highly recomend it to anybody 
 with the patience and affinity for online 'life' neccesary to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadYeti
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is a game everyone should at least try once. I played it over the summer and was 
 pretty happy with it and thought it was definitely worth my money, I had played it once before 
 and really didn't like it too much but playing it again was definitely a good idea I think to really 
 have fun in the game its good to try all the little things in it like the craft system, the linkshells, 
 and getting into the higher levels with your character. I found once I managed to get into the 
 higher levels it was much more fun and the game seemed to open up more. The gameplay was ok but 
 it didn't really take away from the over fun of the game, I'd recommend the game to anyone who's 
 looking for a good MMO to play and I personally will probably end up playing it on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is definatly a letdown. I dont like how its only online play and the battle system 
 is weak. The graphics are awesome and the story mode though never ending is really solid. I wish 
 they didnt make this an online game because in my mind it hurts the series. I hope they dont use 
 this type of battle system in any other final fantasy game because that alone is almost enough 
 not to make me buy it. Overall this game is alright but really there is nothing special about it. 
 If you dont have any one to help you at the begining this can be a very hard game and might just 
 be enough to puch you away from it for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sef_fury
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing mmorpgs for as long as i care to remember. i ve played, star wars galaxies, 
 dark age of camalot, world of warcraft, and this game is by far the best. the graphics are absolutely 
 amazing, gameplay is perfect, and most of the people who play the game are very kind. the only 
 draw back that this game has is how long it takes to install before you can play. I think i have 
 found my perfect MMORPG and i will stay with it for as long as it stays on. play this game you 
 will not regret it i swear. thank you for listening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mantine
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:59 am PT
Review:  Well I Remember buying this game from the US (I live in UK and didnt want to wait for it to come 
 to Europe) - It cost me a whopping 70 at the time I was pretty loaded so I didnt mind. I remember 
 the day it arrived; I just had arrived from school to find my dad telling me a package arrived. 
 I felt nervous when opening it thinking "what if its the wrong game?" to my happiness a smile appeared 
 on my face as I saw the blue writing reading "Vana diel". I rushed upstairs and remember shuting 
 down all background aplications; firewalls, msn etc.
  I carefully unwrapped the rest of the paper of the smooth white box, and carefully slipping out 
 the french manual by mistake, I giddily put that back in and took out the english one. I took a 
 mighty breath and smelt the 'new manual' smell and began reading, my heart pounding harder after 
 each page I turned. Eventually I got the play online details and very carefully wrote them down 
 in the manual. I popped in the first disk and began the installations, then the 2nd, then the 3rd, 
 followed by the 4th then the final one. This took me a couple of hours until I was finally ready... 
 I loved playonline, the sites and sounds of it. Well long story short after another hour of setting 
 profiles and accounts up... I was ready to play.
  I launched the game, it treated me to some beutifal work by nobue and then to the main introduction 
 of the game, I couldnt remember how excited I was but I can tell you it was alot (silly I know, 
 but heck I was young) . I made my character being creative as possible, I made a Monk called Mantine, 
 only to find out that I named myself after a pokemon. (oops lol) Thats when I also made my Gamespot 
 account . After that I saw the first loading point and I thought 'ok'. After that the screen vanished 
 and turned to darkness as if the game was to begin. 15 seconds passed "Hmm must just be making 
 the files" 30 seconds past "Yep files...." 1 minute "Files...." 3mins *sweating* 5 mins "Better 
 restart". I was heart broken. I shakily began the setup through playonline then to the game again, 
 I remember skipping the intro which I once thought magificent. Then to the same loading point, 
 I prayed that it would work when all of a sudden I hear the lovley noise of a bustling city. I 
 cheered! My hands shaked as I travelled through the sites and sounds, I am going to love this game.
 
  
  Many months later, a level 30 monk is LFG (looking for group) in Yutunga jungle! Angry, tired and 
 missing homework. I said goodbye to my linkshell (like a guild or clan) and cancelled FFXI.....
 
  
  Final Fantasy XI, this game is unforgiving it has taught me many lessons and morals; one being 
 not for the weak. It was an amazingly beutifal game sadly... the gameplay was not on my side.
  
  Dead in my eyes. But not forgotten. I am glad I played it. Its sitting on my shelf now.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver9563
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is like wow, i love it, it is hard, but u just wanna get past it, and when you do, its 
 very satisfying i love this game. the graphics to me, r better than WoW, the music in the game 
 is amazing, because it is a FF game, so of course, it is really fun, if u like to be in a group, 
 which i do. the game is just tons of fun, i love the playonline thing, and the daily news paper 
 like thing in the game, that game just has many extras out side of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geogo3r
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I got to lvl 23 and kept playing for a while then found it not really worth it. even as a whm not 
 worth the trouble to find a pt and always die, loose exp and so on and so forth. Not a good game 
 for a First time MMORPGer as i said. The music everywhere gets annoying. i wish i played w/ music 
 but. it is disapointing to say the least. I warn you that you will probably regret buying this 
 game. even really bad 70's music is better than Sandorias bagpipes. After you have played this 
 game for about 3 months it gets really tiring (not game time, over time) . Just too difficult and 
 if chatting is the main thing for them to concentrate on theres a problem, serious problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjdaweasel
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This review originally appeared on www. cjdaweasel. com You can view it there with pictures included.
 
  
  I would like to start off by stating that if you are considering purchasing FFXI (Final Fantasy 
 11) I would advise that you take your keyboard, and beat yourself senseless with it. Not only will 
 it be less painful, and far less time consuming, you'll have an excuse to spend $50 on something 
 that you will actually have fun using. Most of the time FFXI will degrade to you spending hours 
 making numbers come out of creatures until you level. For the uninitiated, leveling is where you 
 gain abilities and increase stats. The higher the level, the better the character. Do not confuse 
 level with maturity, they usually have little to do with each other.
  
  Trying Very Hard to Get This Party Started
  
  In order to do ANYTHING in FFXI you have to be 
 in a party. Which means that you'll get a group that will consist of a warrior type character who 
 doesn't know the meaning of the word "wait", a twelve year old male playing a female character, 
 a thief who will steal all of the good equipment (aka a "ninja looter") , a 65 year-old who plays 
 like they've never seen a keyboard in their life, a total d*** (required) , and you. If you notice 
 the d*** missing from your party, that means that you're probably it. 
  
  Also it is required that at least one person be on dial-up in any given party. This allows the 
 party to catch a rest every 30-45 minutes while they wait for the player to come back.
  
  A Job That You Aren't Paid For and The Love You Get
  
  Grinding is where you run around and 
 kill things for experience (which is required to level) . The experience is similar to building 
 a tower out of playing cards, except the typical response to the results of grinding are "You Loser" 
 rather than "Cool Card Tower". FFXI does everything but force you to Grind. Be Cool. Don't do Grinding, 
 kids.
  
  When you aren't wasting your time trying to get that last bit for your next level, you're usually 
 attempting to socialize. Whenever you ask any question, no matter what the subject, you will get 
 at least one (sometimes up to 10) people who will decide that its their duty to keep new players 
 away. Usually, roaming in packs of three, because they have a third of brain each, they'll attack 
 you for anything ranging from "What level to I have to be to get X job" to "Who here likes kittens?". 
 Typical responses also range from "DOOd youz stoopid!!11" to "Uz TEh suk" and sometimes the ever 
 poetic "shut up noob". Most, if not all responses are far from winning any literary awards.
  
  Playing Something More Fun, Like Solitaire
  
  If you're still playing after 15 minutes, 
 then you are either one of the following: A loser, a loser with nothing else better to do, someone 
 reviewing the game, a masochist, an idiot or an idiot game reviewing masochist loser with nothing 
 else better to do. I recommend that you buy a "back up game" such as one of the other Final Fantasy 
 games that was actually good (Final Fantasy 10 would be a good choice) . If you have a really good 
 imagination you can pretend that you're playing an online version of FFX. The only tip off would 
 be that the players would be helpful and speak in complete sentences.
  
  But really, FFXI really has nothing to do with the other games in the series does it? It seems 
 to me that if you're going to make a sequel, the game should be SOMETHING like its predecessors. 
 Imagine that they came out with a Die Hard 4, but they made it a romantic comedy. Now pretend that 
 they charged you $50 to watch it and the entire time you're in the theatre, people all around you 
 are telling you how much you suck. That's a pretty good idea of how it feels to play FFXI.
  
  Lastly, I'm obligated to mention the job system. Jobs are like classes. They define what kinds 
 of abilities that your character will have, like swordsmanship, dancing, and the highly coveted 
 super happy fun fun teriyaki eating ability. Some of the jobs you can become include: Monk, Paladin, 
 and Ninja. That's right, Ninja. I hate to break this to the developers, but Ninja isn't a job. 
 Pizza Delivery Boy is a job. Breast massager for Lacey Chabert is a job (no, that's a dream come 
 true, but I think that you get the point) . Just think, if you work hard in ninja high-school, graduate 
 from a good ninja college, and get a good ninja internship, you too can be considered f***ing insane 
 for thinking that Ninja is a job.
  
  
  Scorecard:
  
  AC (A**hole Content) : 60-110% FFXI is probably the most unfriendly community I've had the displeasure 
 of playing in. I figure that most people that are a**holes on the game are actually enough of an 
 a**hole to count for a few more people. So the ratio of actual a**holes to perceived a**holes is 
 probably around 60%, while it feels d*** near 110%.
  
  LLA (Lack of Literary Ability) : 30% once you filter out the 20 or 30 people that type like they 
 learned English from a shorted out Speak-N-Spell, you're left with people who probably speak English 
 pretty well, but can't be bothered to type out all 4 letters in a word. If you're (notice its not 
 'ur') to lazy to type out all the letters in a word, don't bother. No matter what you say, you 
 sound like an godd*** idiot.
  
  LSR: "Public Masturbator" Grinding and Public Masturbating are very similar in that they both waste 
 time, are frowned upon by most of society, and nobody really wants to watch you do it.
  
  My Character: I played a monk, which is about as exciting as it sounds.
  
  Conclusion
  If 
 you lie awake at night wishing that someone out there was making you arrange their toenail clippings 
 in order of size while shouting obscenities at you, then this is the game for you. Otherwise, simulate 
 the game by multiplying 2x2x2x2... for 2 hours a day 30 days consecutively and burn $50 in the 
 fireplace (or flush it down the toilet) . Trust me, given a choice, anyone would rather listen to 
 a string of Pythagorean numbers than hear your FFXI story. No really, we don't care. Shut Up Noob.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: puhhehehee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:13 am PT
Review:  final fantasy is a great mmorpg, but nothing is perfect. instead of saying "omg! this game awesome 
 i give 10 on everything", i would like to share my experiences with someone who is willing to try 
 out this game but don't know what to do.
  
  graphic:
  both good and bad. i am writing this for pc version. so depends on what pc you have. i will write 
 this category based on what i have. spec below.
  cpu: amd 64 4000
  ram: 1gig pc3200
  video: geforce 6800 ultra 256mb
  now, my opinion. it's great! world is huge, so huge it takes 
 place to place about 10-20 min running. buildings are detail enough, characters are about average. 
 what i really didn't like was its draw distance. it's fairly short.
  
  sound:
  it's beautiful. no more comments ^^
  
  gameplay:
  this is where this game falls apart. i 
 am not saying FF11 isn't a bad game, but to me it kind of was. when you start a character, you 
 can only have one per account. if you want extras, each costs $1. pc version game is now $20 + 
 expansion $20 or if you buy the bundle that's $30. with $13 a month, and some extra characters. 
 that's quite of an investment for people who don't have jobs. i also suggest you to buy a pc version. 
 as you might already know sony's lack of support on hdd and no more big ps2, it's quite risky to 
 play on ps2. if you really prefer console version, go for x360.
  
  when you first start, you will be lost. i was and most of people from my linkshell (kind of like 
 hmm clan or in-game cell phone) was. you absolutely don't know what to do and where to go. learning 
 curve is fairly difficult. FF11 community is nice enoough that if you ask random people, most likely 
 they will answer your question. unlike diablo 2 where their favorite words are "noobs" "newbies" 
 of course there are always idiots on every online games, but FF11 was first game for me that i 
 felt community was pretty friendly.
  
  you can only level up your character to 10 - 12 by yourself. since this game focuses on team oriented 
 system, you will have to find parties. when you are in a party, this is where friendly community 
 becomes evil. it's all depends on how you do. a death penalty is very critical in this game that 
 people are very sensitive. if you don't do your part, they most likely kick you out and remember 
 you so they don't need to invite you anymore. now, i am not going into what jobs have what responsiblities. 
 it's your job to find out.
  
  finding parties is most annoying part in this game. if you are in luck finding parties can take 
 you from 10 min - 1 hour. if you aren't, then it will take you couple hours. what's worse is, to 
 prevent hacks and cheats, you can't switch back to the desktop while you are in the game. if you 
 do so, game will automatically shut down. basically all you will do while waiting is, looking at 
 your monitor for long time, some characters showing off with their skills, or see other people 
 join parties but not you. it will seriously test your patience. not just that there are popular 
 jobs and unpopular ones, if you unfortunately picked unpopular one (monk) you will have hard time 
 as your character gets higher level. speaking of high level, more higher your level gets, it even 
 gets harder for you to find parties. if you are super lucky, then hour to hours. if you aren't 
 then couple of days. yes couple days.
  
  now for the second annoying part. leveling your job. there are main jobs and subjobs. now, you 
 will immediately think leveling those two jobs shouldn't be too hard. well think again! don't think 
 your main job gets full exp where your sub job gets half. it doesn't work that way here. you will 
 need to level your main job then switch back to subjob then level that too. it takes extra time, 
 extra money, and revisit those places again for a long time. if you have unbalance levels with 
 your main and sub, really~ good luck finding parites. quests are quite challenging. some early 
 quests you will be able to do it yourself, but later on you will need to be in parties.
  
  if you played diablo 2 before, then you will know what i will say next. trading in that game is 
 just annoying. people will always try to rip you off. such as "and?" "add more" where the item 
 you are trying to get is enough with your offer. FF11 actually works better. there is still character 
 to character trade option, but you will use more auction houses than other method. money is very 
 important in this game. in order for you to make money, you hunt items. you keep items that are 
 hot. you sell them to the auction house. if you are selling hot items, you will be able to get 
 your money in no time. this way you don't need to deal with jerks to trade.
  
  there are many more stuff to do in this game. crafting, fishing, decorating, make food, and etc.
 
  
  i already wrote a dictionary here. i hope my review helps and for you to decide. it's a good game, 
 many FF theme is in it, and also feels like better looking version of everquest. if you are a fan 
 of FF series and dying to try this game, go for it and see for yourself. but, you are a fan, and 
 you hate waitings, i say.. stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is a great RPG, it sometimes does not get the rep that it should because it's harder than 
 other MMORPG's, but the economy is one of the best. Team combat is great as well, cool things like 
 skill chains. Good Graphics, good leveling system, alright story line, GREAT economy and trade 
 skills.
  If WOW is too easy for ya, try FFXI.
  When you die, you lose exp (great challenge unlike other games)
  You actually work hard to level
 
  It's not as easy to get around as jumping on a griffon.
  Character's can open up their own shops, which are called Bazaar's.
  Character's have a mog house, 
 where they can store items, grow plants, and set up furniture.
  No PVP, or better phrased, ganking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncommon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  Ok so I love this game. I've been playing on and off for the last year and a half like a bad girlfriend. 
 The game keeps drawing me back in time and time again and I keep getting bored, frustrated and 
 quiting because it just takes too long to do anything in the game. It took me about an hour yesterday 
 to run from one leveling zone to the next. I ran from the Dunes to Bastok, thru bastok to the chocobo 
 stalls, then on a chocobo to jueno, thru jueno to Qufim Island to look for my next party. 
  
  All that aside, it's a very well made game, and quite addicting. It has to be or else I don't 
 think I'd still be playing today. I don't think I can recommend this game to anyone unless they 
 lover the grind a good MMORPG can offer, or are just true final fantasy fanatics. In the later 
 case, they probably already own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeybones4
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game is made to rob you from both your money life and your social life. You pay a lot of money 
 to get the game, and then you pay a lot of money every month to keep it. When I got this game I 
 hated it, but it's all that I did because it's addicting. I had a freind that was so addicted to 
 the game that on easter, which is also his father's birthday, he wouldn't come down for breakfast, 
 and when he realized that it was annoing having his parents beg him, he brought the game guide 
 with him to breakfast. This game ruins lives and I am begging you not to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  The game itself is very hard and u have to teamplay to get lv up from lv 13 to 75.... thats the 
 good part of FFXI ^^
  All that havent played it and have tried other games like WoW will see a diferance in the way the 
 games are created..
  Here u have a little less skills with soloing classes and no talent bar :)
  Mages have just as 
 much magic..
  I would recomend this game to everyone that are up for MMORPG.
  
  The game has four races and the races have their own profession with atributes. 
  One race is 
 better with a jobb then the other races.
  thats one of the flaws in WoW i think... There everything goes by the gear..
  
  On FFXI its 
 fun playing and chatting all the time when ur online when leveling ur characters..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglymugluk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is the ultimate MMORPG. Its is full of things to do, fighting is just 1 small 
 part of it. You can fish, Do all sorts of craft, own a portable shop etc. The world is massive 
 and there are a lot of modes of transport including airship, teleporting and the famous chocobo. 
 The fighting is nothing short of astounding either, Depending on which of the many fighting classes 
 you choose, you will play and important role in your party. The one bad thing i would say about 
 however is the lack of PVP combat. But if you love MMORPGs withmore to do than fighing then this 
 is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gusted
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  Back when the game came out in 2003 I picked it up because it was "Final Fantasy". Although I never 
 really was a fan of MMO's (swg was a letdown, eq was already past it's ptime...) it all changed 
 once I played FF11. This game is undoubtedly one of the most immersive games I have ever crossed. 
 
  
  Although when you initially create your character there doesn't seem to be much and that feeling 
 will last until around level 12. As with any MMO the first levels are used to get a feeling for 
 your surroundings, get comfortable with the UI (in this case, making macros) and familliarize yourself 
 with enemies. Once you find yourself in a party you can practically kiss all forms of social life 
 you once had away, yes parties are that good. 
  
  Final Fantasy 11's partying system is one of the most under appreciated ones in the genre, yet 
 I have not found a better one. Skillchains, weaponskills and Experience chains keep the combat 
 at a fast pace and assure for plenty of variety. Their usage increases as you further your level 
 and begin to memorize them and their triggers. Be warned, sometimes (more often then not) it takes 
 a long time to find a party; if long waits bum you out, FF11 is not for you. 
  
  The game is from 2003, so the Graphics will seem a little dated; but its still a very beautiful 
 game and the artists vision comes across flawlessly. Day/Night and weather effects keep the terrains 
 changing and varied while the extensiveness of the locals will always keep you wanting more.
  
  And now, to the sound. This is most definitely my favorite part of the game. The ambiance created 
 by the sounds of weapons clashing together, various magic spells and the surrounding nature is 
 enough to warrent a 10. Combine those elements with one of the most breathtaking musical scores 
 ever to grace a videogame... perfection.
  
  Whether or not you will get your money's worth is entirely up to you. Be warned, the PVP is less 
 then stellar; go play WoW, Daoc, ... etc. for PK fixes. This was never met to be a PvP game, the 
 addition of the Ballista was to merely satisfy those looking for a pk. I determine value by if 
 I can come back and play it over and over. Although I havn't technically been in a party since 
 september, I still find myself logging in once a day just to hear the music and take in the ambience. 
 Anything that can have that sort of affect on a player warrants a buy. Pause your current MMO and 
 at least give the 30 day free trial a whirl, you will not regret it. 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __MACK__
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 13, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  And Indeed. Final Fantasy XI is like Everquest with very few differences. Repetitive and highly 
 addictive describes Everquest and Final Fantasy XI is exactly that as well. You will spend the 
 majority of the game like this...
  
  -Log in
  -Stand around till someone invites you to their group
  -Grind with the group
  -Log out for 
 the day
  
  Of course there are other little things like crafting, questing, player vs player and spending 
 some times in the Auction house. Final Fantasy XI executes these four horribly. This game has the 
 worst of the four except play vs player (which is decent at best) . The controls are so bad it's 
 like you trying to control a drunk character. It can take an hour or 2 to get use to. The thing 
 that makes this game different from other mmorpg are the 2 jobs and the cross of PS2 and PC. Both 
 are executed pretty well. Having 2 jobs makes yourself more unique in the game, but really you 
 are almost no different then anyone else in the game (more on that later) . After around level 50, 
 you are going to spend hours and hours waiting for a group. This is when the game really starts 
 to sink and when most players start to quit. While indeed it can be more rewarding after you level 
 up when you have waited hours to get into the group to level but it just isn't worth your time. 
 Trust me. You have to be a psycho to think this game is good when you waited dozens of hours to 
 get to the next level (at the higher levels) .
  
  Now for the graphics. From a technical standpoint the game was state of the art when released in 
 Japan. It still looked decent when released for the PC and PS2 in the U. S. However, the art is 
 ugly for the most part. Much of the game you are gonna be looking at horribly done art. Alot of 
 people you will come across in the game will look like you. Simply because the character customization 
 is limited. This doesn't make you unique in the game. You will see alot of armor in the game looking 
 the same. You will even see alot of the same looking monsters in the game. Just a totally different 
 level. All the crabs can look the same from level 1 to 75, the goblins, and much much more. I also 
 think there is too many load times. They can be around 20 seconds at the most. You are gonna be 
 looking at a blackscreen alot waiting for you to enter a city, a dungeon or a new area.
  
  Sound. It's decent. The music can get annoying when you are in battle. Go into combat with a mob 
 and you are gonna hear the same music for like 20-25 levels. Some of them can be pretty good but 
 they can be annoying after awhile. There is no dialogue. Some sound effects can be cool.
  
  Value. The only thing thats worth your time and money in this game is the great community. And 
 that's about it. Not really worth $20.
  
  Overall this game is not much different then that average mmorpg. So it isn't worth getting into 
 the game that is similiar to most of the other games in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicEdge
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 8, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  In my mind, there are two classic MMORPG's Ultima Online (which was first) and Everquest. I myself 
 was an Ultima Online man, and the skill system in it, is, in my humble opinion, still the best 
 skill system in any MMORPG. Ever. It never felt like you were killing things just to get better, 
 there wasn't even a quest system, but clearing out a dungeon was a quest on it own.
  
  Everquest, in my opinion was the Devil of MMORPG's it was a grind simulator, the quests were okay, 
 but it was all about one kill after another, over and over.
  
  The Final Fantasy series has generally provided new experiances every time, but with FFXI, all 
 you are doing was playing Everquest, without the good bits. 
  
  The first time you leave your starting city, you find youself getting killed by rabbits over and 
 over. After you have killed a load of Rabbits, you can move out of the starting doorway and down 
 the first slope, then you get killed by slightly different colored rabbits over and over. When 
 you have killed a load of those, you move through the first tree-line and get killed by different 
 rabbits over and over.
  
  So thats your first week of casual playing.
  
  After several weeks, you can start thinking about moving into the second area, and it starts again. 
 There is no freedom, just the grind, over and over and over.
  
  Sure, it looks nice and it sounds nice, but with game mechanics like this, who has the time to 
 get to the next nice looking area?
  
  Not me, I'm going to go and play something with a bit more imagination.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamezmaster18
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is a must have for any adventurous gamer. The gameplay and graphics for this game are absolutely 
 amazing. The new fighting system is a little bit tricky To use. but after about an hour it's seems 
 like a piece of cake. Also, after you beat the game, if you haven't collected all of the items 
 and dress spheres (specail suits with specail abilitys) you have another chance to do so. So really, 
 the game never ends. I think that the game is quite easy compared to some other FF games, like 
 FFX for instance. Hard as hell. But If you have ever played any FF games you; ll see that FFXI is 
 the #1 game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butter18
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 27, 2005 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love the Final Fantasy series (check my collection if you don't believe me) 
 but this has to be the least thought out of all of them. The thing that get's me the most is that 
 the FF is famous for its story line, and you don't get one bit of a story in this game. 
  
  Let me start out with some positives before I get to the negatives...
  The battle system is excellent, 
 and it's very easy to do all your magic quickly, and this makes the battling much faster. The enviroments 
 are incredible, you'll find yourself taking screenshots like some kind of tourist in a foreign 
 land. 
  
  Now the things that made me quit playing this game....
  Walking around is so incredibly boring, you run so slowly, and you can't use a chocobo until lvl 
 20. Making it unbearable to wait that long. Leveling up also takes forever, which is normal in 
 a FF series, but in a MMORPG I found it annoying that you have to spend 5-7 hours just to gain 
 one level. It wouldn't be that bad if there were different monsters, but there's only a handful 
 you can fight. So you end up killing the same ones over and over again.
  
  The quests are also extremely tedious and you can't do most of them until you're at a high level, 
 making the early stages slow and just a "yawnfest" And because your paying 12 bucks a month makes 
 this experience one that should be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObebadSlapmeFro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game has the graphics that a MMORPG should have. It has great music but the sound in combat 
 may not be what u really expect. As for the game play, Id have to say its pretty sweet. Although 
 sometimes you may take a while to level up or find a party, there is plenty of other stuff to do. 
 Though I myself didnt know how to do those things b/c I was to busy leveling up, u can see ppl 
 in town selling their items in their own bazaar or making cool items. I also like their unique 
 special events and games for special days like Christmas, Halloween, valentines etc. it is really 
 interesting ;) . For what you pay for, Id say its pretty darn good. Since they are updating a lot 
 you probably wont be needing to worry about those things. I have played through other MMORPGS and 
 I have to give this game a 2 thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroppedAtBirth
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 5, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game to play with co-worker at work that told me how great this game was. I have 
 been playing WOW for a few months and figured I would give FFXI a shot. What a disappointment. 
 Controls are horrible, that was my first frustration, the lack of on screen info and over use of 
 multi level menus is annoying. Everything is driven off one menu with sub menus the have sub menus 
 that have sub menus. Other RPGS are more window driven and easier to navigate and manage things. 
 
  
  The graphics seem old, I turned up every option and was not impressed with any of the graphics, 
 everything seemed boring.
  
  I am going back to wow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdturtle13
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 4, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love the massive multiplayer RPG genre, and have been an active Everquest player for 
 4 years, and now play Galaxies, Everquest II, and WOW. I have also been a very big Final Fantasy 
 fan most of my life, especially since FFVI. Having said this, I am a very patient player when it 
 comes to the slow moving pace of these games, however, Final Fantasy XI moves at an absolutely 
 unbearable pace. Player characters move at an ungodly slow pace, with no way to speed up until 
 level 20. The cities are too big, poorly designed and take you literally over an hour to reach 
 your destination. You basically can't battle outside of your current starting zone without dying 
 until at least level 11, and only then can you safely travel to an adjacent zone which looks exactly 
 the same, and has you killing the same creatures until level 15 or so. How boring! No potions or 
 equipment to speed you up, and it takes forever to meet up with a group, if you can find anyone 
 that wants to. Game economy is also very unbalanced. A simple potion costs a few hundred Gil, which 
 takes you forever to earn, when gaining only a few Gil per kill. It would take you hours upon hours 
 to save for a simple potion. The only plus side is the great graphics and the fact that it is a 
 Final Fantasy game, however, I still cant find the patience for this game, which leads to the 
 last crappy element of this game. If you get fed up with it, or bored with it, and cancel your 
 subscription for a few months, you actually have to pay for another copy of the game and start 
 a new character over again. This is absolutely absurd and I will not be going back to playing FFXI 
 in this lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Many will say that FFXI is too difficult. They are dead wrong.
  
  The entire point of the MMORPG genre is to allow people to interact and to spend time developing 
 characters. FFXI delivers on the core concepts of the MMORPG genre. Games such as City of Heroes, 
 and World of Warcraft are too simple! They are too easily finished, and too simplistic and the 
 high levels are too easily completed. In the MMORPG world, the destination isn't what matters, 
 it is the journey. FFXI delivers on the journey. 
  
  The biggest selling point for FFXI is the community and group dynamic. In recent MMOs there has 
 been too much emphasis placed upon solo play. The entire point of an MMO is to group.. not to solo! 
 If you want to solo, go play an open ended rpg like Fable or KOTOR. That being said, solo play 
 can be important and quite fun.. but it shouldn't be emphasized to the point that it destroys group 
 play (as is the case in WoW, CoH) . 
  
  FFXI is essentially a modern update, in a new setting, to a familar formula established by the 
 original Everquest and its expansions (which defined the MMORPG genre I might add) . It sticks to 
 the basics to make sure they get them right, while adding a new layer of complexity to the gameplay 
 via advanced combat tactics (such as skillchains) , and a revolutionary class system. 
  
  If you liked EQ, and thought that CoH and WoW were too simple or easy, you will love this game! 
 See you in Vana'diel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bezohh
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 29, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  I no longer play FFXI in preference to EverQuest but all-in-all Final Fantasy Online was a pretty 
 good game.
  
  Pros:
  - Excellent Graphics - The regions, cities, and dungeons in the game were very detailed and realistic. 
 The breathtaking scenes in it were some of the best I've seen. Environmental effects such as shadows, 
 sunsets, and the spashing of water when you walk through it were very cool.
  
  - Great Music - While I noticed a lack of music the further away from the starting cities you traveled, 
 the music in places like Bastok were very catchy. The variety of battle music was very good too. 
 There was one theme for soloing outdoors, one for soloing in a dungeon, one for grouping outdoors, 
 and one for grouping in a dungeon; all of which were catchy.
  
  - Nice Job System - I enjoyed the ability to switch to any class you'd like whenever you felt bored 
 with whatever class you had. The addition of sub jobs was another great aspect, I found the quest 
 which unlocks the subjob system to be realitively easy and quick.
  
  Cons:
  - Unacceptable downloading times - One of the biggest drawbacks to Final Fantasy Online was the 
 length of time it takes to get started. By started I mean just getting to the game itself to play. 
 I find that taking 5+ hours on a DSL connection to patch over 7000 files after installing the numerous 
 discs already to be extremely time consuming and tedious. Then add to that the fact you need to 
 update and patch Play Online just to get to the point where you can do any patching at all you 
 can easily spend many many hours just getting the game up and running on your computer.
  
  - Lots of Lag - While in general the game isn't horribly laggy, I do find that on my computer in 
 crowded areas or in single groups with lots of spell effects going off at once that lag tends to 
 be bad. I am running a 1.6 Ghz Pentium 4 with 1 GB of RAM and a 128 Nvidia graphics card so I would 
 imagine running on anything slower would be even more laggy.
  
  - Poor User Interface - Another big drawback for this game is the fact that it was designed with 
 the Playstation 2 console in mind. After playing EverQuest for over a year before starting FF Online 
 I found the inability to use the mouse effectively in 1st person perspective to be annoying. I 
 couldn't even click on a door to target it when in 1st person - I would end up targeting myself 
 so I would have to switch to 3rd person just to open a door. I hardly found the macro system to 
 be useful. Unlike EverQuest where you simply pressed a button 1 - 0 on the keyboard to use a macro 
 (known in EQ as a hotkey) in FF Online you have to press several buttons to get to the macro to 
 use it. (I'm not entirely sure how to work the macro system in Final Fantasy Online but from what 
 I saw when I experimented with it I didn't find it all that useful.)
  
  - Huge Travel Times - Getting to your hunting ground of choice was another complaint of mine. I 
 found that I was spending upwards of 30 minutes real time just getting from one place to another. 
 While I love to travel from place to place (Example: Bastok to Valkrum (sp) Dunes) and see the 
 sights since the graphics are so great, I do find that having to be on a constant watch for hostile 
 monsters while I'm just trying to get to my group to be ardious. The further away from the cities 
 you go I noticed an increase in the number of hostile monsters vs. the non hostile ones which can 
 further increase travel times if you need to skirt around a baddie in your way.
  
  - Stuck Grouping - This game is not intended to be much of a solo style game. This becomes apparent 
 by around level 6 as a caster and a little higher as a melee class. The difficulty level of the 
 mobs jumps drastically at this point and you need to group for safe experience. The problem is 
 that as a caster you'll find that most melees at this level aka warriors can solo up towards level 
 9 or 10 and gain much better experience then by grouping with a caster leading to the result of 
 casters having a difficult time getting into a group just to get a positive experience flow. Experience 
 pentalties for this game weren't horrible in my opinion. While the experience loss from a death 
 isn't small, in a good group you can gain some serious levels to compensate... just getting through 
 the first 10 or so levels as a caster though is extremely difficult.
  
  In conclusion, if you enjoy grouping and have a good deal of time both for patching, downloading 
 the game files, traveling within the game, finding a group, as well as having a good deal of patience 
 to get through the first few levels of the game and have a machine that can handle the demands 
 of the game then this is an okay game to play. If you prefer to hunt solo for experience I would 
 recommend other games instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 21, 2005 2:43 am PT
Review:  I've been playing FFXI on and off for some time now and I must say the one thing that bothers me 
 is that it takes FOREVER!!! If your a gamer that likes to sit down and play every now and then 
 this is NOT the game for you. Before you can do alot of the interesting things that the game offers 
 you must be higher levels. I played for about...2 months straight at one point and only achieved 
 level 12. 
  However, if your a super hardcore gamer and can really get into doing the same battle over and 
 over again, then this is the game for you. The rewards for sitting through those battles are endless. 
 The equal new areas to explore, new stronger cooler looking items, riding the ever famous Chocobo 
 [Gotta love those guys :) ] 
  Long story short, great game, but onyl if you can commit the time to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogthershod
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 31, 2005 4:10 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is a great way to finally get into the MMO RPG realm. It takes you to a land of 
 consequences guised as a Final Fantasy game, in other words, it's nothing new. By consequence, 
 I mean that this game has a harsh penalties, and great rewards all at the same time.
  
  First of all, it should be a rule for an RPG that all classes are even. In a sense, they are- but 
 some are just more fun to play than others. Take a Monk and compare it too a Red Mage, which are 
 the two classes I picked for my (as always in RPGs) completely average human. The Red Mage is clearly 
 a more "fun to play" character, as you can use many types of magic and physical attacks compared 
 to the Monks sole fist strikes. The classes are equal in a mathematical sense, but in a community 
 sense, they are not. You probably should spend some time on a few message boards before you decide 
 what you want to play as, even more so when you finally get your sub-class. It may be tempting 
 to become a Monk / Redmage, and it might actually be fun- just prepare never to be invited to a 
 party.
  
  One could argue that some classes and levels have their high points and low points, but a general 
 rule for all games is that it should be fun... all the way through. Final Fantasy XI seems to have 
 tangents where the game completely slows down and almost becomes no fun at all, especially when 
 you can't find a group of people to fight with and/or you die (which you get hit with a massive 
 EXP loss, which results in hours gone down the drain) . I'm sure there is a reason why you get such 
 a loss, because I can't imagine Bob the game designer saying "Hey, let's have this really pointless 
 and annoying death penalty!"
  
  Things start to pick up when you get a good party- the highlight of the game. Final Fantasy's combat 
 system is great. Even if your just a fist pounding Monk, it can feel like real teamwork when your 
 party decides to take down a tough monster. Things get intense, quick, because the monsters in 
 the game are quite difficult even on even terms. There are unwritten laws on how these battles 
 progress, and with time you learn them all. Players are hardly forgiving of your mistakes, and 
 will often kick you from their party for bad decisions or for any small reason for that matter. 
 You just have to learn "how life is" in the game, but in a strange way it makes you feel like "part" 
 of the gaming world, for actual game knowledge and strategy is a very big self-reward.
  
  I just wish there was more combat to the game. The graphics look, well, like they are on a PS2. 
 It hardly pushes the boundaries of a new computer now, but then again, that's good for players 
 on an older machine. The controls are difficult to get used too, and obviously made for a controller 
 (which is recommended except for chatting) . Using Macros via the keyboard is very strange, especially 
 when you have a mouse for clicking icons.
  
  Final Fantasy XI is a great MMO RPG, but not much of a fun game. The pacing of this game is very, 
 and almost awkwardly slow. There are times when you have to wait for over 30 minutes just to find 
 a party! This is even longer for certain classes. White Mages, for instance, almost always find 
 a party, where as monks are usually a last resort. Quests are usually limited to those who want 
 a useful item or want to complete each nation's Mission and hardly have the reward to justify their 
 doing. In short, this game isn't about questing...
  
  ... It's about waiting and waiting to find a party so you can gain a level. Once you get to level 
 A you move to Area B, get to Level C, and then go to Area D. There hardly is a point to all this 
 leveling, except you can go on some wild adventures with a party and fight some great battles- 
 the one and only fun aspect of Final Fantasy XI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  First off, if you have played previous massively multiplayer RPG games of this type and like the 
 genre and its conventions then you may want to disregard what I have to say. FF XI was among some 
 of the first MMO's I played. I dont really dig these kinds of pay-to-play online RPG's because 
 they still have not reached a level where they are designed to be fun and not waste your time. 
 If you are an action gamer and solo RPG player at heart you will want to stay FAR away from final 
 fantasy XI.
  
  First there are some things you must know about what its like to play the game.
  
  ** You will 
 wait around often for 10-15 minutes or more at a time looking for a party often in this game.
 
  
  ** Beyond level 12-18 you will have to join a party to kill monsters and level up, which only makes 
 the first thing I said that about waiting around for a party much worse. You CANNOT engage enemies 
 without a party, hence you cannot level up. Hence the game becomes unfun if you aren't into crafting 
 and the other "treadmill" aspects of the game.
  
  ** If you don't have a lot of free time, travelling is a royal pain in the butt. Many areas early 
 in the game take 10-30 minutes to travel to by foot. So if you're travelling to a place with monsters 
 that will give you decent experience you WASTE a lot of time just travelling and travelling that 
 long without anything to keep you busy will just bore you out of your skull.
  
  ** The sinlge player quest system is nothing like single player Final fantasy games, most of the 
 time they are fed-ex or kill monster X quests. In short they are really, really bad. Everything 
 that made single player RPG's on consoles interesting is TOTALLY absent from FF XI.
  
  Alright now, the graphics in this game are just OK. The monster graphics for most of the entire 
 game are pretty bad and single player games run circles around the graphics in FF XI, even the 
 old playstation 1 games make FF XI's monsters look pretty bad. Most of the in game environments 
 are empty and bland, with some exceptions. But for the most part you'll be looking at empty wastelands 
 or through sparse forests or ugly mountains or really ugly underground caves.
  
  Weapons, armor and other useful Items are strictly level restricted, and the items they do have 
 in the game are bland and uninteresting. You wont find anything like the deep mechanics of single 
 player RPG's from other square games here.
  
  The game is really long and drawn out, leveling up takes forever at the higher levels and the crafting 
 system like in all MMO's is a tedious treadmill designed to suck up your time trying to get a skill 
 to a level worthwhile while you pay your monthly fee. There is nothing new in FF XI and the most 
 important thing in the game is missing: Fun. I really hoped this MMO would fix everything that 
 was wrong with other MMO's but it just copied it and used the final fantasy name to get sales. 
 
  
  FF XI was the game that totally made me realize that all MMO's are stagnant and not innovating, 
 catering to people that like slow placed games and who's control over your character is strictly 
 limited to letting the computer auto attack for you and sending the odd menu command to "computers 
 action que" for your character.
  
  The pacing of the game is very slow like other MMO's so if you like slow paced games where the 
 computer is controlling your character during battle then maybe you will want to give FF XI a whirl. 
 But in my mind its one of the most boring games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk359
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2004 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Final fantasy for about a year and two months and play other games like Ragnaroc 
 Online on the side. I have workd to level up my one character to Lv. 47 Summoner / Lv.23 White 
 Mage and cherish the time that I have spent on the game, but have begun to notice one really annoying 
 flaw compared to some other MMORPG's. 
  
  I now find myself a full time student at a University and have quickly discovered that I don't 
 get that much time to sit down and play video games, much less a RPG. From this point I have unfortunately 
 unclverd the one flaw that really gets to me about Final Fantasy XI is that it is not a game that 
 if you want to make any progress on your you have to set aside more than an hour of gameplay time. 
 Sure if you want to you can go kill monsters for items for an hour or 30min, but if you want to 
 level your character you need more than an hour. Basically after Lv.10 on most jobs you can no 
 longer go solo fighting monters and expect good experience points, you are almost for forced to 
 join a party to find good experience points (exp) . This isn't that bad at lower levels, but once 
 I got to the Lv.47 I'm finding myself waiting around in Jueno for a couple hours with my flag up 
 to join a party with no luck. As a Summoner it would be suicide to fight monsters solo to get exp 
 and I have never been a good party leader. So when I get the time to play Final Fantasy XI I hardly 
 get to fight for exp because I hardly never get an invite. I do though get to look forward to the 
 times when my Linkshell gets together.
  
  That is really the only complaint I have that Final Fantasy is too dependent on you being in a 
 party at higher levels. Sometimes I would like to solo for exp and not have to wait to join or 
 find members for a party. Other than that the game is great. The character models are the most 
 enjoyable in any MMORPG that I have seen so far. The areas in the land are huge and expansive. 
 The story is really good and told nicely. Plus as you move up to Lv.30 the game helps teach you 
 through actually in game experience all the ends and outs of how to move around and interact in 
 the world of Vana' diel. I found this very helpful. Plus the graphics are great and the modeling 
 of the characters and world looks fantastic. Perhaps the coolest thing about the game is that the 
 world changes and celebrates all the Japanese holidays and some popular American ones with re decorated 
 cities, special Non Playable Characters (NPC) , and special items and quests. 
  
  I would recommend this game to someone looking for a MMORPG and like the Final Fantasy franchise. 
 The monthly fee is $12.99 with one character and is an extra $1.00 per additional character you 
 want to create. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2004 4:39 pm PT
Review:  If youre sitting at the computer just now trying to find a honest oppinion about a game made by 
 one of the highly established game companies in the world then look no further. Personally I love 
 this game but to be fair I have to stay netural over my own personall feelings so I can draw out 
 good and bad.
  
  First of all you want to buy a MMORPG (Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) and youre 
 looking for the right one. Final Fantasy is no exception in what the MMORPG system is all about, 
 repetitive play, waiting and the need for dedication. If youre not a patient player and want things 
 done fast and get levels fast FFXI will not make your day. If you have played other MMORPG`s and 
 wonder whats the difference with this one that makes it better? Personally in this matter I would 
 say FFXI achieves to make the game a huge community of friends and enemies. Though most players 
 to date do not act (Role Play) in these kinds of games to much you still get the feelings of being 
 in the world of its own that actually has its unique personalities. I have not yet seen a single 
 character acting out of the line when it comes to how to speak.
  
  So in short, Final Fantasy XI is based on Community as well as Gameplay
  
  The Gameplay ::
 
  Final Fantasy XI as I said earlier does not offer anything to grand but it does offer a few exceptions. 
 Instead of having 1 character with 1 job you can have 1 character and changes job freely. When 
 you start nearing your 18th level with any job of your choise you can choose (wise choise) to pursue 
 the quest of getting a support job. It gives you the immersive feeling of building a smart character 
 by adding support jobs to your main job that will give you certain advantages if you would like 
 a Warrior Whitemage or a Blackmage Thief. Your options here are limitless but also counts for how 
 well you will do and be portrayed in parties.
  
  Final Fantasy XI is a community based game, this will show when you start passing level 10 and 
 groups are more a nesessity than a choise. To get high with most jobs you will have to get parties, 
 get involved in the community. Its very hard being rude in this game because rude players will 
 be recognized with time and eventually never accepted into parties because of reputation. If you 
 are nice and polite you will get friends that trust you well enough to aid you when you need them 
 etc.
  
  Final Fantasy XI also introduces a very player oriented economy, the main source of getting items 
 is through the Auction House. The sellers decides the price and controlls the world economy, so 
 he players rule not the developers. You can start tradeskills to make items, weapons, clothes or 
 armor to sell or use. Though this might sound all nice and perfect it comes at a heavy price, making 
 money in this game is extremely hard. Getting rich fast to get the latest and greatest isnt allways 
 a easy thing. And getting your tradeskills up without spending several decades getting high enough 
 to be worth your while costs money. Though money can be solved with patience and good friends through 
 hunting special monsters that drop valuable items and so on with the many options in the game.
 
  
  The learning curve in this game is pretty brutal, it takes time to get used to the system, controlls, 
 macro commands etc. but once its system is learned I have no doubt that any person with enough 
 patience will truly enjoy this wonderfull game. And for those who doesnt have enough patience shouldnt 
 even be near MMORPG`s
  
  
  Graphics ::
  The graphics in this FF of the series are simply amazing for its kind, I have not played a MMORPG 
 yet that displays intelligent usage of graphics than this game does. I have nothing but positive 
 critic towards this portion of the game, and looking at other mmorpgs even to date I can say that 
 non have achieved what FFXI has achieved in MMORPG graphics.
  
  
  Sound ::
  Sound is wonderfull, like expected from a FF game. And of course like any sound after 100+ hours 
 you will get tired of it and turn on something else. But other than that FFXI delivers almost the 
 same caliber music and sounds as its older brothers/sisters.
  
  
  Value ::
  The value of the game is well worth, its great and in the long run a good investment. Just make 
 sure to take breaks and not wear yourself out playing it. Highly addictive players as I was the 
 first time burns out. So plan your time with this game carefully and dont forgett life beyond.
 
  
  
  Tilt ::
  I tilted first time
  I tilted second time
  and im still playing after 13 months
  
  See you in game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 29, 2004 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has heard of the fabled Final Fantasy franchise. Being the first fully-online and massively 
 multiplayer version in the series, FFXI is VERY different than past Final Fantasy games. This is 
 expected, but aside from the art direction and general 'feel' of the game, Final Fantasy XI is 
 not unlike many other MMORPGs like Everquest, Shadowbane and Dark Age of Camelot (to name a few) . 
 You quest either on your own or in parties to gain loot and experience. As you progress you unlock 
 new abilities and spells, and it tends to feel almost like a treadmill at times.
  
  There is an over-arching storyline, but it really plays very little into the experience most players 
 have in Vana'diel. I have played this game for at least 40 hours, and the most interesting aspect 
 of the storyline has been occasional fetch-quests for NPCs across HUGE areas. The overwhelming 
 focus is leveling up, and getting the next set of sweet gear. If that alone is not enough for you, 
 DON'T play. You will be disappointed.
  
  Travel times in the game, especially at lower experience levels, are really frustrating. Until 
 about level 20 you are restricted to walking nearly everywhere, which can take upwards of 10 minutes 
 real time.
  
  The gameplay is what it is, and more than likely if you've been a fan of other MMORPGs you will 
 enjoy the subtle variances to the genre that FFXI introduces. Instead of having to choose one class 
 for your character, you're allowed to play EVERY class if you so choose. All you have to choose 
 in the beginning is if you'll be a male or female, and which of the 4 different faces/ hairstyles 
 you want. You'll see your exact physical features on other players pretty frequently. 
  
  The elemental strengths and weaknesses system from previous FF games is intact in this one. Status 
 effects and elemental damage are both liberally used by enemy monsters, and you'll need to learn 
 the opposites of each element to get a leg up on the nasties.
  
  The visuals in the game are starting to look a little long in the tooth these days, but hold up 
 very favorably in comparison to most MMORPGs. The menu interface is superb, and once you learn 
 all the shortcuts and macros, you'll be able to do anything at the touch of a button. It shouldn't 
 be hard for gamers to get this game running well without chugging or slowdown.
  
  The music is solid for a game of this caliber, but not impressive. Some of the towns where players 
 call home (Sandy is the worst!) have irritating music that you'll turn off almost immediately. 
 Others are better, but tracks start to grate when you're playing as many hours as this game requires. 
 The character sounds and combat sounds are fairly unimpressive, and have an anime style to them 
 that is pretty consistent with Final Fantasy.
  
  It does bear mentioning that the costs associated with monthly play are, at the time of this review, 
 excellent when compared with its competitors. You must pay an additional fee to get another character 
 though, and a common practice is for players to get a 'mule character' to store all their loot. 
 When all is said and done however, you will end up paying about $65 for the first two months of 
 play. Retail for this game is not cheap, and even though the monthly fees aren't killer, it adds 
 up very quickly. For the amount of time and enjoyment, FFXI's value is VERY poor. Though I would 
 argue most MMORPGs are.
  
  Ultimately, FFXI is a very successful foray into the MMORPG marketplace. It doesn't do anything 
 new, and many will still debate whether or not it is a fun game. Unless you're absolutely sure 
 that MMORPGs are for you, I would pass on this one. Wait until Final Fantasy comes back to single 
 player. That will surely be a better value (and game) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziggyone
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 26, 2004 1:28 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is a typical MMORPG, with an exception; it has the Final Fantasy name branded 
 to it. From the start, the installation and account creation process are a mess and take hours 
 to complete. Thinking back, this should have been a clear indictor to me of what the actual game 
 play is like.
  
  The character creation is very limited and you'll likely see a thousand other characters that look 
 exactly like yours. It is so limited, they do not allow one to even pick out which server they 
 are on and make it an in game hassle to ever get together with a friend.
  
  Game play is not this game's strong point. The combat is slow-paced, unbalanced, and the animations 
 are dull. There is nothing exciting about the combat. It is possible to do combo attacks with party 
 members, but it does require one to look up exactly how to do the combos on a third party website, 
 as the game does not explain jack. Not to mention 95% of it is automated as you have to build up 
 your limit in order to do certain special moves. You can move around while fighting, but not that 
 it matters much unless you are thief. Thieves can execute a back stab attack that only works from 
 behind an enemy, but that is about the only positioning on the field that really matters. If you 
 do find yourself needing to run, you probably should not bother. This is because even if you are 
 running and have the enemy off screen, it can still attack you, which just should not happen.
 
  
  Enemies have always played a big role in all Final Fantasy games, but you will not find a large 
 variety of them in this one. Most of them are simply variations of weaker ones, but except stronger 
 and slightly larger. Some of them look cool, but that wears off as you find that look repeating 
 throughout most of the game's areas.
  
  The story is practically non-existent as there is no reason to ever care about what happens to 
 its world. The story lacks any elements at all to make it the least bit entertaining. Whats the 
 point? To kill monsters that respawn indefinitely, at least thats what it seems to be, with a 
 bit of item upgrades taking place in between certain levels.
  
  One thing about an MMORPG that should be in any of them is being able to create a unique character, 
 but Final Fantasy XI has very little to help you distinguish your character from others. You will 
 likely see many different clones of your character as the choices for appearance are extremely 
 limited. If you want a unique look, you will never have one in this game.
  
  The sound, including music, is just as bad the combat animations. They are similar to the sounds 
 of other Final Fantasy games, but lack the quality that other games have. They amount of music 
 in the game is minimal. Dont expect to get a nifty victory tune as you defeat an enemy or hear 
 accurate sounds effects when hitting an enemy.
  
  I do not even know where to begin on the interface other than it was apparently designed by a group 
 of people that believe gamers need to memorize a book of macro commands in order to anything in 
 a decent manner. Most of the customizations and commands that can be done with it are not documented 
 in the instruction manual and once again the player is required to consult with a third party to 
 figure out what can be done and how to do it.
  
  I suppose one thing that was partially right is that there is an auction house in each city. It's 
 easy to find what you want, sell and buy items. This system isn't without fault as you are limited 
 in the amount of items you can put up for sale, which can cause some players to have to wait before 
 putting more items up. It also can have a good deal of lag time depending on how busy it is.
  
  The only part of the game that I actually found enjoyable was the chat features. You join things 
 called link shells and you can join as many as youre invited too. There is not much documentation 
 on how to create them, so most players will rely on others on the creation of them. It does give 
 a nice environment to chat to players and setup parties, but without a good interface to create 
 and manage one, it really hurts the system.
  
  On top of all that, the developers decided to make achieving anything a complete inconvenience. 
 In order to get a 'support job' one must complete a quest which requires one to find three items 
 which make winning the lottery seem easy. The items dropped come off beasts which are heavily camped, 
 one of which only spawns at only a certain time during the games night hours. The rest of the quests 
 are just as absurd, which includes the quests to get the advanced classes, chocobo, and the few 
 other quests this game has to offer. They are designed to be complete time sinks and nothing else.
 
  
  I could never recommend this game to anyone, not even to those that are huge Final Fantasy fans. 
 This game may contain some things from the FF universe, like chocobos, but the elements which have 
 made the FF series one of the most loved of all time are missing. There is no epic story, low production 
 values, and just plain bad game play. There is nothing in this game, other then chatting with in 
 game friends, that is even remotely fun. Just stick with instant messengers and message boards 
 if you want a good discussion as that is all you could ever get out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:51 am PT
Review:  An unacceptable con, especially for first-time MMORPGers.
  
  This review is tough to keep concise, since the game is so large and complex. I'll try to keep 
 it simple.
  
  This game is insidious. It's fun at first, offers good graphics and a seemingly well-developed 
 world. It'll get you playing, and the numerous high-levels running by in their beautiful armor 
 will make you feel like you have something to aspire to. The opening video will undoubtedly leave 
 you wanting to advance the storyline, as you battle together with Vana'diel's finest to overcome 
 evil.
  
  Reality sets in slowly. The first 10 or so levels of levelling are easy and fun. The first few 
 missions (quests that advance the story of the game) are somewhat challenging but enjoyable, and 
 should provide you with your first camraderie with other players, which is always fun. You'll see 
 yourself wandering into dangerous areas and barely escaping alive.
  
  Soon, you'll notice that you need good armor and weapons to really make an impact. You cannot get 
 these from in-game NPC-run stores -- the stores carry only a very limited selection, and at very 
 high prices. Instead, you'll use the PC-to-PC auction house. The auction house is a robust system, 
 letting one sell to and buy from any other player at that auction house. This is the only real 
 way to acquire armor and other items (other than finding them yourself, which is difficult and 
 is the reason prices can get so high) .
  
  For items, you'll need gil (money) . Gil is difficult to attain. In the first few levels, it's really 
 not that bad -- you don't need much, and anything you need can be "farmed" off easy monsters and 
 sold at the AH. You can also do quests, which range from boring to kind of enjoyable -- but these 
 bring in laughable amounts of gil, hardly worth mentioning.
  
  Nevertheless, up until level 20, at least, the thrill of discovery will probably keep you going. 
 You'll get to ride your first chocobo (no, you cannot own one) , and, at level 25, you'll even get 
 to ride an airship (no, you cannot get full airship capability until approximately level 50, on 
 average) . You'll do a few missions, and even will get your first slice of real story, and fight 
 a cool-looking dragon.
  
  Sure, there will be a dull moment or two along the way (such as trying to find a party in Qufim, 
 unless you are a White Mage, in which case trying to find a party is very easy) . For some classes, 
 such as monk, combat may get pretty dull at times, as well. This is typical MMORPG fare -- you 
 choose Attack, and your guy keeps hacking at the monster. But as you advance in the levels, you'll 
 get to use some more advanced fighting capabilities, such as Skillchains (combinations of weapon 
 skills resulting in extra damage) and Magic Bursts (a mage topping off a Skillchain with a damaging 
 magic attack) . This all certainly seems promising...
  
  ... until you hit the Wall.
  
  I call it the Level 30 Wall. Starting with this level, you will want to kill yourself in this game. 
 Armor becomes expensive; groups start becoming rare (again, unless you are a White Mage) ; quests 
 give larger rewards but are still boring; and the special quests you need to get cool stuff are 
 prohibitively difficult. At level 30 you may still be happy; at level 40 you're either a hopeless 
 addict, or you've quit the game. But I don't want you to fool yourself: You may still be playing 
 the game 5 hours a day, but you're NOT having any fun actually playing it. All the fun comes from 
 bonding with other players, perhaps (Linkshells provide a way to find like-minded players to chat 
 with from anywhere in the world) .
  
  At least, at level 30, you get the ability to unlock advanced jobs, such as Samurai, Dragoon, Beastmaster, 
 and more. These aren't more or less powerful than the normal jobs (Warrior, Monk, White Mage, etc.) , 
 but they are more exotic. Unlocking these can vary from being doable to almost impossible without 
 high-level help (Samurai, for instance) . Getting a party of like-level players to do one of these 
 impossible quests is approximately as easy as winning the Super Bowl. Getting some high-level help, 
 while degrading and annoying, is more doable, but almost never enjoyable. Do note that you can 
 switch to any job that's available and back, without losing EXP -- a definite improvement over 
 EverQuest, etc. In fact, this adds a way for you to become disillusioned with this game later rather 
 than sooner.
  
  If you do get everything you need to advance done, you'll still want lots of gil if you want to 
 be a good player. This is this game's downfall. Eventually, in order to equip yourself well (and 
 many lamers choose to not do that) , you'll have to spend approximately 80% of your time acquiring 
 gil, and 20% actually using it to have fun. Acquiring gil is _not_ fun. The majority of it involved 
 killing easy monsters for hours on end. Other methods include fishing (very boring) and crafting 
 (won't yield any profit without a huge investment to begin with) . Gardening, if you know certain 
 secret recipes, can actually be VERY lucrative, but you'll need to read up on the net, and be very 
 patient and not risk-averse. Finally, there's the hunting of Notorious Monsters (unique monsters 
 that appear only at certain points and very rarely) . This can result in the acquisition of extremely 
 expensive items, but is bound to be hotly contested by lots of other players. Therefore, killing 
 a nice NM with a nice drop is very, very, very difficult (unless you resort to cheating, which 
 some do) . Expect to spend days straight trying to do so, and don't expect to have any fun doing 
 it.
  
  Some quests are fun, but the way you're instructed to do them is infuriating beyond belief. You 
 see, no one in Vana'diel will actually tell you anything about the quest. All you get is VERY VERY 
 vague hints. Anyone that actually does all the quests based on the in-game info is superhuman. 
 Real people go on the web and find out what to do. Even if you find some random secondary NPC to 
 tell you what to do for a quest you received earlier, this info isn't saved anywhere! It's an absolutely 
 f***ing stupid system, and a disgrace to the Final Fantasy name. (I might also add that the battle 
 system has very little in common with Final Fantasy and is more similar to other MMORPGs out there, 
 for better or worse.) But some of the quests required to advance are nothing short of preposterous. 
 For instance, the quest to advance past level 50 involves searching for a very rare item in a very 
 dangerous area. How rare is the item? The average time to acquire just one of these items (and 
 you'll want one for each person in your 6-person party!) is 8 (EIGHT!) HOURS. Of your life.
  
  Since advancing in levels becomes so difficult (largely due to gil problems and the NECESSITY 
 to group with others in order to gain experience or do important quests) , you'll spend more and 
 more time getting gil and less and less time doing anything resembling playing a game. It will 
 feel like work -- yes, work -- and it's work that YOU pay $13/month for. The only reward you get 
 is feeling uber once you reach those high levels. That reward is nice because it's so hard to attain, 
 but fooling oneself into thinking that the reward is worth the boredom one has to suffer to get 
 to it is only wishful thinking. The storyline "reward" is not a reward -- while the story is interesting, 
 the amount of time observing it might amount to 0.0000000000000000000001% of your playing time... 
 at best. This is another reason why putting Final Fantasy onto this game's box is a travesty that 
 should have never been allowed.
  
  Unless you have infinite patience or nothing else to do with your life, you WILL realize -- after 
 dropping $50 on the game and $13 per month for several months -- that Square Enix has conned you 
 out of a lot of money, and you have nothing to show for it. It's just a matter of whether you admit 
 it or not. You see, the game is fun for a short initial period, and then starts to suck. But the 
 more time you put into it, the more stupid you feel at the prospect of quitting and deleting your 
 character ("I spent 3 real-life days on this character, how can I quit now?") . So you hope things 
 get better. THEY DO NOT! Prospective buyers of this game, get that into your head. Things go ONLY 
 downhill until are level 75 (the max level) . You have been warned.
  
  On the plus side, the game features nice production values. The graphics are very nice. The character 
 models, quite varied across the game's five races (including the CUTE Tarutaru) , look great with 
 no visible sharp angles. The environments are mostly beautiful, and the monsters look pretty good. 
 Unfortunately, the monsters' models are incredibly repetitive: You'll fight the same rabbit and 
 worms at level 40 as you do at level 1, except much more powerful (obviously) . There are some truly 
 fearsome monster types out there, but it takes a while to get to see them. So, the graphics are 
 definitely high-quality, and feature good performance on average video cards, but I doubt anyone 
 will go "Oooh! Ahhh!" at the mere sight of them.
  
  The sound is pretty non-descript. The FX are nothing to write home about, and the music is only 
 OK, by SE's standards. I mean, there are some nice ditties, here and there, including some recognizable 
 FF staples, but, by and large, the music is unmemorable (compare that with FF7 or FF6) .
  
  In summary, I wouldn't recommend this game, except to MMORPG enthusiasts, and not even them, really. 
 EverQuest was immensely flawed but it was still certainly better in the end. GAMEPLAY 6 (boring 
 and hard to get money, quests are boring and unclear, crafting is pointless, and controls are clumsy) , 
 GRAPHICS 8 (nice, but repetitive monster models) , SOUND 7 (average) , VALUE 10 (unlimited replay 
 value, that I can't argue with) , TILT 6 (fair) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jearil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2004 8:44 pm PT
Review:  One thing I will say that makes final fantasy xi differ from all the other MMORPG games I've played.. 
 this one has story.
  
  Now I know that there is supposed to be some sort of big intricate plot in Everquest that you're 
 supposed to be able to affect once you get to like level 200 or something... but as I played the 
 game I never felt a larger part of anything... this is not true with FFXI. Right from the beginning 
 you start doing missions for your country (note, difference between missions and quests) . Missions 
 drive the plot forward, and slowly reveal the unsettling events in the lands of Vana'diel. It really 
 places you inside of the world and you can even become attached to some of the NPC's like the Star 
 Sybil or the S. O. B.'s.
  
  One of the greatest features about the game I would also say is the ability to change jobs easily. 
 Unlike other online RPG's, in FFXI you're not limited to being stuck with what you chose when you 
 first started for the entire game. Instead of being a warrior from the beginning until you cancel, 
 you can choose to try a different job, and even use multiple jobs at the same time with the sub-job 
 ability. It really lets you garner a taste for most everything the world has to offer, without 
 making additional characters. This way you can try out all the jobs and still build up a single 
 reputation and list of relationships in the game. The ability to stay in contact with a group of 
 friends via a "linkshell" is also a wonderful addition.
  
  Another surprising feature of this game is the player-driven economy. Every item you find on a 
 creature has a use, though most often not to you. You can sell most anything you find on the Auction 
 House, or put it up in a personal store called a Bazaar. Most of the time when you're in need of 
 a specific weapon, piece of armor, or hard to find scroll... you'll head to the auction house. 
 Money in the game is constantly circulating between players, and is held in a very good position 
 so as not to cause over-inflation. Something I know a lot of RPG's have problems with.
  
  Like many people when FFXI was first announced I was quite skeptical. Final Fantasy in an online 
 form just didn't quite seem to fit my preconceptions of the franchise. But after picking it up 
 and giving it a try I can honestly say that it's been one of the longest lasting and best gaming 
 investments I've made. Definatly the best MMORPG I've ever seen, and I look forward to the upcomming 
 expansion: Chain's of Promethia.
  
  Well back to gaming... Just got level 51 and I need my white mage artifact armor :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RRLevering
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2004 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game concept was compelling enough, along with my love of the franchise, to get me into the 
 game initially. The concept that I enjoyed the most was the ability to take on multiple professions 
 with one character, which is what I see as the best and most unique feature of the game. I like 
 to be able to explore all possibilities without feeling like I'm starting over from scratch. It's 
 still the same old gameplay concept, hunting rabbits and clicking attack which is why I marked 
 it down in this category. I expected a little more from Square. The storyline, the inclusion of 
 great plot movie points, and the excellent sound and graphics (for a MMORPG) make it more immersive 
 then most, but I somewhat expected this from a FF game. The interface is quite abyssmal on the 
 PC, having been built with a console in mind, but you eventually get used to it. Finally, the player 
 driven economy overwhelms the PC one, which while neat in some ways, makes buying/selling from 
 PCs a tedious and usually useless endeavour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fairlypriced
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2004 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the best MMORPG I have played. A little less accessable than other MMORPGs - there is no 
 option to download the client and it is months or years before the game or expansions reach all 
 contries (Japan first, then US and finally Europe) . I managed to get mine imported.
  
  The install is another massive task taking about 3hrs on average (including downloading all the 
 updates) . Believe me all the hassle is worth it. You are treated to a great game. The graphics 
 are very nice considering the age of the game and as it has been running so long the gameplay is 
 very well balanced. The servers are rock solid, I have never experienced lag or downtime since 
 I started playing.
  
  The game has so many features to explore and yet it is not overly complex to learn. You can play 
 the game entirely from the keyboard, (although you can of course use the mouse) which makes it 
 very comfortable to play and easy to control. It is not just a basic level grind which is so typical 
 in most MMORPGs. You don't just go out of town, kill monsters, gain xp and gold, lvl up, go back 
 to town. There is so much going on. You can go on missions to raise your rank. Earn conquest points 
 to aid the spread of control for your faction. The more areas your faction controls the better 
 the items available in the town stores. You can also go on more minor quests.
  
  The gameplay encourages teaming up with others so if your the social type you will love partying 
 with others to defeat the enemy.
  Upside: Plenty to do, easy to use controls, lots of weapons and skills, lots of different jobs/classes 
 to try.
  Downsides: The music gets annoying after a while, there is currently no PvP, not much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 25, 2004 3:18 pm PT
Review:  First off let me start by saying I do not play this game anymore, but played from US Launch until 
 late May, so I can easily say I have experienced enough of the game to give it an honest review. 
 The game is the first MMORPG for Square-Enix, and the first in the Final Fantasy universe in general, 
 so it is quite a different experience for those people who have come to love the Final Fantasy 
 games. All the things you would come to expect from a Final Fantasy game are all here (Summoning, 
 spells, potions and ethers, etc.) but there are quite a few surprises as well. The combat system, 
 while turn-based, doesn't resemble anything before attempted with a Final Fantasy game. all combat 
 is in real time (you don't go to a battle screen a la previous titles in the series) and the party 
 members are controlled by different people, rather than by the same person. This is to be expected 
 by people who are familiar with the MMORPG format, but people who are new to Massively Mulitplayer 
 Online RPGs might be momentarily surprised.
  
  Gameplay wise, this game really shines. The controls are very easy (with a keyboard, you can control 
 your character with just your right hand, and the game is just as easy to control with a gamepad) 
 and the combat is straight forward and intuitive. There is the occasional minor glitch (a friend 
 of mine got stuck in a pond somehow and had a group of players laughing at him as a GM had to come 
 to his rescue) but overall this has to be one of the least bug ridden MMORPGs I have ever played.
 
  
  The graphics are, without a doubt, gorgeous. This is more true on the PC version than the PS2 version, 
 so if you are trying to decide between the two versions, my recommendation is definately to go 
 for the PC version unless your system is outdated. Although there are a few low res textures to 
 be found in the environment, most of the textures do the job and the background sky textures are 
 beautiful. They really give you the sense you are in a wide open world. This obviously isn't the 
 case, but it does lead you to feel that the gameworld is expansive and really one world, rather 
 than a lot of connected areas. The spell and other battle effects also shine in Final Fantasy XI, 
 all of which are colorful, exciting, and appropriate for the setting.
  
  The sound also sets a nice tone for the game. Clangs and clacks of weapons being swung and booms 
 from guns fired and twangs from bows being shot all sound authentic. Especially nifty are the sounds 
 of some of the Advanced Job weapons like the Samurai Great Katanas and the Ninja Katanas. The music, 
 while sometimes plain and dull, is usually very mood setting and classic. Quite a bit of the music 
 actually reminds players of the old Final Fantasy games, especially some of the battle music found 
 in higher level dungeons. The sound is definately one of the better points of the game and helps 
 to create the atmosphere of an authentic Final Fantasy world.
  
  One of the big problems I had with Final Fantasy XI is the forced grouping. Just ask any higher 
 level player on any server in FFXI what they feel about grouping and usually you will get a response 
 somewhere inbetween mumbling about waiting for hours for groups and flat out whining about the 
 harsh restrictions players put on their preference for group layout (not often you hear a White 
 Mage or some other needed job, but many times jobs such as Monk or in later levels Warrior are 
 left out of parties because to many unexperienced or impatient players they are "unneeded," which 
 is completely untrue) . The community itself is unfortunately one of the other few dark spots on 
 record for FFXI. Part of the problem is a large segment of the FFXI community in most servers is 
 young and/or inexperienced in MMORPGs because of the large influx of PS2 gamers in March who have 
 never played an MMORPG or who are not aware of how most MMORPGs really work, and this shows. Many 
 lower level players at this point in time create some rediculous situations because of their inexperience, 
 making leveling a lower level job in groups a hit or miss operation at this time. This may change 
 as the general segment of lower level population on the servers becomes more experienced (or rather 
 just grows up) , and to their credit Square-Enix has tried to rectify the problem by creating a 
 Mentor system to help "noob" players who don't have a great deal of experience with the game as 
 of yet. But the biggest problem is the game is flat out addictive. If you have a job/wife/girlfriend/life, 
 or any mixture therof, kiss them all goodbye if you pick up this game because it will suck your 
 every waking moment away. That is both a good and bad thing, depending on the person's responsibilities 
 and priorities, but overall the game is definately worth giving a shot, even if only for half a 
 year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2004 9:18 am PT
Review:  Like many MMO's it takes quite awhile to get into the FFXI realm. Once you get past you first 18 
 levels (which can happen in 2 days) , you start to really open things up. There is a "macro" system 
 that works like many other MMO's, in the fact that you can basically macro any activity to a singe 
 keystroke, like CTRL1= attack or ALT2=Use Ranged weapon. 
  
  The classes are pretty diverse, and there is something for everyone. If you want to crush skulls 
 for a living, you have several classes and even 1 to 3 advanced classes to choose from. Want to 
 be more subtle and fry your target from 50ft away while your enemy is bound to his spot? Black 
 mage class is for you. Caster classes in general (there are 3 to date) are a fun breed, but take 
 patience and dedication due to their low armor rating, and hit points. You can even be a Bard, 
 which has songs that lend status buffs like Defense, attack or evasion bonuses, even hit point, 
 and magic point regeneration. Want to summon powerful creatures to do your bidding? You can be 
 a Summoner class. There are even the sneaky classes like Thief and Ninja that cause great damage 
 by surprise to the enemy. 
  
  The crafting system works with Guilds. You going a guild to get support (higher success rate) 
 for items you would make for that guild. Like Smithing (metal armor/weapons items) Clothcraft (cloth 
 armor and items) Cooking (food items when consumed give you amazing bonuses like extra health, 
 or magic) , Goldsmithing (rare and precious items come from these crafters) Woodworking (Wood and 
 metal weapons) there is even a fishing guild that you can trade your fish in for cash that you 
 catch all around the world. There are more to choose from. At first, I had issues with the fact 
 that the crafting system was nothing fantastic. What I mean by that is you could craft any item 
 or just buy it in a store. Well after a few patches that is gone. There are some real precious 
 items and money opportunities to make in the game. Some armor, weapons, items, and food can only 
 be made by players now. 
  
  The only downside is what we refer to as "Named Mobs". These are monsters that hold precious and 
 highly sought after gear, weapons, items, or spells. Often you will find yourself camping (waiting 
 for) the same mob to get that ultra rare hairpin with the evasion boost. Or even, that immensely 
 popular spell that costs too much at that AH, (Auction House) perhaps you are better off just trying 
 to kill a named monster for it. Then we get into the AF gear, which is Artifact Armor. This is 
 special armor for each class that can only be used by THAT job class. Hunting the monsters for 
 coffer keys can get repetitive and frustrating. Once you walk around in full AF gear, you are 
 hot stuff, and the reward is worth it. 
  
  Of course you can buy many in game items at the auction house which I think is one of the most 
 intuitive and amazing inventions in a MMO to date. It is simplistic in its use, and you can get 
 about 95% of all game items there. There are some special items you cant get there like the Artifact 
 Armor, or even some items that are "Rare/EX". This status of rare/ex means they can't be traded 
 or sold. Therefore, if you do not want the item anymore, you throw it away. 
  
  Final Fantasy 11 is a great MMO, but if you are expecting a typical RPG in the FF universe, this 
 is not your game. This is purely played online, with no single player mode. The user interface 
 is mainly targeted to a console user in the aspect that the UI (user interface) is mainly menu 
 driven and not keyboard and mouse driven. This still is one of its many strengths, as you can use 
 a controller to play the game or a keyboard and mouse. I play on the PC version as there is also 
 the PS2 version, which requires the purchase of the PS2 hard drive, which comes with FFXI pre-installed. 
 Not to mention you still have to pay a monthly fee, but I feel this is worth it. I have not had 
 so much fun from a single game, in a long time. The 2nd expansion pack will be released later this 
 year; I cant wait to get my hands on that!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcalibrknight
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 13, 2004 9:21 am PT
Review:  I'm a long time Everquest player and was looking for something new, so I tried FFXI. The biggest 
 gripes I had that eventually left me not paying past the free 30 days was a lack of groups and 
 an "alone" feeling when you do play. There is no zone-wide chat, and unless you're in a linkshell/clan, 
 the only people you can see talking are the players in close vicinity to you. 
  
  You cannot solo for more than the earliest levels, so you are stuck having to find groups. My first 
 few weeks were spent exploring and doing the newbie quests, and when I found I had to group, the 
 rest of the time was spent putting a group together, figuring out where to fight, and getting there. 
 After that, you had to put up with people leaving early, not playing their class correctly, inexperience, 
 and so on. 
  
  The game has many good points, including a "lock on" targeting, endless job possibilities, a great 
 auction system, and of course the music. If you want to try a new MMO, be prepared to be dependent 
 on joining a linkshell/clan in FFXI... I've heard it's a great game if you can find a good one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakanguard
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2004 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Normally I would give this game a perfect score, because I love all the games Squaresoft come out 
 with. But after playing this game since it came out, I decided to score it appropiately. The graphics 
 and sound are of Square quality, and well that says alot. The gameplay though is the main problem. 
 I've done every job, and the job I wanted to take all the way was Dragoon. The only problem is 
 I spent a whole month, 2hrs a day trying to find a party, and never found one that was complete, 
 or would last long, so I was stuck at lvl 32. This game has so many jobs to offer, but if you want 
 to get places, you have to be a Paladin, Warrior, Thief, Ranger, Bard, Red Mage, or White Mage. 
 Plus this game is completely un soloable, I mean you could go for it, but the exp treadmill will 
 take away your life and time, and you'll never get it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seymour47
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 17, 2004 10:25 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game to come out. It was the first MMORPG I played and decided that it 
 should be the last. I played the game for the free 30 days and decided it was not worth playing 
 longer. The gameplay is simply boring. I just dreaded having to find a certain enemy to fight. 
 You can never find what you need. And the worst thing about the game is the color. Is it just me, 
 or is there no color in this game? It would be just as exciting if it were black and white. Graphics 
 overall were so-so. A pc game has no business looking like a PS2 game. If you want a great MMORPG 
 then get City of Heros when it comes out. Best game I've played in years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2004 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Worst online game out there next to Horizons
  
  Holy cow this game is worse of a level grind than EQ. Most people left EQ for a short stint in 
 this hideously over hard game and came back after one month. Populated by Asian uber players, and 
 almost impossible to level in unless you have a strong grou of friends that will play each night, 
 Final Fantasy XI represents the utter pinnacle of fanboy FF people.
  
  Also this game has the WORST interface of ANY online game. I would rather play Shadowbane for 3 
 months straight than log into this game for one more evening of torture 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leachman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2004 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Greg didn't play this. He is lying.
  
  Magic bursts being even more difficult than a skaillchain? Magic bursts involving combining spells? 
 What the, Greg, I'm sorry, but you played this game at absolute newbie levels and wrote a bogus 
 review.
  
  Magic bursts are a single spell which reflect the base elements found in the mell skillchain. One 
 spell, it is not hard. If a skillchain has the thunder element, after the chain is complete, the 
 mage casts thunder on the monster.
  
  This, and other blatantly false statements make it very clear that Gamespot did not even play this 
 game beyond level 10.
  
  This game is not without the standard economic problems that all MMORPGs have. It does, however, 
 have the best tactical cooperative combat in any MMORPG I have played.
  
  Melee combat in particular is highly tenchnical in nature, very challenging and rewarding. There 
 really is nothing to compare it with in this sense, because nothing comes close.
  
  Shame on Gamespot for writing a bogus and deceivingly false review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmuell2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2004 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, there are some many things to say about this game that it would make the review entirely 
 to long, but I'll do my best to inform. I'm not going to bash the game on how bad it is like a 
 lot of other people because it's really not tha bad of a game. The game has so many aspects that 
 it will appeal to many but repel several others as well. I'm a hardcore fan of the Final Fantasy 
 series and will say it does not feel like FF at all but I guess that can't be expected since it 
 is pretty much a completely different genre even though it is an "RPG". It has elements of traditional 
 FF games like chocobos, airships, Cid, and one of my favorite part of the FFs of the past, the 
 summoner. A person who loves the game could play it for years probably with all the options the 
 game offers but I could't see it happen.
  
  The game has some great concepts but are poorly done. The ride range of craft skills are great 
 but way too tidious, the craft skills alone could be a game. Sure, these skills should take time 
 to build but not the amount this game requires. No one wants to spend several hours just to watch 
 their attempts at leveling a craft skill fail. 
  
  The subjob idea is also a good one, but having to start back at level 1 for every job you want 
 to level up, main or sub, is just plain annoying and very time consuming.
  
  The character creations dont offer much, but that really wouldn't be important if it was a great 
 game. The one thing that is bothersome is make sure you pick the appropriate race for the class 
 or classes you intend on using most. I used an Elvaan and wanted to be a Red Mage thinking the 
 Elvaan would be a pretty balanced race but this was not the case at all. It's hard to notice when 
 you first start playing, but becomes very apparent when you get semi-advanced. I love playing the 
 role of a mage and when I finally reached a decent level, the whole time I was wishing I was a 
 taru b/c there is such an enormous difference, but no one wants to dump that many hours and start 
 all over with a new character. 
  
  Looking for a party was extremely tidious. You can sit around literally for an hour and still not 
 be in a party. The exp penalty is pretty harsh and most people will die a lot. I'm not a fan of 
 the mission thing and although a semi storyline was building before I quit, the missions were so 
 irrelevant to each other and some of them required tasks that were quite pointless but very time 
 consuming. Battles were nothing special and every battle was the exact same as the one before it. 
 Even the one boss fight I did get to participate was the exact same as a normal monster, except 
 it took a little longer to kill and looked a lot cooler.
  
  One thing that I assume everone would agree on is the laziness and pour creativity in monsters 
 Square did. The monsters are identical to most of the ones in a previous zone with a different 
 name and a little change in color. Not only were there not anywhere near enough Mob models, the 
 ones they had were piss poor at best. Square, producers of some of the most unique and amazing 
 models, couldn't come up with better things than rabbits, crabs, sheep, birds, and beatles? They 
 just seemed like they weren't trying. You would think that so called "Notorious Monsters", which 
 are rare spawns and occasionally drop a rare item, would atleast look different from the other 
 Mobs and somewhat Notorious but for the most part this didn't happen either. One NM that spawns 
 in the low level areas and drops a very expesive item was the same rabbit as the others in the 
 area with a different name and a little higher of a level. A notorious rabbit? How do people feel 
 when they know they were just killed by a rabbit or a sheep?
  
  The final straw for me was when I partied with a summoner, the job I was working to become, and 
 the summoner subbed with a White mage, and was way more effective when he wasn't summoning... The 
 people in our party was asking the summoner to stop summoning because it wasted so much of his 
 MP that could have been used for healing and the avatar didn't do much help. Square did a great 
 job with the Avatar models but then made them quite ineffective, especially for the amount of work 
 a summoner has to put in. 
  
  My most enjoyable experience was the interaction with my linkshell, even though I never really 
 partied with them much b/c they were much higher levels, and the friend list. But they did do a 
 great job with the friend system and other aspects were good but not great.
  
  Bottom line is a good game with lots of options and enormous potential that stays at just that, 
 potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiCkAsSfOnZo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2004 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Well all I can say about this game is Wow! I never thought that a game could get me addicted so 
 fast and cause so many problems in my personal life... This game is great if you want to spend 
 extremely long hours in front of your computer screen and it has a lot to offer. I really enjoyed 
 this game but unfortunately I had to quit playing it recently. I had a lvl 40 Paladin among other 
 jobs and I really enjoyed it, the graphics are great and the way you get to play with other people 
 online together is actually really fun. I would recommend this game to anybody that doesnt have 
 a girlfriend or has a girlfriend that will play with you, because this game will consume all of 
 your free time if youre not careful. My main point is that Final Fantasy XI is awesome and if I 
 was still single I would never stop playing it. Im new to the whole MMORPG experience but if this 
 is what the other ones were like, this is a very scary genre! (We're gonna have people living more 
 in the game than in real life!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeldor
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2004 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am not going to go into a full review of this game but do have a few points worth mentioning.
 
  
  The graphics, sound and attention to detail on this game are without compare, simply breathtaking. 
 The use of light and to see the look of the terrain change as the sun goes overhead during the 
 day is amazing. To be in dungeons under the desert and have sand pouring in from the ceiling... 
 superb!
  
  Classes seem very well balanced, and the use of skillchains where characters in a group can use 
 special attacks in a certain order for elemental damage bonuses is a great way to promote team 
 play.
  
  However, there are two points that really break this game for me.
  
  First, at the early levels this game is great and a lot of fun, but as you get higher in level 
 (esp. 45+) you can find yourself waiting HOURS for a group. There is NO ability to solo play at 
 higher levels, which is just crazy. You can't even attack a lot of creatures that are 'too weak 
 to be worthwhile (no xp) ' without getting killed. This means that you have to be prepared to commit 
 at least 2-3 hours of play before logging in, and that's not even including the 1-4 hours you can 
 spend just waiting for a group... just horrible.
  
  Secondly, the lack of PvP. I hear PvP will be introduced very soon, so this will be a great step 
 forward, but without addressing the soloing problem I can't muster the enthusiasm to log in anymore.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randy915
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2004 2:29 am PT
Review:  I have been playing FFXI since November of 2003 so here we are one year later with a true impression 
 of the game.
  
  FFXI is a beautiful game which requires a bit of patience, but once you get over the hump you'll 
 find that the content is very rewarding and the game overall is a hidden gem buried beneath the 
 rough.
  
  Pros:
  -Innovative dual job system which allows you to interchange between job combinations to suit your 
 needs. These combinations allow for quite a bit of experiment.
  -Engaging storyline told over hundreds of quests and missions scattered throughout Vana'Diel.
 
  -Interesting battle concept with skillchains with magic burst.
  -An intricate relationship between the characters, the beastmen, elements, job classes, weapon 
 skills, magic and other components. Only higher level players will start to learn this concept 
 and will be very rewarding once revealed. Square did a great job in designing the overall game 
 with almost every aspect around a central theme. A tight integration that is not visible for new 
 comers.
  -Many aspects to the game are hidden and requires experimentation and investigation. Square purposely 
 added many hidden effects such as to stats, items, crafting, weather, moon phase, etc that adds 
 immense depth into the overall gameplay dynamics.
  -American and Japanese players playing on the same server allows two very different cultures to 
 interact making it for a very interesting experience.
  -Polished graphics with great special effects that are truly gorgeous especially considering it's 
 an engine built in 2001.
  -Final Fanasty soundtrack does not disappoint with both remakes and brand new themes. Sound effects 
 are crisp and sharp.
  
  
  Cons:
  -Grouping is almost manditory for most jobs/levels. There is almost no way around this unless you 
 want to gain XP through soloing low level mobs.
  -Large amounts of time must be allocated to play successfully. It is not a game you can play for 
 an hour a day and progress. Very time consuming.
  -More variety for monsters and item models would have been nice. The PS2's hardware limitation 
 might be a reason for this.
  -Language barrier between the English and Japanese speaking players can be frustrating. Stereotypes 
 from both sides of the pond can cause a lack of cooperation but that is up the players to get around.
 
  
  
  I am being as honest as possible with the overall game after playing it for a year. I plan on playing 
 even though games like EQ2 and WoW has been released but I feel FF has strong lasting power as 
 long as people overlook its flaws and enjoy the game for what it is, a great Final Fantasy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FracturedOrb
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 22, 2004 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Final Fantasy online looks awesome. The only reason I did not give it a 10 was that because it 
 will only look awesome if your system can handle it. Granted you don't need a killer system (I 
 have a 1.5 GHZ AMD and a Geforce 4 64meg card) but if your forced to use the lower detail modes 
 for whatever reason the game looks pretty bad. So if you are planning on playing this game make 
 sure to crank the texture resolution to the max and your screen resolution as well and prey your 
 system isn't too old.
  
  The Job system in the game is back from previous games. For the most part it's decent but unfortunately 
 unless your a magic user you won't find many skills available to you in the game. This is pretty 
 much standard for these sorts of online games. The jobs can be switched whenever you want. If your 
 familiar with other online games this would be the equivalent of making a new character but all 
 of the new jab stats stay in tact. It's a little hard to explain but just know that you can be 
 every class in the game at some point using the same character. However you can only play them 
 one at a time. At Level 18 you can go on a quest that allows you to have a sub class in addition 
 to your main class. So if you want to be a Fighter Mage you can be a L20 Fighter and your mage 
 skill will be locked at L10 (Until you level your fighter to 22 then the Mage skill can go to 11) . 
 While nice this forces you to have to level up your sub Job separately.
  
  The Bad:
  The game gets pretty boring fast. Unfortunately with these massive online games after a while you 
 will find yourself doing the same thing over, and over, and OVER, AND OVER. Outside of trying to 
 unlock the more advanced Jobs like Samurai and Summonner ( you have to get to L30 with your main 
 class then do a quest to get the job) the game really is the same thing over and over again. However 
 this is pretty much true of the genera it's in so nothing new here.
  
  The combat system SEEMS to be a little on the simplistic side. Unfortunately the combat while not 
 in depth tends to play itself. If your a mage you will have thing to do but as a Tank class your 
 left with just knowing when to use your skills in a fight and sitting there and watching your character 
 fight. There is actually a LOT more to it than just that but you will run into a lot of people 
 (especially at the lower levels) who don't really quite grasp this concept and let the game play 
 it self so to speak and never figure out how to properly protect the other players and so on.
 
  
  After Level 15 the game pretty much FORCES you to group. While this isn't really a bad thing my 
 experience isn't that your grouped because you need these other people to get XP, you need them 
 more to survive. After L15 the zones you have to play in to fight the right difficulty monsters 
 tends to also have roaming monsters that are much tougher than you and also your group at times 
 that will attack you while you fight. This is flat out irritating. I mostly saw people grouping 
 just so they would have other people to outrun when the monsters they couldn't kill came. To top 
 it off the XP you get in groups is skewed very badly. In an effort to prevent power-leveling the 
 game scales all the XP based on how hard the monster is to the highest level character in the group. 
 To give you an Idea I was with someone who was my level and the monsters we were fighting gave 
 30 XP. After he leveled up 1 level the same monsters now gave him 26 xp and me 12. That's a pretty 
 big gap. So playing with your friends is only viable if you all stay on the same EXACT play schedule 
 and or try to play catch up (which eventually fails) .
  
  
  
  As with most of these online games your play experience will only be as good as the company you 
 keep. If you luck out and get into good groups or ally with good players then your going to have 
 a much better time with the game. However if you constantly run into people who are not good at 
 the game or have a bad attitude about things your play time will be pretty abysmal. To make matters 
 worse your more likely to be running into other people that have no Idea what they are doing when 
 you start out so your not really going to get a feel for what you need to be doing until much later 
 in the game.
  
  Lastly, because this was originally a PS2 game that was ported to the PC in Japan, the control 
 scheme is tilted for the PS2. The keyboard controls are pretty horrible and the mouse controls 
 flat out are unusable. To make it worse the text doesn't scale if you change to a higher resolution. 
 So when playing the game, while it make look good, you won't be able to read the text as clearly. 
 Also the mouse is so small and oddly colored that it blends in too well and you have a hard time 
 seeing it. If you have a USB PS2-type controller it plays a lot better but still can be irritating. 
 Because things are menu driven getting into and out of combat takes a bit too long. Getting into 
 combat isn't really an issue but when the fight goes bad and you want to run you have to bring 
 up the menu command for getting out of combat (or hotkey it) then wait for your character to put 
 their weapon away, then turn and run. this all gives the monster ample time to get too many swings 
 in on you for your flee to really be successful. Add into that the monsters run about as fast as 
 you do and your only chance for survival becomes a guessing game of how to get the monster hung 
 up on the terrain. Also if your deep in a zone running might not even be a plausible Idea in the 
 first place as you might just end up running right into other monsters.
  
  Overall the game shows great potential and was actually a Lot of fun but after a while the tedium 
 of the whole thing left me bored. The tactics don't seem to change much and after getting your 
 sub job having to start over again was irritating. The control scheme is awful. Too many times 
 I found myself having to fight with the controls or camera and less time enjoying the game. But 
 in the end it was the difficulty of the game that really bothered me. I have played both Dark age 
 of Camelot and Everquest. While DAoC is considered by many to be an easier game to play and EQ 
 is the one that's harder, I found FFXI to be harder than EQ by a great deal. The fact that there 
 is so many wandering monsters in the game that attack you while you are trying to level your character 
 is irritating. It's one thing to die because your group wasn't organized or you didn't know what 
 your doing. it's a totally other thing when your fighting a monster that you have the upper hand 
 with or just have good tactics on how to beat it and here comes a monster about 10 levels higher 
 than you that just stomps on you. it's no fun and the fact that you lose a LOT of XP when you die 
 in this game doesn't help matters much. In the End it's a pretty game but that can only take you 
 so far. The game is VERY punishing and overall to me not worth the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EbonDrake
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 17, 2004 1:51 am PT
Review:  Do you hate soloing? Does the idea of ever playing more than your beginner levels by yourself just 
 utterly turn you off? If so, this may be the game for you.
  
  Seriously, I've never played a game that's harder to solo, and I've never died so much in my early 
 levels, and I've never lost as much experience as I've gained, and I've never actually LOST A LEVEL 
 before. I know that's one heckuva run-on sentence, but I wanted to get the point across. As someone 
 who enjoys soloing a good portion of the time, this is definitely not the game for me. Add to that 
 SERIOUS downtime to heal between fights, and I only lasted two weeks - my shortest stint with any 
 MMORPG ever by far.
  
  Graphics and sound are OK. The interface is the worst I've ever seen - a penalty of its console 
 origins I'm sure. It feels and plays like a console game in many ways, which limits its appeal. 
 At least there is a reasonable amount of loot dropped, though it's pretty standard fare.
  
  I'm sure some people will enjoy it, but it definitely wasn't for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2004 8:50 am PT
Review:  I don't agree with people saying it sucks because it doesn't work on your computer and errors i 
 had none. SWG i couldn't play for the first few days, it took a while for the updates to install 
 but i really don't care. The last guy who talked about Ninja and Norg, your not reviewing the game 
 about how hard it is. 
  
  I think it's great, good graphics, the enemies are fine, I'd rather see a good overall game they 
 many characters models or armor models. The gameplay is like EQ, which i loved, just better. Graphics 
 are good, no at close distances however. On sound the music can get old fast, spells make different 
 noises which is nice, unsheathing of the weapon is a nice touch. For overall value i give it a 
 10, the whole package is good. 
  
  The only thing i hate is the death system (but it is needed to make it more challenge and inspires 
 some fear of dying) , you lose 10% xp for that current level. I think it one of the best onlines 
 games i've played, I suggest it to anyone. If you like final fantasy games this is one to get.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSF_Member
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 5, 2004 9:43 am PT
Review:  Square had all of us drooling over FFXI for over 2 years only to present us with a hollow shell. 
 Why? Character customization is a joke. The armor upgrades are pathetic. I mean how in the world 
 can a level 30 doublet look just like a level 10 doublet? How hard was it to come up with different 
 designs in a 7 gig game? You've made it so that even though we can get advanced jobs at level 30 
 we have to complete them by going to level 40+ areas. The "multilingual-translator" goes as far 
 as hi and bye (for the love of god PSO had more depth and that was a console game) . The enemy 
 designs were just plain lazy. We're supposed to feel rewarded by leveling up for months just to 
 fight a gray version of what we fought 20 levels ago? Making money is like a game in of itself. 
 Never have I seen such a disregard for game quality. How are we supposed to have fun playing the 
 game when we need to work around the clock to make cash to buy minor upgrades to prevent an inevitable 
 death? 
  
  I came to this revelation after I got my ninja to level 10. Dual wield was great but I needed some 
 ninjitsu. So I went to check to see where I can get the level 9 scrolls and found out I had to 
 go to Norgwhy in gods name would level 9 scrolls be in that area? That is utterly ridiculous and 
 is simply unfair by anyones standards of difficulty. I seriously hope a Square employee reads 
 this and feels bad. How dare a company people hold so much respect for make a game like this? Im 
 having second thoughts towards anything and everything you make in the future. Im sure youve 
 lost many customers with this gamewell heres one more
  
  I feel ashamed I got my friends to play this game. Im guessing theyve played it for this long 
 because they wanted to be good friends to me. Now I have to be a good friend to all of you. For 
 the love of god stop playing this game and spend youre money on something worth it like SWG. I 
 know Square was going down hill after FFX but my god. this isnt right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markburn007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2003 9:22 pm PT
Review:  With the advent of MMORPG's like Everquest a few years back, it's no wonder that Square Enix has 
 jumped onboard the cash-wagon. Square Enix has, I think, crafted a game that will satisfy both 
 FF fans, as well as hard-core MMORPG fans, which is no small feat. 
  
  It should noted that, from the time you open the FFXI box, there is about a 2 hour install process... it's 
 excructiating but worth it I think. When you do finally get to start the game, you'll go through 
 a well made character creation process. Character models will animate for you so you can see how 
 they will look in action. You'll choose from one of four races and select a few custom aesthetics 
 like hair color and face, nothing too deep actually. SWG has a much deeper character creation process 
 but FFXI does it right in this regard, FF fans aren't used to character creation so this will ease 
 them into it. In short it works. You'll also get to select your job: Warrior, Theif, Black mage, 
 White mage, Red mage, or monk. They all are balanced pretty equally (except for red-mages. I find 
 there is not a high demand for red mages in parties) . There are a few other 'extra' jobs that can 
 be accessed later in the game via a special quest to unlock each one, like the Dark Knight, which 
 has the powers of both a warrior and a black mage. 
  
  Content:
  There truly is a ton of things to do in the world of Vanadiel, you just have to get past the first 
 15 levels or so to really get into all the cool stuff. The first Quests you undertake will mostly 
 be fetch quests, and even the first missions (which are different than quests and relate to the 
 main plot line of FFXI) . You'll actually see other high-level players talking about slaying dragons, 
 or traveling to distant lands. This can be a little discouraging as you slog through the first 
 boring quests, but once you start to learn your surroundings and get familiarized with forming 
 parties, FFXI is an absolute blast to play. The game gives you a variety of ways to form a party, 
 from just walking right up to a PC and asking, to using the search function of the main menu, to 
 utilizing your friends list, it's all really intuitive, once you learn it all that is. I spent 
 about one hour reading the 131 page manual that comes with FFXI, and it still took me a while to 
 really get associated with the keyboard controls. Learing the compact keyboard controls is superior, 
 in my opinion, to the controller being as you can only type from the keyboard, although this is 
 a PS2 game and it flows nicely on the PS2 controller. Square Enix is constantly maintaing the game 
 worlds and adding events (like the holloween event) and the game comes with the 'Rise of Zilart' 
 expansion pack that has been released in Japan for some time, and is consequently useless until 
 you reach higher levels and can actually go to the new environments and utilize the new jobs. With 
 that said, it is still comforting to now that there is a little bit extra waiting for you once 
 your character gets stronger. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in FFXI are very well done. They won't revolutionize gaming, like say, Half Life 2 
 may, but they are pleasant to look at and they boast some pretty good models. The environments 
 are also well done and varied. Trees blow in the wind, waves break on the beach, and the sun goes 
 up and comes down all nicely. The frame rate is actually very solid on a decent machine. I have 
 a Geforce 4 Ti4200 and a 2Ghz. Athlon with 512 mb of ddr ram, and it looks great. It should be 
 noted that I am very picky with frame rates too, and believe me this game runs smooth. Load times 
 between zones are extremely short and barely noticeable and the menus are all slick and pleasant 
 looking. Combat is very cool and dynamic looking, more than can be said of other MMORPG's. The 
 spell effects and special techniques are all very flashy and of the quality we have come to expect 
 from Square Enix. Sometimes the environments looks a little blocky though, and the framerate does 
 take a hit when theres a lot of activity on the screen or, oddly enough, when there is a sand storm 
 in the area. 
  
  Sound:
  The music is very good in FFXI, and by very good I mean it always fits the scene. It doesn't really 
 ever jump out at you, like some of the tracks on previous FF titles, but it is a nice minimalist 
 approach to the soundrack idea. It adds to the mood without you really knowing it, but at times 
 you'll get sick of the same tune that is played in the region you are in, but the good news is 
 each region has a different tune. Combat sounds are all what you would expect and theres always 
 a satisfying 'whack!' sound when you make a hit and monsters have good sound effects also. 
  
  Closing Comment:
  If you're willing to devote the time to FFXI it will reward you greatly. 
 The community of FFXI is huge and all the PC's, with a few exceptions, are really helpful and seem 
 to all really be enjoying the game. The Japanese server issue is not an issue, unless you are bored 
 and want something to whine about. The game runs smooth and all the Japanese PC's are really nice 
 and speak ok english, and even if they don't there is an in game translator system that works ok. 
 To me, this is the hottest MMORPG out there, with the exception of Star Wars Galaxies, but that 
 game is majorly lacking in content. This is, by far, the MMORPG with the best sense of style and 
 flair, it being an adaption of a franchise which has been around since the mid 80's, Square Enix 
 has a pretty good idea of what they want things to look and sound like. Also this is the first 
  so Square Enix sort of already had a couple things going 
 for them. 1. A built in fan base and 2. A very defined sense of style, which to me is what really 
 makes a great game. If you're a fan of either Final Fantasy or MMORPG's you would do very well 
 to get into FFXI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guyver6000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2003 1:29 am PT
Review:  I have had my hands on almost every Massive Multiplayer out here right now and this is the only 
 ONE I Choice to review. I'm coming to this game after the massively dumb star wars game, I just 
 got done laugh at my self for buying. And need something that is for one Complete and has some 
 fresh new ideas on MMORPG. At first FFXI is hard to get a grip on, but after you get use to the 
 interface and controls (which is like 2 hours) it comes like second nature like any other new game. 
 For one the graphics for spells look great, every time I get a new spell I have to test it right 
 away to see what it will look like. Combat in the game is very nice looking too its like other 
 MMORPG only the action is always livly. For Example you have a sword, you attack something and 
 your character swings from the right next he might swing from the left or sab or do a critical 
 hit with cool sparks (yeah:) . Than you get tp (which is like a power up attack gauge) and you can 
 do special attacks which have lots of sparks (big Yeah:-) . Thats only just the small part of combat. 
 But on to other things now. sound in the game is very well fitting for the most part It seems to 
 get me in the mood of the place that im at very quickly. Some people I have seem reviewing this 
 game say that people are mean on the game, but thats just like life some people love to be that 
 way. I for one love helping out lower level people and I have found tons of people in the game 
 to help out. I find that if all else fails start Shout in the game and people will help you out 
 with problems. Oh before I forget the loading time on the game is long but its something that you 
 dont do ever again. Its just got alot of patchs for you to install at the start once your done 
 you have to do alot of entery stuff but no more than any other MMORPG out there. One last thing 
 I have yet to go very far from my city yet and I have all ready seem more content in the game than 
 any other. I also have yet to do the following 1. mining 2. make cloths 3. build stuff 4. put stuff 
 in the house you get at the start (stuff like Bed and etc.) 5. play with the other 5 starting jobs (which 
 you can switch with out losing any exp in the one you were in) 6. attacking rabbits!!!! and many 
 Many more things Im just not thinking of now... Play it for a couple of days and you will love it 
 once you figure out alot of the stuff in this game. And when I mean alot I mean why too much to 
 do in a year. Thats how much content is in it. Im playing now bye, you will never see me again 
 unless your playing too. 
  Akasha 
  level 8 Black Mage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projectshrike2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2003 2:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  As in all other MMORPGs, you level up and do "quests". but unlike other MMOs this one makes you 
 feel like its a real console RPG (to me it felt most like FFIX and looks like FFX) every quest 
 you embark on is given to you after the tell-tale blackeing and "cut-scene" like intro to the "story" 
 of the quest. it really goes a long way to make you feel like you are special and a part of a real 
 "story". Along with that you get ranked upon your mission tasks and have a certain amount of "fame" 
 you earn by sucessfully completing tasks, which in turn unlock other tasks and areas. A giant leap 
 above and beeyond what those other MMOs offer.
  Leveling up can be quite frustrating at times, as once you reach level 3, whenever you die, you 
 will lose a certain amount of EXP. I spent a good amount of time dieing so I know how frustrating 
 it can be at times to work all night killing rabbits and worms, to only lose all those precious 
 EXP points to some run of the mill goblin who just happened to run by. But this isnt that too big 
 of a deal once you get the hang of knowinh were yourr boundaries lie, and how to "check" your opponents 
 before attacking (I was a BLM (Black Mage) and I was constantly dieing lvls 7-10, lost about 3-4 
 lvls in that time before I got the hang of getting into a rythymn)
  Graphics:
  Compared to the other "popular" MMORPGs, FFXI stands head and shoulders above the crowd, with only 
 maybe AC2 coming anywhere close (don't beleive what one of these people wrote about him having 
 a brand new computer and it running like crap, he apparently doesnt know how to config his computer) 
 this game is beautiful, looking much like FFX, with excellent character animations and expressions 
 (tarutaru panic chat emotion is a must-see) as well as beautiful and detailed landscapes. Citys 
 look sprawling (especially San`Doria) and are filled with excellent architexture. And unlike most 
 MMORPGs, all buildings within the cities are enterable in some form and fashion, and it actually 
 looks like its proportioned reallistcally (unlike AC2 and others)
  Sound:
  Excellent background music, and sound effects. The background music is easily noticeable as some 
 of the FF series finest, while not too intruding upon gameplay, it switches to that ever so loveable 
 attack beat whenever you are in a fight (FF fans will recognize it) . The sound effects for characters 
 as top notch, as well as the age-old "level-up!" sound when you level up.
  Value:
  I highly recommend this to all FF fans and MMORPG fans as well, this is the game to be playing 
 if you are a fan of either, and once you get past the beginning hurdles (which are not really that 
 much to bear considering some other games that make themselves out to be FFXI's competitors) 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loshead
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2003 4:22 am PT
Review:  This is the Best MMORPG on the market at this moment. If your a MMORPG fan, then you can't go wrong 
 with adding FF XI to your collection. This game is soooo addicting. First off, its the best looking 
 MMORPG on the market. The worlds are massive and look great if you have a video card that can support 
 maxed out graphics. The chracters are uniquely disigned, my only gripe is that there are no different 
 races to pick from for humes. Basically all the human characters are white. I would have liked 
 to see some more variety. Also the game took almost 3 hours to install on my computer. I have a 
 pretty good cable modem connection, i feel sorry for you 56kers out there who want to play this 
 game. Just Set it to install, and it will be done by the time you wake up. 
  Bottom line if you like EverQuest, you will love FF XI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcxnamjah
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 17, 2003 1:46 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I LOVE FINAL FANTASY. Hardcore fan since the old NES days, but damn this game 
 really shames the name. 
  
  Graphics
  I run a 3.06 ghrtz P4 Radeon 9800 Pro 256mb with 1024 1066 RD Ram. This game looks like crap compared 
 to an already year old game Asheron's Call 2. I mean when I was creating my character, it looked 
 pretty good, but then when the game started, I wondered where all that went?
  
  Controls
  I know this game was probably easy to control on the PS2, but why didn't they make the camera follow 
 the person when you change your controls to WSAD? I am tired of using the arrow keys to look where 
 I am looking! The damn cursor is so small and blends too well with the background that I don't 
 even know what I am clicking.
  
  Gameplay
  I loved tactics, I loved every game that featured the job system, I am sure I will love X-2 when 
 it comes out next week, but damn it sucks in this game. I have to go walk all the way to a mog 
 house just to change jobs... sometimes thats just a journey. I play MMORPGS for combat and development, 
 as most of you do, but damn its slow as hell! Forget about trying to organize a group. Your basically 
 alone. You seriously got to have no life to be able to get this game down. I just don't have the 
 time and patience. This game is nothing compared to AC2.
  
  Sound
  Its traditional FF music, but not. Not as orchestrated as in solo player games. It's decent I suppose.
 
  
  Conclusion
  This game puts the shame in Final Fantasy, if maybe they fixed the controls I wouldn't mind as 
 much and the sluggish combat. These errors just turns me off from this game by a whole lot. Wayyy 
 too repetitive. I don't care what you say, I got my black mage to lvl 12 and it was freakin hell 
 when I lost 2 lvls! HELL I SAY. If you like mmorpgs, please stay away from this game. Play X-2 
 when it comes out. Play AC2, SWG, DaOC, AO, EQ, ANYTHING, but this. Thats my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2003 5:07 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is a PvE MMORPG with a bit of an interface learning curve. Once you get over that, youll 
 find a successfully improved classic-styled MMORPG underneath.
  
  Many MMORPGs have tried and failed to take whats good about Everquest and make a better game out 
 of it. The lead problem is they copy the environment and treadmill first, without noticing the 
 nuances of the interactive PvE gameplay Everquest has to offer. FFXI has succeeded because it focuses 
 entirely on the PvE game, and actually adds to the formula where other MMORPGs have branched elsewhere 
 instead. 
  
  How does FFXI improve upon the originals, exactly? Well, the addition of skill chains (a. k. a. Renkai) , 
 are essentially combination group attacks that really spice things up. Outside of that, were looking 
 at very well balanced and enjoyable PvE combat that is, thankfully, not sandwich style. (Sandwich 
 being engage auto-attack, get up and make a sandwich, come back later and see if youve won.) Interactivity, 
 something sorely missing from most MMORPGs, is not missing from FFXI  here you: the player, matter. 
 Things get even more interesting with on the fly job switching and the ability to specify a sub-job 
 (another job youve learned whose abilities are available at half-potency of your current main 
 job up to the maximum level youve attained in the sub-job) .
  
  That said, FFXI is nonetheless a MMORPG and so will demand a long-term time commitment  if you 
 do not want to commit time to a game, do not get FFXI. Also, FFXI is not a PvP game because PvP 
 has no place in this game at this time and so was wisely not designed into it. Therefore if you 
 live for PvP youd best keep away (although there are plans to add some team PvP later) .
  
  Also, there will be a learning curve when you first start the game. FFXI was designed to be compatible 
 with the PS2 and it shows. You may be turned off but the lack of customization to the GUI and the 
 camera controls at first. This is surmountable with a few hours time and a liberal dose of RTFM, 
 but if you are not willing to commit some time to this, you need not apply. (Personally, I consider 
 this a nice screening process to keep the easily bored and obnoxious out of my hair.)
  
  Graphically FFXI is definitely benefiting from Squaresofts expertise but capped back a bit due 
 to MMORPG-related constraints. The sound is a tad arcadish for my liking in places, quite good 
 in other places. Music very good, some of Squaresofts top talent here are involved. I find the 
 value of this endeavor to be quite high, and this game has earned my vote of confidence. I'm enjoying 
 FFXI like no MMORPG before it, long after I felt I've burnt out from Everquest and it's clones.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenoStrife99
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2003 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Well I've been a fan of the Final Fantasy series since it was on the NES, so needless to say I 
 was excited to see the online version of it. Coming into this game I am basically a newbie to the 
 MMORPG genre. However I have played EverCrack before but always stopped because I never liked the 
 interface and it was too confusing. So FFXI is my first foray into the world of MMORPG's and I'm 
 gonna review it that way.
  
  When I got the box home I was so excited to get started and get it installed. As just about all 
 the others have said, the install is a bit much, and at times a wee bit confusing even for a advanced 
 pc user (I'm new to MMO's not pc's) . So after the install I finally got into the world of Vana'Diel. 
 And I must say, I was blown away. Yes I was confused... Yes, I didn't know what I was doing, but 
 it was so cool to walk around see other players, talk to them, etc.
  
  One thing I didn't get for about the first week was the keyboard setup... I was using the # keypad 
 and mouse and then switching the position of the keyboard if I wanted to type something. Then I 
 figured out that I could change the setup to compact and it was like playing a whole new game. 
 The controls were so intuitive I couldn't belive it. It also helps if you read through the manual.
 
  
  After that, for me, it was smooth sailing. The players in the game, for the most part. are very 
 helpful. So I'm looking forward to investing some time in this. The retailer I bought mine from 
 asked me when I bought it if I was a fan of FF or MMO's and I said FF and he told me I may not 
 like it, but after spending about 2 weeks with it, I love it. So if you have time to devote to 
 this title and you just like FF, you might learn to like MMO's as I am starting to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 13, 2003 12:41 pm PT
Review:  In the ever-growing genre of Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games, it has become more 
 and more difficult for projects to stand out. While some efforts at innovation have been successful, 
 others have been met with lukewarm reaction from gamers and critics alike. Other developers have 
 sought to simply streamline current genre standards by tweaking, replacing, or removing frustrating 
 elements in favor of user-friendly design choices. Final Fantasy XI is clearly in the latter camp, 
 and offers an astounding amount of launch content and frustration-free exploration. It also manages 
 to do so with an almost complete absence of technical bugs and stability issues. While it may not 
 bring much that is new to online RPGs, it boasts polished gameplay, with a large variety of missions 
 and detailed online world sure to appeal to newcomers. Unfortunately, experienced online adventurers 
 may find that FFXIs relative lack of original elements, and inconsistent graphics and sound, will 
 keep it from being a long-term gaming option. 
  
  FFXI does not offer a positive first impression. Square-Enix requires their online portal, PlayOnline, 
 to be installed in order to access the game. Not only is the registration process needlessly complex, 
 but the game cannot actually be started without signing into PlayOnline and navigating to the proper 
 menu to start FFXI. Logging out of the game is similarly time consuming. Potential players should 
 also note that they cannot choose a server on which to play, unless they are given a WorldPass 
 by another player. This makes playing with friends a somewhat formidable obstacle. Additionally, 
 your character cannot be moved upon a receipt of a WorldPass: You must create a new character on 
 the new server. Additional characters are not free, meaning that exploring VanaDiel from different 
 but concurrent perspectives will cost you. Fortunately, the long and beautiful initial cutscene 
 is a pleasant reward after the bulky installation and patching process, and offers a good summary 
 of FFXIs back story. 
  
  You begin the game by choosing one of five races (Hume, TaruTaru, Elvaan, Mithra, or Galka) , a 
 standard job (White Mage, Black Mage, Red Mage, Thief, Monk, or Warrior) , and a nation (San D'Oria, 
 Bastok, or Windurst) . Character customization options are extremely limited, as there are only 
 a few models from which to choose in each race; this is in stark contrast with games like Star 
 Wars Galaxies that allow a great deal of physical customization. Fortunately, the character models 
 are highly detailed and very easy on the eyes. There is little meaningful difference between races 
 in gameplay, however, aside from minor tweaks to skills and abilities. Fortunately, FFXI allows 
 you to take on a second job later in the game, but you can never be more powerful in that job than 
 in your primary. 
  
  The first thing you will notice once you have actually entered your initial region is the odd control 
 scheme. FFXI does not feature mouselook and uses the numeric keypad for character movement, although 
 this can be changed in the options menu. You begin from a third-person viewpoint, although the 
 keyboard controls and sometimes awkward camera make it difficult to play the game from this view. 
 Fortunately, it is incredibly easy to switch back and forth from third- to first-person views, 
 and successful gameplay will include use of both camera views. You can use the mouse to swing the 
 camera around your character in third-person, although this can control awkwardly. In first-person, 
 you can use the mouse to look around you about 180 degrees without needing to turn your avatar. 
 Once accustomed to it, though, most will find that the default scheme is more intuitive than first 
 thought. The menu interface is also unusual, as it is virtually invisible until you need it. The 
 player begins with only a map at the lower left corner of your screen and a chat box. Menu options 
 are brought up with mouse clicks: The middle mouse button will bring up most of your main menus, 
 while left clicking will bring up chat and interaction menus. This makes the interface largely 
 unobtrusive, and is FFXI's most brilliant feature, despite being initially tough to get used to. 
 Once you are accustomed to it, it makes player interaction and combat initiation almost seamless. 
 
  
  You start off with a simple mission, some basic clothing and a weapon, and an accessible, and easily 
 annotated, map of your immediate surroundings. The starting area will not feature combat, but many 
 of the NPC's will offer missions, or simply background information on the city and its inhabitants, 
 or perhaps gameplay advice. Most of the missions are quite simple but not overly tedious, and the 
 reward is appropriate to quest difficulty in most cases. 
  
  Combat is straightforward and similar to other games of its type, although you will initially be 
 surprised at the strength of bunny attacks. Fortunately, you can bind yourself at a crystal for 
 later resurrection. Death will cost you 10% of the amount of experience it takes to move to the 
 next level, and you will de-level if that loss of experience drops you beneath the current level's 
 starting point. There is no other penalty, however, and you will quickly be back into the forest 
 to fight more creatures. The leveling grind is here, and inescapable, but FFXI does a good job 
 of making it easy and interesting, with unusual and detailed enemies, and satisfying opportunities 
 to engage in combat with other players. Stealing loot is impossible: Once you have engaged your 
 enemy, loot will be earned only by the person or team engaging it. Outsiders cannot contribute 
 to that attack unless invited, although they can heal or buff you. This is a long-overdue method, 
 and it completely eliminates kill-stealing. The only drawback is that you have limited ability 
 to assist if someone is in need. If in trouble, you can still "call for help," and another player 
 outside of your group can then assist you in combat; however, neither of you will earn experience 
 for the kill. This system is appealing, and keeps others from infringing on your loot or experience 
 when you have done most, or all, of the work. 
  
  The streamlined gameplay is assisted by the almost complete absence of bugs, lag, or other technical 
 foibles. This in itself is a refreshing change, as many online RPGs suffer from unstable servers 
 and a significant number of bugs at launch. Savvy shoppers can choose to purchase items at auction 
 houses, although when in a hurry, you can also visit NPC merchants. Crafting skills are also present, 
 but in order to craft you need a crystal and raw materials. Crystals are obtained either by purchasing 
 them at auction, or as loot when you participate in the Conquest portion of the game. In Conquest, 
 each player can ask a town guard to cast the signet spell on them, thereby allowing them to earn 
 points for their nation by defeating monsters in combat. Not only can those monsters potentially 
 drop crystals, but all player points are then tallied to determine your nation's influence over 
 the current region. You can view the current balance of power in the area at any time, and updates 
 are given in the chat window. 
  
  The graphics are a good balance of attractive environments, characters, and animations, without 
 being taxing on better systems. Interior textures and character models are the highlights of Final 
 Fantasy XIs presentation, and most animations are excellent. Not only will you never see a character 
 float, stutter, or move in any otherwise unrealistic, but combat animation also moves in such a 
 way that indicates real combat. Environments do not fare quite as well, especially when viewing 
 foliage and trees up close. Lighting is also not done well, comparatively. Lamps, for example, 
 give off an unrealistic glow of yellow pixels, although you will see somewhat normal-looking shadows. 
 The sky lacks detail, as well, which is unfortunate because many online RPGs feature beautiful 
 daytime and nighttime skies. These graphical shortcomings are perhaps for the better, though, when 
 you consider that even at highest settings, Final Fantasy XI runs smoothly while still looking 
 attractive. 
  
  Most of the sound effects are bland, and ambient sound is typical. Outside of the music, and the 
 enjoyable combat sounds, VanaDiel is a quiet land. The music itself is generally good, even if 
 it is more synthesized, rather than truly symphonic. Sadly, the same music is used so often, it 
 can become annoying and tedious. It would have been nice to hear less repetition or to have periods 
 of no music. 
  
  Final Fantasy XI, for all its drawbacks, manages to be a fun combination of old gameplay in a new 
 environment. The sum total of the experience is fresh and interesting, and is a particularly good 
 choice for someone who has never played an MMORPG before. It strips away many of the old-fashioned 
 frustrations without eliminating the enjoyable aspects of the genre. Experienced players, however, 
 will be disappointed by the lack of the depth and breadth of a game like Anarchy Online or Everquest, 
 although it does manage to be a fun diversion that plays as well as any other online RPG. Alternatively, 
 new players will revel in the lack of obstacles that often hinder the gaming experience in other 
 similar games. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robzilla
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2003 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've been playing Final Fantasy XI for about a week now, and from what I've played, I'm throughly 
 Impressed. I like the game overall, and I'm very pleased with it. I will state my reasons why. 
 The first reason is that graphically, for an mmorpg, the game is simply stunning. While not quite 
 on par with Final Fantasy X or the upcoming X-2, the graphics are well done, and reward you for 
 having a higher end gaming pc. The characters are well done, and the backgrounds are nice as well. 
 I'm in Bastok, which is a mining town, and the backgrounds are mostly rock and desert and plateaus, 
 but the backgrounds are still well textured and shaded, albiet sparce, it's a desert, thats how 
 it's supposed to look. The sound is also good. The final fantasy series is well known for it's 
 soundtracks, and this game does not disappoint. The music is very well done and approrpiate. I 
 haven't found the sweeping, booming operatic music like in Xenosaga or Xenogears, but the music 
 fits the game well. As for value, well, for 50 clams, you get the game and the expansion, thats 
 value. As far as I know, it's the largest mmorpg ever at launch date. There are so many places 
 to go, its astounding. Now I'm going to touch on some of the issues I have with the game, and some 
 reasons why some people might not like the game. Most of the issues with the game are inherent 
 in any mmorgp you're going to play, whether its FFXI, EQ, DACO, etc. First off, you are truly a 
 scrub as a low level character. Money is hard to come by, and the cost of weapons, items, spells, 
 etc is high. You're going to have to learn to be savvy quickly to get the money to get the equipment 
 you need with any cind of speed. The auction will be your best friend from the get go. You can 
 get equipment for cheaper prices than buying it in the store in the towns. Secondly, is the gameplay. 
 FFXI used the same real time "Auto Battle" system found in most mmorgps. You click on the monster, 
 and watch the action for the most part, unless you want to use a special ability, cast a spell, 
 summon a monster, etc. For those of you looking for a more action based combat system, with more 
 moves with your weapons and stuff like that, you're not really going to get it here. You do use 
 each type of weapon differently, and the animations look different depending on what weapon you 
 are using, but you still don't really have a lot of specific control over combat moves and how 
 he uses the weapon. Soulcalibur it isn't. The next thing is time. If you want to get the most of 
 FFXI, you will play it quite a bit. You can be a "Weekend Warrior" but to be honest, you won't 
 get very far in the game, and it will take you longer to get the levels and equipment you need 
 to get to the advanced areas of the game. If you're into clubbing and "Friends" activities, you're 
 going to have to make a decision, and short some time somewhere if you want to get the most out 
 of the game. Then there is the installation issue. Yes, the installation is about 2 hours, it ain't 
 a rumor. But if you do everything correctly, you will install the game without a hitch. The people 
 having problems with installation by and large either got too impatient, or just plan screwed up 
 somewhere. Lastly, and one of my major issues with the game, is the pricing. Monthly fee is 12.95 
 for 1 character. If you want another character, add 1 dollar more per monther per character
  I. E if you have 2 characters, you'll pay 13.95 a month, verses 12.95 a month for 1 character. You 
 also have to pay to play the tetra master, which is the card game from final fantasy 9. I know 
 SquareEnix has costs to cover, but that's a little much. Hopefully they'll address that issue in 
 the future, by having a package deal (like 5 more dollars a month for unlimited character creation) 
 or getting rid of the cost per character thing entirely. One more thing I should mention, and it's 
 also annoying, is that you don't get to pick what server (world) you're going to be on. You make 
 your character, and you get assigned to a server, like in grade school, when the teacher assigned 
 you a desk, whether you liked where you were sitting or not. I didn't mean for my review to be 
 this long, but I have a lot to say, and I want to make sure that whoever reads this has as much 
 information as they can get before they make a decision whether or not to buy the game. It ti truly 
 and excellent game, and has a lot to offer players. While it does have some quirks to deal with, 
 they are not all that bad if you put them in perspective. You can change jobs, and unlock more 
 jobs to change to as you get higher levels, and you can even have a support job, so you really 
 don't need a lot of characters in the first place. Not being able to pick your server forces you 
 to meet new people, and if you really want to bring your buddies along, get a world pass, and they 
 can create a new character on your server (You use in game money, not real money) to get the worldpass 
 when you are playing, and it's not that much. The install time is long, but it's a 6 gig install, 
 and you are installing a lot of content, so while you are complaining about the install time, remember 
 that you are getting a full game and expansion for 50 bucks at launch, EQ, DAOC, etc didn't do 
 that, and if you are of average computer competent, you won't have any problems getting game installed. 
 Overall, this is a good game and I would recommend it to anyone. The quirks and problems that the 
 game does have is inherent in ALL mmorpgs. However, that should not stop you from getting what 
 is truly of gem of a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkspark
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2003 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI
  
  
  First things first the installation process is a huge pain but after that its 'GoGo' I started 
 with a 
  
  Male
  Hume or Human
  Job: Red Mage
  Face has a cool tattoo on the top of the head.
  City: Bastok
  Server: Laksmhi
  
  So far 
 its been a bit hard to find Gil. I guess I better start some 'fetching' quests. I also haven't 
 joined anyone cause I feel like I need to level up a bit just to not look stupid while I get owned 
 by a bee. Which btw I was owned up by a bat, a worm, and the stupid bee cause at first I thought 
 that I didn't have a weapon. (I know stupid) but It leads to my next observation..... READ THE MANUAL!!!!! 
 At first I didn't even know how to bring up my menu! Well now its different, with the keyboard 
 u can make your character run while looking at your menus (Sort of like Castlevania LOI) I will 
 repeat again, READ THE MANUAL!!!!! You cannot just pick up the game and go. Theres a lot of variables 
 and will end up with less time respawning which also leads to another observation.... At early levels 
 of gameplay u can regenerate your life and magic by ducking, while in this position an enemy can 
 hit you, so finding a passive spot is a must. Also u can look at your menu while in this mode. 
 It wasn't after dying several times to (u named it) a bee, that I accidently found that. 
  
  Battle: 8/10
  The battle system seems a mix bag of FinalFantasy's turn based system but a 
 bit faster. (Thank God) You can also, while attacking, select spells to cast inbetween attacks although 
 there are chances that your spell cast can get interupted by moving right before the animation 
 or the enemy hits you hard. I have a habit now of casting 'Dia' which brings the enemys defenses 
 down before I fight them.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  I'm a bit dissappointed here. The graphics look like PS2. Now thats a Good and Bad thing. For one, 
 Good for speed during gameplay, Bad when your PC can do that by just blinking (PCs Blink?) I guess 
 I expected better graphics especially for PC. I actually saw pixels! I'll try again messing with 
 the settings but last I checked everything was on 'high' and turned 'on'.
  
  Correction after messing with the graphics seetings I got it to look smooth, I was very suprised 
 at how beautiful it looks.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Classic FF style music very nice indeed. During the 'Install' theres this jazz type music that 
 after awhile is pretty annoying (or was that just the install time?)
  
  Overall: 9/10
  Why so high? Cause its addictive, even more than PSCrack! I will be playing this for a loooooooooong 
 time. 
  
  Just thought I'd post my thoughts on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _fool_
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 11, 2003 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, after carefully reading other peoples reviews and learning about the game on some of its 
 fan sites I decided to go ahead and give this one a try. I've played a couple of other online RPG's. 
 Specifically, Everquest and Star Wars Online. I found neither of them to my liking for different 
 reasons. So, I decided to see if this was any better and found it was. Do I believe it's good enough 
 to spend $50 and $13 dollars a month to play? Absolutely not. First, understand that i'm in my 
 20's. So my opinions will not reflect that of the average FFXI player. Also understand that i've 
 read the whole manual and took the time to understand the game before I posted a review. Some people 
 get frustrated by this game because they have not taken time to learn how to play it. It's definitely 
 not a game you can dive into without reading the manual and enjoy it.
  GAMEPLAY: I have two major issues with the gameplay. First, the game is too time consuming. The 
 amount of time many of the players spend on this game is ridiculous. I feel bad knowing there are 
 people missing out on life's real adventures while sitting in front of there computers hours upon 
 hours a day playing this game as thier rears grow wider and wider. One of these days they are going 
 to wake up and realize they are wasting thier lives away I hope. Gaming should be a hobby and not 
 a way of life. Second, although there is a lot to do the game is just very slow and repetitive 
 in it's fighting system. The most exciting part of the gameplay is fighting monsters, but all you 
 do is move your mouse around and click a bit as you watch your character fight the same monsters 
 over and over and over again. I would really like to see a MMORPG that moved away from the style 
 of gameplay you find in the current offerings. They are simply boring. But, I will say it's gameplay 
 beats SWG and EQ. I could go on forever about how boring the gameplay is in my opinion, but you 
 get the point I hope. 
  GRAPHICS: If you have a good system and can turn up the graphics settings the game looks pretty 
 good. I do have a good system and although it looks good they are a bit bland in many places. This 
 game simply could have used more color and variety in what you see. 
  SOUND: Uses Final Fanasy music very similar to other games in the series. Not bad, but nothing 
 special.
  Conclusion: I have taken the time to learn about this game so I could provide others with a honest 
 and informed opinion. There seems to be a lot of exageration in the reader reviews both for and 
 against the game. I wanted to provide the honest review I wish I had seen before I bought it. If 
 you're looking for a fun role playing game I recommend something that does not require so much 
 money and as much time to get into and enjoy. As for now, that eliminates all the MMORPG's out 
 there including this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kindredmachine
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2003 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I have played several MMORPGs including Anarchy Online and Everquest and even though much of the 
 gameplay for FFXI has been entirely revised from standard MMO's, the game itself is absolutely 
 beautiful. 
  
  At first it may seem confusing in the method in which the menues have been implemented into the 
 game (especially the confusing 'friends' fucntion) but be patient. Within a day, you'll be on your 
 way to partying and slaughtering with no problems. I actually found that the new menu and command 
 system for this type of game actually makes it EASIER to play that other MMORPGs. 
  
  This title was completely worth the wait and it can only get better from here! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrjoemama
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2003 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The world of Final Fantasy games have all been single player, and for the most most part all have 
 been very well prasied by gamers. Final Fantasy XI contintues this trend as Square-Enix brings 
 one of the most popular Role Playing Games ever online.
  
  Final Fantasy XI is a Massive-Multiplayer Online Role-Playing-Game (MMORPG) similair to Everquest 
 or Star Wars Galaxies, but set in the Final Fantasy universe. In this game you will spend your 
 time player with 1000's of others from across the world. Your adventure will begin with you selecting 
 a race to choose there are five; Hume (Human) , Elvaan, Mithra, Tarutaru and Galka. Every race but 
 humes have advantages as well as disadvanatges. From there you will choose your characters beginning 
 job class which there are six to choose from. The Warrior is your basic tank deals tons of damages 
 and takes a lot as well. Monks are great damags dealers as well and evade attacks like nothing. 
 White Mages are the primamry healers of FFXI casting Cure, Raise, Esuna, Protect and other healing 
 or buffing spells. Black Mages are the opposite casting Fire, Blizzard and damaging speels on enemys. 
 Red Mages can cast both Black and White mages spells although they must be a higher level to learn 
 them than either a White or Black mage. Thives are an excellent combat support class being able 
 to hinder enenemys also they can steal items from eneemys (DUH!!)
  
  Leveling your character up is very fun although at times can be very slow as well. Your first 10 
 or so levels will be slow as your will usually have to do them by yourself. If you have the time 
 and can stick it out thats when FFXI will really begin to shine. At around level 10 you will be 
 able to form parties will other players. Parties can consist of six players and you will be able 
 to take on much tougher enemys with a much shorter down time. Higher level characters (30 and above) 
 will be able to take on quests to allow them to unlock advanced job types such as the Draggon, 
 Samurai or Summoner. 
  
  The gameplay in Final Fantasy XI mirriors most other MMORPG'S combat systems. The system is based 
 in Real-time and you will be able to input spell or special abilties and have them be cast. Beyond 
 combat there are many other things to do. Crafting is a common thing player are the world do to 
 make money, there are serval types of crafting including; Bonecrafting, Goldsmithing and Leathercrafting 
 just to name a few. These provide a nice break from the combat and will earn you money as well.
 
  
  The information gathered from the launch of FFXI in Japan over a year ago and the US beta test 
 lead to a great launch which is this day of age is tough to pull off for a MMORPG. You will have 
 to download a giant patch when your first connect but after that it was smooth sailing as all the 
 servers are up and running fine. 
  
  The world of Final Fantasy XI is absolutly beautiful. Every enviroment has a new and unquie feel 
 and most enemenys and charaters are very well detailed. The lighting is something amazing as shadows 
 look very feel. The towns your will enter will be full of NPC's and other players to interact with 
 and all the towns have almost an epic feel towards them.
  
  FFXI dosen't do anything special for the MMORPG player base, what it does do is improve upon every 
 other MMORPG's mistakes. That being said, Final Fantasy XI will sastify the most hardcore MMORPG 
 players as well as bring in Final Fantasy fans to the wonderful world of MMORPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdaine
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2003 8:10 am PT
Review:  Much like another review posted here, I'm going to point out a few "discrepencies" in some of the 
 lower end reviews.
  
  1) Some people complain of only getting about 12xp a kill, and they have to reach a 2000+ mark 
 to get to the next level. This WILL happen, if you attack the lowest enemies in the game. As you 
 level, you are encouraged to group with others your level and tackle harder creatures. If you go 
 solo, you're gonna have to accept some risk.
  
  2) The mini-game? Haven't played it. The main game itself is $13 (rounded up) a month. Characters 
 are an additional $1 a month after you create your first one. This was implemented because of a 
 beta practice in which players would create "junk characters" then proceed to die over and over 
 again as a member of a rival country. This would lower their standing considerably. The $1 is a 
 deterrance, though the only benefit of another character is having a different look/race. No matter 
 what race, you can select any job and change them at no charge, at any time, without losing any 
 sort of xp.
  
  3) The game does have faults. Its not perfect. However, the players are friendly and you will usually 
 find a good group of friends online to play with. There are a few players who will not like the 
 game, but continue to play it. Every game has them, and there is nothing you or I can do about 
 it. They are rude, inconsiderate, and take great joy in others suffering. The irony is that they 
 are only prolonging "suffering" of their own by playing a game they don't enjoy.
  
  4) This is the only game I've played where a decent character can (and will) get killed by a rabbit. 
 I find this humorous and I hope they add a special event in which there is a white rabbit. I will 
 be laughing with glee while I run and say "Jesus Christ! Run away!"... (inside joke) .
  
  5) You want to know more, email me at Disdaine@Hotmail. Com. I'll answer any questions you have. 
 I'm on the Ifrit server serving under San d'Oria. My character's name is Disdaine. Hope to see 
 you there...
  
  *If you haven't notice, I'm addicted to the game. But that goes without saying if I'm taking the 
 time to give it a good review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiteFight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2003 8:57 am PT
Review:  First of all, many reviewers on this page FLAT OUT LIE to the readers. Let me tackle a few issues:
 
  
  1. It does NOT cost a $1 every time you want to play a minigame. There is one minigame include, 
 the card game. Playing it will cost you an extra $1 per month, that's it. 
  2. There are TONS of job in this game. Five basic ones to start, and about ten more advanced ones. 
 You can switch jobs and also have a subjob, so the combinations are endless.
  3. The players are actually really nice, unlike most multiplayer games. White mages will help you 
 if they see you are losing to a tough monster, as will others.
  4. It is true that extra characters cost more per month. HOWEVER , FFXI lets you change jobs at 
 any time, without losing your progress. That means a level 10 warrior can change jobs to a black 
 mage, and start leveling up in the profession. If the player wants to go back to being a warrior, 
 he can change back and all his EXP and skills are retained. In this way, you can have as many "characters" 
 as there are jobs, reallly. They'll just all look the same :)
  
  Well, that doesn't leave much room for the rest. In my opinion, this game is great fun, and is 
 well worth the $13 per month you are going to spend on it. Be prepared to spend long hours playing 
 this game, as you will become addicted as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2003 12:27 am PT
Review:  This game has me addicted like the first MUD I ever played. The graphics are detailed and the character 
 and creature designs are truely some of the best I've seen in an MMORPG, this owing to the fact 
 that squaresoft has produced many a Final Fantasy game and each game has a disctict visual style. 
 This game is no different. There seems like there's just more to do in this game than in most other 
 MMORPGs and I've played them all. It's also relatively easy to get into. These two things combined 
 give Final Fantasy the edge over other MMORPGs I've played because other MMORPGs tend to be over 
 simplified to ease people into them or be so deep that they alienate most casual gamers instantly. 
 FFXI is just plane fun. The job system offers enough spells and abilities to keep everyone happy. 
 I have a feeling I'll be playing this game for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mack10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  [This is actually a re-write of this review, I found the first one to be very sloppy... years after.]
 
  
  [Warning: Spoilers abound]
  
  Final Fantasy XI starts you off as a new adventurer who's looking to make a name for him/her-self 
 in Vana'diel. You start off in one of the three major cities; Sand'Oria, Bastok, and Windurst - 
 that is your choice to make. Each region has it's pros and cons - Norvallen region associated to 
 Sand'Oria is best for Carpenters; Zulkheim region associated with Bastok is known for it's mines 
 - Blacksmiths and Goldsmiths benefit most from such areas; and last, the Sarutabaruta region around 
 Windurst is best suited for harvesters who are into Clothescrafting, Leathercrafting and Alchemy. 
 First and foremost, money is an issue from the very beginning in this game and joining one of the 
 guilds can be very beneficial and profitable in the long run.
  
  Making the correct choice for your character is very important to have success in Vana'diel. The 
 market is very harsh but if you manage your money, and income-making methods in a good manner, 
 you will benefit quite a bit in the ever-so inflating market in Vana'diel. I figured I'd mention 
 the market first because it's one of the biggest parts of any MMORPG, and I don't think people 
 should let it discourage them (especially early on) in this game and should try and fight through 
 it. 
  
  Other than the inflating market that plagues every server on Square Enix's FFXI, nothing really 
 detracts from it's appeal in any way. Some players find it difficult to get started in the game, 
 but If you grit your teeth and manage to reach level 10, the game gets a little more interesting 
 as you are then introduced to a party format for all your leveling up from this point on [I stress 
 that you know: this game isn't meant to be played solo, after level 10 you are forced to party 
 with a group of up to 6 people to manage your character] . For solo fans, don't let this bother 
 you, try something new for a change because I think it'll ammuse many of you when your introduced 
 to a party type system instead of the typical one man team style. 
  
  This game is a community based RPG, meaning you will have to communicate and work with other people 
 in order to get things done, and it does a very good job at making this happen. But, as a fair 
 warning to all people thinking of buying this game, you will have times when you might have to 
 wait a few hours before getting a party invite - but remember, leveling up isn't the only thing 
 you could be doing in this game, so instead of sitting around for what seems like eternity, maybe 
 try your hand on some quests while having the [seek party] flag up, and when you get and invite, 
 it won't seem like it took such a long time after all.
  
  FFXI isn't a game anyone can get into with ease, but it's a very rewarding RPG and very fun to 
 play once you get into the higher levels. You might want to round up a few friends to play with 
 you for it only make the experience than much better. Now, moving onto the points: I still stand 
 by the score I gave this game a couple years back, because I think a game that manages to still 
 be as engaging many years after it's release deserves full recognition, and Final Fantasy does 
 just that. With World of Warcraft and Guild Wars on the market, FFXI still manages to be the best 
 in providing content and keeping the game fresh, it has the least server problems (as everyone 
 would expect as a paying customer) than other online games (I'm saying this through experience) , 
 the game manages to provide a vast variety of in game events to keep the players engaged - ranging 
 from a PVP mini-game, to dungeon raiding alliances (big parties consisting of up to 16 players) , 
 and much much more (too much for me to list) - so don't expect to be bored in the world of Vana'diel.
 
  
  Let me break it down for you.
  
  The Graphics in the game as very good by today's standards: I mean, no other online game matches 
 the visual supremacy this game has (for online games, it's different when rating graphics, so you 
 have to be a little more forgiving - but this game is pleasing to the eye, much more than other 
 online games out at this time) . I gave the graphics a 10 and I stand by my choice.
  
  The Gameplay is very well constructed - A party of 6 characters of which you control one (your 
 own obviously) in which strategical elements are needed to win fights and gain experience points 
 in order to advance in levels. Strategy such as party design (what classes your party consists 
 of - always good to have a Whitemage hehehe) , level difference (a level difference of about 2 is 
 typical, any higher and you'll see a noticable loss in experience points gained from each fight) , 
 weapon skills and skill chains (by melee) used along with magic bursts (by mages) all come together 
 to either make your party better or worse. Sometimes you will get a bad party, but not necessarily 
 because the people you're with are bad at doing their job, but rather because of party set-up and 
 such. On the whole, the party set-up is very fun and challenging and when you gain a level it is 
 very rewarding and deserving of it's own party (the kind you have boose in hehe) . I also stand 
 by my gameplay score of 10, for an RPG it does a very good job at putting all the gameplay elements 
 together and making them happen.
  
  Music by Square Enix never seizes to ammuse, along with their great sound FX, makes for an ear-full 
 of an experience - some areas have a great musical score (Sanctuary of Zit'ah to be precise) they 
 almost make tears come to your eyes. Sound, simply put, is amazing - a 10 is a must.
  
  It's a natural that replay value is a 10 in any MMORPG game, and if it's not then that game is 
 doing something wrong. FFXI doesn't give way to any let downs on the replay (or "play") value, 
 it also scores a perfect 10 out of 10 from me.
  
  Last but not least, my lasting impressions: well, from the minute you set foot in Vana'diel, to 
 the minute you set foot in Vana'diel, to the minute you set foot in Vana'diel - you'll never know 
 when and how to quit, because it's an experience you'll want to experience over and over and over 
 every day for the rest of your life - but trust me, as ammusing, as diverse, as vast, as intense, 
 as immersive as this game is, take some time off every once in a while (as hard as it might be) 
 and enjoy the weather (In the real world!) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 8, 2003 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok this may seem a bit odd. But for those of you that have played many other MMORPG's then this 
 game is total crap. Camera angles suck half the time. Overal gameplay and replay value is horrible. 
 I played for 3 days strait and still couldnt find out the right way to do missions. No one helps. 
 There is no PvP which is horrible. Leveling is horrible. You get like 18 exp per kills and you 
 gotta get 2600 at lvl 8 to go to lvl 9. I played for 1 entire day and didnt even achieve the next 
 lvl. I still had to fight the weak thing right out the city. There really isnt many professions 
 you can be. I would just saggest getting the SWG 10x better. Better yet just wait till ulimax comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperPhi
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 8, 2003 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is crap. Im not even going to get into the details of gameplay other than ! Hello! PC 
 people own a Keyboard! the menu driven system is junk.
  
  
  PvP= theres none ( yet they claim) btw Good luck when you have to target someone on pvp! 
  
 
  my main complaint about this game is that for the time you put into the game the rewards are minimal. 
 example you will spend a week getting to level 10 to die 2 times and loose your level.
  
  the xp penalty is too harsh compared to other games like Everquest.
  specially when its nearly 
 impossible to solo or if it is, its not time efficient.
  The quest are nice and interesting stories behind them , but the rewards are junk, specially when 
 accomplishing a noob quest can take you several days due to lack of skills and levels. I mean 3 
 days on a quest to get 150 gil (currency) its ridiculous.
  
  the feeble attemp to an auction system its something else to cry about , Im not even going to describe 
 it because its so confusing that makes you wonder how auctions work in Japan. 
  To top it off!
  No one speaks English ( except other confused players like you) and you cant 
 select a server in which to play. 
  
  They should off made servers for the USA/Canada release. I mean how could they expect you to use 
 the menu driven translator ( which is very limited) so the japanese friends could answer you in 
 japanese because they dont have a Japanese to English one. ( or simply dont use it) .
  
  Save your cash.
  and dont listen to the FF fanbois.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neuro
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2003 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The best looking MMORPG to date, IMHO. The character models are some of the best I've 
 seen in any game, and in traditional final fantasy fashion, they all seem to have an "advanced" 
 look to them. The environments look great, at least from my computers, I'm sure that people with 
 a lower-end computer will complain about the graphics being grainy, but mine are not. Spell effects 
 and general combat are a blast to watch and take part in, and gives you a real sense of urgency.
 
  
  Gameplay: The UI suffers, as I'm sure anyone who reads community forums will find out, but it doesn't 
 suffer MUCH. The UI is nowhere near as bad as the people making it out to be say, in fact I find 
 it a refreshing change from the MMORPG norm. It takes some getting used to, I was more or less 
 comfortable with it after a day playing, but still fumble over controls when I need to react quickly. 
 A controller is supported, and even makes playing easier, what other MMORPG can encorporate both 
 a keyboard/mouse and controller scheme? None, to my knowledge, you NEED a keyboard to get full 
 functionality in other games. The only thing using a controller inhibits is lack of communication, 
 but you can easily set it aside and type on your keyboard.
  
  There are many, MANY things you can do, from fishing in the river, to mining in a cave, or even 
 chopping wood for it's lumber. You do all this to progress the craft you take up, or to simply 
 go to the Auction House (think ebay) and sell the materials for some nice Gil (final fantasy currency) . 
 The combat and questing system is some of the best I've seen, and the implimentation of a story 
 and cut-scenes in an MMORPG gives it a wonderful fresh feel if you'r esick of the current MMORPG's 
 on the market.
  
  Sound: Not much to say about this, there's plent of authentic final fantasy music, great battle 
 songs and village tunes. The battles sound top knotch, clangs of swords and the swish of an axe. 
 Casting magic provides an enchanced feel with the superb sound effects.
  
  I've played every MMORPG on the market, I've beta tested many of them, and if I had to recommend 
 any MMORPG out right now, it'd be Final Fantasy XI. Better graphics than Trials of Atlantis DAoC, 
 a unique and extremely customizable job system, a deep story (traditional squaresoft!) , and an 
 evolving community with a WORKING economy.
  
  If you're a Final Fantasy fan, add another ten points to this product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious1116
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 5, 2003 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, so much for Final Fantasy. In a move that shocked me just as much as every other hardcore 
 Final Fantasy player, Square has opted to bring the next installment of their outstanding RPG series 
 into the world of Massively Multiplayer Online gaming.
  
  Just like the future of Warcraft is ruined, since the next game in the series is going to be another 
 Massive Online game, the future of Final Fantasy is in Jeopardy as well.
  
  If you've ever played any other online game, then you'll know exactly what i'm talking about here: 
 Immature players with the mentalities of 7 year olds, ridiculous chatter called '1337 speech' or 
 whatever it is, boring and repetetive gameplay... nothing at all sets Final Fantasy Online apart 
 from the other run of the mill garbage Massive Online Games. 
  
  This game is considerably cheaper to play than the others, like Ever Quests and whatnot, but don't 
 be fooled.... the $10 a month price tag is only introductory. Want another character? That's more 
 money per month. Want to play a mini-game? Its a dollar every time you want to play it. Want to 
 do anything else? By the time you're done with all the other 'features' the game will run you almost 
 $20 a month.
  
  Sure, the graphics are beautiful, sound and music is great, but character creation is trash, since 
 there are so very limited choices in race, face and hair style. The Job System from past final 
 fantasy games makes a return and is pretty neat, but I would've rather have had that in a REAL 
 Final Fantasy game.
  
  Don't play this game if you are a Final Fantasy veteran... you will be extremely disappointed. If 
 the boring, repetetive gameplay doesn't get on your nerves after about a week, the childish players 
 will get under your skin in about 2 hours. Oh, and don't expect many people to understand English... most 
 players are from Japan. while its great to be able to interact with our gaming brethren in the 
 land of the rising sun, its impossible to communicate with them becuase none of them speak english. 
 
  
  This game does have one plus side: It actually has a real story to it, unlike Ever Quests or Star 
 Wars Online or whatever which only imply the story. Don't expect the other players to take it seriously 
 though... this is just another massive online 'role playing game' where role playing apparently 
 isn't allowed. I will not even dare give this garbage the dignity of being referred to as 'Final 
 Fantasy XI', and I am extremely disappointed that Square would even dare to release this Online 
 crap as the next Final Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hubyduby
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2003 8:39 am PT
Review:  If you're currently paying for SWG now, like I am, you're prolly wondering... where's the content?! 
 True, there's a lot to explore in SWG, but, I assure you, Final Fantasy XI has more ENJOYABLE content 
 in it's Mail Messenger system than all of SWG. Now, there's some exaggeration, YES, however, the 
 point is, when you pick up a copy of FFXI, you're picking up a game with complete world with ongoing 
 drama that you can share with other people. True, the story is told from your perspective only 
 with you as the protagonist, but that doesnt take away from the experience. The fact that you will 
 need others to complete quests and missions that you pick up ensures that your journey will be 
 shared with others. And how is that done, you ask? Well, of course, like any MMORPG, the monsters 
 are hard, but you can also work on special battle tactics called Skillchains and Magic Bursts. 
 I came across a skillchain chart on one of the forums. I'm sure it'll be in a strategy guide sometime 
 soon. The complexity of chaining powerful weapon attacks absolutely requires working well with 
 others. This can make your battle experience even more intimate as you find friends to play with 
 and learn the combos. This alone will turn any humdrum Leveling/hunting experience into something 
 very interesting. Suddenly, you find yourself hunting more rabbits just to build up the ability 
 to perform Skillchains on the harder guys. Now, i just focused on just .001% of the game because 
 of space restraints here, and because, I absolutely love this classic battle system from the console 
 versions. THERE'S TONS more to do when you get out there. 
  As a warning... yes, the installation requires the patience of the Pope. And the interface is absolutely 
 clunky, you will NOT like it the first couple o days. But once you tinker with it and get it to 
 a reasonable configuration, you will then be able to fully immerse yourself in an enchanted world 
 full of intrigue, drama, suspense. 
  What else should i mention, well, provided there's space to do so, there's the ongoing conflict 
 between 3 nations. You choose a nation to start with. The members of that nation do not fight each 
 other directly. A PvP setup will be announced early next year. In the meantime, you fight for dominance 
 of the regions surrounding the nation capitols and beyond by killing beasts in the area and NOT 
 dying. Every XP earned is contributed towards your conquest points and at week's end, the nation 
 with the most points wins the region. The world is HUGE so there's a lot of regions to fight for. 
 A nation can lose control of a region to another nation or to the beasts if a lot of folks die 
 and not enough beasts do. 
  
  Ok, that was the conquest portion... there's crafting, which is something i've only dabbled in. 
 (I failed to make a hard-boiled egg... but i still get crafting points for failing... unlike SWG) . 
 
  
  I don't want to ramble on and on about what makes this game great. What i want you to do is pay 
 attention to both the negatives and the positives thrown at this game. Once you get into the game, 
 the negatives will fall by the wayside... and that happens rather quickly. I still feel confident 
 in saying that all current and future MMORPGs need to stop and study what Square has done here. 
 you're getting high quality entertainment here. GO pick it up! Please keep in mind that i've only 
 explored just a small fraction of what the game offers. Yet I feel I have done a lot of quests... 
 and only 3 Missions (which are major quests that move the storyline) . There's tons to do. The game 
 feels like the console version so you'll get the beautiful music, the cute & quirky humor, the 
 absolutely Prolific storytelling. It's everything you'd expect from a Final Fantasy game and more.
 
  
  Before I end, i need to make one simple request. Can someone make a tarutaru on the Midguard server 
 and call them Palom and Porom. Those guys are my absolutely Favorite (magic users? monks? I forget) 
 twins from the american release of Final fantasy. Those cuties were a brother/sister team that 
 sacrificed themselves to save the party and after investing so much time into those characters 
 in that Nintendo game (NES) , I have compared every playable character to those two and I have YET 
 to find one who was better. Not Aeris, not Barret, Not Gau, Not that ninja guy, NO one! I defy 
 someone to point out a character who meant more to the story and/or the party than those two. Ok... 
 stepping off the soapbox. Real-life beckons.
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drathor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2003 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The initial setup of this game is as everyone else said a NIGHTMARE. I am on a very speedy cable 
 connection and the 7000 file download took me nearly an hour to complete. This was of course after 
 a 40 minute install and an update of Play online, and then the install of Rise of Zilart.
  
  Once the game was installed I then had to spend an hour abusing a bug to get on the same server 
 as my friends sot hat they didn't have to shell out 1200 gil for a world pass for me.
  
  However, all of that aside, if you are perseverant in your quest you will find that FFXI is a very 
 well defined fun game to play. The variety of the quests and equiptment that I have seen up to 
 my level of 9 now has been very impressive. They even have cutscenes of sorts on very important 
 quests.
  
  My only main gripe with this game besides the combersome install would have to be that you are 
 forced to play on allready "Mature" servers. While this is good in terms of the available crafted 
 items that are around and that the economy is allready well developed, it IS a bit hard when those 
 that developed the economy don't speak your language. However, those japanese players that I've 
 bumped into that do speak English are very friendly and eager to help us new Americans. 
  
  So, if your looking for a repalcement to Everquest, and you found that Star Wars Galaxies had TONS 
 of Breadth but no Depth, then this may be a game that you will find both interesting and entertaining 
 all at once. The story is great, the graphics are on par with everything except for maybe SWG, 
 and the music is actually top notch.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbdevpro
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2003 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This isn't a very good MMORPG. It simply re-hashes the same old EQ type gameplay. Quests are far 
 and few between. Even after you bust your butt to finish one, the rewards suck. I trapesed around 
 for 2 days looking for a guy in some mines in Bastok to retrieve a report from (he was buried deep 
 in some maze-like mines) only to recieve a meer 150 gil. I played for 3 days and managed to scrape 
 up only 280 gil. I bought a pick axe (it cost me all 280 gil I had manged to scrape up to try and 
 mine some ore to hopefully try and make some money. I used the pick-axe one time, it broke and 
 I got 1 lousy piece of copper ore, which was worth all of 3 gil. 
  I know about the conquest crystals, but if you start in Bastok (like I did) it is constantly in 
 control of other countries or Beastmen, so no matter how many creatures you kill, you get no crysals 
 for killing them. Bastok is quite barren of players. It seems everyone wants to play for the Elvann 
 country. 
  After those frasting 3 days of gaming, I decided to give up in Bastok and try playing in San D' 
 whatever it is. No good, because it is so crowded, the lag makes it impossible to play in. I kept 
 getting disconnected. 
  
  Oh, well. Tommorow, I'll try SWG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobmcin3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2003 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is GREAT I have played it since the day it was released. And though I am only a level 
 8 Warrior I love it. I havent played to much as I did order me an analog controller (IDEAL FOR THIS 
 GAME) makes it so much easier to play all you cant do with the analog controller is talk to other 
 ppl. Also I ordered me a new video card which will be here tomorrow I have a Geforce4 MX440 which 
 is sufficient if you wanna play it on low resolution with no anti aliasing at all. So I got me 
 a Geforce FX card and also I am getting a memory upgrade within the next few days as I only have 
 256 MB's on this one which is sufficient but I am just upgrading to be safe. Now to the game it 
 is awesome and very fun to play ppl should stop comparing it to other games I mean Final Fantasy 
 has always been a kill em level up game that is what RPG's are. I mean nothing spectacular they 
 could have pulled off with these systems and things they have now that hasnt been done before but 
 I mean truly great story and great characters make this game a very worthwile title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2003 8:07 am PT
Review:  This is my first MMORPG that I have tried and I will be as objective as possible to give my opinion 
 about the game. As some of you might have known, the game comes in 5 disks and you have to install 
 PlayOnline (disk 1) followed by FF XI (3 disks) and the expansion Rise of the Zilart (1 disk) . 
 Registration of the PlayOnline ID and credit card info was a bit tedious as you have to entered 
 several IDs at a shot. To add on to that, after installation of the game and expansion, when you 
 start to play the game via PlayOnline service, the server will automatically check throught 7000 
 over files for partches before downloading 2000 over files for patching followed by the actual 
 installation. The process should take about 2-3 hours if you are using a cable or DSL modem. Next 
 to the nicer part of the game. I am using an obsolete GeForce Ti4200 but personally I felt that 
 the graphics is great and better than what PS2 can offer. The soundtracks are quite nice since 
 I didn't find them boring. Gameplay is similar to other FF series with dropdown menus and real-time 
 combat (no turn-based) . I am currently using a Thrustmasters Dual Analog gamepad (similar to a 
 PS2 controller) and I am pretty happy with the interface. Personally I don't like to use keyboard 
 and mouse combination for 3rd person perspective games as it is more cumblesome to navigate and 
 control the character. So far my comments is that I am still a lowly 7 level warrior whom is concerned 
 with fighting monsters to level up. One of the things I am concerned about is whether there is 
 any storylines or plot for the game? FF series are wellknown for their storylines and I hope this 
 one doesn't disappoint me. I am quite happy with the overall value of the game but as any newbie 
 to MMORPG I hope there's a more clearcut direction as what to do and how to proceed with the storyline 
 within the game itself. Else we will be doing nothing but fighting monsters the whole day. Anyone 
 care to comment? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bollwinkel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2003 12:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay, 
  Is as good as or better than any other MMORPG out there.
  Skill chains are a good way to make every class viable and group worthy 
  as well as adding more 
 depth to gameplay. There are rediculous amounts of things to do, fishing, crafting, (mining?) , 
 crafting, etc. Even travelling between nations can become an adventure.
  
  Graphics,
  Are good but not great. The characters and creatures are all very well animated and move fluidly, 
 but the water and sky seem pretty lifeless compared to other games. Attack animations are decent, 
 and spell effects are pretty but so far I haven't seen any projectile effects. 
  
  Sound,
  This could use some improvement. The music is good, but the backgroud sounds need more 
 depth and variation. The various sounds of footsteps, depending on surface and attire (clinking 
 chainmail, scrapping leather boots, etc) is well done, but it stands out too much against the lack 
 of every other kind of noise. Maybe it's because I'm Bastok and the only ambient sounds come from 
 the waves crashing on the shore.
  
  Value,
  Excellent. This game is fully developed, and almost fully realized (once PvP comes into play) . 
 With over a year to work out all the issues that plague every other online RPG, this game runs 
 smoothly even with many thousands of players online. The only really missing that hasn't been addressed 
 is the derth of higher level Missions and Quests.
  
  Tilt,
  Having been stung by many other bugridden MMORPGs, finding one that runs smoothly out of the box 
 (once you get it installed) has been a refreshing experience. This is game to get yourself lost 
 in for a long time. However, be prepared for a very long install process, and click-intensive login 
 and logout process. The existence of an established player population, adds a sense of stability 
 to the game without really spoiling its freshness. And the lvl gap is large enough that the player 
 populations don't overlap in uncomfortable ways. As for the "world pass" issue, it not really an 
 issue as long you are willing to reroll until you get the server you want. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall_Rinoa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2003 11:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to play if you are looking for some adventure and variety in quests. First 
 of all the graphics are beautiful once you up the resolution and if your video card can handle 
 it. From what I have heard of the sound so far, it isn't my favourite, but it is not too annoying 
 or bad either. The only major problem I have with the game is that the controls are not very easy 
 to use and need a quite a bit of practising to get accustomed to. One thing, I don't like is the 
 fact that targeting objects, NP's, or NPCs is not as easy to do. Especially if you are using the 
 mouse. Using the keyboard makes it a bit easier, but still once you target an object its display 
 on the screen is not very clear. Unlike other MMORPGs like EQOA, it is hard to tell where the objects 
 you are targetting are on the compass view.
  
  But there are still too many up sides to this game to let controls hold you back. I like the fact 
 that there are a numerous number of quests to undertake, besides just he main mission modes.
  
  If you like MMORPG you should definitely give this game a try, even if you have to pay the 
 online subscription fee. And if you are fan of the FF series then this is a must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagan02
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2003 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I've been playing this game for about half a year, and am now quite bored of it, this game 
 has no good PvP, getting a decent amount of money will drive you half insane, and as I said before, 
 the lack of a decent PvP method gives you no real reason to level past fifty, and if you DO decide 
 to level past fifty you will go half-insane just trying to get the money for your equipment, which 
 is rather sad, since this game is otherwise exellent.
  
  The graphics are good, the way grouping works is awesome, but the lack of PvP and how INSANELY, 
 I repeat INSANELY hard it is to get ANY ammount of money on this game has drove me to the brink 
 of my sanity, this game has such exellent potential, but even if they add a PvP mode that won't 
 make me come back, I was a level 34 Paladin and 45 Red Mage before I felt like commiting suicide 
 from trying to get money, this game doesn't let you get money from simply killing mobs, oh no, 
 you have to kill mobs that drop something the community wants, and you better hope n00bs haven't 
 jacked down the price, or else you'll NEVER get money, don't even think of selling items to the 
 venders, because they won't give you anything for your items, you HAVE to put it on the Auction 
 House and hope it sells, and if you absolutely need money to continue playing you're going to have 
 to wait awhile (maybe even a few real world days) before your item sells and you finally get your 
 money, not to say that a community driven ecomony is a bad thing, but when it's the only way to 
 get money and when complete idiots have the power to completely ruin your way of getting some cash, 
 it's a bad thing.
  
  I had some truly great moments on this game, but once you reach level 30 or so and your equipment 
 gets pricy I hope the God of Money is with you, because the only real way to get cash in this game 
 is spending hours and hours mining, or hunting an notorious monster that has a good drop and pray 
 to the mighty MMORPG gods that YOU kill him, and that he drops the item you need, both methods 
 will most likely lead you to spending hours yelling at your computer screen because someone either 
 took your mining spot, or got the Notorious Monster's item instead of you.
  
  As you can tell I had extremely poor luck getting money on this game, I got ONE leaping lizard 
 boot throuhout my whole FFXI career, and I spent over a hundred hours hunting the sadistic lizard 
 and I only got one pair of boots, I also mined/fished abit, neither profession giving me much money, 
 but the money I got from it did help slightly.... Anyways, if you decide to play this game I hope 
 you have fun and have better luck then I did, this game is quite fun, but can get old with the 
 lack of PvP, basicly you'll spend most your life in the game fighting brainless mobs and playing 
 a weird mix of lame PvP and football.... I say this game is ultimately a waste of time, due to the 
 fact once you reach level 75 you'll have NOTHING at all to do, since there's no TRUE PvP, I personaly 
 think Squaresoft should make money easier to get, and add a nice Realm VS Realm Frontier system, 
 like Dark Age of Camelot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henry4th
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2003 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Another Final Fantasy, another dream world -- only this time, you are in it.
  
  I know the above statement is true because the game's immersive size creates not an illusion, but 
 a reality. Cloud moves above the sky, wind picks up leaves and dusts, NPCs ban on the hot iron, 
 and wild beasts sneak up on you from behind. Switching to the first person mode in towns and see 
 the world in what it should be, it's quite poetic.
  
  Many people complain about the control, which I do not understand. Must every game uses the so 
 called standard control - mouse? The key board control gives you fast access that no action can't 
 be performed within a second of time. 
  
  The gameplay is so much fun if you are social and willing to talk and party with people. One of 
 the funniest moment was when I opened my arm to receive a friend, only found a train of monsters 
 following him. Instantly, lots of shouting involving "F" and "S" came, and everyone on screen started 
 running in the same way. A giant race for life! 
  
  On the other hand, if you are not social and don't like to party, you have no place in MMORPG. 
 Why even bother to play the game? Not everyone like the look of a diamond, yet a diamond is still 
 a pretty stone.
  
  The Playonline feature is great, not only you have a easy way of communicating your friends on 
 and off the game, you can even exchange messages when you friends are playing the game while you 
 are not. But the log in process of playing the game is too redundant, there should be a shortcut 
 to start the game and automate all the password sign on process.
  
  Playing accross continent and platform is just cool. Fear not of talking to people from different 
 country, for many understand and speak English just fine (including me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atheron
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2003 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. Awsome graphics, awsome gameplay, awsome sound, all thats expected of a Final 
 Fantasy game. Although I dont think it should be the 11th FF, should just be Final Fantasy Online. 
 Theres only 2 things I dont agree with. 1 being the exp penalties when you die. its possible to 
 go from a really high lvl to lvl 0 if you die enough. and 2 would be the camera. it just moves 
 too much, i think they need to make a camera lock in an upcoming patch. other then that, this game 
 is absolutely awsome and all ive been hoping for in a MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2003 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Final Fantasy XI is a great game once you get past the couple of problems it has. The 
 biggest problem is the control scheme. If you have played any other MMORPG, don't try to control 
 this game like that. If you try and use the mouse to look around and move, the control if very 
 unweilding. If you use the keyboard without using the mouse at all, the control becomes much better, 
 with a little practice. The other major problem is the time it takes from buying the game to playing 
 it. The install time is long enough as it is, what with 5 discs you have to install, but the patching 
 process is long as well. This really isn't all that uncommon with MMORPG games, but I would make 
 sure you have about 2 hours set aside before you try and play. Once the patch starts though, you 
 can just leave and come back later, so it isn't like you have to sit and watch it patch.
  
  Those things aside, the actual game is great. As far as the graphics, they are a little PS2-like 
 resolution-wise (even if you up the resolution you are playing at) , so if you are expecting the 
 regular smoothness from your computer, that will hamper your experience. Still all the designs 
 for the characters and monsters are great, and the world can be very beautiful if you catch it 
 right. 
  
  The music is also very good. I wasn't expecting very much since most online RPGs have sub-par music. 
 This game, on the other hand, has awesome music. I plan on purchasing the soundtrack at the next 
 convention I go to, if that says anything. I haven't like a Final Fantasy soundtrack this much 
 since 6.
  
  A large number of people have been complaining about the PlayOnline aspect of the game, but I love 
 it. It is a great comunication tool once you start making new friends in the game. I can only imagine 
 how great it must be for guilds to keep in contact with each other. The main reason that it is 
 so great is that once a character has been added to your friends list in the game, it is also in 
 your list for PlayOnline. This combined with the ability to send messages even when the person 
 isn't online is great for keeping up with your party once you have logged off.
  
  Another great idea are the linkshells. I have not had a chance to use them, but they just sound 
 great. As far as I can tell, they are items that pretty much allow you to "equip" your group. What 
 this means is that once you equip your "linkpearl", you are now immediately part of the group that 
 has all the same pearls "attuned" to yours. That is just phenominal.
  
  Obviously, if you don't like Final Fantasy games, you probably won't enjoy this one, even if you 
 like online RPGs. If you do enjoy them, and you like online games, I suggest you try this out, 
 just be aware of the control issue before hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2003 9:39 am PT
Review:  
  I have to say first off, FFXI is not for all... especially those that are expecting an EXACT replica 
 of any other PC MMORPG. 
  
  Complaints first.
  
  First off, the controls are a little weird to get used to. Remember, this was designed for the 
 PS2, not the PC. You can use a mouse, but take the extra 10 minutes to either 
  
  1) set up a controller
  2) learn to use ure right hand for the numpad on the right hand of your 
 
  keyboard. Personally, once you get used to the controls and options (and macros you can create) 
 it's all uphill from there. 
  
  The installation is a pain. Having to use the playonline is a pain... unless Square comes out with 
 future games that are indeed going to use the playonline, then I can forsee me liking playonline 
 more seeing I'll be established in it. 
  
  These are mostly technical complaints that may be fixable, I do not know. 
  
  
 
  Now about the game itself...
  
  
  The graphics 
 are incredible for such an online game. I really do find myself stopping when I get to really high 
 elevations, or during sunsets, and make my character sit and look around. Also, seeing about 100 
 people unload off of a realtime AIRSHIP (if you are a FF fan) is just breathtaking and worth at 
 least the downloading of a movie to see... or you can just play the game. The music you would expect 
 from a FF game is very nice, although the fighting music can get just as annoying as all the other 
 FF game fighting games. 
  
  The one thing that you the player have to consider is how much time you are willing to give to 
 a game before you like it. Unless you are playing diablo, most MMORPG's are slow to start but get 
 better once you progress to actually know what you are doing. This is the same although the order 
 of fun factor-ness (cool word I know) is a little weirder...
  
  Starting is kinda fun cuz everythign is new, but things get really boring until about level 15 
 or so until you start getting abilities, unlocking the really good story missions, and get put 
 into situations where you almost have to party.
  and fight bosses. Teaming up keeps you alive, but unless you do it correctly, will take you longer 
 to level up (you share exp) . Once you get to this point of the game.... you won't want to stop 
 for a long while. 
  
  FFXI does add some new things not very common to the MMORPG.
  
  The ability chains add a heavy depth to strategy. If you can learn how to use these then your character 
 can become at least 2 or in some cases 3 times more powerful in their attacks, let alone who much 
 stronger a group of characters who know what they are doing can be. These act as sort of combos 
 that different skills affect one another if you do them in the right order or if you time them 
 correctly. 
  
  So the best I can say is that I know there will be a lot of bashing and trashing from 3 types of 
 people.
  
  1) PC people because of the lack of need for a mouse.
  2) People who have played their own MMORPG and find that theirs is better for whatever the reason.
 
  3) Lastly are the people who don't have the patience to play a slower paced type of game and cannot 
 handle the openness and commitment this type of game follows. 
  
  For the rest of us, I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 1, 2003 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI should have better yet been a single player game instead of MMORPG. Let's break 
 it down in attribute and give my final thought. 
  
  Gameplay is what you expect with a MMORPG. Find your creature, click on him and use the Final Fantasy 
 series style fighting. Back and forth you attack one another. I didn't like the controls because 
 there were no options to change the way you play except for using a controller. I am using a controller 
 and it's pretty annoying using both analogs to view around yourself. W/O the controller is annoying 
 as well.
  
  Graphics are not as good as you would expect on a ps2 console. But if you run a high powered graphics 
 card, you can basically have the graphics maxed out and you'll enjoy what FF offers. So far, it's 
 one of the best graphics in MMORPG next to star wars galaxy.
  
  The sound is mediocre and I was expecting a lot in this field. There are a lot of things missing 
 from battle scenes, to introduction scenes, FFXI fails to deliver in this category.
  
  Final Fantasy has no meaning to it but killing creatures and leveling up. I have to yet to figure 
 out how to run quests. I did accept a mission which was out of my league. But when you first enter 
 the city, you'll find yourself running around asking people for help on what to do. You basically 
 have to spend the rest of your days leveling up so you can beat Forest Hare's and Wild Rabbits. 
 I'm a level 5 Red Mage and I was defeated by a Forest Hare in which I was stronger. I don't understand 
 were FFXI is going and how their story line is going to be. From what I see now, I probably won't 
 find myself playing in teh near future.
  
  Don't bother picking up the game if you already purchased Star Wars Galaxy and stopped playing 
 it because lack of objects. FFXI is boring and full of Japanese people who don't interact with 
 you. Had I known I was buying a Japanese version of FFXI, I wouldn't spend the time nor the money 
 on it. One thing about FFXI is that you can give it a try. Some might like it, others might feel 
 it's too boring. If your playing EverQuest, stay there and don't make the jump even though I feel 
 EverQuest is an overrated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bendystraws
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2003 5:37 am PT
Review:  Im going to keep this short.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Your standard MMORPG. Hunt, do quests, collect. However the turn based combat in this game seems 
 to match (since all other FF's where turned based) . This will vary from person to person.
  
  The job system comes right from FFT. YOu can change jobs whenever you wish. Also you start 
 the game with a house. I just thought that was a cool addition.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are pretty decent for an online game with this scale. The character creation screen 
 looks awsome. However, you will need a really good computer to run this game.
  
  SOUND
  From the battle beats to the simple unsheathing your weapon, every sound matches the game nicely. 
 Nothing is too repetative.
  
  VALUE
  You get the game, plus the expansion. Lots to explore. Possibly the biggest MMORPG on launch.
 
  
  GENERAL COMPLAINTS
  From the time you open the box to the time i logged in it took me around 2 or so hours. MOst people 
 are complaining about the 200 meg initial download. HOwever if you have broadband it isnt that 
 bad.
  
  OVERALL
  This game is pretty good. The towns are busy and everything just plain looks great. The environments 
 are really nice too. The game is worth it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
