-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy VII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/finalfantasy7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  7, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.8, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 3,581 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: SquareSoft
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     May 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC translation of Final Fantasy VII is fundamentally the same game as the PlayStation version, 
 which makes for both its greatest strengths and its most frustrating weaknesses. 

 SquareSoft's Final Fantasy VII was released on the PlayStation with much hype and fanfare, including 
 television commercials and huge bus stop ads in metropolitan areas. For many months, it seemed 
 Final Fantasy VII was the only game available for the PlayStation. For those who played it, this 
 was practically the case. The game's epic storyline and impressive production values made for a 
 game that kept one immersed for anywhere from 30 hours, "rushing" through, to more than twice that, 
 exploring every available option.   

 The PC translation of Final Fantasy VII is fundamentally the same game as the PlayStation version, 
 which makes for both its greatest strengths and its most frustrating weaknesses. There was obviously 
 a great deal of attention spent improving the graphics, but other equally important areas - the 
 sound, the interface - have been neglected.   

 Final Fantasy VII tells the story of a young mercenary named Cloud. At the outset of the game, Cloud 
 has hired himself out to Avalanche, a revolutionary group set on sabotaging a huge corporation's 
 plans to harvest all of the energy from the planet. Cloud is an ex-employee of Shinra Inc., the 
 corporation in question. While the Avalanche members' intentions are noble, Cloud's are, it seems, 
 strictly financial. Throughout the first segment of the game, Cloud works with Avalanche in the 
 elevated city of Midgar and the slums that exist below it. Because of the events that transpire 
 there, he must venture with them beyond Midgar, across the whole of the planet, where the story 
 becomes much more complex.  

 This complexity is the heart of the game, and describing too much of the story would give it away. 
 What makes Final Fantasy VII so involving, though, is not just the story it tells - the characters 
 themselves are intriguing. Each of the main characters has interesting motivations and history. 
 Much of the game is devoted to painting these portraits, with Cloud's being one of the focal points 
 of the game. So as not to spoil anything, a simple understatement will have to suffice: Cloud is 
 easily the most interesting and complex character ever presented in a game.   

 The game utilizes many different styles, depending on the event and the location. When wandering 
 around cities, you play from an Alone in the Dark-style perspective, where different angles are 
 used in different areas. When in the world map, you see everything from a birds-eye overhead view. 
 In both cases, your party (made up of three of the available characters) is represented by a single 
 character, usually Cloud. Combat is a hybrid of real-time and turn-based. It takes place in real 
 time, but it takes a certain amount of time for your characters to perform moves. It's sort of 
 a best-of-both-worlds scenario, where you must act quickly, but it's not a purely response-time-based 
 situation.   

 The magic system is so complicated as to defy simple explanation. Your characters can be equipped 
 with Materia, and different types of Materia have different properties. Some will allow you to 
 heal characters during combat, others will summon deities to combat your opponents, and others 
 will cast spells or add attributes to your characters. Materia can be coupled with other Materia 
 to change its properties, and Materia gains experience along with your characters, allowing for 
 more powerful spells, extended effects, or multiple castings during a single encounter. Understanding 
 the way Materia works is one of the keys to playing the game, and it's a complex yet elegant system. 

 Aesthetically, the PC version of Final Fantasy VII exceeds the PlayStation version in one area: 
 graphics. Support for 3D accelerators makes the characters look much more crisp and detailed than 
 the console version. Combat sequences benefit the most. Quite simply, combat scenes in the PC version 
 look incredible. Unfortunately, everything else is inferior. The music is MIDI, so the quality 
 is completely dependent on the MIDI playback ability of your sound card. With the most common contemporary 
 sound cards, this isn't good. As a result, the epic score of the game is reduced to something that 
 sounds like the background music on a poorly designed Final Fantasy web page.   

 Not all of the graphics are superior: The rendered cutscenes, which were breathtaking on the PlayStation, 
 are AVI files in the PC version - low-resolution, washed-out AVI files. The menu-driven interface, 
 a necessity for the PlayStation controller, is presented here intact. No hotkeys, nothing. To play 
 without a gamepad, you must use the number pad on the keyboard, which isn't a pleasant option. 
 You can reallocate keys, but the options menu makes it difficult to understand exactly what function 
 the different keys serve. If you plan on playing Final Fantasy VII on the PC, a gamepad is almost 
 essential.  

 Of course, there are some problems that exist simply because of the nature of console RPGs. Many 
 of these discrepancies will seem foreign to those who have never experienced them: the inability 
 to save at any point when in certain locations, the random combat encounters that occur with no 
 warning, and the strange moments in combat when huge monsters firing huge weapons do little damage, 
 while your characters do twice as much damage with a single punch. And none of these compares to 
 the adjustment many will have to make to accustom themselves to the fact that these cute little 
 big-eyed characters are swearing, killing, and pondering the nature of their existence. But these 
 are caveats, not criticisms.  

 The PC version of Final Fantasy VII could have been, and perhaps should have been, better than its 
 PlayStation counterpart. But it isn't. The story is amazing, and the combat is fun, making it a 
 good choice for open-minded computer role-playing fans or adventure game fans who don't mind a 
 little action in their games. Perhaps it's unfair to criticize Final Fantasy VII for being merely 
 great, but it's hard not to think a version tailored specifically for the PC could have been amazing. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (80 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GattsTaichou
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  Yes, I can imagine there are millions of people around the world, who are much more versed in the 
 Final Fantasy series than my humble self, but maybe there are a few who do not really know this 
 game. And as they say in my country - Amongst the blind, a one-eyed is a king.
  
  So, FF7 was the first of the series that actually made it to the PC platform in 1998 - quite a 
 while ago. It was developed by Square [I guess it is Square Enix now] Of course, being originally 
 for other platforms, and being a Japanese game, there is also a version from PlayStation. FF6 an 
 beyond were playable only on SNES as far I know.
  
  FF7 is an RPG with a unique game-style. Your characters will gain XP, and will level up to LvL 
 80 somewhat like in other Role paying games. You can have 3 characters participating in your group 
 at a time, including the main character - Cloud Strife. They will also receive new fighting abilities 
 as they advance, called "Limit"-s.
  
  The battles are not real-time. They are a sort of turn-based fights. I have once read that it is 
 called Active Time Battle. For those who have played FF6 or FF5 it should be familiar already. 
 You can think of your next move, but nor for long, as the time is ticking and your enemies will 
 attack if you think too long on what you should do next - and this gives a little charge and speed 
 to the gameplay.
  
  There are not too much things in the game that are not good, or even great. On thing - the graphics. 
 The cutscenes and the movie parts were ok at that time, but the graphic design of the characters 
 were... well - ugly even at that time: a bunch of color vectors running around in the game. But 
 as soon as you could get over that, the game was brilliant.
  
  The music is astonishing. Maybe the best I have heard in games so far - in this the PS version 
 was even better, as the PC worked from midi-s at that time.
  
  The story would be far too complex and long to summarize in this short review - and that is not 
 what I would like to do, and I do not want to be a spoiler. I have alrady tried a little summary 
 and it ended up with 10 lines, just before I deleted it.
  
  Anyway, the story is interesting, thrilling, and unlike any other game I have played - a genuine 
 masterpiece.
  
  I've played the game from start to finish 5 times on the PS and twice on my PC and just could not 
 stop. And this is the only game ever I have played more than 3 times.
  
  This is the most famous, and maybe the best Final Fantasy episode. Everyone, even the ones who 
 did not play the game have heard names like Cloud, Aeris, Tifa, Barret or Sepiroth - and if you 
 are one of these, take a deep breath and start the game. It will be much more than you did expect 
 - and if you do not play it, there will be something you're missing out on.
  
  This game ranks amongst the top 3 games of my life.
  
  The game also sold over 10 million copies, 
 which I can tell you, is not just because of the marketing department of the developer company.
 
  
  Anyway... If you like long, interesting games that sometimes make you laugh and sometimes stomp 
 you to the ground and leave you to your tears, you have to give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Diamond
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII's amazing storyline, and it's amazing characters will make you want to play until 
 you have lost any sense of what day it is. This game really set the bar for the future titles, 
 and not all have been able to recreate the fun and excitement of this game. The other factor that 
 makes the game very entertaining is that you can respond in different ways which cause different 
 outcomes to occur throughout the game. This really makes the replay value much higher than some 
 of the other Final Fantasy games. Not to mention the story of Sephiroth, one of the most known 
 video game villians of all time, makes this game spectacular and even adds a bit of horror to it! 
 However, the graphics were not as good as many other games when it was released. Even so don't 
 let that stop you from playing this. If you enjoy Final Fantasy this is certainly one you don't 
 want to miss out on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesisatig
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love Final Fantasy, especially Final Fantasy 7. This story is impossible 
 to get over, and you will force your children to play it, even after virtual reality comes out.
 
  Here's my score breakdown.
  
  Story [10/10]
  Playability [6/10]
  Graphics [7/10]
  Replayability [7/10]
  
  Story: 
  I think it says it by itself. Final Fantasy 7. It was, and 
 still is, their best story. 
  For those of you who haven't played this game... (who?) I can give you this as a review. This is 
 one of the few games that combine solid RPG story progression with standard characters, and a psychotic 
 backstory that leaves you guessing at each turn. Combine that with the most evil villain (jenova) 
 of all time, and most wicked arch nemesis (Sephiroth) , and you're looking at one heck of a story. 
 The characters (except for barret) are all quite 3 dimensional and ascend beyond stereotype, even 
 after we've seen so many copies made of these characters over the last decade, they still aren't 
 cliche.
  
  Playability:
  If Final Fantasy 7 (PC) has a weak point (it does) , this is it. The game before you inevitably 
 mod it, is 640*480 at max resolution, making things cluttered and gross on your screen. The controls 
 are set on the numpad, and will have you searching for keys occasionally. Plus, if you have an 
 old keyboard (I don't!) you may find certain key combo's cause your computer to beep annoyingly. 
 This doesn't break the game, but it can lessen the story's impact, if you have to work hard to 
 get to the story.
  Also, playing on a laptop is impossible before modding.
  
  Graphics:
  Ah, the age old debate of story versus graphics... (How long is an age?) This is what 
 many people say is the worst part of this game. I say, look at it as a game from 1998. Ten years 
 ago. Every 13 months, we've doubled our computing power. This game was made with 8-bit textures, 
 and 40 poly characters. Yes, it looks gross when compared to mass effect. (Doesn't everything?) 
 But the story is more important than what you see. (I wish it was a book!) Plus, with new mods 
 for the pc game, you can get the resolution into 1280*960, with new high res and retextured models. 
 These don't make the graphics awesome, but they are decent enough to play with.
  Here is the url for the mods: 
  http://fem1. uniag. sk/Miroslav. Jezik/ff7ncopam. html
  and this 
 is the url for the mod forum:
  http://forums. qhimm. com/
  
  Replayability:
  I wanted to replay this game, after seeing the movie, just to recap the story. It was ok. The midgar 
 portion makes me sad though. It's just long, and you don't want to play it twice. After that, things 
 get better. It's ok to go through more than once, but if you're a 100% kinda guy (like me) then 
 you really have no reason to.
  
  
  All in all, the PC has some shortcomings from the ps1 version, but the mods make it all the better. 
 Totally recommended for playing, again!
  Overall
  [8/10]
  
  -Hollis
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  This is certainly a great game despite it's age. I fell off the cliff of the gaming world a good 
 while back so now I'm playing some catch up. Just finished this game and am VERY thankful I did! 
 
  
  The FF is, by far, one of my favorite series! Even though this game's graphics are a little dated 
 the game itself holds strong through the tests of time and the story is quite good considering.
 
  
  This game was a little bit easier than I expected through the main course of the game with it only 
 getting hard at the very end. This kept the pace going pretty well for me considering that, in 
 the end, I didn't really want to spend ten years on this one since I'm basically playing catch 
 up.
  
  I really appreciate the commitment to quality in the FF games and can't wait to get my hands on 
 FFXIII on the PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimes73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  I focus on this review essentially on the differences between the PSX and PC versions. There are 
 advantages and disadvantages when we compare the PC version of Final Fantasy to the PSX counterpart. 
 I start with the DISADVANTAGES: the 2D graphic uses the nearest neighbour algorythm for drawing 
 scenarios, which results in a very strong pixelation thus giving the feeling that the 3D graphic 
 is sort of "glued" on top the pre-rendered scenario; the AVI files played are of an inferior quality 
 due to a poor port (just like for the 2D graphic) - but personally I have reworked all the movie 
 files to look almost as good as the original ones; the music score is absolutely amazing (best 
 Nobuo Uematsu production for me) but to enjoy high quality MIDI you need a great MIDI device like 
 I do (SW1000XG) but the Yamaha Synthetizer that comes with the game is still more than acceptable 
 - generally speaking though the PSX version is superior; the game can be played without problems 
 only on Windows 95 but there are ways (modifications) to make it work almost flawlessly on Windows 
 XP as well; a gamepad connected to the PC is almost a necessity to enjoy the controls. ADVANTAGES: 
 the most important is that the PC version can be highly customized (I recommend the installation 
 of a mod called YAMP by dziugo) ; the 3D graphic is superior and mostly so if you are applying The 
 Saint's High Resolution Patch and keep Antialiasing on at maximum; the steal/win ratio can be made 
 better/more realistic using my own mod called Scene Redux for Final Fantasy VII. Quantity-wise, 
 it's safe to say that the PSX version is a superior port under a technical point of view. But I 
 still recommend the PC version over the original one just because it can be heavily customized 
 to make its gameplay more enjoyable. At the end, it doesn't matter which version you are going 
 to play: it will grant hours of sheer pleasure if you live the experience keeping in mind that 
 this is a game from 1997. I say it again: a real Masterpiece which, in my opinion, might have benefitted 
 of some little tweaks in the dialogues (english version, at least) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jalh222
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  Many people may notice that the PC and PS versions of Final Fantasy VII did not receive the same 
 score. This is still a conundrum to me. I feel that many people would be pleased to know that Final 
 Fantasy VII on the PC is still the original game with no alteration. If you ask me, this game is 
 still amazing regardless of how primitive the graphics appear today. Every RPG fan should have 
 played it at least once. Ten years later, it is still one of the best games I have every played, 
 not very many RPGs can even hold a flame up to this one. The main point I want to get across, however, 
 is that it's still the same game that many of us played on the Play Station. It still has all those 
 amazing characters which you really can get attached to and really understand their motivations, 
 it's one of the few games where I felt that the characters could have really been actual people, 
 the emotions were portrayed flawlessly. Squaresoft created a masterpiece with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Here it is, one of the games that should be in your top ten is this very game Final Fantasy 7. 
 I will keep this brief.
  
  Basically it has the best plot of any game i have ever played, it has the most filled out characters 
 taht do not at any time drag the plot along or feel unneccasary, it has the most adventurous of 
 locations throught the world from Midgar to the Golden Saucer, it is the game that tought gamers 
 how to actually care for the characters involved, it is the game that brought RPG elements and 
 perfect story telling to the mainstream, its the game that always brings something new everytime 
 you play it, its the game you can discuss with new friends because everybody has played it and 
 everybody has been touched by it, its the single most important game of the late 90's, its the 
 only game i have not been bothered if i am playing or watching others play it.
  
  Get this game to enrich your soul, get this game to improve your gaming life, get this game anyway 
 you can, get it and play it through from start to finish then play again and pay attention to everything, 
 complete it all the way, defeat every weapon, collect every item and Materia, get a golden chocobo 
 and race it, try and do everything in this game because its a perfect game world and its a perfect 
 game taht is so important to our very lives if you consider yourself a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipo101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  There's no point in even mentioning the graphics. They don't matter in an RPG. An FPS, maybe. But 
 not an RPG. And that's that. No more talk about graphics.
  
  
  First up, soundtrack. Awesome. Some people say the transition to PC made it worse. I disagree. 
 It only became better. The only bad thing about it is that there's no chorus in One Winged Angel. 
 But so what? If I want to listen to it with lyrics, I'll just play it on my MP3 player while fighting 
 Safer-Sephiroth. 
  
  
  Gameplay is also great, and so is the storyline. Each character is unique with his/her own background 
 and each discovers something about their past at one point or another. The materia system is very 
 straight-forward but has its twists, which is good, because normal = boring. The battle system 
 is even better, because of the turn based system. It can be realistic at time and unrealistic at 
 others. It's realistic because if you are digging for an item in your backpack, it's not like the 
 badguy is going to sit there and wait for you. He wants you dead! On another note, it's unrealistic 
 because 1. There is no blocking, and 2. You can only attack once per turn. Oh well, I can deal 
 with that. 
  
  
  Overall, the game it great, the only drawback is its many technical glitches because it is played 
 on newer computers. My advice: get it off of ebay or something. You might end up with some tough 
 competition, but trust me, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sty_ether
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII, and the playstation one is too much overrated. The story is less complex if you 
 look into the background of the previous ones (especially Final Fantasy VI)
  The villain had a illogical reaction after discovering his true existence (destruct the world) .
 
  The musical quality was bad, if you compare with the previous ones too (especially FF4 and FF6)
 
  Some of them had really bad sounds and arrangements. (not the partitures, the way they recorded 
 them, a lot sounded like cheap mids)
  But this one is really, really superior, in my opinion.
  Most of the musics had better qualities, what is kinda funny, because they are really mids, unlike 
 the ps1 version, that were in MP3. But this one's qualities are better, ironically (listen the original 
 ''Fanfare'' and you'll know what I'm talking about. The ps1 music versions, sometimes, had just one 
 sound channel) .
  The graphics are a lot better too. The colors are more mixed into the scenarios. Makes you want to 
 play more.
  And you could even put some MODs on it (like changind the scenario characters for battle characters) , that 
 made the game really cool and far superior than the ps1 version.
  This game version is almots perfect for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This perhaps is one of my favorite RPGs of all time.. Any video game fan could tell you this is 
 a must have and if you never owned a PSX and want to play this on your PC, then this is your chance.
 
  
  Now the PC version is almost the same port as the PSX version with some differences but Ill explain 
 that as I go on.
  
  Gameplay: You will be going through a very deep adventure throughout this game... the storyline 
 and also gameplay itself are something that will get you hooked for hours and hours. The gameplay, 
 in general, is turn based like most JRPGs.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look neat for the time... This isn't Xbox 360, PS3, or even Gamecube for 
 that fact so you cant expect top notch quality but the graphics look crisp, especially the PC version, 
 which excels the PSX graphics since the PC has better graphics card and what not.
  
  Sound: A little weakness on this port... the PSX version actually sounds better than the PC version... not 
 that the PC one is bad but some of the songs sound a bit different and better on the PSX port.
 
  
  Overall: Epic adventure that you will be playing for hours... the story will have your attention 
 and there is many memorable moments. If you're a real fan of RPGs or Adventure games, then this 
 is one not to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodling
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII was the first RPG I've ever played, and became my favourite gaming experience.
 
  
  Graphics/Environment
  
  -Amazing for its time
  -Beautiful, enchanting environment
  -Immersive story
  -Awesome characters
  -Brilliant conversations
  -Many nice limit breaks 
 and summons
  -Cool weapons
  -Terrifying ennemies
  
  Gameplay
  
  -More than enough fun mini-games
  -Simple equipment/materia system but very effective
  -Great 
 variety of materias, which will eventually upgrade if equipped
  -Lots of magic materias (everything you can think of...)
  -Support materias like All, Quadra 
 Magic, Final Attack, Added Cut, HP Absorb can be linked to magic materias in most pieces of equipment
 
  -Command materias like Deathblow, Double Cut, Mime, Steal and Enemy Skill offers you many options
 
  
  Sound
  
  -It has the best soundtrack I've ever heard in a game
  
  Difficulty
  
  -Pretty easy even if you're not familiar with RPGs
  -Can let the time flow in battle or simply 
 rush the game to increase the difficulty level
  -After finishing the game, you'll need plenty of time to grow strong and defeat ultimate weapons
 
  
  Any real RPG fan must have this game, but I also recommend it to anyone not familiar with RPGs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VaggosDragos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  I want to believe that final fantasy VII wasn't just a simple FF game that was
  passed by for various reasons. In my opinion, it is a great game that is worth
  playing
  
  
 Storyline
  What can one say about the story? A story of self sacrificing for the salvation
  of the Planet. A story of inner knowledge of yourself, a story of finding your
  true past, your 
 true life, escaping the dark and entering the light... As the story
  unfolders you discover so many new things about the characters, about everything
  
  Characters
 
  Amazing..! Cloud-the main character-is one of the best ever created. Tifa, Aeris,
  Red XIII, Cid, Barret, Cait Sith.... Every single one of them with his/her unique
  story... And there 
 are also two optional characters that you may get, Vincent
  and Yuffie
  
  Gameplay/Graphics
  Progress is made and I think that the FF-VII gameplay is not the best, though
 
  it is satisfying.
  Well, that is the weak point. Because of its old age, FF-VII is not a game with
  good graphics. But 
 that shouldn't stop you from playing it. It didn't stop me!
  
  Music
  For once again the miracle is alive... Who can deny the perfection of the music?
  Every melody, every 
 song is just... perfect...
  
  Overall
  Despite its horrid graphics, FF-VII is a great game that's worth its time playing
  and if it was 
 created these days, with todays' graphics, I think it would be simply
  incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanky333
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  If you have already played FFVII, skip down to where it says VETERANS .
  
  There are a few games in the lex iconic halls of the pantheon that should be revered and praised 
 with utmost solemnity and admiration. Absorption. Figured I would throw that one out since I am 
 going for as many big words as possible.
  Games like Super Mario World , Civilization , Tetris , and Doom to name a few. These games are 
 the wake up call to mortal men who might not have realized that gaming is our business, and business 
 is GOOD.
  So when Square Eidos came out with a little RPG entry called Final Fantasy VII, we were not really 
 ready. The thing was huge. HUGE. The first chapter of the game was pretty much as long as most 
 games in their entirety. Final Fantasy also featured characters that were actually interesting.. 
 even funny! The story actually had comedy and tragedy, a climax and a back story.. in short it 
 was more game than anyone had seen before.
  Players will immediately appreciate the sweeping soundtrack and superior incidental music. It stays 
 with you forever. More than just being a haunting soundtrack, it becomes attached to certain emotional 
 points in game, so that hearing the song later actually recalls images of the game to memory. Characters 
 have their own themes, places have their own atmosphere. In closing, Final Fantasy VII is a must 
 have masterpiece of (somewhat dated) technological breakthroughs, not to be missed. VETERANS!
 
  
  A list of terms to get you digging up your copy and saying bye bye to a couple of days:
  Chocobo Racing
  Sephiroth
  Air Ship
  Materia
  Would You Like To Buy A Flower?
  The Turks
 
  
  My apologies to your employers and anyone else that needed you this week. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodEagles1717
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII is the most overrated game ever. There's almost no contest on this. Looking back, 
 there was a real lack of character development or a gripping, dramatic plot found in many other 
 Final Fantasy games. The graphics were not top-of-the-line, even back in 97. And the gameplay left 
 a lot to be desired, especially in the lack of character differentiation.
  
  That being said, Final Fantasy VII is still a fantastic game. The Materia system is IMO the best 
 system in the FF series, allowing for a great variety of builds. The stories behind many minor 
 characters is still entertaining, even if the overall story is somewhat lackluster. And the overall 
 feel of the game is epic, which is enhanced by the game's musical score and art design. Each town 
 is brilliantly crafted, each with its own character and flavor. One can easily get lost in this 
 game, and despite its flaws, is always an entertaining game. Anyone who hasn't picked this up, 
 should, if only because it's such a classic part of video game history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inferno100
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  ill note this though. nothings perfect
  now when i first played it my cusion didnt have a memory card. so that means replay the same stuff 
 over and over again. i would play it all day long. have to turn it off and do the same thing over 
 again teh next day. but then i got it for the pc. i would play that thing..... o damn.
  now the grapgix were revolutionary for its time and the cinematics were breathtaking.
  the gameplay 
 (although turn based) was fun and exiting. 
  The story was IS one of the best out there. although (rant comming) the devs put in the white materia 
 which has the power to bring back the dead but they were either too lazy or didnt want to bring 
 back a certan someone. (it being square i vote the former... stupid square) 
  but i digress
  the amount of crap you can do that has nothing to do with the story line is awsome. and so is the 
 bonus characters. and the legendary gold chocobo. knights of the round and the final llimit breaks.
 
  although i could never kill the wepons. or get the gold chocobo. (what can i say i was in elementry 
 school) but o crap i tried. hours breading chocobo. but apparently i was lied to and the i w. e
 
  but the fact is the game is the best old school turn based RPG ever. 
  the only thing i regret is that the game was destroyed in the move.
  but there is one major problem. 
 the game would suddenly decide to delete my game. every save. so i would have to start over. so 
 i did. 
  this game has the most memorable heros, villians. storylines...
  just play it. your missing out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_of_stuff
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I know this review is REALLY late, but I'm going to speak as though 
 it was the time that the game had come out. The game play was great, the sound was fantastic, and 
 the story was outstanding.
  
  Firstly, when it came to game play, it was complex yet interesting. The materia system put a huge 
 twist on how to use magic/skills, and the battle scenes were amazing. In battle, it was real-time, 
 so there weren't necessarily taking turns. This gave the sense of rush in battle. The graphics 
 for battle were great, and in world map were good too. Many people believe that having blocks for 
 hands was a bad move, but it seemed to work out well. The world map was also great. It had plenty 
 of detail, and many features. Another great aspect is the parties, in which you can create a line-up 
 of your choice.
  
  The sound was fairly good, and described every motion (for example, if Cloud slashed his sword, 
 you'd hear a sword slashing sound. If Vincent shot his gun, it would show a pistol shot sound) .
 
  
  I won't ruin the story for those who have (amazingly) not played the game yet, but it has great 
 depth, as well as many plot twists.
  
  All in all, this game deserves nothing less than a perfect score.
  
  P. S. this game only took 
 me over 40 hours, because I intended to beat it 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matias1_G
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Honestly, this game has everything an RPG fan could ever want. If you have ever played a SquareSoft 
 RPG and loved it, this is the definitive title. This is what made people RPG aficionados, but why? 
 What qualities does it have that have stood the test of time and are still looked upon with admiration 
 and nostalgia?
  
  Graphics wise, it may not be up-to-par with current next-gen games, but they still offer beauty 
 and are easily understood. The in-game characters are varied and do not look like they are all 
 the same person with different colors, the variety is impressive and lovely. Of course, thats 
 not to say you wont see the same villager twice but its still an amazing feat. Most of the world 
 you walk on will be a mix of pre-rendered landscapes with buildings, so they are not blocky and 
 add depth to the environments. There are a vast amount of monsters and enemies to fight, so dont 
 worry about repetitive battles (though in some areas this will happen) .
  
  Game-play is important and FFVII delivers. The game features many towns with several houses and 
 a world map to move from town to town. The game begins with limited access to the games features, 
 and over time they become available and are explained. Visiting shops in new towns is vital, without 
 stronger weapons and items the game will be nigh impossible. Whenever a battle is initiated, whether 
 scripted or randomly, you will see the common SquareSoft battle interface, you have a time meter 
 and when it fills up your character can attack, block, use magic, summon, or use an item. To use 
 magic, you need to have materia equipped on your weapon or armor, once you play the game long enough 
 you establish good combinations of materia that work together strategically. This game is all about 
 good planning and preparation, or luck. You fight enemies to level your character, and when you 
 do they get stat boosts such as more powerful attacks, more health, and added mana (what you need 
 to use summons and magic) . Most of the time characters join your party by scripted events and you 
 have no say as to whether you want them or not, but using them equally will become more important 
 later on or when your characters get separated.
  
  Battles are a huge component of any RPG because without them the character would not get stronger. 
 In FFVII battles make up about 60-70% of the entire game, so get used to random encounters because 
 they will be everywhere. Dont fret though, you will acquire many items, weapons, armors, accessories, 
 and materia to keep you alive, most of the time. Save before boss-battles, the game will usually 
 give you an opportunity to save either right before or a little ways back so that if you happen 
 to die you wont have to repeat too much. Some boss-battles happen close together or have stages, 
 so get your stamina prepped and make sure you have enough time to devote to it. If you dont have 
 the time, dont start playing because it will be hard to stop, and not because you cant find a 
 place to save.
  
  The story is larger than life; it is complex with tons of secrets and intertwining ideas. Getting 
 to experience it is a pleasure that everyone should partake in. It starts out simplistically with 
 little talk about the story, but as the game progresses questions arise and then some answers are 
 revealed but these will lead to more questions and the suspense will begin to grip you. The characters 
 have rich stories and their own personalities, some of which will be hard to see until the character 
 is developed further. The enemies also have complex behaviors and are enigmatic, this makes them 
 that much more intriguing. I dont want to reveal anything because that would spoil the charm of 
 tackling the story first-hand, but I will say that not all is as it seems to be.
  
  When you have played it you will know why it is so hard to review it, something will always get 
 left out, sometimes out of courtesy to the future-player, and sometimes because there is just too 
 much to cover that it would take too long to describe everything. I suggest just playing it yourself, 
 if you like it you will understand why people revere this game, if not, then at least you know 
 that these kinds of RPGs just dont appeal to you. Even the music in this game adds a whole dimension 
 of admiration; you have to play it to enjoy every intricacy of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII is, was, and will continue to be my absolute Favorite game Ever. I can't express 
 it, Call me a fanboy. It is such a compelling game with a beautiful story line. Seen through the 
 eyes of an emotionally confused Ex-Member of SOLDIER Cloud, He begins to discover that the very 
 Planets survival is being threatened by not Only the Evil Corporate Electric company, But the psychopathic 
 (and ultimately a very VERY cool antagonist) Sephiroth trying to be somehting beyond Human. I gave 
 it rankings based on what they would be had this been rated back in 1997. Graphics (compared to 
 back then) expecially the in game CG was absolutely amazing. Sound: The in game scores by the Genius 
 Nobou Uematsu were instant classics (aerith's theme continues to be the most played song on my 
 Ipod) Gameplay: the Materia turn based gameplay is amazingly fun and easy to grasp. On top of that, 
 each character has very special and unique Limit breaks and attacks that make the Replay value 
 so much more than thos eof other games. Value / Reviewers tilt: this is ALL my own opinion so if 
 you disagree..... can't really say much about that. But i am a dedicated fan (since 1999) and Although 
 my Review of this game is alittle late for it to really matter. I wanted to put this out there. 
 And plus there are so many other FFVII games out there right now, the Original will always be best. 
 Thank you for your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFool04
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the greatest classic games I have ever played. I played the entire game all 
 the way through and then watched the movie right after. I was never a big PS2 owner , but my friend 
 told me about this game and I went ahead and got it. For a game that came out 1998, I have to tell 
 you, I have enjoyed it much, much more than many of the other games I have played that came out 
 the past 10 years. This is just great. I event went ahead and watched Final Fantasy VII: Advent 
 Children (the movie) . I loved the fight scenes and graphics in that 2005 movie as we. I give this 
 game a 10. It's flat out perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Back in '97, this was the crown of all RPG games. The Japanese developers did a splendid job creating 
 a charming story out of FFVII that no other game at that time can reach this sophistication. It 
 is not just about saving the world, it is also about the philosophy of life and questioning one's 
 own existence in the world. Very touching story and soundtrack that accompanied it. By the way, 
 it's soundtrack is one of the most sought after record album produced for a game in Asia-Pacific, 
 I dunno about the US though.
  
  Being the first 3D Final Fantasy game, it brought about much excitement and unsurpassed entertainment 
 value for fellow fans and paved the way for future FF games alike. However, by today's standards, 
 its extremely blocky features may put you off if it's the first time you're trying it out, but 
 don't fret yet. Look past the graphics and you're finding yourself in an immersibly fun role-playing 
 adventure.
  
  The 9 playable characters are all very interesting with unique back-stories. Their skills and abilities 
 differ much which creates a high replay value. You could spend more than a hundred hours on it 
 if you are the kind that likes to unlock everything the game has to offer. A guidebook is definitely 
 needed for the unusually tricky quests, like getting the Knights of the Round summon. Play it while 
 it's still available now, cos the later series though look better, pale in content by comparison 
 .
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gungrave80
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The PS original was somehow better (though I cant say why. I even played this with a game pad but 
 it just felt inferior) . They really should have improved on the graphics, brought some freshness 
 to it. That said, this was pretty a good direct-port. I actually just bought another copy (My second. 
 Lent the first out, never saw it again) . Simply put, FF7 is the greatest game ever, rivaled only 
 by Super Mario World. All else pales in comparison. Now if only Square would remake it for the 
 PS3 (hell, it might very well improve PS3 sales. Seriously, Nintendos got four cult serieseses, 
 err whatever, in Mario, Pokemon, Metriod and Zelda. Whats Sony got) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside5675
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII is one of the most amazing RPGs ever created! At it's time it was a graphical 
 masterpiece, had an amazing story, and tense battles and TONS of sidequests. All RPG fans will 
 have or must play this at one point. Even today it is an amazing game, and the graphics are not 
 great but still appreciable. The game had a ton of great sidequests, and some difficult secret 
 bosses including the Weapons.
  
  The downside was that the materia system was a little lacking. Unlike previous and future games 
 it didn't have classes, meaning anyone could start out as a healer, or start using fire. It wasn't 
 a bad system, just a little under developed.
  
  At the time the FMVs were awesome! The graphics were so good and it had an amazing soundtrack. 
 This game was amazing and must be played! One of, if not the, greatest RPG of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchy2003
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII is without doubt one of the True masterpieces of gaming. I have the PC version 
 and its so damn superb!!!!!!!! This game deserves a remake, with some pumped up digital graphics 
 to make it look stunning. Once i first played this game i could not put it down. The story, the 
 characters, the summons EVERYTHING. This is the game that made Final Fantasy become the cult that 
 it is. There are bits in the game that are so so Special, and the film advent children is even 
 better. Please square remake this game as every single final fantasy fan would really love this 
 to be done. If this is the surprise announcement you have planned, then square will become the 
 most loved games developer in the world for recreating one of if not the BEST RPG ever made. After 
 VII, they got better with 8, 9, 10 but FFX-2 was truly awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMR1904
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Nearly a decade on since its PC release does FFVII need another review? Probably not, but in the 
 years since and with FFXII to hit the UK in a month a mild retrospective is perhaps in order. Above 
 i called it an all time classic, and clearly from the spin offs with which Square have flooded 
 the market a lot of people agree. But what made it so good? Graphics: When it was released it's 
 graphics were good, not spectacular by PC standards, though the cut scenes came close to that, 
 but more than solid. With the eye candy of the summons being particularly fun. Now they look archaic, 
 but when i had another look at it a earlier in the week (for the first time in several years) i 
 was surprised to find that they still good enough to be enjoyed. Sound:
  
  As with the graphics the sound is solid and at the time was pretty special. More so on the console 
 version as the emulation on the pc came across rather tinny. Still the movement between battle, 
 exploration, between calm, tense, romantic, fun and spooky was excellent and caught all the moods. 
 Value:
  
  I really do worry about how many hours i spent playing this when i first got it. I had a lot of 
 time on my hands then anyway, but even so the absorption level not just first time through, but 
 through three replays looking to discover more and more of the games hidden treasures, lifted it 
 easily over 100 hours. I would be hard put to think of any other game of recent vintage about which 
 i could say same.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Excellent. Really, truly, Excellent. The combination of straight attacks; materia magic and summons 
 gave a nice tactical edge to the combat. Combine this with a breathtaking amount of territory to 
 explore and a succession of brilliant locations, the basic structure of the game play was endlessly 
 fun. Reviewers Tilt: Several games with as good underlying basic structure have not been as gripping, 
 what set FFVII apart and lifted it into pantheon of all time great games, is the story and the 
 characters. FFVII made you care. You really cared about Cloud and Tifa and Areris. You came to 
 hate Sephiroth (the best villain in an RPG?) . The balance of comedy, spooky quirky horror, romance, 
 and driving need to save the world was just right. It's hard to think of any other game which as 
 been inhabited with as strong a cast. Even with the advances which voice acting has brought to 
 new pitch the sense of immersive gaming, there's still nothing which beats the experience FFVII 
 created. One last thought, would i buy a remake for the PS3 (which would mean buying the PS3 in 
 the first place a thing i'm somewhat reluctant to do as things stand) ? In a heart beat. It doesn't 
 matter that i know it backwards and that i played it 4 times from beginning to end, like a favourite 
 novel FFVII stands any number of revisits. It is simply one of the greastest games ever published. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meltdown099
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Now i'm a huge fan of Final Fantasy 7 and have both versions and have compaired them alot but i 
 can safely say it's almost the same game ^^
  
  The biggest difference your'll know when you put the PC version is the graphices ... .. Your'll 
 notice it very quickly the backgrounds and the chartators are in a nice sharp res and you can see 
 everything in nice detail. The sounds are carried over and there's no problem they both sound the 
 same back to back the whole game play's the same it's basicly the same thing just on your PC ^^
 
  
  Now.. the bad few things about the pc version... this is what will stop the PC version ever getting 
 the same rating as he PSX version. Urrr bad thing's ?!?! but how ?? you cry it's just a port with 
 better graphices isnt it?? 
  I'm sorry to disappoint you but it's not ... yes it looks really nice now ... but and here's the 
 big one ... it has no limiter speed. Now what's the limiter speed?? This is what stops a game from 
 playing it's like 125 frames a sec and not your normal 60fps .. this means that playing this on 
 today's systems, things like the mini games (Chocobo Racing) are nearlly impossable as they fly 
 pass... the next problem is the music .. for some reason the music has been streamlined and all 
 the essence of the songs sound so flat and bad a good example is were you fight septhiroth at the 
 end with his theme song for some reason they took out all the choir's part in it .. i mean what 
 the hell O. o
  
  Apart fromt hese two big hole's and 1 patch for look's it almost balances it's + / - out but you 
 cant realy overlook them -_-
  
  Overall if you get a copy i wouldnt throw it out it's still a classic game ^^ If you can get any 
 version you will enjoy the hour's of deep plot lines and many many monsters to beat as well as 
 the tons of tiems to discover.
  
  Nice work Sqaure ... Pity your not turning out as much these day's but a soild hit ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadskies
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII, if you've read my other review you'd know, I love this game. The PSX version 
 was near flawless for its time, and the PC version came out a year later, heres my review.
  
  Graphics: Honestly, the graphics are a bit of an improvement over the playstation version, 
 but it also seems unforgiving, they didnt bother to give the characters actual hands, this is at 
 a time where graphics for PC games were slightly superior. The character models are very low detailed, 
 but more detailed than the playstation version. Yet the battle animations are better. Yet if you 
 travel to the Qhimm. com forums, you can easily find a patch that gives this game a Playstation 
 2 feel, honestly if you have the patience for patches, this game will look better than Final Fantasy 
 VIII.
  
  Sound: It has a bad feel to it, honsetly the music is down-graded to midi-format which is just 
 laughable, yet again there are patches that can replace that, there is even a patch that lets you 
 create your own custom soundtrack. If you have the patience for patches, this will give you a great 
 experience as well.
  
  Gameplay: Un-touched from the original which is either good or bad. Most PC gamers will not like 
 the combat, but those who are fans of this kind of stuff, you'll love it. A bit easy though.
  
  Story: Better than the original on the fact that the translation is much more smoothe, the 
 only draw back is there is more censored in this version, but the way they censor it, you won't 
 really care.
  
  Bottom line: This game can look like a bad port, or a remake. Honstly if you have the patience 
 to go to www. Qhimm. com and check out their mod community. With the right patches, this game is 
 perfect. Though if you just play it how it is, it will feel like a wattered down port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The time I spent playing this game was one of the fondest memories of my life. It is just enchanting. 
 The characters feel real, and you really care about them at by the end. The enemies suck, and feel 
 three dimensional. I realize I'm not alone here. But, at the same time, I must also say it isn't 
 my FAVORITE game. There are games older, and newer that I like more and remember more fondly. But 
 still, playing this game was an irreplaceable magical experience.
  
  Don't play it on PC though. Nothing sucks more than hearing your friends sing the Sephiroth theme 
 for months, only to finally get there and hear it in midi, without the choir.
  
  IT SUCKS THAT WAY!!
  
  I wanted to burn my CD's.
  
  Don't play it on PC. But play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothrulez9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  I really havent even played the PC version but, i have seen a lot of videos of it, and with my 
 experiance in FFVII for the PS, it is pretty simp [le to judge. The one thing that i saw in the 
 pc version that reallly got under my skin was the sound. THe sound in it is so horible that it 
 can rival games like pac-man =/. Other than that, the game is pretty awsome ( judging from the 
 PS version ) . It just seems to not catch my eye to buy it. If your gonna go buy the game i suggest 
 that you go and get the playstation one version..... soo much better its not even funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII was an interesting turn-based RPG for the PC. The game was rather simple and 
 not at all challenging; what it had going for it were high quality graphics and an engaging storyline.
 
  
  The turn-based battle sequences used what was known as the Active Time Battle (ATB) system, which 
 is just a fancy name for drop down windows. Once a battle began, the player would be able to call 
 upon various attacks or magical spells from drop down menus. The ATB system greatly simplified 
 the whole battle process. Some of the magical spells made the attacks destructive beyond reason. 
 For example, when I faced Sephiroth at the end of the game, I called upon some sort of space dragon 
 apocalypse attack which devastated Sephiroth in one shot. I found this extraordinarily disappointing, 
 as Sephiroth had been built up as an all-powerful foe throughout the videogame.
  
  During the game, the player controlled the protagonist Cloud Strife; throughout the game, allies 
 would be met, and would travel with Cloud on his quest. There were many folks whom Cloud would 
 battle alongside, but the primary allies were Tifa Lockhart, Yuffie Kisaragi, and the enigmatic 
 Barret Wallace.
  
  Final Fantasy VII also featured chocobos, a sort of ostrich creature which could be ridden after 
 being tamed. At one point in the game, Cloud could raise chocobos on a farm which he could then 
 race in order to earn more ducats. Chocobos came in different colors, and each color had different 
 abilities. There was a whole sub-mission focused around the chocobos, but I found it to be a colossal 
 waste of time.
  
  Final Fantasy VII was a fun game, but it had no replay value. Much of the game featured mindless 
 dialogue and long cut-scene videos, some of which were very well animated.
  
  I've never been much of a Final Fantasy fan, I don't understand the draw of the whole saga I suppose, 
 but apparently there are some hardcore fans out there, seeing as how the twelfth game was just 
 released.
  
  The Adult Swim program Robot Chicken on the Cartoon Network recently had a skit in which Cloud 
 and his chums were working for minimum wage in a burger joint managed by none other than Sephiroth. 
 I thought the skit accurately captured the inane dialogue, and was pleased to see the burger joint 
 and Sephiroth wiped out at the end by one of those ridiculously powerful apocalyptic space dragons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwing1983
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Great Pc port of a sweet psx game. This game highly argued to be the greatest final fantasy evermade. 
 The game itself had beautiful cut scenes (for 97) and an immersive and ever twisting plot. For 
 the begining of the game you are in the city Migdar, as a merc for hire for Barets freedom fighters. 
 ( or terroists...) Then the game expoldes into a kidnapping of a friend, revealing past events 
 , a murder most fowl and a very confusing ending until you see Advent Children. The last boss fight 
 is one of best to grace an RPG for that day in age. If you own this game replay it. If you don't 
 own it go pick it up used at a gamecrazy or Ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud737
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII (PC version) Review
  
  Game Review Sections
  *Overall (9.38/10)
  
  ~Gameplay (9.5/10)
  ~Story (10/10)
  ~Graphics (9.2/10)
  ~Sound (8.2/10)
  ~Effort/Innovation 
 (10/10)
  ~Replay value  Medium-High
  
  Before I start the review, let me give you some background information on the game and the series.
 
  
  The Final Fantasy series is a well respected franchise that has been alive for over 15 years, and 
 is Square-Enix`s most cherished asset. Probably very few people today do not know the name Final 
 Fantasy. It's arguably one of the most popular (and sure-fire console-seller) series that ever 
 existed.
  
  From what I heard, Final Fantasy (I) was to be the Square's last game ever made before going into 
 bankruptcy. They decided to make one last effort and give it their all to produce one last game, 
 one Final Fantasy. Surprisingly, the game had a very huge success and had saved the company form 
 its dark future.
  
  After a while the company released Final Fantasy II, which also had resounding success. After this 
 the series continued, each title, while very different from the rest in terms of story, had its 
 share of success. It's possible that the near-death situation Square was in made them to give 
 their all and look at what people want.
  
  Final Fantasy VII was released in 1997 for the PSX and PC. It was the first in the series to come 
 to the PC, and the Square really put a lot of hard work on all parts of the game. Because of this, 
 Final Fantasy VII has been Square's best sold game, even beating Final Fantasy X (by not too much, 
 though) .
  
  Even today, Final Fantasy VII has set some standards in the RPG industry, and is the most memorable 
 RPG, if not the most memorable game at all. Gamespot itself said that every year, when they organize 
 a favorite character/villain poll, it was impossible for the name Cloud or Sephiroth not to appear 
 on top. It was crowned a classic by Gamespot and sits comfortably as one of The Greatest Games 
 of all Time.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay (9.53/10)
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  &gt;&gt; Combat (10/10)
  &gt;&gt; Options (10/10)
  &gt;&gt; Fluidity (8.6/10)
  
  FF7, like all of its predecessors, features a 3rd person perspective of your characters. In battle 
 you can control various characters (though one at a time) , while when you are out of battles you 
 control only one character (usually Cloud, the main character) , while the others follow you.
  
  &gt;&gt; Combat (10/10)
  The combat system is rather un-interactive, as you can only issue 
 commands that the characters will do. You don't control the movement of the characters in combat, 
 or the way the attack, you just select a command from a list (like Attack or Item) .
  Most will find this boring, but unfortunately this is a FF trademark (the battle menu, that is) . 
 Instead of criticizing it for how it should be, I look at how other RPGs were when FF7 was releasednot 
 much different. Possibly because of some technical impossibility due to hardware limitations or 
 whatever reason, most (if not actually all) of the RPGs in that time where like this. So, thinking 
 about it, it does not deserve to be bashed.
  In terms of what you can do in battle, you can choose from a variety of options including the 4 
 basic commands (attack, magic, summon and item) , 7 materia-activated physical commands (steal, 
 mimic, coin throw) , 2 defensive commands (defense and switch to back row) , and one special command, 
 the Limit Break, a disastrous mega powerful attack of fury that can be a life saver in some situations. 
 Truly a beauty. :D
  
  &gt;&gt; Options (10/10)
  Although considered by most pretty linear, FF7 does offer a variety of options for you to chose, 
 although they're not very story-influencing.
  For example, in some cases you are given a choice as to what you want to what to do or what you 
 want to say to a character. These choices usually affect how much a character likes you, expressed 
 in approval points. At some points in the game, these points determine which scenes will appear 
 and which not, but these scenes don't change the ending or the story in general.
  Square has also done some innovations in the character class department. You don't have character 
 classes anymore, the game letting you choose what class each character should have by equipping 
 them the appropriate materia (magic like orb that gives you some physical and magical abilities) . 
 Your characters can even be cross-class, and can you can even change their class whenever you want 
 by switching their materia.
  
  &gt;&gt; Fluidity (8.6/10)
  The game will never get boring if you are an RPG fan. There are no dull moments or times where 
 you don't know where to go (well, except for one time at the middle of the game) .
  You have a variety of environments to explore and lots of things to find out. This game can make 
 you play it 10 hours a day without you even noticing how much time passed by. It did to me. :D
 
  The bad part is that the PC has some annoying bugs, the worst of which is a game crash in 2 story-driven 
 events (meaning you won't be able to progress whatever you do) . This part is resolved, however, 
 with a third party patch from AnimeVamp, but unfortunately many issues are left unresolved (crashing 
 at the snowboard mini-game) . You can, however, finish the main story with little problems if you 
 install this patch (whereas you couldn't get past the first half of the game with the vanilla version) . 
 Also, it seems that the nice guys (and gals ;) ) at qhimm. com are working on different patches for 
 the pc version of ff7 (and other FFs) , which are intended to fix all possible issues as well as 
 ultra increase the graphics (they actually have a project in progress where they plan to completely 
 replace the blocky models with hi-def ones) .
  However, I have not tested all these patches extensively (some of them I haven't even tried) , so 
 you have to decide in the end what it's best for you to do.
  For your convenience, here are some links to help you:
  *FF7 AnimeVamp Patch ver 1.4: http://www. sofotex. com/Final-Fantasy-VII-XP-Patch-download_L5052. html
 
  *Qhimm`s site: http://qhimm. com/
  *Qhimm`s forum: http://forums. qhimm. com/
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story (10/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Surely, one of the most important parts in an RPG is the story. And FF7 surely won't disappoint 
 you.
  You start off as Cloud Strife, a mercenary ex-Soldier working for Avalanche, a group devoted to 
 stopping Shinra from further using Mako (the planet's life energy) as an energy source (replacing 
 electricity) .
  As the plot thickens, you uncover Clouds forgotten dark past as you try to save the planet from 
 being destroyed.
  And believe me, the plot won't be as simple and short as you might think it is.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics (9.2/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  While it may be considered outdated, FF7 had the best graphics you could find at the time.
  Most 
 of FF7`s areas are 2D with 3D characters (usually made out of few polygons, making them look like 
 children) on them, with the exception of the world map (which is completely 3D, but low-poly thus 
 making everything seem small) , and the battle screen.
  The battle screen is completely 3D and is the only circumstance in which you will find high-poly 
 (more detailed and realistic) models. Still, these too can arguably be considered low-poly if compared 
 to later games because of the little detail on the characters.
  There is one scene though, as a teaser, where Square show's you a rendered battle with very high-poly 
 3D characters, just to make you want a remake even more. ;)
  Compared to the PSX version, the PC version can be considered superior in terms of graphics (because 
 of the higher resolution, which is REALLY obvious) . BUT, in order to use 3D acceleration on the 
 PC version (which is a VERY important feature that makes the PC version stand out compared to the 
 PSX version in terms of graphics) , you MUST have an older graphics (below GeForce 6 and most ATI 
 cards) card that supports the out-dated and no longer supported 8-bit pallet textures. So, for 
 most of you reading this review, youre stuck with the software renderer if you have the pc version 
 (which is almost the same graphical quality as the PSX, only with better resolution options) .
 
  Also, the PC version movies suffer from some sort of grain effect (or noise effect) , possibly 
 because of some scaling the game does internally to reach your resolution.
  So if you want better graphics, I strongly advise you to remain to the PSX version, and put the 
 game in an emulator, in which you can enhance the graphics beyond that of the PC version of FF7 
 (higher resolution, screen smoothing, etc.) . Or you can wait and see what miracles the guys and 
 gals at qhimm. com can do.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound (8.3/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  If you are an RPG fan that craves for a perfect story that is accompanied by a superb music, then 
 FF7 is for you.
  In my opinion, FF7 has the most beautiful music ever heard of in video games. From rock-solid heavy-metal, 
 to melancholic and sad, all of it at the right time.
  The sound effects arent that good though, but after comparing it to the Nintendo version of similar 
 games, FF7 had more than pleasing effects at it's time.
  This time, the PC version has inferior sound compared to the PSX version, as it uses MIDI to produce 
 the music. As each of today's sound cards reproduces MIDI sounds differently, the music can be 
 very denaturized from how it should have been (and very ugly, might I add) . So for PC owners, I 
 advise you play the PSX version on an emulator, or get a music replacement pack from quimm. com. 
 As I have not tested this pack, however, the score for this category has to suffer for a little 
 while.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Effort/Innovation (10/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Truly, Square has put a lot of effort into the making of this game. From story to graphics, all 
 are beautiful.
  Square has tried a new approach to what kind of world should be in an RPG, and it truly paid of. 
 Gone are the kingdoms, the kings and knights, and all clich&eacute; s that have plagued most RPGs. 
 Instead, a new, Neo Sci-Fi world was introduced, where technology and magic co-existed.
  The characters also had their share of innovation, as the game tries to show the psychological 
 evolution of each character, something that wasn't probably even thought of before.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Replay value  Medium-High
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  One thing was certain for me after I finished the gameI wanted more!!!
  I didn't know back then if there was a sequel, but I really wanted to play the game again to understand 
 things better.
  As in other games, in FF7 some things you can only understand if you played the game a second time, 
 so it is like an incentive to play the game again.
  In total, I think I played the game 7 times up until nowand I still want to play it again soon.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall (10/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  In the end, Square made an excellent game that will always be worshiped and never forgotten. It's 
 just too bad they used MIDI music and that they won't offer support for the game anymore. Until 
 some quality patches arise from quimm. com, the PC version may be considered inferior to the PSX 
 version.
  I know some of you may think that I over-rated this game, but I gave this score for the value the 
 game had at it's time. Sure, if the game had been released now, it would have received a lower 
 score because of the graphics and sound, but seeing as it was in 1997, I think the score is just 
 right for the value it had thenAfter all, what matters most in an RPG is the story, the gameplay, 
 and lastly the music, which gives the game's atmosphere.
  In a nutshell, FF7 was, by me, the greatest game of it's time, and probably still is if you only 
 take the story and music into account.
  Lastly, I want to say one final word to Square: WHAT`S TAKING SO LONG FOR YOU TO DECIDE TO MAKE 
 A PS3 REMAKE!?! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, the ones who dislike this piece of art, should rightfully be killed. No but something 
 should happen, because this is the foundation of plot in videogames.
  
  I will say that no other story in history before this, has more character depth, plot, or twists 
 in anything. Why, look at what happens and why, it connects. No spoilers here since some still 
 haven't gotten to the part where (SPOILER DELETED) ... its sad.
  
  Gameplay is also a reason that the series is still growing strong. Some of the things they have 
 created are still used in some of their games (and not to mention the cheap rip-offs) because it 
 is so revolutionary and stock full of depth. Think of that, for some of you.
  
  I'll stop here because it is more of a see it for yourself type of thing... I'm off!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  A true clasic that should be on all the shelves of RPG players everywhere. Played on the PS first, 
 and it was a huge shock to see how good of a game that it was. Starting from being an ex-military 
 merc that hooks up with an underground rebel group to stop Shin'Ra Inc. from draining all of the 
 planet's life, you go on a journey that ultimatly brings you face to face with an old idol and 
 legend of the military you once served. A true test of skill and strategy that can still leave 
 you thinking about what other ways I could have done the mission. A wonderfull soundtrack mixed 
 with characters that you will never forget, FF7 is an amazing game that is still a masterpiece 
 after about to be 10 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  It's been nearly a decade since Final Fantasy VII made its celebrated debut. Square's much hyped 
 release added a whole new level of presentation to the Japanese RPG, drawing in a number of new 
 players with its flashy visuals. But is it in the upper echelon of the greatest games of all times, 
 like many fans vigorously claim it is? Is it even one of the greatest RPG's ever? While it has 
 certainly been influential on the genre, for better or for worse, underneath the presentation is 
 merely just an above average RPG.
  
  Not much is needed to say about the story and its main players, partially since it's so well documented 
 and partially because it should seem just a little familiar. The story begins with the main character, 
 Cloud, on a mercenary mission to destroy a mako reactor in Midgar. It appears that the Shinra Corporation 
 is using the life force of the planet as an energy source, slowly killing off the entire world. 
 In an absolute shocker, Cloud's memory isn't the clearest thing in the world, and it just so happens 
 that it is tied to the events that are taking place. He soon runs into Aeris, whom is sweet, caring, 
 cute, and everything else the main love interest is supposed to be. After a rather eventful start, 
 the game settles into a standard chase-the-villain routine while picking up new party members at 
 a few stops along the way.
  
  The characters themselves are rather hit-or-miss. Most of the main characters and main villains 
 are your standard and relatively predictable stereotypes, albeit with a bit of extra flair. Some 
 of them add a few minor twists to the standard formula, but they never stray very far. However, 
 since FFVII drew a lot of players new to the genre, they never realized them as being relatively 
 standard characters. Those who did play RPG's in the 2D era generally got a been there, done that 
 feeling with many of the major characters, especially Aeris. Ironically, it's the relatively minor 
 characters that are the most interesting. Unfortunately, pretty much all of their character development 
 comes from a single side-quest, keeping the player from learning too much about them. The same 
 holds true with the lesser villains, with the members of the Turks definitely catching attention. 
 Thankfully, there's a wide enough cast that you're never stuck with dull characters for long stretches.
 
  
  In terms of the battle system, Squaresoft didn't stray too far away from what worked for them. 
 In a sense this was a good thing, as having such a simple and straightforward system did not discourage 
 all of the new players. Similarly the overall difficulty of the series was decreased starting with 
 FFVII, likely due to the push to expand its audience. This causes the gameplay to not stand out 
 relative to its other contemporaries, especially when compared to a masterful battle system like 
 Grandia's. Still, it sticks with what works, and is relatively intuitive to anyone who has ever 
 played an RPG before.
  
  The big change over previous games is the materia system. Instead of your characters learning skills, 
 little gems that are attached to available slots in weapons and armor instead learn them. These 
 grant the ability to cast magic, boost stats, give new commands, or even affect other materia to 
 allow things like spells to hit multiple targets. The ability to switch and swap these materia 
 makes it very easy to replace one character with another, and yet still maintain the exact same 
 magic and other abilities. While making it easy to experiment with other characters, it also makes 
 doing so superfluous as everyone can potentially do everything. Such a model is usually a sign 
 of laziness among developers, as there is rarely any incentive to use all but your favorite characters 
 unless you are forced to. The strategy simply remains the same no matter who is in your party, 
 which makes selecting your party little more than a cosmetic change. To make matters worse, some 
 materia combinations can be extremely powerful, especially near the end of the game. Having a weapon 
 that frequently petrifies enemies or a spell that causes an extreme amount of damage and increasing 
 your MP at the same time is often downright unbalancing.
  
  The only actual difference between characters is their limit breaks. As each character sustains 
 damage, their limit gauge fills. When full, they can unleash a unique devastating attack, especially 
 some of the more advanced ones that are often instant victories, even against some boss fights. 
 While a nice addition to the game, and a feature that actually makes the characters feel even a 
 little unique, the balance of this system is often an issue. First, it actually encourages you 
 to have your characters sustain a steady amount of damage, which seems counterintuitive. Second, 
 they can be used a little too frequently given how much damage they can dish out. To make matters 
 worse, one abnormal status that a character can be inflicted with causes this limit meter to fill 
 twice as fast in exchange for a lower attack accuracy rate. However, the lower accuracy is barely 
 noticeable plus the damage from limit breaks never miss, which makes this more of a benefit than 
 an infliction.
  
  The first thing that is evident about Final Fantasy VII is that its production values were simply 
 higher than anything the genre had produced to date. The inclusion of the many detailed FMV's was 
 probably the primary reason why Squaresoft jumped over to the PlayStation instead of the Nintendo 
 64 in the first place. The FMV's themselves were simply beautiful and were undoubtedly one of the 
 features that drew in many new players. The cinematics did a good job of helping advance the story, 
 even if they were slightly excessive at times. The popularity of these FMV's had a major influence 
 on the genre, leading other companies to include similar cinematics themselves. Sadly this may 
 have had a negative effect on the genre overall, as many companies added extra eye candy to market 
 their game at the expense of a solid plot or well-written scenes. Unfortunately, the FMV's are 
 just low-res AVI's stretched to fill the screen for the PC port, leaving some rather noticeable 
 pixelation. To make matters worse, many times the polygonal characters are not in synch with the 
 FMV's in the PC version, as the programmers did not take the CD-ROM into account. On the PS1 the 
 discs are always spinning, so the FMV's load up relatively fast. With the PC, the disc is often 
 used just for the FMV's, so the CD-ROM has to restart from sleep mode and search the disc for the 
 movie. While this is happening the characters still move, causing some rather major synchronization 
 problems.
  
  Many of the other visuals held up rather well to the FMV's. The pre-rendered 3D backgrounds are 
 not only of high quality, but they are also well designed. Locations like an ancient city made 
 of coral, lifeless jagged mountains, a giant casino amusement park, and a mysterious old temple 
 add a lot of atmosphere and immersiveness into the game. The battlefield itself has great backdrops, 
 and very detailed models. The spell effects are impressive, and the attacks of the summoned monsters 
 are a sight to behold. The only real drawback is the character models on the field map themselves. 
 While the characters were highly detailed in the battles despite having a lot of top-notch visuals 
 being drawn, the character models on the relatively simple field screens revert to a rather blocky 
 form. Worst of all are the lower arms and hands, which are downgraded into one giant block. One 
 would assume that this is done for when there were many characters on the screen at once, but such 
 moments were rather infrequent, and no scene would have lost much at all if the number of extra 
 characters were thinned out a little. The PC version requires that all video cards pass eight checks; 
 otherwise you are defaulted to software rendering. Unfortunately one test requires something to 
 be in 8 bits exactly, but all modern cards do it far better. As a result, all current cards fail 
 the test for being too good, and you're defaulted to software rendering. That is, unless you have 
 a spare PC with a Voodoo 2 and DirectX 7 laying around somewhere...
  
  Nobuo Uematsu's soundtrack for Final Fantasy VII is simply great. Many of his top songs found during 
 key moments in the game are among the best and most popular found in gaming. The songs are all 
 well matched with their assigned environments as well. The only real drawback is how a few of the 
 tracks can get annoying and repetitive, but these tend to be for minor side quests that do not 
 last long in the grand scheme of things. Unfortunately, the entire soundtrack is in MIDI form, 
 which really takes a lot away from it. The impressive final boss song from the PlayStation version 
 took the biggest hit by far, being reduced to sounding like some poor MIDI you'd find embedded 
 in a fan webpage. Even worse is that each time a track changes, it always restarts. This is most 
 evident on the world map, where the epic song takes a minute or two to really get going. You'll 
 get into random encounters long before then, essentially forcing you to stop and stand still just 
 to listen to the main portion of the memorable song. The sound effects get the job done, but many 
 of the standard ones sound like they were directly copied from the games on the SNES, and also 
 take a sound quality hit similar to that of the music.
  
  The game itself takes a few dozen hours to complete, with even more optional content available 
 afterwards. There are a few side quests that allow you to obtain some rather powerful materia, 
 including one that can kill the game's final boss in a single attack. Despite the destruction of 
 the world being imminent, there always seems to be a wide range of diversions to draw your attention, 
 including minigames scattered throughout, exploring a sunken cargo plane, battling two super-powerful 
 bosses, or even breeding a few generations of the ostrich-like chocobos in less than a day in game 
 terms. Of course, as is often the case, the rewards are basically overkill given how strong you 
 needs to become at times in order to defeat the monster guarding said treasures. Those experienced 
 in RPG's may elect to forego any of the optional content simply to increase the game's difficulty 
 to a more appropriate level.
  
  Final Fantasy VII is certainly a great game, and one of the most influential upon its genre and 
 its fans. However, the game does have its limitations, which are immediately evident to the veterans 
 of the genre. Luckily for the game itself, so many players were new to the genre and thus did not 
 notice some of the repetitive features or plain design, as well as the clich&eacute; characters. 
 In the end, RPG veterans will probably find a few things wrong with the game, but will have a decent, 
 if expected, experience playing the game. Then again, just about every RPG player from the 2D era 
 would likely have played FFVII by now. Newer players will be more easily captivated by what FFVII 
 has to offer, especially those who can forgive the game's rather dated graphics. However, don't 
 expect to be blown away by one of the greatest games ever as so many claim. Its certainly good, 
 but nowhere near the earth shattering experience that it is said to be overall. With the shoddy 
 port negating the game's presentation, FFVII is rather standard and has a few flaws, but is ultimately 
 enjoyable and likely worth the time investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII was an excellent game on the original Playstation, and it didn't lose any of 
 its greatness here on the PC. Nowadays it's nearly impossible to find in stores, but for those 
 of you who are lucky enough to get your mits on it, you shouldn't be disappointed. VII retains 
 everything that made it good on the PS. It may be old, but the low-res and blocky graphics are 
 what makes it special to me. Not only that, but the CG-cutscenes and pre-rendered backgrounds were 
 quite impressive for their time. It's been years since I played it on a console but for the sake 
 of nostalgia, it's worth coming back to. The story is a typical RPG scenario. A power-hungry corporation 
 is slowly destroying the planet, and it's up to you to stop them. Along the way, the plot becomes 
 much deeper and more exciting. You quickly learn that an old friend named Sephiroth is plotting 
 a hostile takeover of the planet, and, you guessed it, it's up to you and a ragtag team of characters 
 to save it. As a Final Fantasy game, you know you're receiving a quality title. Everything from 
 the deep intriguing story to the brilliant characters to the fun battle system is here. But this 
 is definetly my favourite FF game in the series, because of the cool storyline. I've also found 
 that the battle and experience system is very simple but very fun too. It only takes a few minutes 
 to figure everything out. The only place where I give this a minus is in the controls. The game 
 is of course playable with a joystick or game-pad, but it's also possible to play with the keyboard. 
 I personally use the keyboard. The first thing you'll probably notice though, is that the default 
 controls SUCK. It's even worse if you play with a laptop and have no built-in keypad. I have a 
 USB keypad but I even found that the controls with that were crappy. Not only that but it can be 
 hard to remember all the controls. Luckily, the player can customize the controls to his/her liking 
 via the main menu. Changing the controls can be a little tricky but once it's out of the way, the 
 rest of the game should play just fine. Now sit back, relax, and prep yourself for a very long 
 game. This is one of the greatest things about the FF games. You can expect a good 30 or 40+ hours 
 of gameplay here, as well as a fair ammount of things to do on the side. That's a hell of alot 
 of bang for your buck. Just a small note: Because it's a fairly old game, you may experience a 
 bit of trouble getting it to run on newer systems. Fear not, there are several patches available 
 for the game, and you may need to find patches/drivers for certain video and sound cards. Most 
 of you should have very little trouble, however. Any fan of RPG's should give this one a go, even 
 if you're new to the Final Fantasy series. Once you get into it, you'll blissfully allow yourself 
 to be sucked into the game and story. As I said, however, this is a long long game. You're going 
 to need alot of time for this. When I first started it, I had a problem following the story because 
 I was often busy. But I've often found that everytime I put the game down for a bit, I'm always 
 wanting to know what's gonna happen next. The game is like a well-written novel. You'll have trouble 
 stopping because the story never lets up on the excitement and action. Players can be ready to 
 go through a full 3 disc game. However if you're like me, you may get through it quickly because 
 it's so much fun. On my first go, it took me about a week or so to finish. But one of the even 
 better things about FF7 is the fact that there's plenty of things to increase re-playability. You'll 
 spend lots of time maxing out your team's skills, looking for extra (or hidden) characters, finding 
 each character's Ultimate Weapon (special and most powerful weapons) and finding the game's many 
 secrets. I especially recommend this game to any newcomer to the series. It's cool to see the game 
 that paved the way for many of the modern RPG's of today. Whether it just be the desire for a fun 
 and simple RPG, or to get lost in a good story, you'll play it and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  If you didn't have a psx or ps2 the PC version is the solution. FF7 will be a long and deep story 
 with many plot twists and a whole lot of side quest and mini games. The PC version looks at smoother 
 and be great and also I would recommend getting a gamepad to have a better overall experience ( 
 even though i never used one) . My only gripe with the game is the CG movies since the resolution 
 of the video is 320X240 it will look stretched out. That will still not take it away from this 
 epic story. It has amazing characters, a good story and an addictive gameplay. Even though it is 
 quite old, it never lets you feel it.
  
  Final Fantasy 7 is a great game for the pc if you couldn't play it on the psx. Go buy this great 
 game if you didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: softcloud
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  The first time I cracked the seal of my new Final Fantasy 7 box, I hardly knew what I was in for. 
 Hype of the game left an irresistable desire to see it first hand. And till this day, it's reputation 
 still precedes it.
  
  First off, this review is for the PC version and not the original Playstation version. I will try 
 as much as possible to refrain from comparing the two.
  
  You begin the story playing as a young mercenary with a mysterious past. Cloud Strife finds himself 
 hired by a rebel group conspiring against a huge coorporation, "milking" the earth of a natural 
 resource, more important to earths survival then they realize. As Cloud, you aid this group furthermore, 
 not only pursuing the destruction of one said coorporation, but soon thereafter, following the 
 steps of the games main villain, Sephiroth, and prevent him from destroying the earth itself. As 
 for the secondary characters, each are iconic in their own way. Years since having played the game, 
 I still remember each of their personalities like I just got up from the keyboard moments ago. 
 Cloud is mysterious to say the least and has his guard up for good reason, not letting anyone close 
 but his close friend Tifa and Aerith (Aeris) . Barret provides more then enough comic releif in 
 a game so dark. Between the characters you will unveal love triangles, disturbing pasts and aid 
 them each in reaching their goals.
  
  Also notable is how each character has his/her role in combat, providing a remarkably balanced 
 team of long range, short range, heavy hitters, spell casters, etc.
  
  The gamplay itself is also something worth mentionning as people to this day still compare the 
 newer installments of the Final Fantasy series to the simplisity of the materia system. Interchanging 
 spells in weapon slots, spells gaining experience, combo slots ... It was all very easy to pick 
 up and left the next games to come with more to desire as the leveling system in the newer games 
 seem a little too complex. You buy materia (spells and summons and stat bonuses) in shops or you 
 find them in treasure chests or off bosses, the usual. You can technically create each character 
 to your own liking, giving Cloud all the heal spells if you wish and Tifa all the summons. Although 
 this example may prove beneficial in some situations, I personaly prefer balancing out these materias 
 amongst the characters, giving each some form of healing, a few summons and destructive spells. 
 the controls on the keyboard did prove to be uncomfortable, granted. However, quickly attaching 
 my gamepad, I find myself with an almost Playstation-ish experience.
  
  The graphics are revolutionary. the differences between Final Fantasy 6 and 7 are huge, and most 
 would say Final Fantasy 7 is the game that brought this series to the masses. By todays standards, 
 the game may be lacking in this department, but the cinematic scenes and the battles are still 
 very much up to par.
  
  And the score ... where to begin ... Each theme song and citys music and the scores for certain 
 missions add the right boost to make every moment all the bit more adrenaline rushed, sad or though 
 provoking, giving you a blend of emotions you are not soon to forget. This game has also spun off 
 a mass collection of fans remixes to its original soundtrack, proving once again that Fina Fantasy 
 7 still lives on.
  
  The story keeps you on the edge of your seat with plot twists, memorable characters and individual 
 character storylines and sidequests. The amount of sidequests alone give Final Fantasy 7 huge replay 
 value, from obtaining ultimate weapons and upgrading your spells, unlocking new characters, etc. 
 You can easily find yourself pouring over 100 hours into this game, let alone the 40-60 hours it 
 takes to finish the main plot. Please name a game nowadays that has so much to offer? Final Fantasy 
 7 will never leave you with a dull moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcelinoap
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  If you not have played this gane yet, do it. 
  It was the best final fantasy game ever created. Music, graphics (for that time) , story, caracters... 
 
  Ultima weapons rulez... Lots of time and patience to kill on of those...
  It's the best game ever, really. All story and caracters make you go deep on the game. Amazing 
 music too.
  
  It make you cry, laugh, fear, angry... Every caracter have your own story. Cloud, the main caracters, 
 have you secrets that is revealed near the end of game. Fantastic.
  
  Tifa its the best 'woman vs enemy' caracter too. Her fisical attacks are awesome. 
  
  The sad 
 moment of the game is the end of the first disc, on playstation. The death of on caracter... well, 
 make you have more angry against the vilain...
  
  A lot of fights to raize you experience, lots of weapons, magics, equipments...
  
  Final Fantasy 
 Forever!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inYuashiaZero
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  ill note this though. nothings perfect
  now when i first played it my cusion didnt have a memory card. so that means replay the same stuff 
 over and over again. i would play it all day long. have to turn it off and do the same thing over 
 again teh next day. but then i got it for the pc. i would play that thing..... o damn.
  now the grapgix were revolutionary for its time and the cinematics were breathtaking.
  the gameplay 
 (although turn based) was fun and exiting. 
  The story was IS one of the best out there. although (rant comming) the devs put in the white materia 
 which has the power to bring back the dead but they were either too lazy or didnt want to bring 
 back a certan someone. (it being square i vote the former... stupid square) 
  but i digress
  the amount of crap you can do that has nothing to do with the story line is awsome. and so is the 
 bonus characters. and the legendary gold chocobo. knights of the round and the final llimit breaks.
 
  although i could never kill the wepons. or get the gold chocobo. (what can i say i was in elementry 
 school) but o crap i tried. hours breading chocobo. but apparently i was lied to and the i w. e
 
  but the fact is the game is the best old school turn based RPG ever. 
  the only thing i regret is that the game was destroyed in the move.
  but there is one major problem. 
 the game would suddenly decide to delete my game. every save. so i would have to start over. so 
 i did. 
  this game has the most memorable heros, villians. storylines...
  just play it. your missing out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Seial is one of thebest game of RPG, espacilly somebody in U. S. can recorgnize civilizen 
 of eastern. Maybe you are not play game sometimes, because music of the game so nice .
  If you are fans of RPG, you can't miss this game. Come on , let's go to this fantasy world .
 
  Become a super man maybe intersting, but become a normal palyer can play calssic game also. 
  Final Fantasy Seial is one of thebest game of RPG, espacilly somebody in U. S. can recorgnize civilizen 
 of eastern. Maybe you are not play game sometimes, because music of the game so nice .
  If you are fans of RPG, you can't miss this game. Come on , let's go to this fantasy world .
 
  Become a super man maybe intersting, but become a normal palyer can play calssic game also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  I played this game 7 times or more, and I still find it enjoying.
  I never got bored. This is one of the games where you get enjoyment for every moment of time.
 
  
  The game play is great and the story line is really fantastic. Also, there is a good set of magic 
 which you can use. For me, the best thing is the summon feature. This is a great idea, and it 
 was perfectly implemented and I think everybody likes Bahamut. (My favorite) . I wish that Square 
 Soft would Re-Make this game with better graphics.
  
  In the end,
  If you didn't play this game, then you don't really know how fun RPG games are.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowsicle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII is what you can say ; a game like this only comes out once in a blue moon, even 
 if the game is quite old and the graphics aren't perfection , but the story line and game engine 
 makes up for it , at the time the graphics themselves were up to date and very well done, this 
 game is certainly underated, it is possibly the best game ever made , and any true gamer would 
 agree with me on this. This rating is to be reviewed and changed for the good. 
  
  The use of caracters in battle , on the map , in cities were well done. The story line and the 
 gaming engine is what made this game a true final fantasy game , the whole point of this series 
 was basically to be a single player rpg and thats what made this game so good. It is true that 
 mmorpg's are whats popular at the moment, but changing an original rpg series isn't the best thing 
 to do while people already enjoy this game in the first place. This game sold because of the story 
 line and what it is , so why change something good ? Final Fantasy is an rpg series and should 
 stay that way , its what we need in the gaming industry, there aren't many good rpg games anymore 
 such as Final fantasy. In the end this game's score should be reviewed since it is an awesome game 
 when you really do think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paiduema
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  You know the feeling, when you are playing this game, you know that you feel it, that there is 
 a story for eachone in it ... and that it is about everything ... 
  
  Final Fantasy VII is my most favorite game ever, it is square game, it is the best best-plottted 
 glued-together-nicely RPG, it has intense deep emotions, this is not a spolier anymore, but you 
 will drop a tear for Aeris (Aerith) ... 
  
  Square has made a leap of faith from FF6 to FF7, they changed the FF series look like, they grew 
 up so much in it ... Then came 8 which was nice, but not amazing, i enjoyed 8 but it just got depressed 
 of its continous darkness and seriousness ... FF7 has so many minigames in it, deep characters 
 that you can connect to and it has a powerful feeling.
  
  I do not think anyone who has ever played FF7 would leave it behind him as he progresses thru the 
 new RPGs ... we all enjoyed FFX, but still it was not the one that Square turned into a smash hit 
 movie!
  
  Great thing that FF7 is being kept alive as FAR as anyone can ... 
  maybe one day we can enjoy it again, on next gen.
  
  Thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_mafia
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  The most well known game in the Final Fantasy franchise, and possibly the best of the best made 
 by Squaresoft. The company (now called Square-Enix) released a sequel called Advent Children continuing 
 where the game left off with its cliffhanger ending. Also, Square-Enix is coming with more prequels 
 and sequels on mobile, PS2, and PSP. And for an all-time RPG classic as good as this, FF7 comes 
 to the PC for those who don't have a Playstation. With a few slips, the game still keeps its similar 
 content to the original.
  
  Gameplay 10.0 
  
  First of all, the story of this game is very creative and well thought out. There is a lot of depth 
 in the story. It starts out with a basic plot solving a small issue to solving a HUGE issue that 
 you wouldn't think our heroes would be able to accomplish. There is also character growth. Each 
 character has there own story of what happened in there lives and have to go back to face their 
 past. As you proceed through the story you will really start to like these characters.
  The battle system is turned based. The main part of the battle system is Materia. There are many 
 types of Materia where you use them in combinations and a variety of ways to your advantage of 
 defeating your opponents. They also upgrade themselves when you use them in battle so they become 
 more powerful and effective. However, the only problem is keeping track of the Materia. You are 
 going to need many different types of Materia. Characters can also perform special attacks called 
 "Limit Breaks". Not only do they cause high damage but they can also cause status disorders to 
 your opponent, and raise stats of your characters. Overall, the limit breaks gives you a bigger 
 advantage in the battlefield.
  
  Graphics 9.0
  
  One thing I pleased with the graphics of this game is the environments. For a playstation game 
 on the PC, this one the most detailed looking environments Ive ever seen, even when engaging monsters 
 and humans in battle. The good-looking FMV cutscenes are also memorable. I did not mind the character 
 designs (the ones walking around the environments) as you continue to play the game. But I wished 
 that the characters did not look likelittle children and distorted polygonal shapes. Ill be honest: 
 the character designs do not look as close as decent. 
  
  Sound 8.0
  
  The music has switched its format to MIDI. So the music was toned down a bit from the PS, but close 
 enough that I still enjoyed it. I cant say much about sound effects, but they were decent.
  
  Overall:
  
  This is the best RPG game Ive ever played. The story is going to get you hooked 
 along with some great gameplay, graphics and music. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  I just have to say this is one of the greatest RPG games I have played, right up there with Secret 
 of Mana, Chrono Trigger, Secret of Evermore and Final Fantasy 3. You play as Cloud (you can re-name 
 him though) You start off on a mission to destroy a Mako reactor. Shinra (a evil money crazy company) 
 Is sucking Mako energy from Earth which is now dying. Cloud a former SOLDIER (not going to spoil 
 anything ;-) Joined AVALANCHE a rebel group trying to stop Shinra for money. Along the way he meets 
 up with a childhood friend Tifa and desides to join the team. They also meet others on their journey 
 that deside to join for one reason or another. The story takes a huge twist when Cloud hears of 
 Sephiroth (which again I wont spoil anything) and Cloud and company must stop him from finding 
 the Black Meteria and summoning Meteor and destroying earth. Once you have better means of travel 
 the adventures are endless. This is one of the best game plots ever, sort of a mystery. You help 
 Cloud uncover his mysterious past and save the world from the clutches of evil. Play and expierience 
 one of the best RPG's in gaming history, Final Fantasy 7.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay was good, you can move in circles which is good. That gives you more freedom to walk around. 
 The controls were a little confusing at first but I just fine tuned them to my liking which you 
 can do in the Configuration option in the menu. I couldn't find very many things wrong with the 
 Gameplay, I thought it was excellent. I reccomend playing this game on a Pentium 3 or higher prossesor 
 and a 200Mhz or above engine. Thats what I played it on and had very little trouble. Overall this 
 game was very easy to play.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were actually pretty good. The characters were a little blocky but that didnt bother 
 me. But wow, the FMV's were great! Well most of them, some the characters still were a little blocky 
 but better than normal. Most of the FMV's the characters had amazing detail, and I actually downloaded 
 the right driver so you can watch them from the CD on the computer while not playing the game. 
 I wouldn't miss a chance to play this game, you definitly wont be dissapointed.
  
  Sound:
  The sound can be described with one word- AWESOME. If you have played any other FF games 
 you know about the battle music, well this game sticks to that kind of theme, sort of action, adventurous 
 music. It was wonderfully written and goes along with the game perfectly adding drama or adventure 
 when needed. Once again, this is not a game to miss.
  
  im playing the game now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubermantj
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 15, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I like this game... it is fuuun! yaaay! LET'S PLAY IT ALL THE TIME! IT LURVES ME! WANT YOU TO JOIN 
 IN, I DO! AWESOME! That part when you get to fight Sephiroth is cool, YAAAY. Wanna do it yet? I 
 never got any of those shweet ultimate weapons for any of the characters, but i never have in any 
 Final Fantasy game. I'm soo shaad. :' (
  
  I'm hungry... let me get some snacks right now ok.
  SHUT UP DON'T RUSH ME!
  Ok i'm done now....
 
  Wow, i'd better keep typing this review or else i'll get caught looking up naughty pictures on 
 the internet.
  
  OK!  you ready for this? It's ok... you can take it 
 can't you big boy? Ok let's get it on! By the end of the game, if you're not a nerd with a lot 
 of free time on your hands, then you won't have that awesome omni slash or whateva that he uses 
 in the movie (which is shweet) . I don't know aboot you, but i don't have enough free time on my 
 hands to get stuff like that... i usually spend my free time with other stuff on my hands. 
  Well nice talking with you... Let's cyber sometime *wink**wink*
  I'm a guy, by the way :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoxcraigjones
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  You start the game off with absolutely NO knowledge of the game (unless you are one of those people 
 who read the manual) . You look at the arrow keys and think "Oh hey, I can move with these!" but 
 no. You must use 2,4,6,8, and etc. to move around. I must tell you, I don't like having to adjust 
 the controls in a good game. Now, with your newly known knowledge of how to move, you must be able 
 to go into a building, beat a boss, and escape from the area within a time and if the time runs 
 out, so do you. Thats my second complaint. They expect you to know everything. But wait! Theres 
 always the good points. Such as how you can get around the world. A buggy, a chocobo, a sub, and 
 last but not least, the Highwind. The Highwind has two modes depending on the disk you're on. In 
 the first and second. It goes slowwwwllyyyyy liiiiiiiikkkkkkeeeeee thiiiiiiiiisssss. Then, theres 
 the jet-powered Highwind. You can move incredibly fast, anywhere, anytime. Except theres one problem. 
 YOU CAN'T LAND IN A FOREST OR ON DIRT. You have to land in a grassy plain. Next point, the bosses. 
 I absolutely LOVE the bosses of this game. Some are painfully easy, whereas others use cheap tricks 
 such as covering you with illness' before they attack (i. e. Sephiroth) and then theres the others 
 who are obviously more powerful than even the final boss (i. e. Demonsgate) . But these are the reasons 
 I play. Next is the storyline. The storyline is fabulous. I even teared up a bit when someone very 
 special to Cloud passed away. They are part of your party, and once you use them they grow on you. 
 Losing them you consider your party worthless and you want to kill the makers of the game for killing 
 none other than.... Aeris. The party healer. Oh well, its just a game. Next up, Materia! This game 
 is filled with Materia. Materia can be worthless, or very useful. There are 4 types of Materia. 
 Magic, Command, Physical, and Summon. Magic includes spells such as Fire3, Ice3, Demi3, Quake3, 
 and Cure. Command includes Materia such as Counter-Attack, and Underwater. Physical includes 2x-Cut, 
 Comet, Mime, and other things. Lastly, the Summon Materia. These include our FF favorites, Shiva, 
 ifrit, and Bahamut. The most powerful summon there is is called "Knights of the Round". It attacks 
 an opponent 13 times, each attack doing twelve-thousand-something damage. This game is filled with 
 Mini-Games. VERY VERY EASY MINI-GAMES. Also, these games are very addictive. If you find them incredibly 
 easy also, you can get GP at a place called the Gold Saucer and get Materia and Accessories, like 
 Ribbon which prevents all status ailments. Theres also my second to last point, Limit Breaks. The 
 Limit Breaks are the reason I train. My characters all learned their final Limit Break by the end 
 of the game. The Limit Breaks are very well done, although Tifa's Limit Break is quite annoying, 
 considering it is a simple gamble. You can miss your highly anticipated Limit Break altogether, 
 or hit twice as hard. Lastly, the characters. My party always consisted of Cloud, Red XIII, and 
 Vincent. It never changed because the other characters were very weak compared to my party members. 
 Some members were absolutely useless (i. e. Yuffie, Cait Sith, Tifa) and fail at life itself. It 
 pissed me off so much when I had to fight alongside them. But then theres always the weapons. The 
 weapons were very easy to get, but a couple required an optional yield in the plot of the story 
 (also goes for Limit Breaks) . Some examples were those as Barret's, Aeris', and Vincent's. Very 
 strict requirements were there if you wanted them that bad. Well, bottom line I must say if you 
 haven't already played this game, then you are not a true RPG gamer. This game lives up to its 
 legend, and its worth the frustration to see the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nizro
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  This Is my First Review So If i do anything Wrong Please Correct Me :P....
  
  Okay..... This Game Start Out Kinda weird... some Blond dude jump out of a train and some black dude 
 says: '' Follow me ''... But Later you will know you One of the avalanche or something like that... Little 
 spoil But what tha heck ^^
  
  The Graphics of this Game Arent Like FFX but still this one wasnt made year 2004 ;P.... But for 
 me I Seroiusly Love the Graphs! They look a little ''Cuby''
  But its alright... But in Fighting mode Its a total different Graphic! And some Magic Look really 
 cool.. Like Beta or Omnislash...
  
  The Sounds Are awesome!! All there is to it ^^
  
  Hmm the Gameplay.... Easy in the beginning... But it gets harder later in the game.. you will need 
 more tactics like not Pump Cloud with all the aeons (That i did xD) and give the others better armors 
 and better materias or you will have trouble with some bosses!... Overall the Gameplay is Smooth 
 and Nice!
  
  And Why i have Put the ''Learning Curve'' to 1 to 2 hours is Because you will learn tactics and 
 different moves that will Effect your style....
  
  But for me This was the Beginning Of The FF series.. After FF7 i became a Great Fan of The series.. (Maybe 
 Hardcore fan) But i dont really like the old ones But i love the ones after this.... But really 
 if you have played FF before but not this one.. I highly Suggest you to play this one and to those 
 who are new to the Genre or the Serie I Highly Suggest you to try this one out ^^
  
  This Game  fun.... And Superb!!
  
  Special Thanks to Gamespot 
 For Letting me do this Review... I hope you Read this one too ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imp_magazine
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the second best game ever made after Secret Of Mana on the SNES (see my other 
 review) . I originally clocked this game on the PS1 but when the console gave up and then in turn 
 the PS2 also conked out on me, I had to turn to my trusty PC.
  
  I had only ever played one RPG (Secret Of Mana) , which I played as a two player. I knew nothing 
 about the rest of the Final Fantasy series. And I wasn't sure it would be my kind of game, there 
 would probably be a lot of reading involved. 
  
  The game opens with an amazing FMV (full motion video) sequence, which introduces you to the brilliantly 
 detailed city of Midgar. You then jump straight into the action. Before you know it you are Cloud 
 Strife a cold hearted mercenary working for the the rebel organisation Avalance, on a mission to 
 destablise the greedy Shin-Ra Corporation, who are draining the life force from the planet and 
 selling this energy to line their pockets.
  
  And your hooked!
  
  Stop! before you go on. Go to the local shop and stock up on enough supplies to last a few day. 
 Then call in sick at work, cancel your appointments and baracade your self in your room.
  
  The world of FF7 is massive, as you progress and leave the confines of the city you'll find vast 
 plains filled with mosters to battle. The battles are a real time turn based system where you strike 
 then when your timer has filled up you make strike again, and it is the same for your enemy. The 
 battle are a fundemental part for the story as you will often face not just monster but other characters, 
 including Shinra agents. And you will have to conquor them to progress in your adventure.
  
  Battles arn't just hack and slash, you must also master the arts of magic casting. When the 
 life stream (the planets living energy) comes to the surface and crystallises, it forms Materia. 
 These magic orbs can be placed in a characters weapon or armor and allow them to use various magic 
 or skills, which become stronger the more you fight. You can combine these skills depending on 
 your weapon, for example if you have the counter-attack materia it allows you to counter when an 
 ememy attacts you and if you have the death-blow materia you can attack the enemy with an extra 
 powerful stike. But if you combine the two, every time you are attacked you with counter with a 
 death-blow. There are loads of materia to find or buy along the way, some of the most deadly are 
 the summon (red) materia, which allow you to call apon great creatures to attact your enemy.
  
  To be continued.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_alan1988
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I had wanted to play this for years, until we finally borrowed it. I had heard nothing but good 
 things about it. People have told me that it is the best final fantasy made. When I finally got 
 to play, I couldn't understand why there were chibis (basically midgets) for characters. And the 
 visual quality was bad also, which may have been from translating from PS to PC. The game started 
 a little slow also, and I had some trouble understanding what was happening. But Then I started 
 to realize that I hadn't stopped playing in hours.
  
  I had trouble putting it down, and I got more and more addicted. The comedy was great, I love RPGs 
 and level gaining games. The first CD was long, the second was a little shorter, and the third 
 was only the end. That confused me. The story gets confusing a times, and that just draws you in 
 even more. The hidden characters are hard to get without knowing exactly what you have to do, and 
 I never really used them.
  
  One problem though, the final battle with bizarro Sephiroth and "The One Winged Angel". If you 
 acted the way I did on the way, I had like 80 elixirs, even though I don't remember where all of 
 them came from. With the two sided battle, it was confusing and I had not made any but three strong. 
 I still beat it. Next the real final battle. He blow up the universe five or six times (how many 
 times can you destroy the same thing) in one battle, repetitively made my characters into frogs, 
 and once again was too easy. I was surprised to find that I beat it that far into the third CD.
 
  
  Great game, get it, play it, and spread the love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky1451
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  well i genrally hate all RPG videogames, but infact i am playing this one and loving every seond 
 of it,, i believe that is all that needs to be said. this game is simply astonishing, to make an 
 RPG that i do not despise is a hard goal to achive and well squaresoft accomplished thsi goal too 
 bad once they turned into square enix they havnt been able to win me back, but oh well they got 
 me once, and im sure as hell impressed. its an over all astonighing game if you hav never played 
 it go pick it up right now it is amazing, and im sure you will love it. as iv said if i like it, 
 everyone loves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII isn't just a simple RPG, is the most unique RPG that we have seen. It's extremely 
 addictive and mysterious, the history involve us quickly and more and more. After play it some 
 days you'll dream with the characters, each of them has well defined and own personality.
  
  The graphics in the game are not the great wonderful, the best is the movies and the invocations. 
 But it doesn't decrease the emotions.
  
  The music helps much to become acclimated with the circumstances; You'll feel nostalgia, fear, 
 mystery, expectation, glad and many others feelings just hearing the music of the game. The sounds 
 FX aren't a distinction of the game, they are small and simple, but enough.
  
  The history of the game is insuperable, instantly we go into the rol of the game, with our main 
 character, Cloud. But then we met the others characters and its own history. The mystique of the 
 history is absorptive, and We can't wait to solve the mysteries that surround to the characters.
 
  
  The playmode in the beginning is strange, for those who never played some game like this, but, 
 after play a few hours we will appreciate more the strategy of the attacks than our ability in 
 the keyboard.
  
  In FFVII there are many "mini-games"; most of them you need to play it to advance in the history, 
 but if you play it until you become an expert a great power or magic will be discovered for you.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid8807
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII (PC) is just as great as the orginal one for the playstation. It has the same 
 10 out of 10 graphics. 10/10 sound and music. Has the best final fantasy story line. I just love 
 playing the game. The only reason I don't like this one as well as the for playstation is because 
 there is never ever beating the orginal. There is one difference in the PC version than the ps 
 version. The difference is that this one is a little harder to learn how to play due to the fact 
 that learning all the different hot keys to press during gameplay does take some time, but with 
 practice it comes easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII is the best Final Fantasy I ever played.
  
  a) The story is perfect 10/10.
  b) The characters are amazing and you get really attached to 
 them. Cloud is the best 10/10.
  c) The Materia system works really fine and makes you want to collect them all 10/10.
  d) The 
 game is challenging, with many side quests to complete. Those side quests are hard and may take 
 many levels to complete, like for instance, killing the weapons. 9/10.
  e) The summons are not too strong, not too weak just perfectly equilibrated 10/10.
  f) The graphics 
 are wonderful and the soundtrack kicks a** ! 10/10. 
  g) The final boss (Sephiroth and Mother) keeps you fighting for tens of minutes and the game really 
 makes you hate them. 10/10.
  h) You even have the Final Fantasy own FBI (The Turks) in the game to add another dimension to 
 the storyline. 10/10.
  
  Final word, I've played this game fro weeks and weeks and it's my best Final Fantasy since the 
 first one. Try it, especially on the PC since the graphics are much better. 
  
  For a continuation to this game, rent the movie Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII  
 Fainaru Fantaj VII) , or Final Fantasy 7, is a console and computer role-playing game released 
 by Square Co., Ltd. in 1997. It was the first game of the Final Fantasy series to be produced for 
 the Sony PlayStation video game console, and the first game in the series to be ported to Microsoft 
 Windows-based personal computers. Additionally, it was the first Final Fantasy title to utilize 
 3D computer graphics, with fully rendered characters and prerendered backgrounds.
  
  The North American, European, and Australian localizations of the PlayStation version were published 
 by Sony Computer Entertainment, and the Windows version was published in North America by Eidos 
 Interactive. The initial North American release for the PlayStation was criticized for its localization, 
 which was viewed by some as awkward and contained a handful of grammatical errors. The Microsoft 
 Windows port uses the same localization script, but several of the more egregious errors were corrected.
 
  
  The game was a critical and commercial success: it received glowing reviews from most video game 
 magazines - GameFan, for instance, called it "quite possibly the greatest game ever made" - and 
 the game had sold more than 9.20 million copies worldwide, with about 3 million in the first 48 
 hours of its release. It was one of the first console role-playing games to achieve widespread 
 popularity outside of Asia, and the ongoing popularity of the title led Square Enix to produce 
 a series of sequels and prequels under the collective title Compilation of Final Fantasy VII in 
 the mid-2000s.
  
  The game incorporates references to a variety of religious and philosophical systems, reflected 
 in character names like Sephiroth (drawn from the Kabbalah) and Heidegger (likely a reference to 
 German philosopher and Nazi Party member Martin Heidegger) , and place names such as Midgar and 
 Nibelheim (both from Norse mythology) . Additionally, several references are made to previous Final 
 Fantasy titles, including several character names (such as Cid, Biggs, and Wedge) , and the repetition 
 of soundtrack motifs, such as the chocobo theme.
  
  The game followed in the footsteps of Final Fantasy VI for presenting a world with considerably 
 more advanced technology than previous installments. The gamut of the game's technology covers 
 space flight, robotics, highly advanced genetic engineering, automatic firearms, directed energy 
 weapons, automobiles, helicopters, limited antigravity technology, and major global corporations; 
 the level of technology in the world of Final Fantasy VII could be said to approximate that of 
 near-future science fiction.
  
  Gameplay
  Final Fantasy VII is a largely menu-driven role-playing game. Initially, the player is restricted 
 to the city of Midgar, but as the game progresses, more and more of the fantasy world becomes accessible, 
 and the scripted adventure sequences gradually give way to greater freedom and opportunities to 
 explore. At several points in the story, the game is interrupted by entirely scripted dramatic 
 sequences, some of which are quite long. These sequences cannot be skipped or shortened, and require 
 frequent player interaction for them to proceed. They have been given the name "cinemas" by the 
 Final Fantasy gamers.
  1
  During its turn-based battle sequences, the game uses the same Active Time Battle (ATB) system 
 utilized in the three Final Fantasy games preceding it. Unlike previous games in the series, which 
 traditionally allowed for a maximum of 4-5 friendly characters to participate in battle, Final 
 Fantasy VII allows for only three characters to be present in the party (and therefore, to take 
 part in battle) at any one time.
  
  Final Fantasy VII's skill system utilizes materia, magic orbs which can be placed in special slots 
 on weapons and armor. Materia allows characters to access magic spells, special commands, and a 
 variety of other abilities. Materia can be combined in a fixed number of ways, and strategic use 
 of the Materia combinations can make many battles much easier.
  
  A feature introduced in Final Fantasy VI, the "desperation attack," reappears here in modified 
 form as the Limit Break. Every playable character has a special "limit bar" which fills up slightly 
 every time the character suffers damage in battle. When the limit bar is completely filled, that 
 character has access to his or her limit break, a special attack which generally inflicts much 
 more damage on an enemy than normal physical attacks.
  
  Final Fantasy VII also popularized the inclusion of extremely difficult optional bosses. Late in 
 the game, a series of enormous monsters called WEAPONS appear; the player must confront several 
 of them through the plot, but two, Ruby WEAPON and Emerald WEAPON, can only be encountered if the 
 player goes out of their way, and are very hard to defeat; Ruby WEAPON, for instance, can instantly 
 and unpreventably kill any character with one of its attacks, and has over ten times as many hit 
 points as the final boss, while Emerald WEAPON can kill all three characters with one attack "Aire 
 Tam Storm" which deals damage directionally proportionate to the number of Materia Orbs each character 
 possesses. These WEAPONs only appeared in the American and International versions of the game, 
 and were distinctly absent in the original Japanese version.
  
  Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.
  The world of Final Fantasy VII is economically, 
 militarily, and politically dominated by a powerful conglomerate called the Shin-Ra Electric Power 
 Company, which profits from the use of machines known as "Mako Reactors". These reactors syphon 
 a special type of energy - called "Mako" - out of the planet and convert it into electricity. One 
 of the by-products of the extraction and refinement of Mako energy is materia, a concentrated form 
 of Mako which allows the owner to use its magical properties.
  
  In actuality, Mako energy is drawn from the Lifestream, a flow of life-force beneath the surface 
 of the planet. All life originates from the Lifestream, and returns to it upon death. In short, 
 the Lifestream is the sum of all the life that have ever and will ever walk upon the planet. The 
 process of extracting Mako energy literally drains the life of the planet in order to generate 
 electricity.
  
  Shin-Ra's management is concerned with the limited repositories of Mako energy available for harvesting, 
 and are fascinated with the idea of a "Promised Land"a place where the land is incredibly fertile 
 and where Mako flows abundantly. Only a race called the Cetra, or the Ancients, are, according 
 to legend, able to find it. However, the Cetra have been driven to extinction, except for one Cetra, 
 Aerith Gainsborough (sometimes called "Aeris," an alternate rendering of Earisu, the Japanese transliteration 
 of the English word "Earth" [1] ) , whom Shin-Ra has been trying to capture for years.
  
  
  A screenshot from a cutscene in Final Fantasy VII. Tifa (left) , Cloud (right) . The city of Midgar 
 is a municipality created and operated by Shin-Ra. It is also the location of Shin-Ra headquarters 
 and serves as the home to their nemesis, a rebel resistance group of eco-terrorists called AVALANCHE. 
 The game opens as AVALANCHE hires a mercenary named Cloud Strife, who claims to be a former member 
 of Shin-Ra's elite special forces team, SOLDIER, to aid in the destruction of eight Mako reactors 
 situated in a ring surrounding Midgar.
  
  Cloud shows little interest in AVALANCHE's cause at first. By his own admission, he is interested 
 only in the money. Eventually, however, Cloud discovers the connection between Shin-Ra's ecologically 
 destructive actions and a shadowy figure from his own past, a man named Sephiroth, a legendary 
 SOLDIER, whom Cloud had long believed dead. As Cloud is drawn deeper and deeper into the three-way 
 conflict between Shin-Ra, AVALANCHE, and Sephiroth, Cloud's identity and his past come into question. 
 Themes explored in the story include the need to forgive one's own failings and the redeeming power 
 of love.
  
  At the end of the first disc of the game occurs a famous scene in which Aerith is killed by Sephiroth. 
 The scene shocked many fans, and has been regarded as one of the most memorable scenes in the game. 
 (See also Aerith fandom.)
  
  Spoilers end here.
  Compilation of Final Fantasy VII
  Main article: Compilation of Final Fantasy VII 
  
  Compilation of Final Fantasy VII series 
 logo. The ending of Final Fantasy VII was somewhat controversial and open-ended. Many assumed the 
 ending depicted the destruction of civilization (and thus the death of all the characters) . Others 
 maintained the ending was too vague to draw such conclusions, and many fans assumed the game's 
 present status quo simply continued after the ending. Such debates were ultimately ended with the 
 release of the Compilation of Final Fantasy VII a multimedia, cross-platform series of releases 
 developed under the supervision of Tetsuya Nomura and Yoshinori Kitase. The most famous installment 
 of the Compilation is Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children, a computer-generated film released on 
 DVD and Universal Media Disc (UMD) for the PlayStation Portable. Advent Children serves as a sequel 
 to the events of the original game, and takes place two years following the conclusion of the game.
 
  
  Other Compilation titles include games such as Dirge of Cerberus: Final Fantasy VII, an action 
 RPG for the PlayStation 2 starring Vincent Valentine, which takes place one year after Advent Children, 
 and Before Crisis: Final Fantasy VII, a prequel to Final Fantasy VII starring the Turks, developed 
 for the NTT DoCoMo FOMA 900i series of mobile phones. Additionally, there a number of other non-game 
 titles released under the Compilation of Final Fantasy VII name, such as Last Order: Final Fantasy 
 VII, an original video animation prequel released alongside Advent Children, and Maiden Who Travels 
 The Planet, a novelization of the events of Final Fantasy VII told from the perspective of Aerith 
 after her death at the hands of Sephiroth.
  
  Characters
  
  Screenshot of the opening movie of Final Fantasy VII with Aerith wandering through the city of 
 Midgar. Main article: List of Final Fantasy VII characters 
  The main playable characters in Final Fantasy VII are Cloud Strife, Aerith Gainsborough, Barret 
 Wallace, Tifa Lockhart, Red XIII (actually named Nanaki) , Cait Sith, Cid Highwind, and two secret 
 characters: Vincent Valentine and Yuffie Kisaragi. Sephiroth joins the party in a series of flashbacks, 
 but he cannot be controlled or equipped. However, his status, inventory and equipment, can be checked 
 during Cloud's flashback.
  
  Important characters in Shin-Ra are Reeve (Head of Urban Development) , Hojo (Head of the Science 
 Department) , Palmer (Head of Space Exploration) , Heidegger (Head of the Peace Preservation Department) , 
 Scarlet (Head of Weapons Research and Development) , President Shinra, his son Rufus, and members 
 of a secret police organization called the Turks (Elena, Rude, Reno, and Tseng) .
  
  It should be noted that Aerith's name in the original English language release of Final Fantasy 
 VII was transliterated as Aeris. See Aerith Gainsborough for more information. Later games that 
 include the character, such as Kingdom Hearts, use the transliteration 'Aerith.'
  
  Subsequent appearances
  Final Fantasy VII proved to be so popular that several characters from 
 the game have appeared in other Square (later Square Enix) games. Cloud, Tifa, Sephiroth, Vincent, 
 Yuffie and Zack are playable characters in the fighting game Ehrgeiz. Tifa appears on a poster 
 in Solaris in the role-playing game Xenogears. Cloud appears as a secret character (in a scene 
 with Aerith) in Final Fantasy Tactics. Cloud, Aerith, Yuffie, Cid, and Sephiroth appear in Kingdom 
 Hearts and with the exception of Sephiroth, in Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories. Cloud, Aerith, 
 Tifa and Sephiroth appear in the game Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy in Itadaki Street Special. 
 Cloud also appears in Chocobo Racing as a secret character. All playable characters reappear in 
 Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children, and some appear in other Compilation of Final Fantasy VII titles. 
 Cloud and Aerith, who both appear in the game's cinematic introduction, were featured in an official 
 PlayStation 3 technical demo in 2005. Finally, Tifa made her first cameo appearance in Kingdom 
 Hearts II, alongside Cloud, Aerith, Yuffie, Cid and Sephiroth.
  
  Locations
  Main article: List of Final Fantasy VII locations 
  The unnamed world of Final Fantasy VII is 
 divided into three continents. The largest of these three land masses, the eastern continent, is 
 the heart of Shin-Ra's power, and is dominated by Midgar, the headquarters of the corporation, 
 and Junon, a major Shin-Ra military base.
  
  The western continent, meanwhile, is notable for its two major vacation resorts, the beach town 
 of Costa del Sol and the Gold Saucer theme park. Several main characters of the game were raised 
 on the western continent, as well. Cloud and Tifa lived in Nibelheim, a ghost town previously razed 
 to the ground by Sephiroth and rebuilt by Shin-Ra to cover up the incident. Barret, meanwhile, 
 lived in the town of Corel until it was destroyed by Shin-Ra in retaliation against a terrorist 
 attack on a nearby Mako reactor. Red XIII hailed from Cosmo Canyon. Finally, Cid lived in Rocket 
 Town, and Yuffie lived in Wutai, the ancient village of the Wutai clan of ninjas.
  
  Finally, the northernmost continent is a heavily glaciated wasteland, and most of the settlements 
 on the land mass are largely concerned with research of the Cetra, whose long abandoned city is 
 situated on the continent. There are, however, a handful of other settlements, notably Icicle Inn, 
 the site of Aerith's birth, and Mideel, a hot springs town. Additionally, in the far north lies 
 the Northern Crater, where the energies of the Lifestream can be seen from the surface, and the 
 site of the Sephiroth's "reunion."
  
  There are also three Materia caves on the planet, and the secret "Round Island", which is hidden 
 on the World Map. It is located to the far North-east of the world map. It can be located by airship, 
 but can only actually be reached by a golden chocobo.
  
  Musical score
  Main article: Final Fantasy VII: Original Soundtrack 
  The soundtrack for the game was Nobuo 
 Uematsu's 22nd work for Square. Music from the game has been commercially released on an original 
 four-disc soundtrack, a single disc album of selected arranged tracks titled Final Fantasy VII 
 Reunion Tracks, and piano-only arrangement of selected tracks. Popular pieces from the production 
 include Aerith's Theme, a subdued and melodic character anthem, and One-Winged Angel, the first 
 composition for the series to utilize recorded voices. The game's main theme, heard on the world 
 map in Disc 1, is over 6 minutes long. Several tracks from the game have resurfaced in subsequent 
 Square (and Square Enix) productions, including Kingdom Hearts and Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children.
 
  
  Title and release information
  Not counting spin-off or related titles (such as Final Fantasy Mystic Quest) , Final Fantasy VII 
 was the first Final Fantasy title to be released in Europe and Australia, and it was the first 
 Final Fantasy game to be released under the same name in both Japan and North America since the 
 original NES Final Fantasy (aka Final Fantasy I) . This fact caused some initial confusion among 
 North American consumers. Japan's Final Fantasy II, III, and V were not released in North America. 
 Instead, Final Fantasy IV and Final Fantasy VI were released as America's Final Fantasy II and 
 III respectively. The American series thus effectively jumped from III to VII when Final Fantasy 
 VII was released in North America, although the game was in fact the next sequential release.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: batata0987
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  O jogo traz Cloud Strife como seu protagonista. O heri passa por uma das mais memorveis e originais 
 crises de identidades j vistas em qualquer mdia. Como um mercenrio insatisfeito, Cloud se v 
 preso ao grupo ecoterrorista Avalanche por causa de Tifa, uma amiga de infncia. Com Barret, eles 
 lutam contra a terrvel empresa Shinra, que suga 'mako', a energia vital do planeta, e a vende 
 como eletricidade.
  
  A histria vai-se desenrolando ao passar do jogo e mostra Cloud quando era criana. Na cidade natal 
 Nibelheim, Cloud no era socializvel com as crianas de sua idade, entre elas Tifa. Cloud queria 
 ser notado e respeitado, chamou Tifa (que o conhecia apenas como um vizinho, mas no eram muito 
 amigos) e falou que iria alistar-se para ser um SOLDIER de primeira classe da Shinra, igual a Sephiroth. 
 Porm s conseguiu entrar nos SOLDIERs de base. Mais tarde, em uma misso no reator Mako (usinas 
 para suco da energia vital) de Nibelhein, Cloud se encontra de volta a sua cidade natal com Sephiroth 
 e um amigo do exrcito, Zack. Porm ele no fala com ningum da cidade (nem com Tifa) porque conseguiu 
 apenas ser um SOLDIER raso, e no um de primeira classe como havia dito a todos, fazendo com que 
 ele se sinta envergonhado. Na misso, Cloud, Zack, Sephiroth e Tifa (como guia) foram para o reator, 
 pois ele estava com defeito e criando diversos monstros horrendos. Neste episdio, Sephiroth ficou 
 louco (por causa de uma crise de identidade, pois ele foi criado em laboratrio) e incendiou a 
 cidade de Nibelhein, matou todos, incluindo o pai de Tifa. Zack foi tentar parar Sephiroth e acabou 
 ferido no reator. Tifa tambm foi ferida por Sephiroth. Cloud conseguiu ferir Sephiroth, mas tambm 
 foi ferido quase mortalmente. A Shinra, para abafar o caso, reconstruiu a cidade inteira, e Hojo 
 (cientista da Shinra) recolheu os corpos dos sobreviventes para que fossem feitos experimentos. 
 Tifa no foi recolhida, pois seu mestre de artes marciais (Zangan) a salvou a tempo, levando ela 
 para Midgar para procurar um mdico e curar seus ferimentos. Mas Cloud e Zack foram levados para 
 um laboratrio na manso da cidade. Em um intervalo para comida, Zack conseguiu se livrar do tubo 
 em que estava preso, podendo libertar tambm Cloud, que estava inconciente. Zack pegou Cloud e 
 foi para Midgar, para que recomeassem a vida como mercenrios. Porm, ao chegar l, Zack acabou 
 morto pelas tropas da Shinra, que o seguiam desde Nibelhein. Cloud foi poupado, pois ainda estava 
 muito mal e inconsciente, e as tropas acharam que ele iria morrer por s prprio. Mas Cloud conseguiu 
 cambalear at dentro da cidade, onde foi achado por Tifa. Nisso, Cloud recupera a consincia, mas 
 est confuso e acha que ele era um SOLDIER primeira classe, igual a seu amigo morto Zack (na verdade 
 Cloud queria ser como Zack, e nessa volta de conscincia acha que era como ele) . Tifa percebe que 
 alguns fatos que ela conhecia e os que Cloud est afirmando agora no coincindiam, e decide "vigiar" 
 Cloud, levando ele para juntar-se  Avalanche, liderada por Barret, e que planejam destruir todos 
 os reatores (do total de oito) que existem na cidade de Midgar, pois eles sugam a energia vital 
 do planeta.
  
  E s agora neste momento  o incio do jogo, quando Cloud e Barret esto invadindo um dos reatores 
 da cidade.
  
  Com o desenrolar do jogo, o jogador vai gradativamente descobrindo mais segredos sobre o enredo 
 e sobre o passado de cada personagem, o que torna esse jogo envolvente do principio ao fim, ocorrendo 
 durante a histria vrias reviravoltas, traies, sacrifcios, amores... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Strife35
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  the 1997 Final Fantasy VII is very memorable. The hole game begins at a Mako reactor that Cloud, 
 Barret and AVALNCHE is goung and blow the place cause the mako energy that Midgar using is the 
 life of the planet: Lifestream. 
  
  Cloud Strife is 21 years old in this game and his mission is to stop Sephiroth from destroying 
 the world. During the game we meet Cid an airship pilot that has a wife called Shera. but he also 
 meets Aeris the last remaining Ancient of the planet also known as the Cetra.
  The Cetra lived on Gaia long time ago and it was them who actually started to look for The Promised 
 Land.
  
  This game contains 3 CDs and has the ultimate music ever but it can be hard to beat the game at 
 a low level.
  
  Square introduced the battle where only three party members can be on. Like Tifa, Coud and Aeris 
 or somemone else. Cloud is the hero so he must be in the party during the battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutokira
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Its old so keep in mind that it has bad graphics but if you can make it passed that part then you 
 wont be disoppointed. Final Fantasy 7 has one of the best story lines that i have ever come across 
 and not just in the Final Fantasy series but in all games and in all genres. In this instalment 
 you are Cloud a x-cop so to say that starts going aginst Shinra, or their government. He meets 
 a lot of new freinds on the way and one important girl that... well you can put it together. It 
 has one of the best usage of charaters I have ever seen. The game play might I add is PERFECT (for 
 an old RPG Final Fantasy game) . You see more and more love stories that are too girl'ly, nothing 
 personal, but in this one it is truely a mans strugle with love. You are left one the ege of your 
 seat when something happens in the game. If you have ever googled Final Fantasy and seen you a 
 guy with long hair and a long sord or played Kingdom of Hearts then you'll find out the story behind 
 the man. (EVIL) Great game to pick up in your spare time and play even if you can't stand RPG's 
 you should just get through it for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_shorty75
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  mark my words cuz this game is really really really great, this rpg battling game is really really 
 great, just lk the previous final fantasies and other ones, this one is definenly one of the greatest.
 
  
  though the graphics are really a bit not that good lol but that it not wat matters, the battling 
 system and the characters are all very well developed, every character has his or her own specialty 
 in the story line and really draws u deep into the game. the storyline is wat interested me the 
 most, i will not spoil anything for anyone so all i am going to say is that there are many twists 
 and suprising things about the storyline! this game is really really great and i strongly advise 
 everyone to go buy it, there are many funny parts about the storyline as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z00Mbite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy VII (PC)
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay doesn't feel quite complete on the PC, though it is not impossible to learn. 
 Using the side number keys is hard at first... especially for those of you who use the WASD, but 
 it grows on you as you play more. 
  
  Graphics: Extraordinary graphics for 1997. The cut scenes are great. Though it may not appeal to 
 many now.... you have to admit that it was pretty k00|.
  
  Sound: I have no problem with the sound... it is just that I hate songs that repeat continuously. 
 
  
  Value: Worth every penny. 
  
  Tilt: I absolutely love this game. It has so much to offer. It can make any gamer love the Final 
 Fantasy Series as much as I do. Heck... I'm actually playing the music during my free time. I'm 
 sure it can offer you, the reader, a lot too. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiseMakaveli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game was my very first RPG ever.. Which, to be honest, was good and bad.. Good thing was, 
 my first time, I got to experience the best there is.. The bad thing, this game set a very high 
 standard for me.. After playing this game, it will be difficult, to play around with any other 
 crappy RPGs out there.. This game, is one of the longest games I have ever seen.. I well spend 
 about a hundred hours on it, if not more.. It has AAlot of sideline games.. And ultra weapons/magic 
 you can aquire.. It has 2 ultimate bosses, that don't require to be beaten, but are there as a 
 challenge. Insanely hard, to be honest, I never killed one of them... Gameplay is very fun and 
 addictive.. You have weapons with slots this time around.. In each slot, you can insert what is 
 called, Materia.. Materia, are small magical rocks, that allow the holder, to cast certain magic.. 
 The materia will evolve with the exp you get.. So, you can have a materia fire level 1, and further 
 on, it will turn to level 2,3,4 and 5.. Then after it evolves to the final level, it will sprout 
 another materia, at level 1 of the same time.. Pretty fun.. And there is ALOT of materia to pick 
 from to.. This was the game that got me to discover the great FF series.. 
  
  CHARACTERS
  
  There's about 8 playable characters here.. You'll split up into 2 groups.. But you can switch 
 characters whenever you want.. Each character has it's own unique break attacks.. A break attack 
 is when either, you've been hit alot by an enemy, or you inflict enough damage.. You can change 
 this, as time goes on to fit your character..
  It doesn't have any voiceovers.. But that doesn't necesarily mean it's bad.. It might be better, 
 just to imagine your own unique voice, for each character..
  
  Overall fun, and very amazingly time consuming.. This game is 3cds long.. So it's 1 Install cd, 
 and 3 gameplay cds.. 
  
  Very worth your money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjcali
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:15 am PT
Review:  This game is truly a work of art. The story is very unique yet seems familiar, for example; The 
 main character cloud joins a terrorist group in the beginning of the story to make ends meet. The 
 group is called "Avalanche" and is bent on blowing up "Mako" reactors that are sucking the liquid 
 life from the planet, very similiar to OPEC oil companies extracting oil necessary for our planet 
 to survive. The political aspect of this fantasy game truly makes it a must have in almost every 
 way. Graphics were ahead of it's time for the original playstation console, and the budget for 
 the production of the game was in the millions, making it an instant classic every gamer should 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwaynebook
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:37 am PT
Review:  Ok maybe its because i think that because it came out after the playstation version It should of 
 had a huge difference in the graphics, but that was just wishfull thinking. Not much to say about 
 the story differs from the PS version (as a matter of fact no difference at all) , but the graphics 
 were better. The color on the PC version was amazing, the charicters were just more vibrent and 
 the some of the little things like weapons and attacks got an upgrade! But other than some mouths 
 here and there and the beutiful color, I didnt find it much different. Overall I still find it 
 to be worth the buy and the time to play on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofmccleve
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  It is the summer of 2000 and I am introduced for the first time to an RPG game called "Final Fantasy 
 VII." I never had any interest in playing RPG games because the structure behind them confused 
 me. However, after playing the first three hours of the game, I was hooked. The game play/storyline 
 is top-notch. Still to this day I have yet to play a game that has engrossed me so much. For its 
 time, the graphics (especially during the videos) were incredible; that was initially what got 
 me hooked. Overall, this game is brilliant, even if you are not an RPG fan. Play it. You won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  My FFVII reveiw can be veiwed by accessing my profile and finding my other FFVII reveiw (for PS) . 
 It was really long and sorry for this, its just that that apply to one another and typing it out 
 again would be a waste of time!
  
  My FFVII reveiw can be veiwed by accessing my profile and finding my other FFVII reveiw (for PS) . 
 It was really long and sorry for this, its just that that apply to one another and typing it out 
 again would be a waste of time!
  
  My FFVII reveiw can be veiwed by accessing my profile and finding my other FFVII reveiw (for PS) . 
 It was really long and sorry for this, its just that that apply to one another and typing it out 
 again would be a waste of time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  So you got hooked by the first several games in the series (except for mystic quest, what were 
 they thinking) , and now you want to see the games in 3-D. This is the first in the series to accomplish 
 just that.
  
  FFVII provides a 3-D graphic style that includes blocky formations for character models. Not the 
 most attractive thing, but if you watch the videos and have a problem then you are just weird. 
 It is definitely one of the best examples of a game that includes multiple graphical styles in 
 just the right ratio to fit the needs of the game.
  
  The sound is fantastic if you like midi formatted music. There is no speech in this one, but the 
 scores are beautiful. If only they weren't in computer sounds.
  
  The gameplay is easy to pick up, but the advanced amount of development that you can experience 
 requires some good playing time before you master it. The battles are turn-based, but exciting 
 nonetheless.
  
  The story includes a lost soul, Cloud, who is trying to find himself and settle a score with the 
 evil Sephiroth. Accompanied by Aeris, Cait Sith, Tifa, Yuffie, Vincent, Barret, Cid, and Red XIII, 
 Cloud travels the globe to figure out the evil plot and foil his plans to rule the world.
  
  Definitely a great challenge and contains hours and hours of gametime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Okay, while this game may not match up with the brand new titles coming out today, it does hold 
 great historical significance. The story of the game is one which could still survive today. In 
 fact, there have been many fans who who love to see this game remade with updated graphics. The 
 graphics, while dated by today's standards, where a leap ahead in 3D graphics at the time it was 
 made. This game plays through like a true Final Fantasy game. It definitely deserves the title 
 of "Final Fantasy". In fact there are many who say this is the best Final Fantasy game to ever 
 be released. This game was my first exposure to the series and was also the game that got me hooked 
 and pulled me in to the point where I have purchased every PS & PS2 Final Fantasy game since....... with 
 the exception of FFXI which is the first, and thus far, only venture into the MMO scene for the 
 series. I am a fan of the series and this game is no exception. While I have played FFVII thru 
 FX-2, I have gone back and played FFVII at least a couple of times since playing some of the other 
 newer titles. Final Fantasy is a staple of the Sony (SquareEnix) gaming experience. As long as 
 you are not too locked into modern graphics I say pick this title up and play it through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The Role Playing genre has many gems in it; Final Fantasy VII is one of those gems. FF7 combines 
 a deep and thoughtful story with solid (but occasionally tedious) tactical combat that is a hallmark 
 for the series.
  
  In Final Fantasy VII you play as Cloud Strife; an arrogant yet likeable character who wields a 
 rather large sword and was once the member of a rather unimaginatively named military organization 
 called SOLDIER. The story in FF7 is masterfully told, but has occasionally cheesy dialogue. Throughout 
 most of the game your enemies are a large and powerful corporation called Shinra and a rather nutjob 
 of a villain known as 'Sephiroth'. The plot takes a few twists and turns along the way, but manages 
 to remain solid and make sense all the way through.
  
  The combat system in the PC port remains consistant with the original Playstation version and so 
 does nearly everything else as far as gameplay is concerned. The unfortunate thing about FF7 is 
 that you'll end up fighting random battles outside of towns throughout most of the game so you 
 can reach a certain level before traveling to the next location and this can get repetitive as 
 you shouldn't need to spend an hour in the wilderness fighting frogs and other silly looking monsters.
 
  
  The graphics in FF7 are a mixed bag; the character models for their time were not bad though by 
 today's standards they are terrible. The pre-rendered backgrounds, however; look very nice and 
 generate a satisfying amount of atmosphere. The summons also look very nice though some of them 
 (Knights of the Round I'm looking at you) can take quite a while to finish. The PC version also 
 has higher resolutions and 3d hardware support so the graphics have the capability to be much smoother 
 looking than the Playstation version.
  
  The audio in FF7 is okay; the sound effects are rather low quality and so is the music. The music 
 itself isn't the problem; its the PC ports version of the music that is the problem. In order to 
 fit FF7 PC on the same amount of CDs (not including the install disc) Squaresoft had to sacrifice 
 music quality by converting them into midis and this tends to kill what is otherwise an excellent 
 and atmospheric score.
  
  Final Fantasy VII is a great game from the golden age of third generation electronic RPGs, and 
 definitely one of the better of the first ten Final Fantasys in my humble opinion. The PC version 
 of FF7 suffers from some issues, but if you enjoy RPGs than those flaws won't stop you from playing 
 and appreciating the masterful storytelling and memorable characters and places within Final Fantasy 
 VII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micktendo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Growing up I was not lucky enough to have a Playstation. Maybe not so much lucky enough, but I 
 just didn't spend the money to get one. I stayed to games such as Chrono Trigger and Zelda.
  Just recently I bought this game for the PC and am very satisfied. The game has so much depth in 
 story that it's unbelievable. Each character has their own personality, as well as their own story. 
 Each story is intertwined to the main plot in some way or another, making this game long and enjoyable.
 
  For the time, the cinimatics were unbelievable. Though now they seem outdated, there is still 
 something that brings back memories of good times.
  If you don't have this game, you're in error. This is one of the best games ever made for a system, 
 you won't be mistaken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MITnet
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Its too bad it is too old because if they remade it i would scream! I'd preorder it so early! The 
 city of Midgar looks like a city i wanna live in! In games i usually make up my own story and play 
 the game with the story in my head. But this is the only game i dont have to do that with! If you 
 are reading this go to the PC versoin on gamespot. com and Download that demo or just buy the game! 
 The music can be listened to for free without download at www. ffonline. com. Im goin to form a union 
 rite now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myblade379
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I still have flashback about the game. I still dream about the adventures 'oh how i miss them'. 
 The beauty and the story. They still huant me... Almost everyday i long for those magical times... 
 Like somthing that i have lost... Somthing never to return.... Oh those days are gone. Never will 
 anything come to match the power of final fanast 7
  Xenogears came extremely close... but Sadly i never got to FINNISHED XENOGEARS!!!!!
  
   
 GOD DAM THE BROWSING SH-IT FEATURE SUCKS!!!!!
  
  True masterpieace. I love this game so much. I will miss this game forever. I will always be sad 
 that this game has come and go... So sad... *crys... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dare365
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Some may disagree on whether Final Fantasy 7 is worth playing on the PC, many have run into bugs 
 with the old software and new hardware being incompatible. Thankfully however, Final Fantasy 7 
 Ultima is here, patched and ready too go. This game makes final fantasy 7 playable and customizable. 
 Check out a few character model mods, such as the hand mod that makes the character hands look 
 more realistic, and the Ultimate Cloud mod which lets you use the cool cloud model in the final 
 battle against Sephiroth. Or check out the mod that replaces Cloud with Sephiroth in every scene 
 but the FMV sequences.
  
  Gameplay
  Final Fantasy games were never famouse for there turn-based gameplay, but i wouldnt have it any 
 other way, though it seems ridiculous, its fun and implements stratagy.
  
  Graphics
  For its time, simply amazing, top of the line for its time period and still respectable.
  
 
  Sound
  Ah, yes the sound, amazing, great music i wouldnt mind playing on my winamp.
  
  Plot
  The second best plot ive seen in an rpg, (first being xenogears) truely amazing, and definatly 
 a game you would want to revisit before the release of Advent Children, Before Crisis, Crisis Core 
 and Dirge of Cerberus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prue7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  to say the most important thing rigt from the start: this is just one hell of a game. superb storyline, heartwarming 
 characters, interesting fighting system, good graphics (even for today if you like this anime-style 
 ;) ) and after all just an unbelieveable gaming experience.
  by now i think i've played it about 7-8 times. each time, i get even more sucked into that world 
 and plot about mako, SOLDIER, materia and cloud an his freinds.
  i guess one cant ell from my review that it's not quite objective, but who the hell cares bout that? it's 
 one of my favorite games ever, ever will be an i just can recommend this game to evryone owning 
 a pc and just THINKING about playing an rpg.
  
  P. S: also looking forward to Advent Children (FF rules *g*) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticAtwa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Final Fantasy games so rich in story and so fun to play, time after time, a game 
 thats hard to set down. Still played addictivly today even though all the other Final Fantasy games 
 have come out and i'm exstatic to see Advent Children be released for it and second looks be taken 
 at the game.
  
  You can quickly get a hang of the game and the difficulty overall is challenging but fun.
  
 
  Although the graphics arn't top notch the cinimatic scenes are great, a favorite is the motorcycle 
 cinimatic. But the story of the game makes up completely for it's graphical downfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Its perfect cept for one flaw which isn't any fault of their own, its just 
 getting a bit old and graphics have come a long way. THe story is perfect, it has humor, suspense, 
 and drama. THe game play is the sweetest game play out of all the final fantasy titles. This is 
 wtihout a doubt the one final fantasy to get. The cut scenes are gorgeous and really help with 
 the flow of the game. This is a must get if you haven't gotten it already.
  
  The only ding on this game is because its old, its very outdated on its graphics, which by no means 
 are terrible its just compared to graphics of some of the other games around its time and game 
 of later, the graphics just show their age now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The PSOne version of Final Fantasy VII is viewed by many as the best RPG of all time. It's probably 
 easiest to take such claims as hyperbole, as while the game is good, it's not that good. A collection 
 of mediocre characters with almost no distinguishing characteristics (in terms of fighting ability) 
 coupled with an often dull story drag the game down a bit. Still, if you can forgive Final Fantasy 
 VII its typical RPG annoyances you'll find that there's still one hell of a game there.
  
  Transitioning console games to the PC is a tricky endeavor. Sometimes the process goes smoothly 
 but more often than not the resulting ports suffers from so-called console-itis, where the game 
 just feels cumbersome compared to similar offerings on the PC. Unfortunately and fortunately, Final 
 Fantasy VII features its console roots prominently. The entire game controls and feels like it 
 does on the Playstation, which means the learning curve isn't steep, but it also means you get 
 to poke through menus using a gamepad or (God help you) your keyboard. No mouse support is offered, 
 though its use in the game would be questionable.
  
  The graphics survived the port as a mixed bag. Anything 3D is markedly superior to the Playstation, 
 as the graphic capabilities of even a bottom-end 3D card are more powerful. The battles benefit 
 the most from this - though the texture detail or polygon count might not be improved any, the 
 higher resolution offered as well as the welcome perspective correction ensures you won't find 
 fault over the original there. Where the graphics haven't been improved are also largely where 
 they couldn't - the original artwork for backgrounds and movies have survived intact, but where 
 they look comparatively good on a low-res TV they seem more out of place on a higher resolution 
 computer monitor. The 2D backgrounds are fairly blocky.
  
  Sound is also mixed, depending on what sort of sound card you have. Since the game relies on MIDI 
 you'll need a good instrument set in order to get the most out of the audio - the included software-based 
 Yamaha one included with the game is decent enough, though almost any Sound Blaster would be better. 
 The sound effects are just as lame as they were on the Playstation, with your usual assortment 
 of scratchy attack and magic effects.
  
  In its core RPG trappings, FF7 works and it works well. The Materia system for customizing your 
 characters is admittedly shallow but it does allow for some minor differences between them. Battles 
 flow smoothly and characters' limit breaks are quite effective (for the most part) . Unfortunately, 
 aside from looks the various characters aren't much different in practice. They all dole out similar 
 amounts of damage with their weapon and cause (and heal) similar amounts of damage with spells. 
 The few characters that are not as physically powerful as the others are rendered effectively useless 
 as a result, and you'll find yourself moving them out of your party except for those sequences 
 where they are required.
  
  The story serves as a decent vehicle to carry the game, and some sequences are even quite touching. 
 However, over the course of the game it begins to make less and less sense; then again, an entirely 
 coherent narrative isn't something that many RPGs are blessed with so FF7 can't be docked too much 
 for it.
  
  Outside of story or battle, the game offers a handful of minigames to play, both at the Gold Saucer 
 (the game's elevated fairground) and during the game itself. None of them are particularly memorable 
 - or good - but they do break up the game and offer something different. You won't find yourself 
 struggling with them, at least, since they're not very hard.
  
  Overall Final Fantasy VII is less impressive on the PC than it was when it debuted on the Playstation. 
 Maybe it's because the platform shows the weaknesses of the game more prominently or merely stacks 
 it up against toucher competition. Either way, it's a fun game that often receives more credit 
 than is due. It's a good game, sure, but it's not the best ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoeKob
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2005 2:52 am PT
Review:  This game is just unbelievable. No game can beat its storyline, not Fable, or Prince of Persia 
 1/2. The Legacy of Kain Series is a close second place. FF7's story is way better than any other 
 Final Fantasy storyline, the gameplay is remarkable, and the music and sound is top notch. I was 
 so addicted to this game and I loved every single second of it. I can definitely see why it was 
 chosen to be followed into a movie. Even though its 2005, people can still enjoy this game. The 
 graphics are obviously going to be a little old but you can quickly get used to them. If you haven't 
 played this game, go and try it out, you'll like it. I wish i still had my copy but it disappeared 
 when I moved. One of the key things of this game that I loved is the length. Its a really long 
 RPG. Most RPG's these days tend to be really short, but not this one. Its lengthy, and fun. Try 
 it out, 7 years for FF7 isn't too late. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuronCloud7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  Personally my favorite RPG and no game can compare or come close for that matter. This game is 
 the reason I play RPG's, it was one of my first and change the way I look at games. This is the 
 reason Final Fantasy games are so popular and will be. At the time the graphics and CG were simply 
 amazing. Even today the story is still intriguing and one of the best. The game is so popular they 
 are making a movie FF: Advent Children (Takes place 1 year after the events in the game) and another 
 game called Dirge of Cerberus: FF VII (An Action game starring Vincent Valentine, almost looks 
 something like DMC) .
  I think Cloud's limit break Omnislash was simply Gold, if not the best limit break or special move 
 in a RPG. Even if I play this game today it would still blow me away, the cast of characters (Cloud) 
 inspired me and the story made me think about my own life. This game became a instant favorite 
 for me and if you don't have time to play his game than you don't have time for other games. Also 
 it had the 2 hardest side-bosses Emerald and Ruby Weapon. If you don't own his game get it now!!!!
 
  
  Fantastic, Magnificent, and truly a Masterpiece. Also Greatest Villain Ever!!
  
  I think this game has sold over 10 million worldwide on the PS and became a instant Greatest Hit.
 
  IMO Square is one of the best, if not the best company in gaming today and is why I love RPG's. 
 Keep up the good work Square. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onimusha8666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2004 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Thats right this is THE best Final Fantasy game ever. The plot, characters, summons, everything 
 is just outstanding for this game! Many games lack this kind of depth and this game is great everytime 
 I replay it. Its got great music by Nobuo Uematsu and the graphics are great for its time. I reccomend 
 this game for any RPG lover or just any gamer period! I can't say much more than just get the game 
 and find out how great it really is. Also I suggest playing this game before seeing the upcoming 
 Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children movie so you know what is going on and how it all started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:13 am PT
Review:  This may be the best game ever made. I could go on a 10-paragraph description of what makes it 
 so great, but this time I'll just comment on the scores I gave it, and hopefully some insight will 
 come out of it. 
  
  Gameplay -- 9. When I say "gameplay," I don't mean the overall enjoyment of the game. What I mean 
 is the mechanics of the game (controls, battle system, that sort of thing) , and how fun they make 
 the game to play. What can I say? The gameplay is excellent. As the GS reviewer said, the Materia-based 
 battle system is very powerful and elegant, yet easy to learn in stages. Battles tend to be fun 
 (although, of course, random encounters get annoying after a while) , and, more importantly, such 
 that improving your stats and materia actually seems worthwhile (even though the game is still 
 very easy without any special levelling up) . The required minigames are all enjoyable. However, 
 I can't give this category a hallowed 10 because, well, the gameplay ITSELF never quite reaches 
 Metal Gear Solid-level suspense and excitement. It's not the gameplay so much that propels the 
 casual player as the amazing plot (see below) . Beating the game is very easy (this is neither a 
 criticism nor a compliment) , so the only time the gameplay really becomes an objective of play 
 is when you're going for the COMPLETE FF7 EXPERIENCE, i. e., get everything, beat everyone, etc. 
 The game gets considerably tougher then, and the gameplay can be quite rewarding. Still, I'd "only" 
 rank the gameplay as superb (9) as opposed to perfect (10) . 
  
  
  Graphics -- 8. 8 is "great" (for the time it was released) . But let me explain. Artistically, this 
 game gets an absolute 10. The sense of atmosphere projected by the graphics of this world is absolutely, 
 100% UNPARALLELLED in _any_ game, let alone Final Fantasy game. As I played, I really felt like 
 a part of the dark slums of Midgar or Junon fort besieged by the Weapon. The character design is 
 excellent (check out Cloud and Tifa, for example) , too. The battle graphics, in technical terms 
 are a 9 for the period. They're crisp, and convincing (both the background textures which match 
 the surrounding map area, and the flat-shaded character models) . The 3D map graphics are very good 
 too (can someone explain to me why FF8's are worse?!) -- 9. Unfortunately, the character 3D models 
 in the field as you walk around are VERY bad; almost embarassing. Here I'm forced to give the graphics 
 something like a 5. It may sound a like small element, but really it's quite huge. These characters 
 look like cool, real beings in battle but like re-tarded blocky kids in the field. It's especially 
 unsettling seeing the nice background cutscenes with ridiculous 10-polygon character models in 
 the foreground. Sometimes it's hard to believe you're looking at the same version of Cloud. Combine 
 all these ratings together, and you get something like a technical 8, an artistic 9. 
  
  
  Sound -- 8. 10 for the music (even better than in FF6, absolutely stunning music in this one) . 
 Sets an excellent sense of atmosphere. 6 for the sounds effects -- the beeps as you select menus 
 etc. -- but who cares about those. And, a 6 for the technical qualities of the music in the PC 
 version, which sounds awful due to the MIDI synthesis. Of course, the material itself is still 
 great, but come on. So, comes out to a generous 8. 
  
  
  Value -- 10. This game is probably the most replayable game I've ever seen, and this includes the 
 almost unlimited replay value of multiplayer games like Team Fortress, Red Alert, etc. There are 
 two reasons why you'll probably dump about 200 hours of your life into this game. (1) THE PLOT. 
 It is very very VERY cool, and very very VERY hard to grasp on only time through the game (but 
 still very satisfying) . On the 2nd time, you'll see everything again, get it straight, and really 
 figure it out. On the 3rd time, you will finally really understand it (as well as all the characters' 
 motivations, especially Cloud's and Tifa's) . So, each time you play the game, you discover something 
 new and interesting about the backstory. (2) The side quests and secrets: To get everything in 
 the game by yourself, you have to really explore, and this is often quite rewarding, especially 
 beating the two super Weapons at the end. Finding all this stuff is fun and probably will take 
 at least 2 times through the game. 
  
  
  Tilt -- 10. The point is, even if I point out flaws in this game, like the silly field character 
 graphics or the bad music synthesis, or the random encouters sometimes, the important thing is 
 that this game is addictive, fun, and awe-inspiring. It's a little bit like being in the best movie 
 all time, but it's also 30 times longer and fuller than any movie, and you get to actually affect 
 what happens. Sure, not EVERYTHING you do reaches Counterstrike's level of excitement, but the 
 overall fantasy is beyond anything you can imagine. Just buy this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
