-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Doom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/finaldoom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 25, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 5.6, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 527 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     May 31, 1996
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like an aging athlete, the time has come for Doom to hang up its gloves and exit gracefully from 
 the scene. 

 Let me preface this review by saying that I think Doom is one of the most entertaining games of 
 all time. Its innovative gameplay (not to mention the fact that it was the first game to popularize 
 network play) has earned it a spot next to Pong in the Video Game Hall of Fame. Unfortunately, 
 the game that enthralled audiences in 1993 has been surpassed in almost every category by more 
 recent offerings, most notably Duke Nukem 3D and Id's own Quake. Like an aging athlete, the time 
 has come for Doom to hang up its gloves and exit gracefully from the scene.   

 If Final Doom offered new monsters, new weapons, or even new challenges, this would be a very different 
 review. Sadly, all three are lacking in this release. The only tangible benefit Final Doom offers 
 over its predecessors is 64 new maps to play. When you consider that there are literally tens of 
 thousands of levels that can be downloaded off the Internet for free, you have to wonder why a 
 mere 64 levels lists for $54.99!   

 On a more positive note, Id did include executables for both MS-DOS and Windows on the same CD. 
 While the DOS version remains identical to previous releases, the Windows 95 version offers a few 
 cosmetic enhancements - including higher screen resolutions. While these higher resolutions certainly 
 look better than the stock 320x200 mode, the use of low resolution bitmaps still creates some heavy 
 pixelation. In addition, the frame rate takes a nose dive when multiple creatures appear on screen, 
 thus negating any aesthetic benefits the higher resolution may provide.  

 In conclusion, Final Doom may be of interest to gamers who don't already own one of the previous 
 five releases of Doom. If you have already spent your hard-earned dollars on one of the previous 
 titles, though, treat this game like a Baron of Hell - stay very far away from it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Str1keR-S1R
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  OK, Doom & Doom II were fun games. I REALLY mean fun. Doom was a masterpiece, it was a completely 
 new change in the genre, so it doesn't have anything bad going for it. Doom 2 wasn't a masterpiece 
 like Doom, mainly because of the same graphics and game play. However, it was still a great game 
 because it introduced many new enemies and the Double Barrel Shotgun. We would all expect Final 
 Doom to introduce new features, but alas it's more or less the same game.
  
  Final Doom consists of two episodes: TNT Evilution and The Plutonia Experiment. Each episode consists 
 of 31 of the most exhausting levels you'll ever play. The developers obviously tried to make this 
 game much harder than it's predecessors. They have succeeded and that was a huge mistake. The levels 
 were designed to be extremely large so that the developers could stuff in hundreds and hundreds 
 of enemies. The damage the enemies or the environment does has been sightly increased. There are 
 simply hundreds and hundreds of enemies. There are probably 4 times the amount of enemies Doom 
 II had. It can be fun to mow them down in outside areas, but there are many tight corridors that 
 can quickly get overcrowded, making it almost impossible to dodge the enemies attacks. In these 
 situations the player will die several times, so saving your game often is the key to survival. 
 Saving the game and finding health or armor packs becomes a chore, as the player will be under 
 attack almost all the time. There is a 90% chance that once you enter a room, a wall will lift 
 behind you containing several foes. There are no new weapons so you will have to rely on your old 
 weapons (in which some cases aren't enough) to battle the armies of hell. The game is exactly the 
 same as Doom II, just with an increased number of enemies and new levels. There's also the fact 
 that it was released 2 years later. Only get it (if you can) if your body is crying out for more 
 Doom. It can be quite fun at first, but it get's tiresome and can make you go numb and stiff. If 
 you're willing to stand up to the forces of hell again, don't leave your Double Barrel Shotgun 
 at home... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-of-Evil
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Final Doom, which was when I first got Doom Collector's Edition (PC) , I was 
 thrilled that I had another 2 id WADs to play around in.
  Truly, the maps are the same genius that John Carmack and Co have always used, and there are new 
 pieces of scenery, plus some fresh BGM tracks. Monsters are the same as Doom II, no new objects 
 there, same goes with your arsenal, but the new look and feel of Doom somehow doesn't have what 
 it used to.
  
  The game itself is split up into two WADs or stories (even though in this game there really isn't 
 too much of that) . The two stories, Plutonia and TNT : Evilution are expansive, still relatively 
 30 maps, and they have extended the play time by quite a good deal, making this installment much 
 more challenging to complete then Doom or Doom II.
  
  For the fans of Doom II, there is nothing new offered but music and more places to walk around 
 and aimlessly pick up keys and open doors, rinse and repeat. Same old, same old.
  
  Graphics - 5/10
  Sound - 7/10
  Gameplay - 5/10
  Overall - 5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the last and most ambitous sequel to the trilogy to some peoples opinion. There nothing 
 new to this game, same enemies, same weapons, few new songs, and more maps (or levels) . You get to choose 
 a number of 2 stories to this game. Plutonia and TNT. ID Software decided to put the enemy A. I. up 
 a notch, which makes the game a lot harder than the previous games. God, I just wish that they would 
 stop making you start the game with just a pistol. Than that means you will have to go through the 
 game and find some more weapons. After all this time the character designs and background work is 
 still fantastic, but the A. I. has got to go, it's too hard for me to take. Plus there's another change 
 on the damage you take because the A. I. or the difficulty. When you play on Bring It On skill level, 
 this is where the A. I. problem takes place. It's like going through ultra-Violence. Playing on Don't 
 Get Too Rough skill level is a normal A. I. level from the last two games. You get 62 maps (levels) 
 from all the stories combined. The music is another new guest to FInal Doom. But like I just said 
 there are still hordes and hordes of demons that will just keep your killing and action pleasure 
 on for several hours or more, but could be a little difficult. Also this took two years Id to make 
 this game. Two years! That long and nothing good to these people (Not me) that have been suffering 
 without a Doom sequel. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  The PC Final Doom is made up of 2 Doom stories: Plutonia and TNT. They each contain 32 levels so 
 your getting 64 in total which is great. All Doom fans need this addition to the series!
  First off I would like to talk about the game in general. Even though Final Doom brings nothing 
 new in terms of gameplay, enemies or weapons you still get that satisfying action because, in my 
 opinion, Doom and Doom 2 are perfect games. You will notice that the level size has expanded- even 
 though most levels in the game are around the same size as the levels in Doom 2, some levels are 
 huge like Mount Pain and more. Overall TNT and Plutonia will take you longer to complete than any 
 other Doom game because the levels also feel more complex which is good if you like a challenge.
 
  Speaking of challenges, Final Doom is also a lot harder than Ultimate Doom or Doom 2 because many 
 of the enemies featured later in the other Doom games and you will find more weapons earlier. Unfortunately, 
 because there are a lot more enmies at one time, you'll die often because of the lack of ammo and 
 the amount of foes. So it will take several attempts to complete a level sometimes, even on the 
 easy difficulty modes.
  I think the main problem is that the game just doesn't feel as well designed as the other Doom 
 games- some levels arent that good though most are great. But I still think Final Doom is excellent 
 because I just can't get enough of Doom and the gameplays not changed- it's the way I like it!
 
  The main reason I rate it very high is because it's a real challenge and you get 2 Doom stories 
 and a total of 64 levels- you just don't get bored! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Addict247
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  What is it that makes Final Doom so appealing?
  
  It most certainly isn't the graphics. Quake came out the same day as this, and Quake's advanced 
 fully-3D visuals put Final Doom's sprite-based visuals in its place (though Final Doom's style 
 has aged better IMO, in its time there was absolutely no contest in which game was more impressive) . 
 Duke Nukem 3D even, which was months earlier, outclasses this game in graphics. The game doesn't 
 look a hint better than Doom II, which in turn looks the same as the 1993 classic Doom. All the 
 sprites, objects, weapons, effects, and textures (mostly) are identical to previous entries in 
 the series. With the Doom to Doom II comparison, it was more fair because the games were less than 
 a year apart. But considering that Doom to Final Doom is about a two and a half year difference, 
 it's pretty disappointing that no visual upgrades were offered.
  
  It isn't the additions. More specifically, the lack thereof. While Doom II added a new weapon and 
 almost doubled the demon species count compared to Doom, Final Doom adds none, instead giving you 
 more of the same. While the demon slaying is still fun and addictive, the lack of innovation is 
 a bit of a hamper on it.
  
  It also isn't the fact that the game is nothing more than two megawads, the likes of which could 
 probably be found on the internet (I have found one of the two episodes before) for free download, 
 making the game's price a big turn-off.
  
  However, the thing (and probably the sole thing) making this game appealing is the monsters.
 
  
  Doom felt like a massacre. In comparison, Doom II felt like a full-blown war. Going by the same 
 scale, Final Doom feels like you're clearing out the universe. A bad analogy, but it gets the point 
 across.
  
  Though Doom is already synonymous with demon massacres, Final Doom takes the carnage of Doom II 
 and ups the ante ten-fold. The macabre events upgrade with each level that passes. More monsters, 
 smarter monsters, more weapons, more everything. The bloodlust is insatiable in Hell, it seems. 
 For every monster in Doom, there's probably 4 in Final Doom, and chances are the monsters in the 
 latter are probably more well-armed.
  
  I must repeat it. Without the monsters, and the enormously large numbers they often appear in, 
 this game would be nothing. It has nothing on the shock value of its predecessors, nothing on the 
 technicality of its peers, nothing on the innovation of most FPS before it. But when you look at 
 the pure carnage, the nonstop action, Final Doom has little competition. When in the midst of battle, 
 it takes a lot of diverted attention to know (much less care) about the dated visuals, or that 
 the game doesn't add anything.
  
  Final Doom is 64 levels long, which is twice the length of Doom II. It's nice to know that all 
 64 levels support deathmatch and co-op (though still only up to 4 players out of the box, another 
 way in which this game lags behind its peers) . There really are some nice moments in deathmatch, 
 though it must be noted that it's very clear that some levels are definitely designed for single 
 player.
  
  Final Doom simply lives off of the satisfaction of sending hellspawn back to hell. That is its 
 one plus. On the flip side, that's a hard plus to resist. Even if you've already massacred a few 
 thousand demons previously, it's hard to say no to a few thousand more. Everything, the larger 
 levels, the sprite-based visuals, the badass weapons, seems to both give an excuse to have loads 
 of enemies onscreen and actually do so. The geniously addictive design of Doom fuels this game's 
 lifespan. The hardest thing about Final Doom besides completing it is denying that it's dated. 
 But when toting a shotgun and taunting a group of 8+ Cyberdemons to bring it , it's impossible 
 to care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rccars411
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely nothing has changed except for the mapping and a few graphics (for walls and what not) .
 
  
  But, if you were a regular at playing doom on Doom Connector, Zdaemon, or Skulltag, Final doom 
 is worth the purchase.
  
  What is included Final Doom, is 64 maps. 32 for TNT, and 32 for Plutonia. Both IWAD's are loaded 
 with intense maps and placement of baddies... some maps of which, require quite a bit of ATTENTION. 
 You'll run into a few puzzles here and there, but they are definitely frustrating figuring them 
 out the first couple times.
  
  Sound: nothing changed
  Graphics: nothing changed except for wall textures
  Nightmare: still a pain in the rear end to 
 play, but worth every minute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torq2112
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  A big disappointment to play this mediocre game. If Final Doom had new enemies, new weapons, and/or 
 new challenges, this would be a different review. Sadly, this game lacks all three of these. What 
 Final Doom had were two 32-level megawad episodes. Each of these can be fun, but what I'm talking 
 about is the bad idea. The game has the same old weapons, the same old graphics, and the same old 
 enemies, making it a bad solution for Final Doom. If you are going to play this, you're going to 
 get your money back and return the game you have in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The biggest criticism lobbed against Final Doom is that it adds nothing new. The problem is that 
 adding anything new at the time would've been impossible. Before I explain why, you should know 
 some of Final Doom's history first. People have been making levels for Doom for years now. It just 
 so happens that two 32-level packs were made, titled TNT and Plutonia (respectively, the creators 
 go by Team TNT and the Casali Brothers) , and they caught id's eye. The levels impressed id, and 
 the creators were notified that their creation would be commercialized. To note: Id never claimed 
 credit for any of it. At the very least, Wikipedia and other such sources show that the two creators 
 had to redo their levels several times, so the two were either in ties with id, or at least knew 
 about the Final Doom project.
  
  Why is this important? Because when creating levels (at least for Doom) , while the content of the 
 levels is entirely up to the creator, what they can use is limited by what id used. Remember that 
 both sets of levels were .wad files, and as such were limited by what Doom II did. Adding new enemies 
 and weapons would have been impossible. Remember that new mods weren't made until Id released the 
 source code a few years back, when enemies and weapons could now have programmed animations, attacks, 
 and AI. And while Final Doom feels very familiar as a result, it makes up for this by being the 
 longest, most difficult, and most intense Doom game to date.
  
  While the storyline still isn't anything worth mentioning (basically, the same plot as Doom and 
 Doom II, only now there are several more thingamajigs that the story is based around) , it's hard 
 to care. Hell, having been thwarted by Doomguy not just once, but TWICE, is pretty angry. In fact, 
 there's not many opportunities where you will feel all that scared. Instead, there's lots of fighting 
 in Final Doom. Even on the easiest difficulty setting it's no picnic, and on the tougher difficulty 
 levels it's extremely difficult. Even so, I find some of the remarks about the difficulty a bit 
 farfetch'd. Actually, I find the jump from Doom II to Final Doom in difficulty the same as the 
 jump from Doom to Doom II. Sure Doom II was a difficult game, but the jump wasn't just because 
 of more enemies, you had to deal with new enemies as well. At least with Final Doom you don't have 
 much trouble adjusting to the enemies.
  
  And I personally feel that Final Doom has the best level design in the series. While Mt. Erebus 
 on the original Doom was my favorite for a long time, I have to give the nod to Mount Pain (TNT, 
 Level 27) as my new favorite. You start out in a large room, in front of a platform with loads 
 of Shotgun shells and a Super Shotgun in the center. Hop up and grab it, but be quick, as the ceililng 
 above the platform comes crashing down. Several shotgun guys are in the corners of the room and 
 will probably be taking potshots while you grab ammo. Take care of them and then explore for a 
 bit. Two ends of the perimeter show new pathways, one of which evolves into more pathways. While 
 some are brief staircases (one has a health pack and an imp on it) , one is a larger staircase, 
 whose platforms start rising when you step on it. It just feels amazingly cool to rush up the stairs 
 and in perfect timing, hit the next floor just as the platforms stop rising. Up top, blast some 
 of the chaingunners away, but watch out for the fake wall since another shotgunner will fire at 
 you from there. Continue around the corners until you see a medipack in the center of the room. 
 Grab it and the floor starts to lower. You'll notice a horde of imps following you from around 
 the corner and onto the platform. With your [likely] loads of ammo, you should be able to cut some 
 down before you run into trouble, however it's pretty likely that the majority of them will make 
 it to the ground floor as you do. As you hit the ground, you'll take notice of two cages, both 
 containing Arachnotrons. Here they walk around, but you can't hurt them nor can they hurt you. 
 It isn't until one of your stray bullets accidentally strikes one of the cages, releasing them 
 both. You can fire away with your shotgun, but while the imps fall continuously to the assault, 
 the arachnotrons shrug off the shells while countering with their own plasma rifles. To avoid taking 
 damage from the continuous fire, you flee around one of two corners. One has a medikit, which is 
 nice, and the other houses a chainsaw. However, it also holds a Revenant, a walking skeleton that 
 [comically] punches you at close range but fires either more-damaging rockets that only move along 
 a straight trajectory, or less-damaging rockets that follow your movement. Once they're all dead, 
 go across from the risen staircase to find another staircase, however this leads below the surface. 
 Here the lighting is very dark and you'll be continually assaulted by imps as the acid eats your 
 health. You can stay in the acid and lose health, which is the price of more places to move around 
 in. Or you can stay on the sides (which are safe) , but at the price of places to move around. You'll 
 find several radiation shielding suits to help make the journey easier, however they don't last 
 forever so you can't just joke around. A few enemies and a raising platform later, you run into 
 the latter half of the area. Careful searching will net you a nice Plasma Rifle and even a Rocket 
 Launcher, which are great rewards for exploring. You find more imps and are basically moving along 
 an easy-to-solve maze. Once you find the secret wall letting you out, you find yourself in another 
 large room with a large but thin structure in the middle. Grab the armor powerup in the corner 
 as a platform lowers revealing some shotgunners and chaingunners. Take them down and swipe some 
 of the rewards for yourself, not just ammo from the enemies, but more ammo and a Supercharge. Getting 
 this, however, lowers yet another platform revealing not just shotgunners and chaingunners, but 
 more imps as well. Take them down to see that the platform they were in housed a staircase, which 
 appears to be the way out. Several more chaingunners are housed here, but although the lighting 
 is dark their constant firing gives away their position. Take them down and notice that the structure 
 in the middle dropped to reveal an Invincibility Powerup. However, you'll need it, as another horde 
 of enemies ambushes you. While Revenants fire rockets from afar, demons move in close for the kill. 
 Take them down and when you fire away an opening, take advantage and swiftly move while grabbing 
 the powerup, which you'll welcome with open arms. Kill them all to keep them from impeding your 
 progress any more and grab the red keycard in the alcove the horde rested in. Heading back up the 
 staircase, you realize that there were two hallways outside of the main room, but you only explored 
 one. Your hopes high that the use for this keycard lays on the other side, you step forward only 
 to notice a sea of fireballs heading in your direction. A horde of imps came from a lowered structure 
 while you were taking down enemies, and now stand in your way. With the red keycard in tow, however, 
 you can now conquer the latter half of the level. And though I never got to the best part, seeing 
 the mountain (Mt. Pain) at the end, and all the Lost Souls that appear to be infinitely spawning 
 from it. Although you can't explore it without cheats (moving on the platform you're teleported 
 to ends the level) , you can use the IDCLIP cheat to move off the platform without ending the level 
 and can explore the mountain. Actually, there's an enormous part to the end that you can explore. 
 It is far and away the most open-ended space not only in Final Doom, but in the entire series. 
 A huge lava lake, a large mountain, and lots of land to run around on. It's really good stuff. 
 And it encompasses everything the Doom series is known for: lots of action (imp hordes, revenant 
 and demon hordes, arachnotron ambush) , creepy environments (underground acidic sewer) , and memorable 
 moments (mountain and lava lake at the end) .
  
  Keep in mind, that's just one level. While it's definitely the best one (at least IMO) , there are 
 also many more memorable level designs you'll come to remember in time. Remember the cool puzzle 
 in the level Last Call (TNT, Level 30) ? There's a series of torches in the beginning where you 
 start, and you have to memorize the order. Because when you leave the door at the end of the corridor, 
 you'll be presented with a large field of platforms, each with a different colored torch. If you 
 step on the wrong platform at the wrong time, you die instantly. That's just another example. And 
 when it isn't the levels that defines the memories, it's the enemy traps. With all this considered, 
 I have to wonder, even if you don't think Final Doom is the best in the series, is it really that 
 much worse? Sure it seems outdated, but so do many other classic games. Sure it seems overpriced, 
 but if you buy this game, you have to consider the price NOW, which is undoubtedly cheap.
  
  My advice: don't expect too much out of Final Doom; it had two fantastic predecessors to live 
 up to, and coming off of those two Final Doom could be seen as a disappointment. Don't expect anything 
 ultimately groundbreaking. That's all I ask. In exchange, Final Doom will give you some of the 
 best FPS moments you'll probably ever experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  If anyone has ever finished The Plutonia Experiment on hard, Everyone should worship you!!!!!
 
  
  This game has good replay value from my perspective, i enjoy coming on for a round just to blow 
 20 minutes... The Plutonia Experiment is the standout of the two 32 level episodes.
  
  The final level in The Plutonia Experiment pits you against all monsters having their last go at 
 you, you get rounds of all of the monsters (sorry i forget their names) . Not to mention something 
 like 8 of the huge mothers :p.
  
  Just running through this game on god mode should show you how freaking hard this is for any level 
 gamer. I have never come across such a hard game.
  
  This game still has the puzzle elements, which can leave you running all over the map trying to 
 find the next key, but hey thats one of doom's reasons why it succeeds.
  
  Gamespot got this one wrong. I'm sorry but it seems they looked at this game from a noob with no 
 FPS experience's perspective 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Final doom: TNT and Plutonia experiment are still classic doom games.
  plutonia only adds new levels and TNT offers some new music too.
  The games are a lot harder 
 then normal doom and doom 2, but that makes them good!
  
  Gameplay:
  +Old doom gameplay remains
  +A lot more challenging
  +New levels and music
  -Storyline
 
  -No new weapons or enemies
  
  Sounds:
  +I love the monster and weapon sounds
  +New music is great
  
  Graphics:
  +Offers new resolution and graphics options
  +Plays like 
 hell
  -No new enemies or weapons
  
  Value:
  +Replayability
  +New levels rule
  
  Tilt:
  +Doom lives on
  -Storyline sucks
  
  Final doom is a great game for doom lovers, 
 like me.
  Cya and have fun playing these TWO games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauler89
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Final Doom has got to be the first true disappointment in the Doom series on the PC. Final Doom 
 doesnt do anything really new with the Doom formula, opting to instead throw at the player 64 
 new levels that provide an insanely difficult and decidedly unoriginal Doom II-esque experience.
 
  
  The major problem with Final Doom is that it isnt really a true game; instead, it consists of 
 2 .wad files named Evilution (very hard) and Plutonia (for masochists only) , neither of which were 
 developed by id. The problem with selling these new Doom II replacements is that since there are 
 so many good mods for Doom available for free on the Internet, it really didnt make since to charge 
 a full retail price for it. The price is now much lower these days, but it seems silly to purchase 
 the kind of thing you could get without payment.
  
  One of the things you cant help but notice about Final Doom when you play it is how dated the 
 graphics look. The same graphics engine from past Doom games is present here, and despite just 
 how effective it is given how primitive it is from a technical standpoint, it would be nice to 
 see some actual improvement. There are a few new textures to be found in Final Doom, as well as 
 a higher resolution option. Thing is that while the textures are a nice touch, the high res will 
 still leave you with enemies that appear pixilated up close and resemble a vague collection of 
 dots at long range.
  
  Perhaps if the games graphics managed to convey any emotion or sensation of atmosphere, it is 
 possible that most people would be willing to overlook the fact that Final Doom looks like something 
 out of the early 90s. However, thats not the case at all; while there are some nice moments so 
 be found in some of the later levels of Evilution and (occasionally) Plutonia, many parts of Final 
 Doom feel unremarkable, not the least of which are the two new easily forgettable stories.
  Final Doom also fails to gradually increase the pressure on the player the way its predecessors 
 did. Most of the time, youll find yourself experiencing intense waves of frustration and frequent 
 urges to wipe the game from your hard drive. This is mainly due to the decision made by the designers 
 to pit you against numbers of demons per room that are pretty large, even for Doom II (which any 
 Doom II fan will concede is saying something) . In addition to that, youll face off against the 
 toughest monsters in the Doom bestiary during the first few levels, which can make some portions 
 of Final Doom next to impossible to survive.
  
  The gameplay suffers also. Apart from being frustrating, Final Doom can begin to feel like a chore 
 after a while, especially since youll have blown through so many tough foes by the first few levels 
 that the feel more like an annoyance rather than an actual threat. Dont get me wrong, you still 
 will find yourself thinking Dear God whenever you hear the distinct cry of a mancubus or revenant, 
 but it will be in a not again tone rather than one of fear. It also doesn't help that the game 
 mechanics are still the same as they were the last time around (no jumping, aiming, crouching, 
 etc. is to be found anywhere) .
  
  Like every other aspect of Final Doom, the audio is mostly held over from past Doom games, but 
 thats not necessarily a bad thing. The sound effects are all intact and effective, and the now 
 less than ground-breaking MIDI soundtrack is present. The good news is that there are some new 
 tunes for you to listen to, and they arent bad at all. The ones in Plutonia are just some of the 
 pieces you were able to listen to only during the games non-interactive moments, but Evilution 
 features some music that is completely original to the Doom series. The only major complaint I 
 have against against the new music in Evilution is that it plays at a much higher volume from everything 
 else, so you will probably have to fiddle with your volume control when you move to a new level. 
 Also, you will hear some parts of the score played in more than one level in each episode; this 
 is overly pronounced in Evilution, since the new selections are played in exactly the same order 
 over an entire level set. As catchy as some of these are, they would probably get really repetitive 
 fast had it not been for the original Doom music.
  
  The level design in Final Doom is uninteresting for the most part. But, like every other Doom game 
 past and present, things really begin to look better once you get to Hell. Mind, thats assuming 
 that strive through the less compelling half of each .wad file. Less compelling, in truth, is a 
 bit of an understatement; a better description would be tedious and thoroughly uncompelling. Thing 
 is that while the second half of whichever half of Final Doom you opt to play, the entire package 
 comes off as fairly unoriginal. Apart from the few graphical touches and nice audio inclusions, 
 nothing has really changed since Doom II. There are no more new monsters, weapons, or even an ending 
 boss for that matter (the method of dispatching him has been slightly retooled, but is essentially 
 the same) .
  
  Overall, Final Doom is a bit of a let-down that is not for everyone. If youre a die-hard Doomer 
 who can either forgive or overlook the games problems, and you see this one lying around in a 
 bargain bin somewhere, you may want to consider picking it up. More casual gamers should steer 
 clear. Those who are Doomers that are looking for a challenging but manageable experience similar 
 to that of Doom II might want to download Icarus: Alien Vanguard from the Doomworld archives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Final doom is for doom fans 
  non-doom fans will defiantly not understand why such a dated title was introduced to the market 
 in the first place.
  It is a special title for doom fans. If the original doom deserves a 10 so does this doom. Yes 
 it is dated but let us supposed it was released with the first 2 titles doom & doom2. Exactly it 
 would have received a 10. This title was released for the ones who still play the classics so to 
 them it is a classic. Download a doom port (legacy-zdoom) or any other port. Play the game with 
 high resolution and mouse support. Finish it at the hardcore difficulty from beginning to end so 
 that u can truly understand its beauty and acquire the crazy level addiction that all doomers have. 
 Doom is forever.. it becomes stupid to give the title below 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon_02
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  oh dear, oh dear... i'm another gamer to expirence the utter disappointment of FINAL DOOM. this 
 game adds almost nothing new to the DOOM series apart from 64 new levels, which were nothing flash 
 or needed since you make your own levels for both DOOM 1 and 2. there many things that could've 
 saved this game. one would be some gameplay improvement, like the ability to move your gun up and 
 down and around the screen to get perfect head shots. or the much needed ability to jump and more 
 improved graphics.
  
  however, none of these few things out of a list of many are featured in FINAL DOOM. if you want 
 to a play a disappointing game, go right ahead, but even if your a fan of the DOOM games, (1 and 
 2) you should stay away from this game. you won't be disappointed if you stay away.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Final DOOM is a great game for the Ultimate first person shooter DOOM series. It has 2 storylines 
 called TNT and Plutoino Experiment. Sorry about the spelling. The gameplay is good the graphics 
 are good but not perfect and it is really fun play DOOM games when your bored. Final DOOM has got 
 some new monsters, the levels are good, the music is great and that is good. So if you want tthe 
 entire DOOM series i say you get the DOOM-Collector's Editon that has all 3 games and previews 
 of DOOM 3. have and i got it with good value. I got it for $20. What a bargain! I say DOOM 2 is 
 the best in the DOOM series except DOOM 3 but I will get that soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  this feels like an extremely cheap level pack. I dont know why everyone likes it, just a whole 
 bunch of new levels, no new enemies, no new bosses, no new weapons, and i just lost my will to 
 live at level 15 of TNT. come on ID! make something better! untill then, final doom will have a 
 place in hell. i liked doom2, it was my favorite, if this could just add some decent weapons and 
 bosses, it would be great, but until then (which never came) i will just sit here and play hl2, 
 doom 2 DARWINIA! and all the other games i like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  The good old doom classic games brought back from the sega consol.
  I was pleased to re-see this game brought out for the PC as i enjoyed playing this bloody game, 
 also a great multiplayer game to enjoy with your mates.
  
  Doom always had alot of cool weapons and fun acid barrels to blow up to exploded in enemys faces.
 
  
  Runnng around shooting every demon you see and finding hidden stages, behind trapped walls or unlocking 
 certain traps to revel hidden wall and lifts always made this game seem some what more intreseting 
 to me.
  
  When a game is just ruled out with a stright forward map, it can seem quite dull. But if you know 
 that there might be hidden rooms that contain for example a CHAINSAW, then doesnt it make you want 
 to search the level a little longer to find the CHAINSAW.
  
  Hell i know i did.
  
  So i made sure each stage was alway at 100% before leaving the level.
  
  I cant truthly say 
 i always got the 100% but i did give it a good go and did get above the 80% or more, and not under.
 
  
  As this final doom contains all the expansions all on this game, i was pleased to buy it.
  
 
  Now i can play the game when i wish, with out plugging the old consols into the main just to play 
 this game again.
  
  Now where did i leave my ROCKET BLASTER.???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Final Doom is only worth playing when considering the hefty amount of levels the game has to offer. 
 It's absolutely, disastrously outdated with the current times, with the release of Quake only a 
 few months apart from this game to make this game seem like a useless effort. 
  
  To make matters worse, there's no new weapons or enemies, just the same things we've seen in Doom 
 2. If this was considered before the game's release, this would've amounted for at least 3 full 
 points improvement in the score for positive note. The only real noticeable new feature is slightly 
 better resolution, that's it. 
  
  64 levels just isn't enough to cut it sometimes. Even with the at-times frustratingly difficult 
 challenge some of the levels have to offer, the game doesn't save itself from disaster. The levels 
 are absolutely opposite of innovative, there is nothing exciting here, since we've seen everything 
 there is to be seen in the past two titles. 
  
  A noteworthy exception to the new features (of which of course there are next to none) is the new 
 music. Some of the tracks are actually good, better than what we've heard in the past games. Yet 
 this doesn't serve up to the score in the game. 
  
  The only thing you should do with Final Doom is to just kill some time with it. There is just 64 
 levels, two new storylines, and deceptive new textures. Yet there is nothing new. Don't get too 
 excited for it, since although it is an at times fun time-killer, it just isn't exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Final Doom is not a good place to start for newbies to the Doom franchise as this is NOT an original 
 game. Final Doom is basically Doom II with 64 brand new levels. Nothing more, nothing less. No 
 new weapons, no new monsters. Sure, there are a few new textures, but does that justify paying 
 a premium price-tag? I think not.
  
  At least now you can purchase the game alongside the first two games for only AUD$20 (or less) , 
 or you can get them all free with your purchase of Doom 3.
  
  Unregardless, the levels in this game are VERY good, particularly for deathmatches, and the second 
 batch of 32 levels (Plutonia) is (nearly) impossibly difficult, and includes the hardest Doom level 
 ever "Go 2 It", which astonishly can be completed in Nightmare mode in just over 1 minute (I downloaded 
 a video to prove it!) .
  
  Final Doom at the time was very dated (considering that Quake and Duke Nukem 3D were already out) , 
 and considering that there was almost no new content, it was hard to recommend to anybody.
  
  However now that you can purchase Doom as a complete trilogy for a rock-bottom price, you can't 
 go wrong with Final Doom if you're looking for a fresh new challenge with all your favourite denizens 
 from hell.
  
  Gameplay - The same old gameplay from Doom and Doom II. You're basically getting 2 brand new episodes, 
 each consisting of 32 levels. If you're playing multiplayer, there are plenty of levels to keep 
 you busy yet.
  
  Graphics - At the time, the graphics were very dated considering that superior 3D games were released 
 at the time.
  
  Sound - The sound is the same as the old 1993 version of the game, which isn't too bad. The music 
 has an appropriately eerie feel to it, and the background noises from the demons are creepy, and 
 great.
  
  Value - Complete rip-off. At least now you can get it for free with Doom III or with the Doom Collector's 
 Edition. Imagine releasing a new Grand Theft Auto game with all the same content as their previous 
 games? Hold that thought. They've actually done that with the PSP version of the game. Go figure. 
 :-p
  
  Tilt - Trying to beat all the levels in single-player will keep you busy for a while, and multiplayer 
 mode is insanely addictive.
  
  If we were currently living in 1996, I'd tell you to stay the hell away from this game at all costs, 
 but considering how cheap the game is now, I say go for it, presuming that you've already played 
 Doom II before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFBrat77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  Ultimate DOOM and DOOM II are two of the best games of all-time even to this day. DOOM II IMO remains 
 the best game of all-time.
  
  Final DOOM came out nearly two years after DOOM II and uses the same engine, monsters etc. as that 
 classic game. However, while DOOM II got it all right, Final DOOM gets it all wrong.
  
  Final DOOM is much more uneven than either of the first 2 DOOM games. Instead of gradually increasing 
 the tension in the game, Final DOOM throws out most of the more menacing monsters at you right 
 at the start of the game, on the first levels in fact! From there on, the game does this each level 
 until you get bored to tears doing the same thing over and over. Because of this, the game never 
 really gets very tense or gives any kind of adrenaline rush. Instead, unlike the first 2 games 
 it feels like a chore after a few levels, since you will just be fighting the same monsters through 
 the remainder of the game.
  
  I didn't like the level design for Final DOOM as much as the previous DOOM games either (especially 
 DOOM II) , none of it feels especially creepy or keeps you fearful of what lies behind the doors. 
 Since you have already fought plenty of Hell Knights, Mancubi, Cacodemons, Demons, Revenants, Arachnotrons, 
 and Pain Elementals by level 3 (lol) , only something like a rare Cyberdemon, Spider Mastermind, 
 or Arch-vile could scare you for the rest of the game.
  
  For a game that was released shortly before Quake, Final DOOM offers very little graphical or sound 
 improvement over the first 2 DOOM games. Its nice to see a game with 64 levels, but 64 levels of 
 dissapointing gameplay is still a dissapointment.
  
  Final DOOM is not a horrible game, but for those who want to play it, your best bet is to get the 
 DOOM Collectors Edition, which includes the far superior Ultimate DOOM and DOOM II as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Reaper007
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Wow, gamespot, no, just no, the game is way cooler than than, im disappointed, lol, i thought the 
 game was fun, oldskool, i spent quite a lot of time playin the game, brings bak memories from when 
 i wuz a little kid. Not as good as the others but still pretty fun, i would recoment it to the 
 doom fans. Myself, i love doom (though 3 threw me off ) and this 1 adds to the fun. i jus cant 
 unterstand y it would recieve such a poor grade, maybe they were tired, or very hungy, or maybe 
 made mistakes when rating it, whatever they did i reward them with the "golden NO reward" of 2005.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 30, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Final Doom may be outdated but for Doom fans wanting more levels for both single and multiplayer 
 it is worth owning. The game has no new aspects like enemies or weapons but it uses the same methods 
 employed in previous Dooms to make some interesting environments and ways to manipulate them. Nothing 
 is drastic but it is cool anyway. It offers two different long campaigns with some pretty neat 
 levels (an archville infested maze) , and some drab ones. The multiplayer is also the same as older 
 DOOM games but it has the new levels which add some variety. Real devoted DOOM fans should, and 
 probably already do, own this title. The missions are also unbelievably hard too and to beat this 
 is to be one hell of a DOOM expert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterHarryZ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  If you played Doom II and thought it was too easy, welcome to heaven. Two new Doom games to play 
 through, each as big as Doom II. If you do the maths, this game gives you TWICE as much fun as 
 Doom II - and would have been perfect, had one level not been broken.
  
  As before with Doom and Doom II, there isn't much in the way of a storyline. Demons from Hell take 
 over a UAC base and kill everyone. You get sent in alone, with a pistol, to take care of business. 
 Plot writing for Doom games is obviously not id Software's strong point.
  
  As mentioned above, Final Doom consists of two new episodes: TNT Evilution, and The Plutonia Experiment.
 
  
  In terms of level design, TNT Evilution is fairly similar to Doom II. You go from a UAC base to 
 the depths of Hell, increasing your arsenal along the way. One small problem lies within TNT Evilution 
 - in Level 31, a keycard is missing. It's simply not possible to finish the game without some sort 
 of patch, or resorting to the IDCLIP cheat. By id Software's standards, this is a colossal and 
 baffling oversight.
  
  The Plutonia Experiment is something else entirely. Rather than start off easy and gradually crank 
 up the difficulty over the course of its 32 levels, it chooses instead to throw Arch Viles, Revenants 
 and Mancubus (Mancubi??) at you from the get-go. Doom newcomers need not apply. And the bonus levels 
 are, as id claims, the hardest Doom levels ever. Eight Cyberdemons at once, anyone?
  
  If not for the glaring level bug in TNT, and the fact that the Plutonia levels are so hard, Final 
 Doom would have been perfect. But the level bug can be fixed with a patch, and you can always use 
 "IDDQD" for Plutonia. Final Doom is an excellent finale to possibly the greatest game of all time.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 7, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  Doom II was a fantastic game for it's time and far better than it's predecessor Doom. Final Doom 
 was released two years later in a time when almost every game had entered the fully three dimensional 
 universe. Final Doom still held the graphics of it's previous installment; a mix between 2D and 
 3D graphics. This continuation of previous graphics did not go down well with the public. With 
 a new Doom, there was high expectations for better graphics, new weapons, new monsters, etc. Final 
 Doom came with no new features, just the same old graphics engine and gameplay.
  
  The only relatively new feature in the game was the amount of levels. In Doom II, there are exactly 
 32 levels. In Final Doom, however, there are 64 brand new levels. This is the only really relevant 
 feature in the game. This is let down by the difficulty in the game. There are two game modes; 
 TNT and Plutonia. Each mode holds 32 different levels. TNT is almost impossible while Plutonia 
 is modereately hard. 
  
  There are no new monsters in the game whatsoever, and no diversity in gameplay. Those who have 
 played Doom II know how to evade the enemies, and know their weakspots. What the game lacks in 
 strategic development, it tries to make up for in number of opponents. Even the first level contains 
 one of the hardest enemies in the game.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Final Doom is an entertaining game. But it lacks the challenge and experience 
 of the previous title. If you want to buy this game, buy it in the triple pack with Doom, Doom 
 II, and itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisty
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2004 1:51 pm PT
Review:  jeez gamespot, what happened with this review ???
  Are you kidding???
  
  simply put DooM, at least in my mind, is the best of all time. In fact it should be noted that 
 were it not for Doom we may not be experiencing the fruits of the gaming world right now. Those 
 who doubt this i'd like to note i said may not.
  
  
  Gameplay : 10
  
  overwhelmingly easy, yet suitable for the game. At the time sure you couldnt jump, crouch or crawl, 
 you simply didn't need to. You were way too busy blasting enemies to care.
  
  Graphics : 10
  
  Hey, at the time, boy were they something ground-breaking. The first time 
 my dad brought in the original DooM, I remember seeing our computer lag like it had never lagged 
 before.
  
  Sound : 10
  
  Just like the graphics, brilliant. Countless times i remember hearing the moans and the grunts 
 of the demons. you could probably even have an accurate guess of where they were coming from. sooo, 
 particularly at the time, groundbreaking.
  
  Value : 10
  
  hmmmmm, best game of all time errrr.... yeh thats good enough reason to give value a 10.
  
 
  Tilt : 10
  
  grief did my skool work suffer lol. hours and hours of fun. Tho the levels were the same each time 
 you played, it still seemed like a completely new experience each time you played it. truly ..... 
 too much fun !!! 
  
  Overall :
  
  The game that got me forever hooked in the gaming world has never, nor will it ever, lose it's 
 charm. Its a timeless classic. Thanks ID for changing the gaming world forever !!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
