-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy XI Chains of Promathia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ffxichainsofpromathia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 502 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Sep 21, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's designed exclusively for Final Fantasy XI's most dedicated players, and probably should have 
 been a downloadable update for those players. 

  Square Enix's Final Fantasy XI has grown into maturity since it was first released several years 
 ago in Japan. By the time the game made it to the States for the PC last year and for the PlayStation 
 2 earlier this year, it was already stable, home to a large population of players, and filled with 
 tons of content to explore, spread across its vast (though sometimes empty-seeming) world of Vana'diel. 
 Though Final Fantasy XI has its own distinct look and some unique game mechanics, the game clearly 
 follows in the footsteps of predecessors like EverQuest -- and not just in terms of the game itself. 
 Like other online RPGs, Final Fantasy XI has now spawned a couple of retail expansion packs. The 
 first, Rise of the Zilart, actually comes bundled with the US versions of the game, and most notably 
 adds some intriguing new character classes (or "jobs") to the mix. The second, Chains of Promathia, 
 is Final Fantasy XI's first retail expansion sold separately outside of Japan, but it's designed 
 exclusively for Final Fantasy XI's most dedicated players, and probably should have been a downloadable 
 update for those players.  

          Chains of Promathia adds lots of new areas to explore in Final Fantasy XI's world of Vana'diel, 
 but unless you've already seen all that the game has to offer, this new content isn't for you. 
     

  Chains of Promathia does nothing to fundamentally change or improve Final Fantasy XI, but is instead 
 focused on appealing to those already devoted to the game -- and not just to the core combat elements, 
 either. Like most online RPGs, Final Fantasy XI encourages its players to spend much of their time 
 banding together and taking on the game's various monsters. Fighting hundreds of monsters back-to-back 
 is definitely a grind, but gaining experience levels in the game -- though a slow process -- can be 
 pretty satisfying, thanks to the open-ended job system. Since characters may freely change jobs 
 (say, from a warrior to a thief) , and may eventually pick a support job to bolster their main set 
 of abilities, it's possible to build a strong and uniquely specialized character in Final Fantasy 
 XI. The Rise of the Zilart expansion augmented this key aspect by adding some compelling new job 
 options, including Final Fantasy favorites like the dragoon and the ninja.  

  By contrast, Chains of Promathia is purely a content upgrade -- there are new areas to explore, new 
 items to find, new monsters to fight, and new missions and quests to undertake. This content is 
 suitable only for highly experienced players and will be far out of everyone else's reach. Unless 
 you're at least level 30, you'll be prohibited from accessing the expansion's new content. Most 
 Chains of Promathia players agree, though, that you need to be at least level 50 to begin to cope 
 with the challenges here. So, in short, if you don't already have this expansion pack, it's probably 
 not for you. That's because, if you don't already have this expansion pack, either you're not a 
 hardcore-enough Final Fantasy XI player to cut it, or you're not a Final Fantasy XI player in the 
 first place.  

  For what it's worth, those who are capable of venturing into Chains of Promathia's new areas will 
 find at least some of them to be a noticeable depature from what they've seen so far in Final Fantasy 
 XI. Subterranean areas like Pso'Xja and the Phomiuna Aqueducts add more dungeon-style environments 
 to the game's predominantly sprawling overworld. In a nod to  The NeverEnding Story , other areas 
 are affected by a malevolent force called the Emptiness, which seems to be eating away at the land 
 and is host to some bizarre alien creatures. As mentioned, questing is a heavy focus of Chains 
 of Promathia, so those dedicated players who primarily enjoy Final Fantasy XI's combat may find 
 that the expansion's content isn't really for them. These quests involve some new characters and 
 expand upon the game's surprisingly rich backstory, but again, unless you're enthralled by the 
 history and future of Vana'diel, this material isn't going to draw you in. As for Promathia's new 
 enemies, some of them look pretty impressive, but others (namely, the goblinlike moblins) are clearly 
 based on existing foes in the game. On the plus side, the expansion adds some new music tracks 
 to the mix, and they are just as noteworthy as the rest of Final Fantasy XI's music.  

          Final Fantasy XI is rather unfriendly to new or more-casual players, and Chains of Promathia 
 does nothing about this.     

  As if Chains of Promathia needed any more barriers to entry, installation of this expansion pack 
 is a laborious and time-consuming process that rivals the egregiously lengthy setup time needed 
 for Final Fantasy XI itself. After a prolonged installation to hard disk, there's an obligatory 
 checking of all the data files, as well as a hefty patch that needs downloading. All told, it'll 
 be a good couple of hours between the time you open the game's box and the time you're actually 
 able to start playing Final Fantasy XI again. This begs the question of why this expansion pack's 
 content couldn't have just been downloaded. Such a narrowly focused expansion, which really does 
 nothing to address the fact that Final Fantasy XI is an "old boys club" that repels new players, 
 has little reason to be on store shelves.  

  Final Fantasy XI has stood the test of time and become internationally successful. It's a very 
 time-consuming game that's certainly not for everyone, but many of those who've played it can attest 
 to its addictive quality. It's great that Square Enix has supported Final Fantasy XI with regular 
 updates, including seasonal in-game events, as well as with expansion packs. However, one of the 
 goals of retail expansion packs such as Chains of Promathia ought to be to help introduce new or 
 more-casual players to what makes Final Fantasy XI a great game, but Chains of Promathia doesn't 
 even attempt this.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jamesz25
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  basically i think that this game is up to standard... it a well generated game that has all the 
 featuers that a game player could wish for its also online so you cant speak to anyone and play 
 around and have a bit of fun. i recently had a chat with someone else who played this game online 
 and he said "it was really fun looking around, talking to other people who are at their computers 
 at that same time lol... he sumed the game up at a number out of 10. that number was 7. I rate this 
 game out of 10...9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyer001
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  there are some things that should be left for the single person to get by himself on his own such 
 as all these artifact armor peices and wepons for a certain class or race. that kind of thing should 
 be left for the solo person to get by himself.. thats what i was expecting in a game a mixture 
 of both single play and multi needs.. this game only has multi needs becuase its a multi online 
 game.. they never addressed the type of person who likes to play online with friends and go solo 
 places.. things in this game you can solo u need to be 20 levels higher than to even attempt it, 
 with good gear i should add.. sure you can solo when you start but after level 10 your dun. unless 
 you goty a pt or a beastmaster. experience seems to be gained way to slow compared to the old console 
 games. 200-400 max exp a creature is really bad by the time your 70 beleive me. take all day if 
 not 2 days for one level. and i have a job and real world to attend to aswell so for me it makes 
 my leveling get boring after about 5 300 exp creatures having to get 30k+ exp to even get close 
 to leveling. i am a final fantasy finatic since final fantasy 1 on the snes, played all ofem and 
 beatem all. final fantasy 11 online was like to me when i herd of it. omg an online version sweet 
 ", then when i found out i had to get all "MY OWN" gear ( talking gear only i can wear.. Artifact 
 armor such" that totally threw me away from the game becuase for one its my gear not theres .. 
 why do i need help getting my stuff thats only for me. that should be my problem not others to 
 help me on. i wanted to do that kinda stuff on my own. i can see helping to get to a new area or 
 whatnot but for armor.. come on ya know? Now im stuck with the new problem of finding 18 people 
 that got theres already that wont help becuase they got theres. so i waste days in an area shouting 
 for help that i dont recieve. and the getting money in this game.. shot right out the window to 
 even get something for a new person.. gil sellers all over the game ruin it completely for the 
 people who enjoy trying to make that last 30k on a nice item, now that item will sit there waiting 
 for you to buy for litterally a half a year to make what was worth little less than say 50k to 
 now what is at say 1million. that is a big ruin of the game. theres another aspect i disliked was 
 these things they call NM's ( notorious monsters ) one of its kind in each area that people sit 
 at constantly to make money not giving anyone else a chance to even get a shot at it. and the times 
 they show are so far and few between its rediculus to even try. im a very high level in this game 
 and have all jobs aquired and leveld aswell. ive been on this game more than a year and a half 
 and the only reason im on it still is becuase of the friends ive made here in t he game. its mainly 
 a chat room to me with graphics at the moment. unless they change some aspects of this game and 
 how its run and take off limitations to certain enemys or areas i think ill be saving the few bucks 
 a month im spending on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genexi2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is one of the many growing MMOs in the crowded genre, and after being out for quite awile, 
 it was time SquareEnix released an expansion, which in this case, is titled "Chains of Promathia".
 
  
  The expansion adds a butt-load of new areas & content into an already huge online RPG game, which 
 will certainly add hours upon more hours of gameplay. 
  
  The most notable addition in this expansion is a fully developed story-line, it makes everything 
 else in the game story-wise (the 3 nations & the Rise of the Zilart expansion {RoZ} ) pale in comparison, 
 and it also does an excellent job tying in topics & point out references presented in the other 
 expansion RoZ and the base-game itself, which makes the story feel that it belongs in with the 
 existing land, along with the fact it brings in even more hints as to what the next expansion will 
 include, which by now has already been announced to take place in the Far-East lands, where the 
 Samurai originated.
  
  Aside from that, nothing much has changed gameplay wise, it's still as solid as ever though, but 
 life has been easier since they adjusted the Experiance-Point "slope" for levels after 50 to 75 
 (the current level cap) to make the experiance grind a lot less stressful by making the XP needed 
 per level climb gradually rather then huge chunks every few levels.
  
  Graphically, all the new areas in the game look spectacular, to the point where you wish SquareEnix 
 would go over the existing lands and make them look just as pretty, the foilage, the texturing 
 work, the amount of polygons they're pushing into the areas, the new monsters, everything. Only 
 issue about the graphics are noticable only on the PC version where some textures may appear a 
 bit low-rez, like the skies in a couple of the new areas, on the PS2 this is unnoticable as the 
 TV does wonders to low resolution graphics. The cutscenes in the game also make spectacular use 
 of particle and sprite effects to really bump-up the overall quality of the expansion, to the point 
 where the frame-rate suffers a little bit on the PS2 edition, but it's worth the compromise to 
 achieve such gorgeous looking effects.
  
  In the sound department, the new tunes fit in very well, the new collection of battle music is 
 nice and strong, the boss music really sets the mood well for what to expect to fight, and the 
 new monsters sound just like they should. Only problem I have come across with is that the new 
 battle music can get on your nerves a bit with long experiance sessions, as the majority of them 
 have a dramatic opening, if SquareEnix were to have had the battle music continue where it last 
 left off from the previous fight, this wouldn't have been an issue.
  
  This expansion overall was made to keep existing players occupied with the enormous game for quite 
 a long while, though an attempt to make the new content accessible to newer users was made by placing 
 level-caps (restricting your characters level that is temporary only in the specific area) in the 
 new missions, which starts off at level 30, and rises throughout the story. This would have worked 
 well, if it weren't for the fact the battlefield fights in the game can be dreadfully difficult, 
 requiring multiple runs to get a stratedgy down, or to test a new stratedgy using a different team 
 setup, or just hoping to win by luck. 
  
  Though on the plus side it does challenge (sometimes too much of a challenge on a couple specific 
 late-missions) the existing players by having to rely on stratedy and team-work (and money to purchase 
 a lot of medicines, and gear to match the capped level) to win the fights, over being level 75 
 with great gear to just plow through them all and have access to the all the new areas, as was 
 the issue with the RoZ expansion.
  
  To wrap things up, if you currenty own Final Fantasy XI, and have made it past level 60 and are 
 still playing strong without signs of quitting soon, this expansion is worth it, even if you dont 
 want to play through the missions (it is hard as heck to beat it via pickup groups, you either 
 need a linkshell that works on it, or a static group) and get access to the drop-dead gorgeous 
 looking region known as Al'Taieu, the expansion will provide you with means of new areas to experiance 
 in, the most popular new area being Bibiki Bay, and fighting new Notorious Monsters with a large 
 group of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingblade23
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  It may seem a little wierd at first, but when you get far enough CoP rocks. The Promyvion (promy) 
 area is great, and though there are no new jobs, who cares? I spent about 50% of my time killing 
 emptiness, and the new movalpolis area is fun. My favorite area of CoP is the Bibiki Bay. Beautiful 
 in every way, this area made me feel at ease in an instant. I'm sure any hardcore FFXI lover will 
 agree: nothing beats taking a trip on the manaclipper with your LS. Killing monsters, hunting buffalo, 
 fishing... Basically, the world of Vana'diel has tons of new areas, some new monsters, and a new 
 storyline. I recommend this for anyone who loves FFXI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamengel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I been playing FF11 for a while already, and i got some jobs to lv 68, and wow! i got to say when 
 you are that lv and still having problems with level restrictions in some of the COP areas when 
 doing the missions or quest, well lol it sucks. But the grapics and the music makes it worth it. 
 Its Totaly alwesome game!! I recomend it to anyone who is a FinaFanatasy fun. I played everquest 
 but i didnt like it because of the graphics, it looks to much like blurr paints in the backgrounds, 
 and the characters are not fully detail like of thos from FFXI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: middlefinger
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 20, 2004 12:52 am PT
Review:  CoP has a few new areas and some more quests and missions, but that's it. Half of the new areas 
 require an insanely hard quest to complete before you can access them. And since it requires at 
 least a 6 member pt for a lv30 cap area, it gets increasingly harder to get people to do it as 
 the days go by. The other areas are all just whoop-dee-doo to me, because there were still existing 
 areas that are left to be explored. Most of these places have the same mobs w/ different names 
 as per the norm in most of FFXI. I've had CoP since it came out, and I haven't used or even wanted 
 to use anything it has offered yet. It's wrong to even call it an expansion, as it is more like 
 an update that you shell out 30 bucks for. If you are getting bored with the game, CoP will do 
 absolutely nothing to get you more interested. That's what an expansion is supposed to do, and 
 CoP fails miserably there. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
