-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FirePower for Microsoft Combat Flight Simulator 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/firepower/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 126 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GMX Media
Developer: Shockwave Prod.
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Jun 11, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FirePower is what Combat Flight Simulator 3 should have been in the first place, and it is a must-have 
 expansion for current or potential owners of that sim. 

  Some add-ons bolt new features onto games, and others make good games better, but the rarest mod 
 is one that transforms a decent title into something truly outstanding. FirePower is what Combat 
 Flight Simulator 3 should have been in the first place, and it is a must-have expansion for current 
 or potential owners of that sim.  

          Berlin gets a taste of nuclear justice.     

  FirePower makes so many changes to CFS3 that it's difficult to know where to begin, but the included 
 FirePower Series Certified Aircraft are arguably the best part of the package. The development 
 team interviewed more than two dozen WWII vets who actually flew and fought in the aircraft of 
 the period to get a sense of each plane's unique characteristics that goes way beyond raw stats. 
 The end result is that the "certified" planes fly the way they are described in pilot biographies 
 instead of "by the book," and each has a distinct personality. This is most evident in their stall 
 behavior, which is modeled much better than stalls in IL-2.  

  There is a good mix of new planes to wring out, and the bombers are the best of the bunch. Although 
 they were not used in the European theater, flyable B-29As are included and are great for what-if 
 scenarios. B-17F and B-17Gs also are included, and all of the stations on these new American bombers 
 are modeled in meticulous detail.  

  Brit aficionados get the Lancaster bomber and English variants of P-40N and P-40F fighters, and 
 there's even a French D.520 that's a hoot to fly, but German pilots get most of the new toys. These 
 include two versions of the Do 217 night fighter, four versions of the versatile Me 410 fighter/bomber, 
 two Ta152 high-altitude interceptors, two Ta154 all-wood fighter/bombers, and that's just the beginning. 
 There are also jet and rocket aircraft like the Ar234-B bomber, the He162A-2 fighter, and the swept-wing 
 Ta183 that was the precursor to fighters from the Korean War era. The oddest additions are the 
 Me 334, which fuses a tailless pusher-prop fuselage with the wings of an Me 163, and the Ho 228 
 V5, a supersonic version of the Go 229 flying wing jet fighter. All of the new planes look fantastic 
 inside and out, especially when light reflects realistically off the virtual cockpits.  

  All of the new aircraft are just window dressing unless you have something to do with them, and 
 FirePower doesn't slack off in this regard. A variety of instant-action missions are included that 
 use the new planes, and additional missions are hosted at fan sites throughout the Internet, but 
 the real highlight is a 25-mission re-creation of the B17-F Memphis Belle's tour of duty. You get 
 to participate in all of the daylight bombing raids that this famous real-life aircraft (and her 
 crew) completed, and once you finish the campaign you'll understand how thankful the crew must 
 have been to return to the US after that last mission to participate in a War Bond drive.  

          Flak bursts illuminate the virtual cockpits to create a dramatic light show at night. 
     

  FirePower definitely lives up to its name, as nuclear bombs top the long list of weapons additions 
 and enhancements. These are the real deal -- Fat Man and Little Boy are both selectable as payloads, 
 and dropping one results in an enormous mushroom cloud and an absolutely devastated landscape. 
 Unless you're careful with the release, shockwaves reach up to flip your heavy B-29 like it's being 
 rattled around in God's own dice cup. Players who want to get serious about becoming death incarnate 
 without going nuclear can instead load up a specialized Lancaster with a Grand Slam bomb that weighs 
 in at 22,000 pounds -- 7,000 pounds heavier than the largest "daisy-cutter" bunker-busters used today. 
     

  The game's graphics -- particularly the special effects -- are overhauled completely. The first thing 
 any FirePower player should do is load up a night bombing attack over a target that is heavily 
 defended by antiaircraft guns. The fiery bursts of flak that pop in seemingly random patterns around 
 the plane as you approach the target illuminate the interior of the aircraft and make for a harrowing 
 experience. Explosions from dropped bombs are spectacular, and manning a gun turret and watching 
 tracers arc all across the night sky as bright engine fires from stricken wingmen begin to appear 
 all around you is downright eerie. Bombs and other explosives cause their targets to smoke and 
 burn, making it easy to line up for a second pass or just to determine where weapons are hitting. 
 This is important, because the new damage model means smaller munitions must strike several times 
 before destroying armored targets. Air combat is much deadlier than in the standard game, and engines 
 (especially jets and water-cooled inline engines) are particularly vulnerable to damage. Sound 
 effects are pumped up a bit, but the graphical enhancements are definitely more noticeable.  

 
          That fire truck has its work cut out for it.     

  All of these sweeping changes and additions would be more than enough to justify the price of the 
 add-on, but numerous little touches also are included that add much more depth to the sim. G view 
 is a perfect example. One of the main differences between real and simulated flight is that pilots 
 in the real world get constant G feedback to ease seat-of-the-pants flying. Sim pilots have to 
 keep an eye on the amount of speed they are bleeding off, watch for blackout or redout effects, 
 and waste time looking or listening for all sorts of other clues as to how many Gs they are pulling. 
 G view provides at least a little more feedback by shifting the pilot's view slightly to visually 
 depict G forces. If you pull a lot of positive Gs, the virtual cockpit appears to move upward slightly 
 in your view as you sink into your virtual seat. If you relax pressure, your view becomes centered 
 again. The movement is tied directly to Gs and not to speed or any other factor, so it is helpful 
 in dogfights but virtually nonexistent (and therefore completely unobtrusive) during landings. 

  The appropriately named taxi view helps during takeoffs. Most WWII aircraft were long-snouted tail-draggers 
 that completely obscured the pilot's view of the ground when the plane taxied to the runway, and 
 most WWII sim pilots work around the problem by switching to an external view or making the cockpit 
 invisible. Taxi view solves the dilemma by using the same technique WWII pilots used -- opening the 
 canopy and sticking your head out of the side of the cockpit. It's a feature that every other WWI 
 and WWII sim should copy.  

          Virtual cockpits like this one for the B-17G are modeled in great detail.     

  The 
 only downside to all this good stuff is the impact it has on the game's frame rate. The stock installation 
 worked smoothly at 1600x1200 resolution on our test system, but we had to bump the resolution down 
 to maintain the same frame rate during most FirePower missions. The improvements are worth it, 
 and sim fans with powerful machines will definitely want to spring for this upgrade. IL-2 may reign 
 as king of the skies, but thanks to FirePower, nothing can touch CFS3 in terms of ground-pounding 
 thrills.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Andilliio
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I loved Flight Simulator 3 but this game makes it even better. It adds so many new planes! And 
 it adds so many new missions as well. The new planes for the mos part are just as fun to fly as 
 the old ones and the bombers are bigger and better. This expansion adds such famous bombers as 
 the B-17 and the B-24 which are amazingly fun in this simulator. The campain isn't changed much 
 and the new planes don't have any stats but other than that this is a huge improvement over the 
 original. You will have so many missions to play that this game will probably have hundreds of 
 gameplay hours on it before you are done. My favorite part of the Combat flight simulators has 
 always been the instant action quick combat part. With all the ne planes added you will be able 
 to set up countless new scenarios to fly even when the missions are all done. The mechanics of 
 the original game and the controlls aren't changed much except the explosions look a lot cooler 
 because when a plane crashes it sends a huge shockwave into the surrounding landscape. The controls 
 and mechanics were pretty good in the first one so I don't think it so bad that they are unchanged. 
 Overall flight simulator 3 firepower is a must have for any flight inthusiest. 
  Graphics: 8
  Story:7
  Gameplay:9
  Replay:9
  Multyplayer:8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1990
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Firepower is a great improvement to the original formula of CFS3. It provides sufficient new features 
 to increase the quality and variety of the game. Mainly, this add-on has enough to make it worth 
 purchasing. The game play is better from CFS3, in that there are many more planes to fly, as well 
 as many more missions. Flight models are more accurate, and weapon effects are more realistic. 
 Bullets do more realistic damage to planes, and therefore fewer shots are required to destroy objects. 
 Bomb effects are decreased, and more realistic. Fewer buildings are destroyed with bombs dropped 
 on the realistic setting. The graphics have also improved significantly. Explosions are modeled 
 better, bomb effects have been improved, as well as bullet splash effects. When bullets run into 
 planes, debris flies off behind the plane, and it actually feels like the plane is being ripped 
 apart. The new effects are about as far as it goes, for graphics improvement. The sound is the 
 same as in CFS3. There are no new music tracks, radio commands, or sound effects. The sound has 
 not improved at all. This game is definitely worth the purchase with more missions and the new 
 planes. The game is meant to run on computers with good graphics cards, processors, and a lot of 
 RAM. When run on a computer with a mediocre graphics card, the graphics should be tuned down or 
 else the frame rate will drop significantly. Overall, this add-on greatly improves CFS3. Anyone 
 who enjoyed CFS3 should purchase this add-on. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
