-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FireTeam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fireteam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  8, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 11 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Multitude, Inc.
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An excellent brand of online-only team combat, complete with one of the bestall-around player communities 
 on the Net. 

 Much has been made about Multitude's FireTeam and its support for real-time communication over the 
 Internet. What you may not have heard, however, is that the game offers an excellent brand of online-only 
 team combat, complete with one of the best all-around player communities on the Net.   

 FireTeam is vaguely like Crusader: No Remorse. The isometric view is the same, and the controls 
 are very similar (keyboard to move, mouse to aim and fire) . The major difference, of course, is 
 that FireTeam is a team game played online on relatively small, arena-like maps. Ready for some 
 numbers? You sign on with a team of two to four players to do battle against one or two other teams 
 in one of FireTeam's four game modes. You can also play a game of one-on-one or one-on-two, but 
 the statistics from these games will not be recorded (more on stats in a bit) .  

 The different game modes in FireTeam include a good old-fashioned team deathmatch and a variation 
 of capture the flag. In BaseTag, you must destroy your enemy's base while defending your own. The 
 most unique game mode in FireTeam is GunBall, a football-style game in which you must carry a football 
 across the map and into the goal without getting killed. Your teammates, meanwhile, must "block" 
 for you and take out any enemies in your path.  

 In order to succeed and survive at any of these games, you'll need to communicate with your teammates. 
 This is where the game's real-time voice-chat capability comes in. FireTeam comes bundled with 
 its own two-way headset (the kind with the little microphone that curls around in front of your 
 mouth) . Wearing this during a game, you'll be able to talk to and hear the other players on your 
 team (but not the other team) . The in-game chatter really adds a lot to the game. Just hearing 
 other players laughing and cursing makes it seem so much more social than your typical deathmatch. 
 And of course, voice chat can be extremely helpful for coordinating your team's movements. This 
 is the Internet we're talking about, however, so be warned that even this impressive voice-chat 
 system is far from foolproof. The audio quality is heavily dependent upon each player's connection 
 (as well as the distance between the player's mouth and the mic) . You can usually make out what 
 other people are saying easily enough, but there is a lot of audio clipping that can make things 
 rather confusing. One problem is the inherent delay in the voice communications. Over an average 
 connection, you can count on a one- to two-second delay between the time you say anything and the 
 time your teammates hear it. Unfortunately, that's just long enough to make comments like "Cover 
 me!" or "Behind you!" completely useless. Also, though I never had any problems with my headset, 
 several players in the FireTeam lobby complained about broken or nonfunctional units.  

 Any review of an online-only game would be incomplete without a mention of its overall performance, 
 right? In most respects, FireTeam seems to be a stable Internet app with performance that ranges 
 from acceptable to excellent. Still, numerous players in the lobby complained about extreme lag 
 (we're talking about pings of over 25,000...) . I did run into a few lag problems of my own, where 
 I would suddenly not be able to fire my weapon, and I would receive no game updates over the headphones. 
 Then just as suddenly as things got bad, they'd get better, and I would be inundated by audio and 
 text updates for everything that happened during my lag session. Sure enough, at the end of the 
 game I would see an average ping score with five digits. Clearly, all the kinks aren't worked out 
 of the FireTeam network setup just yet, but thankfully the problems I encountered were few and 
 far between.  

 Gameplay in FireTeam is a tough element to describe. On paper, it's pretty straightforward: Move 
 towards your goal, pick up power-ups, shoot all those who oppose you. You begin by selecting a 
 character type: a scout (fast but relatively weak) , a gunner (slow but packs a heavy wallop) , or 
 a commando (well-rounded, middle-ground guy) . Each time you get killed in a game, you can reselect 
 your character type when you respawn. After selecting your character and jumping into your first 
 game, you realize that FireTeam is full of unique features and nuances that make it both challenging 
 and rewarding.  

 It will take some serious practice to get used to certain subtleties like crouching to deal more 
 damage, waiting for your aiming percentage to go up, using a medikit the second you start getting 
 hit, and performing a "drive-by" mine-laying. On the negative side, the game offers only three 
 measly training missions that do very little to prepare you for combat. Worse, even though Multitude 
 employees and helpers in the FireTeam lobby encourage newbies to remap the key commands, the training 
 missions only allow you to use the default commands. In other words, you can only test out your 
 new key layout in a live game, which is ridiculous.  

 On the positive side, FireTeam benefits from having an extremely active player community in which 
 veterans seem to go out of their way to help newcomers learn the game and improve their skills. 
 I cannot think of a single other online game in which so many people offered to help me learn the 
 ropes (and they did not know that I was reviewing the game) . After doing very, very poorly in my 
 first few games, I got some pointers from a few vets and Multitude moderators and began to register 
 more kills than deaths (a momentous stat-swing for me) . Online game developers take note: This 
 is the proper way to build a lively and enjoyable online gaming community that keeps new players 
 coming back for more.  

 One of FireTeam's other positive features is an extensive stat-tracking engine, which records everything 
 from your rank (or tier) , your kills, and your wins to friendly-fire kills and how often you select 
 each character type. These stats are then viewable through your own player web page, which also 
 lists information on your company affiliation (FireTeam's answer to clans) . Stats are only recorded 
 for official games, however, which wouldn't be a problem except for the fact that so few people 
 actually seem willing to participate in an official game. Either that, or an official game is not 
 always possible because there aren't enough players available from a particular ranking (official 
 games must be played between players of similar tier rankings) .  

 And this leads us to FireTeam's current biggest problem: a lack of players. Logging on during the 
 afternoon, I rarely saw more than a dozen other players on at once. Nights saw more activity, as 
 you might expect, but we're still talking about a drop in the bucket compared with games like Quake 
 II and Tribes. Even when there are lots of players, there is rarely more than a handful of low-tier 
 folks, so if you have a low-tier ranking you end up taking part in unofficial games - so you don't 
 accumulate stats and you never go up in rank. Hopefully, once word of the game's excellent gameplay 
 spreads, the number of players will pick up. The player population might also receive a boost once 
 the game hits retail shelves (currently, it is still only available directly from Multitude) .  
 

 In the meantime, do yourself a favor and give this game a look. The real-time voice communication 
 is a novel feature, but it's the top-notch gameplay and the excellent player community that make 
 FireTeam one of the best online games currently available.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: evil_govi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I like playing FireTeam online. Its cool and preatty hard. You can even chat in the mean time when 
 you are in the battle. FireTeam has three characters wich are one woman and two men. They all have 
 good abilitys than the other like for example the woman is faster and the man is stronger and the 
 other man has more power. Dunno but its something like that. FireTeam has good graphics and great 
 and hard gameplay. The background music is great too. I even got headphones with the mic for FireTeam 
 and thay are awsome. You need alot of practice befor the big fight!!!
  GOOD GRAPHICS, GREAT AND HARD GAMEPLAY, GREAT BACKGROUND MUSIC, HEADPHONES AND MIC, ONLINE. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
