-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FireStarter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/firestarter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 65 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hip Games
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 5, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FireStarter is a decent shooter, but it lacks the imagination and polish that separate competent 
 games from the ones you just can't put down. 

  FireStarter is pure nonsense. That's not necessarily a bad thing, though. This run-and-gun shooter 
 follows in the fine tradition of the Quake and Unreal Tournament series. While certainly not as 
 good as those games, FireStarter mimics them by featuring a throwaway story, bizarre settings and 
 enemies, tons of weapons, and buckets of blood. Don't expect cutscenes, scripted events, memorable 
 characters, stealth missions, or careful tactics.  Do  expect nonstop, over-the-top violence where 
 killing is your only goal, and killing is its own reward. FireStarter is rough around the edges, 
 it's thematically incoherent, and it's a victim of feature creep, but along with fast-paced action, 
 it has some interesting twists that give it a little depth.  

          Artifact abilities can make monsters attack one another.     

  Created by Ukrainian 
 developer GSC Game World (Cossacks, Codename: Outbreak) , FireStarter at least theoretically includes 
 a story. As in the days of old, when shooter stories often boiled down to a few lines in a readme 
 file, here you only learn the story -- such as it is -- from the game box. In the year 2010, a virus 
 infects a virtual reality machine, called FireStarter, by trapping the player's conscious inside. 
 To escape, you have to fight wave after wave of virtual monsters. The game opens with a slick-looking 
 but wordless and incomprehensible movie that presumably is supposed to draw you into this whole 
 virtual reality conceit.  

  The story never even appears in the game and really only seems like an excuse to throw you into 
 a hodgepodge of settings where you'll face off against totally unrelated enemies like robots, zombies, 
 demons, lizardlike aliens, and other staples of traditional shooters. One second a spiked metallic 
 sphere the size of a basketball will be roaring down a hall after you. Then some humanoid in a 
 trench coat will pop out from behind a pillar to try to burn you to a cinder with a flamethrower. 
 As soon as you finish him off, a lumbering alien creature might march through a doorway and open 
 up with a machine gun. Sadly, this diversity is only skin-deep. Rarely do you have to alter your 
 tactics for different enemies. Just stand back, blast away, and you'll do fine.  

  FireStarter adds a tad more interest to the mix by offering six different character classes (with 
 unique initial ratings for health, armor, and speed) as well as favored weapons and certain limitations. 
 As you progress through the game's levels, you earn experience points by killing monsters and grabbing 
 their glowing souls before they vanish. These points boost your core ability ratings and let you 
 adopt and then boost special skills. These skills allow you to do things like carry heavy weapons 
 without a movement speed penalty, carry extra ammo, or fall from great heights with limited damage. 
 The character classes and skills don't radically alter the gameplay, but they add some variety 
 and replay value to what's otherwise a very repetitive -- if not downright monotonous -- game.  

  The basic gameplay is pretty straightforward, though the clumsy manual and help screens (replete 
 with broken English and typos) might lead you to believe otherwise. Playing either from a first- 
 or third-person viewpoint, you progress through 16 levels that are grouped into four architectural 
 themes. Each map is divided into zones that open up as you destroy waves of monsters that coalesce 
 from thin air. Once you've opened all the zones and have killed off all the monsters, you beat 
 the level. Then you upgrade your character (if you've earned enough experience points to reach 
 the next character level) . And then you move on to the next game level for more combat.  

           With his four hands, this character can fire two big guns at once.     

  Scattered 
 across each level you'll find various weapons, ammo, health, and armor power-ups, which reappear 
 after set time periods. That's standard stuff. What aren't standard are artifacts. Occasionally, 
 a glowing object will appear, and you'll have a certain amount of time (depending on the difficulty 
 setting) to nab it before it disappears. If you don't get to it in time -- game over. If you  do 
  grab the artifact, it acts as a save point for quick loads, which is very handy since you can 
 otherwise only save at the beginning of a level. Artifacts only appear in the most recently opened 
 zone on the level, so you have to be careful about leaving that zone to get power-ups elsewhere 
 because you may not be able to return in time.  

  To add to the potential confusion, "artifacts" also refer to special bonus powers that run on slowly 
 recharging "psycho energy." As you acquire these over time, you gain neat abilities, like being 
 able to teleport out of harm's way, turning invisible, or causing a monster to attack its allies. 
     

  If this all sounds like too many ingredients in the pot, it probably is. None of these ideas feel 
 developed to their fullest potentials. FireStarter also goes overboard by giving you tons of different 
 weapons -- from a circular saw to an assault rifle to a plasma gun and more -- many with both light 
 and heavy variants, alternate fire capabilities, and varied ammo. None of these weapons have the 
 exquisite balance or sheer "wow" factor that the best weapons of, say, Quake III Arena or the original 
 Unreal Tournament have, but each has its strengths and weaknesses, thanks to different reload times, 
 recoil, and so forth.  

          The levels are well detailed but are also arbitrary and jumbled.     

  Combat itself 
 is fairly well paced -- except for when the action clumsily pauses for the camera to shift to the 
 location of a newly materialized artifact -- and offers an optional bullet-time feature that kicks 
 in whenever you come under attack. The fighting ranges from walk-in-the-park easy to outrageously 
 hard, thanks to a wide range of difficulty settings. The level designs are competent and feature 
 decent flow patterns and power-up placement, but they're all anonymous and are quickly forgotten 
 as soon as you finish them.  

  FireStarter offers an instant action mode that lets you play on any level you've unlocked in the 
 campaign. There are also four multiplayer modes, including co-op, though they're only playable 
 on a LAN (not online) , which rules them out for many players.  

  Just like the gameplay, FireStarter's visuals are a hodgepodge of ideas, most of them seemingly 
 lifted from Quake III and Unreal Tournament. You'll encounter some monumental architecture, intricate 
 textures, and loads of impressive lighting and particle effects, but there's precious little rhyme 
 or reason behind it all. None of the levels feel like real places, even within the context of fantasy. 
 Instead, they seem like they were just opportunities for the artists to throw together a bunch 
 of steam vents, conduits, flashing lights, and mirrored walls. For what it is, the art is pretty 
 good (a couple of the later levels even beat Unreal Tournament at its own visual game as far as 
 bristling high-tech space stations are concerned) , but ultimately it's totally empty eye candy. 
 Character models are also well detailed but are uninspired, and the same holds true for the game's 
 weapons. Where graphics are concerned, FireStarter can feel more like a tech demo than a game. 
 There's also an odd bit of cartooniness present so that when you shoot monsters, brilliant red 
 blood gushes into the air in stylized torrents, as if it was sprayed from hoses. Presumably, you 
 can chalk it up to the fact that the creatures are supposed to be virtual reality constructs.  
 

          Gloomy settings like this call to mind Quake III, which is an obvious inspiration for the 
 game.     

  The visuals are generic but offer lots of technical pizzazz. The audio, though, is pretty weak 
 and includes competent but forgettable weapon effects, disposable techno music, and horribly under-characterized 
 enemy noises. FireStarter suffers throughout from this lack of character and originality, and its 
 design document probably could have used more careful editing. On the bright side, the game offers 
 decent action with some interesting twists, thanks to the character-building elements. FireStarter 
 is a decent shooter, but it lacks the imagination and polish that separate competent games from 
 the ones you just can't put down.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 5, 2005 10:38 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll just say it. This won't entertain you for that long.
  
  The game is pretty cool, it has good Ideas ... But it doesn't work too well.
  It's not like it 
 costs too much (9-10 dollers) , It won't put a hole in your wallet.
  Graphically, it looks really good. Almost like a technology showcase. The screenshots wont tell 
 you that though. In motion, it's really high-poly and theres lots of gushing blood and stuff. The 
 sound is good. Sound has never been that important to me.
  
  Gameplay is where it sort of dies. And on the most important part. Basically, my understanding 
 was that it is like a whole bunch of bot-matches like UT2004. It's more like: You start in a sealed 
 off room. You get ammo\guns. Enemies spawn in and try to kill you. You kill them. Door opens and 
 you need to collect this artifact before the time runs out or else you lose. Repeat until all the 
 rooms are open and you finish the level.
  
  But World 3 out of 4 is the best, and it really is the funnest part of the entire game. Without 
 runing too much (if you even get the game) it's a really cool temple\ medieval place. It just has 
 the best enemies, lay out and it's actually fun.
  
  There are 6 characters (I think) and my favorite is the mutant. Each charater is completely different, 
 has their own stats and abilities. The mutant can carry 2 guns at once.
  
  You can upgrade skills and stuff. Ok i'm done. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
