-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: First Battalion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/firstbattalion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced, simple World War II tank combat.
 Some destructible environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay becomes repetitive after a while.
 Not a lot of depth.
 Multiplayer, while ambitious, lacks participants.
 Levels look the same.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 148 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 21, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
First Battalion is an action-heavy World War II tank game with fairly simple gameplay mechanics 
 and not much depth. 

  Tank games on the PC tend to fall in the simulation category, as they usually attempt to model 
 (with a high learning curve) the experience of being a tanker. First Battalion isn't one of these 
 games. This action game set in World War II would more aptly be described as a shooter than a simulation, 
 as the combat bears little resemblance to reality and the emphasis is on blowing things up as fast 
 as you can hammer the mouse button. The simple gameplay mechanics of First Battalion don't lend 
 it any particular amount of depth; still, things have a habit of exploding quite nicely in this 
 game.  

          If you're looking for a realistic tank sim you won't find it here, but if you just want 
 to blow stuff up you might be entertained for at least a little while.     

  First Battalion's single-player campaign will put you in command of German, American, and Soviet 
 tanks in the European theater of the war. You may command a solo tank or a small platoon of tanks 
 that you can issue rudimentary orders to, such as "flank the enemy" or "follow my lead." Whatever 
 the case, the mission goals are fairly basic: Drive around a large map from waypoint to waypoint, 
 and blast every hostile character you see with your tank cannon or machine gun. Tactics don't play 
 a huge role in this game, and the enemy's job is to wait for you to either get in range, or get 
 close enough to trigger a scripted action (you may have to defend a position against waves of incoming 
 tanks, for instance, or clear out an enemy village) .  

  While the mission design is fairly basic, the action itself can be challenging. Combat is a bit 
 deeper than simply putting the cursor on a target and hitting the mouse button; you do face some 
 of the challenges of trying to nail a moving target while you yourself are maneuvering. Ballistics 
 isn't modeled, so you don't have to worry about your shot drooping, but sometimes you do have to 
 compensate for the slight discrepancy between the cursor and the angle of the cannon in the turret. 
 You also get to exercise some tactical decision making at times, as you may have a limited number 
 of special attacks, such as air strikes, that you can call in on enemy positions. Still, for the 
 most part you have to take care of most of the destruction yourself. And don't worry about running 
 out of ammo, because not only does your tank have completely unrealistic ammo loads and reload 
 speeds, but you'll also find ammunition depots along the way that instantly refill your tank's 
 magazine to capacity.  

  There's a large variety of tanks in First Battalion, reflecting the rapid improvements in armored 
 warfare during the war. Early on in the German campaign you'll drive the puny, underarmed Panzer 
 38, but in later missions you'll move up to the much more potent Panzer IV, before ending with 
 the feared Tiger tank. As you'd expect, each class of tanks has slightly different performance 
 characteristics. The Panzer 38 is a zippy little war machine that can slew its turret in a heartbeat, 
 while the Tiger is a lumbering monster equipped with a slow-turning turret. Still, these differences 
 are merely cosmetic, mainly because each tank, no matter how small, is capable of absorbing a couple 
 dozen hits before dying. In fact, it's awfully hard to die in this game, since there are plenty 
 of repair depots dotted along the map that instantly restore your health meter to full strength 
 whenever you drive by them. (If you are knocked out, the checkpoint system will reload you back 
 to a previous save point automatically.)  

  The multiplayer system in First Battalion at least goes beyond the traditional deathmatch mode 
 that you'd expect with this kind of game. Instead, multiplayer resembles that of the Battlefield 
 games, as you must battle in teams to seize objective flags on a map. There are different "classes" 
 of tanks as well, and you can select a different alternate ability for each tank, such as being 
 able to call in air strikes, lay mines, or request a supply drop. However, the problem is that 
 there just doesn't seem to be any kind of sizeable player community for the game, which means that 
 these vast virtual battlefields are mostly empty.  

          It doesn't matter if you've got a Tiger or a puny Panzer 38 -- all the tanks in the game 
 are incredibly tough to kill.     

  All the action comes to life thanks to the visuals, which are pretty and busy. There's always something 
 going on during the game, from intense battles to waves of aircraft buzzing overhead and hellish 
 artillery barrages raining down on your position. The rural environments are pastoral, but they 
 do become too familiar as the levels are virtually indistinguishable from one another; France looks 
 like Poland, Poland looks like Russia, and so on. More importantly, you do get a sense of driving 
 around in a tank. You can knock over gigantic trees, reduce buildings to smoldering rubble, and 
 chew up the countryside, though you can't seem to knock over other structures, which can be frustrating. 
 After all, if you can knock down a house, why can't you bulldoze a stone wall with a 20-ton tank? 
 The sound effects feature the familiar war sounds, such as the screech of artillery or the crack 
 of a tank cannon, and the voice work has the kind of accented European dialogue that you've heard 
 before.  

  Put it all together and First Battalion translates into a fairly fast-paced, though somewhat brainless, 
 action game. You don't need a lot of thought to get your way through the levels of the game, and 
 the shorter missions are a pleasant-enough way to vent some steam. The longer missions, though, 
 drag on and overstay their welcome. Since they can take upward of an hour to get through, the formula 
 of blasting everything you see, repairing damage, and then moving on to the next village to repeat 
 the cycle again gets a bit tedious.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: larryweiss
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Games not worth it if you can't play it. It really needs to be looked at and have patches. It Keeps 
 freezing up and I keep getting this error message (couldn't write file data/save/restart. xs error 
 997) I can't fine patches anywhere. I could not tell you if this game is worth while playing. Whens 
 the last time Dream Catchers went back and updated it so it will work properly? What I have seen 
 of it, it looks like it just might be fun but untill I get a chance to play it, I will never know... 
 aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa. aaaaaaaaaaaa aaa aaaaaa aaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa. aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaa 
 aaaaa. aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aa aaaaaaa aaaaa. aaaaaa a aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaa 
 aaa aaa a aaaa aaaaa aaaaa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supervega9000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Tank structure and design is amazing and historicaly accurate , the surrounding environment is 
 great as everything can be smashed .. building , trees ... etc
  It really feels like war with great sound quality .. really worth playing .
  multiplayer gaming 
 is addictive as you can spend hours playing battles in kursk, stalingrad , .... and it all depends 
 in your skill in shooting
  only nothing is prefect .. single player levels are too short and all what you have to do in all 
 missions is to secure locations by shooting and shooting and more shooting which becomes boring 
 .
  multiplayer is cool but tanks and maps are too little to choose from , only 3 tanks to choose from 
 light, medium and heavy with unique ability in each one in each side axis, allieds and russians 
 .
  what really makes me angry that there's more tanks in single mode and yet not included in multiplayer 
 mode like Tigers and T-34/85 .. the multiplayer game really needs more maps and tanks .
  other than this it's just great . some will not like it because you can only play with tanks !! 
 will it's all about tanks , that's why they call it first battalion ... otherwise go play call 
 of duty :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: builtman
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Again, this is not a game that you will be impressed by, it is not worth the xx. xx to buy. The 
 thought was there but the surroundings, graphics, audio were at best very average. 5 years ago 
 this would have been seen as a very good game but with today's games this one is better left for 
 the trash pile. This game has no dynamic light rendering, battles seem as if they are not real 
 and the surroundings look like 1970's fake grass. If you still want to buy it? Wait till it drops 
 into the single digit price rangs remembering not to expect to much... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackliu239
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me, when playing COD's tank battle but felted they should really make more missions 
 like that, then you are going to like this game. It is just non-stop tank battle from beginning 
 to end.
  
  The game is very easy, stop, aim, shoot, repair, rearm and repeat the process all over again. This 
 might sound repetitive and it just might for some people, but the different environments and mission 
 objectives sometimes make up for that. Fighting in France vs. Fighting in Stalingrad feels very 
 different (in a good way) .
  
  But forget about realism, with the ability to instantly heal and rearm at countless depots make 
 this game more of tank arcade or FPS than anything else. I mean you can literally destroy hundreds 
 of tanks in longer missions. You are more powerful than superman. You would think if tank battle 
 is this easy then why did Germany or Russian or US bothered to make anything else in WWII
  
  One major downside is the length of the game, I finished it in 7 hours non-stop in one afternoon. 
 So if you are like me, just buy the game right now and beat it in couple of hours then sell in 
 on Ebay while it is still considered to be new.
  
  Is the game worth it? I would say yes if you have not had your WWII or FPS fix for a while. But 
 don't expect any depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 2.9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is not very pricey. Thats for a reason.
  
  On my computer, i found the graphics very bad and they still ran very choppy and added a delay 
 to all my movements. So I was basically just running into alot of trees and missing most of my 
 shots.
  
  Just as well, the fireteam command system was quite confusing since it is only 3 circles with random 
 signs flashing in it. As well, I found that the infantry who were not carrying anti-tank rifle's 
 suddenly started shooting armor-piercing rounds at me.
  
  Don't buy this game if you have any idea what a good game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I ahd tried the demo and it is called panzer elite action fields of glory that is the name of the 
 game in europe wich they chnaged here god knows why.. i guess panzer was too german .
  
  Tha gane is in ww2 era of course and you go over mission as tank commander with a squad of tank 
 to help you fight the good fight, You can order your tank to do some fighting with you wich is 
 super cool when faced by many ennemies.
  
  
  I have played the game and the graphics are awesome.
  It plays like call of duty as you make 
 so much missions as germans, russians and finally americains.
  
  There is some nice voice over.
  the sound is super.
  There is some weather effects like rain 
 and snow and well done too.
  Game does not require a huge system to play.
  Physics are just way out there.
  Fx in the game are huge.
  Maps are super cool, some areas 
 begs you to turn your tank into a sniping tank.
  This feels a lot like the first call of duty but the ctach is you are a tank instead of a soldier 
 and i can honestly say that this is the tank game i was waiting for. I love to drive the tanks 
 in Battlefield 2 and wished that there was a game that would match the same fun and this game does. 
 It is like a third person shooter as you are outside the tank but the controls are super easy and 
 you can learn the game in less then 10 minutes.
  
  Nothing beats the feeling of shooting real far ahead of you to blow stuff up!!!
  
  there is 
 a second part coming that plays in africa and i hope more will come out of this game and that it 
 will gather some attention somewhere because it is a gem!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
