-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Flanker 2.5
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/flanker25/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  2, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Eagle Dynamics
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Mar 26, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There is no other contemporary jet sim as complete, polished, and faithful to its subject matter 
 as Flanker 2.5. 

 The Flanker series of sims has been a darling of the hard-core set since it was first released back 
 in 1995. Renowned for its high-fidelity flight model, uncompromising avionics, and simple, clean 
 graphics, it quickly built up a devoted fan base. Many of these fans soon went to work and made 
 up for its shortcomings, designing missions and even creating a random mission generator. 1999's 
 Flanker 2 upgraded the graphics considerably and added a lot of new features.           A "Top 
 Gunski" taking the highway to the danger zone.    

  Along comes Flanker 2.5, which is actually more of an update from Russian developers Eagle Dynamics 
 than an addition. If you already have Flanker 2, you can download the 43MB patch (or a slightly 
 larger one if you use a Voodoo graphics card) . But if you don't have Flanker 2, this is the perfect 
 time to buy it -- it's now packaged with the patch as Flanker 2.5, a $10 budget title. The budget 
 title doesn't include any printed documentation, but it does have a PDF file of the Flanker 2 manual 
 and reference cards. Unfortunately, there's no documentation on the new additions to the game, 
 which are mentioned only on a list in the readme file.   

  Perhaps the most significant addition is a set of new wingman commands. The original Flanker had 
 no wingman interaction, and the sequel added only the most basic commands. But 2.5 adds a substantial 
 menu of wingman orders that let you issue commands and coordinate attacks with your flight. There 
 are broad orders like "cover my six," as well as specific tactics like "break left." There are 
 even commands to instruct your flight to turn off radar, allowing you to fly stealthier missions 
 with your wingmen, a feature taken advantage of in some of the new scenarios designed specifically 
 for this latest version. These interactions go a long way in making Flanker play like a game about 
 coordinated modern air combat rather than the adventures of one pilot and his plane.   

  The patch also adds more robust naval AI, which lets ships move and even fight each other. This 
 is the sort of feature that gives scenario designers more flexibility to create living combat environments, 
 something that Flanker was always good at in the air. The seas coming to life as missiles arc up 
 from ships to defend your carrier, attack an enemy fleet, or shoot down incoming aircraft is surely 
 a sight to see.   

  Another new addition in Flanker 2.5 is aerial refueling, always a nightmare for simmers who can't 
 quite master the fine art of carefully guiding a plane up to the nozzles dangling behind a tanker. 
 As they'd expect, aerial refueling in Flanker 2.5 is no exception, requiring the steady hand of 
 a surgeon. However, considering that the scenarios all take place in the fairly small arena of 
 the Crimean peninsula, aerial refueling is rarely necessary, given the Flanker's ample fuel tanks. 
 The new MiG-29 Fulcrum, which has been added as a flyable aircraft in Flanker 2.5, has smaller 
 tanks, so it's more likely to avail itself of the new aerial refueling feature. The Fulcrum is 
 a great addition, since it is not as sophisticated as the Flanker and has its own retro charm. 
 Unfortunately, Flanker 2.5 doesn't have many MiG-29 missions. Consider this an open invitation 
 to all Flanker scenario designers.   

  Another substantial addition is the option to turn down missile effectiveness before beginning 
 a scenario. One of Flanker's most frustrating nods to realism was the ruthless efficiency of antiaircraft 
 missiles. They are as deadly as they are in the real world, and there is no easy way to dodge them. 
 You get a warning when an AA missile is launched, but unlike in many other sims, there's no way 
 to track incoming missiles or tell how long you have before they hit you. While this is certainly 
 realistic in an older Eastern bloc warhorse like the Su-27, the frustration of sudden one-hit kills 
 can be discouraging. Flanker 2.5 still forces you to deal with the Su-27's limitations, but at 
 least it lets you make enemy missiles more fallible.           The MiG-29 is Flanker's new kid 
 on the block.    

  The game's 3D engine now boasts new explosion and smoke effects, which don't look much better than 
 they used to. The sound effects have been boosted a bit to give them more punch. This is a subtle 
 but nice improvement to Flanker 2's realistically muffled engine noise, which was often drowned 
 out by whatever fans may have been humming away in your computer case. The padlock and external 
 views have been made more powerful and flexible, and the interface has been tweaked, so there's 
 less flipping around between HUD modes. Then there are some truly esoteric changes, like this one 
 from the readme file: "Aircraft maximum of linear acceleration has been limited, and the calculation 
 of angular velocity by bank has been corrected." Whatever that is, at least we know it's fixed. 
 Finally, there's a big new campaign, "The First Three Days," which is much more forgiving and dynamic 
 than the original "Hot Dogs and Borscht" campaign from Flanker 2's original release.   

  What's most surprising about Flanker 2.5 is how well it has held up. In fact, there is no other 
 contemporary jet sim as complete, polished, and faithful to its subject matter as Flanker 2.5, 
 which is arguably the best contemporary jet sim, rivaled only by the patchwork fan-modded Falcon 
 4.0 and the slightly dated Jane's F-15. This is an amazing achievement for a sim going on almost 
 three years old. It's a surprising coincidence that the definitive historical flight sim (1C: Maddox 
 Games' IL-2 Sturmovik) and the definitive contemporary flight sim are named after Russian planes 
 and were developed in Russia. It must be something in the water. But for whatever reason, flight 
 sims aren't dead -- as long as we keep getting gifts like these from Russia.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of flight sim that all others should be modeled after! We need more realistic 
 sims like this. We have plenty of arcadey sims, is it too much to ask for a few more good games 
 like this?
  
  Make another game like this, include more aircraft, make it multiple disks, span the time period 
 from Korea to 2010+ ! and add flyable helicopters as well. I would've liked to have been able to 
 fly some American carrier jets and land them on the Vinson. There should've been more documentation, 
 especially for firing the Kh-41 missile... what a pain in the @$$ !. All things considered, once 
 you learn this game inside and out, it's exceptionally fun. The ONLY thing I had a real problem 
 with was the lack of online support/play. Would've been so fun to do formation flying. : [ *sigh* 
 Oh well, great game anyway, definitely worth checking the bargain bin for! It's practically a steal!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TranMinhPhuc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  This is the best jet fighters simulation I have ever played, high quality model of variety planes 
 and a very good game play. And I think U should buy it !!! U will NOT waste ur money :D
  
  I control a Su 27 Flanker all time... that is so cool !!!
  
  In the beginning, the magnanimous 
 theme songs will make U want to eat this game immediately. But... What a pity !! There is no music 
 in game play. I like its sound but I want some action or steal music in it ^__^
  
  Finally, this is a very very GOOD game, and U should play it one time in ur life !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eagle_welkin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting this flight simulation to be so good. The programmed physics of flying a fighter 
 aircraft seem to be almost perfected with this game. The details of the cockpit were extraordinary. 
 The missions were laid out very nicely. I had the sense of being part of an Air Force rather than 
 being a lone plane taking on the enemy. Even though the wing man commands were basic like most 
 games, I felt secure he was watching my back. The combat sequences are a work of art. For successful 
 missions, I enjoy watching again like military intelligence going over a debriefing with your gun 
 cam. The sound of missiles coming off the rail is realistic. This is a complete game worth looking 
 into, having the proper joystick makes the experience much better. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
