-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Flashpoint Germany
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/flashpointgermany/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An exciting and engaging wargame about modern combat.
 The combat system reduces micromanagement.
 Makes you feel like a real commander in the field.
 Beautiful graphicsfor a wargame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No infantry or combat engineers in the game.
 The AI is a bit weak.
 Rudimentary sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  2, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 87 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Jan 25, 2005

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Flashpoint Germany is an excellent and engaging introductory wargame that puts you in the middle 
 of a hypothetical war between NATO and the Warsaw Pact. 

  Though it thankfully hasn't come to pass (yet) , World War III is still a fascinating hypothetical 
 setting for wargame fans. For nearly half a century, the United States and its Western allies braced 
 for an onslaught by the Red Army and the Warsaw Pact nations on the plains of Germany. This titanic 
 showdown is the focus of Flashpoint Germany, an entirely new wargame from Matrix Games and developer 
 Simulations Canada. Flashpoint Germany is actually the spiritual heir to two of the earliest games 
 on the subject: Main Battle Tank -- Central Germany and Main Battle Tank -- Northern Germany. However, 
 since those games were released more than a dozen years ago, it's an understatement to say that 
 computing power has changed since then. Flashpoint Germany updates the gameplay to modern-day standards, 
 and the result is an excellent introductory wargame full of taut and exciting moments.  

          A British tank brigade defends against probing Soviet attacks.     

  Set in 1989, the 
 game postulates that the Soviet Union, seeing the writing on the wall, decides not to collapse 
 peacefully but rather to gamble it all on a risky conventional attack into West Germany. The game 
 picks up in northern and central Germany, where the British, American, and German army corps try 
 to fend off the gigantic mass that is the Red Army. You can play on either side in the conflict, 
 and you'll experience the highs and lows of a battalion commander on a very lethal battlefield. 
 The game features a scale of 500 meters per square, and you'll command tank and cavalry platoons 
 and companies over a 20-by-15-square-kilometer stretch of Germany.  

  In terms of complexity, Flashpoint Germany is a remarkably easy game to pick up and play. The game 
 comes with a two-mission tutorial that will walk you through the basics, and within 20 to 30 minutes 
 you'll be ready to take on the enemy. The beauty of the game is that it doesn't require you to 
 micromanage and handhold each of your units all of the time. Instead, the game places you in the 
 role of a battalion commander. Every turn, you can issue basic orders to your units. Once your 
 moves are made, the game then calculates and displays how the next 30 minutes unfold, and you see 
 the results. After that 30-minute "pulse" is completed, the next turn begins, and you start the 
 cycle over again.  

  This system is excellent in a number of ways. First, it captures the experience of command quite 
 well. Modern combat takes pace at such a hyper pace that it's impossible for any commander to micromanage 
 his units. At one point, you have to simply trust that your subordinates can carry out your plan 
 to the best of their abilities. Second, it can make for some incredibly tense moments. In one mission, 
 a US armored cavalry regiment was tasked with securing a German town. Thinking that we were in 
 a race with the Soviets, we sent a tank company racing down the highway only to have them run smack 
 into a Soviet motorized infantry regiment. That was a nasty shock, and we spent the rest of that 
 turn watching desperately as the battle unfolded. (The lesson in this is to use your reconnaissance 
 assets, because that's what they're for.)  

  The game also models some of the difficulties and dangers involved in command. You can limit the 
 number of orders you can issue per turn to reflect the fact that your staff can do only so much 
 in so little time. Even worse is that if you chatter too much on the radio, the opposing side will 
 triangulate on your position. Both sides reserve plenty of artillery for just such an occasion. 
 If your headquarters unit is wiped out, a lower-level HQ unit will take over, though at the cost 
 of even longer delays between orders being issued to the frontline troops and the troops carrying 
 out the orders. That delay represents the lag in any complex organization, especially one that's 
 coping with the incredible stresses of combat.     

  In terms of tactics, Flashpoint Germany does an excellent job of capturing the challenges of winning 
 on a modern battlefield. Because high-tech weapons are so lethal and accurate, the general rule 
 in warfare is that if you can see it, you can kill it. That puts a premium on keeping your units 
 hidden and scattered until the crucial moment. Of course, that's great if you're on the defense, 
 but if you're tasked with attacking, you will eventually have to expose your units in the open. 
 In that case, it's all about using your reconnaissance assets to determine where the enemy is and 
 where he is not, and then maneuvering appropriately. Regardless of which side you play, you'll 
 quickly envy the other side for its advantages. NATO forces are highly trained and lavishly equipped 
 with high-tech weapons, but the Warsaw Pact nations, though possessing less-elite troops and equipment, 
 have the luxury of numbers. In either case, you'll also discover that modern warfare is all about 
 constantly maneuvering. Even if you find a great defensible position, if you stay there too long 
 the enemy will just unload artillery and air strikes on you.  

          If you issue too many orders, the enemy will get a fix on your position and rain artillery 
 down on your head.     

  To keep things simple, the designers have made some notable omissions in the game. Some players 
 will be disappointed to learn that the game abstracts infantry, and independent infantry units 
 don't appear in the game at all. This isn't a major issue, because in this kind of warfare, infantry 
 are nothing more than speed bumps to the tank columns. A bigger omission is combat engineers, which 
 are useful for preparing the battlefield and obstacles. The game abstracts them as well, as each 
 unit has an innate amount of combat engineering support to it. This can lead to sometimes peculiar 
 results, such as when each individual tank platoon in a company can deploy its own bridge to cross 
 a river. If only real-life platoons had such resources.  

  The artificial intelligence in the game is an adequate opponent at best. To its credit, it can 
 actually display some imagination. For example, rather than charging you from a straightforward 
 direction every time, the computer will attempt pincer and flank moves on your position. This will 
 keep you on your toes; even a lower-quality Warsaw Pact unit at the right place and time can wreak 
 havoc on NATO forces. That said, the computer also displays some dubious behavior. For instance, 
 if you're playing as the Pact, you may be surprised to see the defending NATO forces coming at 
 you and exposing themselves rather than lying in ambush. And still no computer can match the cleverness 
 and guile of a human opponent. Thankfully, Flashpoint Germany supports both online and play-by-email 
 multiplayer options. PBEM is especially simple; all you have to do is make your moves, and the 
 game can directly e-mail the saved game to your opponent.  

  Graphically, Flashpoint Germany looks great for a wargame, though that's not saying a lot. There's 
 absolutely no mistaking Flashpoint Germany for a real-time strategy game, as the graphics are composed 
 primarily of traditional wargame unit counters on a map. On the other hand, the game comes with 
 a modern and sleek interface, and the maps themselves are bright, colorful, and sharp. Even better, 
 the game runs in a window on your desktop, allowing you to multitask with ease. On the downside, 
 though, the game comes with only four maps and 17 scenarios. There is no mapmaking utility, but 
 there is a game editor to make your own scenarios. The game also has a number of quirks, such as 
 some very small text windows that can't be resized. It would also be nice to be able to print other 
 windows, such as the map of the battlefield. Finally, the game keeps track of everything that occurs 
 in a log, which is useful for analyzing after the battle, though it can be hard to read. It would 
 be nice if it were color-coded or organized in a way to make it easier to analyze. Meanwhile, in 
 terms of audio, the sound effects are entirely rudimentary and consist mainly of cannon fire and 
 explosions.  

  Though there's obvious room for improvement, as a first-generation product Flashpoint Germany displays 
 an exciting amount of promise and potential. It's relatively low learning curve and user-friendly 
 game design make it especially accessible to beginning wargamers, and the scale of the game doesn't 
 threaten to overwhelm you. And while it also sports some obvious flaws, that doesn't change the 
 fact that this is an engaging and fun wargame that puts you in the middle of the greatest war that 
 never was in history.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: peterslaing
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  This is a rare game that delivers more - much more - than initial appearances might suggest. It's 
 definitely not one for those suffering from attention deficit disorder, but is likely to quickly 
 absorb more mature gamers with a taste for realistic strategy in a novel setting.
  
  Flashpoint Germany's Cold War setting is undoubtedly a strong selling point simply because it isn't 
 the Second World War. The fictional real war between NATO and the Warsaw Pact makes for a fascinating 
 conflict and, because of the lethality of modern weaponry, strongly influences the gameplay itself.
 
  
  You, as commander, move battalion or brigade-level forces across clear and attractive maps, divided 
 into 500 metre squares. Events play out Combat Mission-style with an unlimited pause in which to 
 issue orders followed by simultaneous resolution. The 17 prebuilt scenarios, which are playable 
 from either side, are won or lost based on units destroyed and sectors cleared or dominated. Units 
 can be ordered to move, assault, dig in and a host of other options, while air and artillery strikes 
 can be ordered.
  
  So much for the mechanics but what makes this such an enjoyable and absorbing game? Key is the 
 sense of command that infuses the gameplay. Because of the inbuilt delay before orders are carried 
 out, you really do have to come up with a strategy and, within reason, stick to it. And you cannot 
 directly order units (except artillery) to open fire. That can make for some amazingly tense moments 
 as your forces either approach their objective or wait for the attackers. The differences in capabilities 
 between the two sides adds another layer of interest: the Warsaw Pact clearly has the edge in numbers 
 but NATO has the better technology. Evil gamers, meanwhile, can rejoice in the liberal use of minefields, 
 chemical weapons and - best of all - nukes.
  
  The criticisms are minor, particularly with the latest patch installed. Aspects of the interface 
 can be clunky, there are a limited number of maps, and - as if often the case with 2D games - it's 
 not always that easy to work out line of sight or cover. Masochists might grumble that the AI, 
 even on toughest settings, doesn't present quite enough of a challenge.
  
  As indicated earlier, you will likely love the gameplay or hate it. Flashpoint Germany is resolutely 
 2D, grown up, and has strongly realistic aspirations. There's a great scenario editor, a good manual, 
 and a nice learning curve, especially for a serious wargame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I brought this game as im a huge fan of Turn Based Strategy games in general. The main draw for 
 me with this one was the modern conflict and high tech units. While this is all there its not as 
 exciting as i was hoping.
  
  You basically give orders to counters on the 2D map then when your done, click "fight" and watch 
 the next 30 minutes of the battle play out accoring to your commands. This is all well and good, 
 but, the 30 minute turn actually ends up lasting about 10-15 minutes depending on how many units 
 are engaged. This makes for a hellishly time consuming game. It takes around 1-4 hours to play 
 through a scenario unless the AI or yourself is beaten before the turns run out by taking too many 
 losses.
  
  The scenarios are quite good but be warned, there are only 3 maps and some of the linked scenarios 
 start to feel all to similar when your defending the same objective for the 4th time but just with 
 a different set of units. There are alot of scenarios to play through and so as far as value for 
 money goes, this one will keep you playing for a few months. PBEM is another strong point if you 
 can find an opponent.
  
  The graphics are not bad for a counter based TBS game but i have seen far better. The maps are 
 fairly detailed but there isnt much variation in terrain. The counters do a good job of representing 
 the units so you never find it difficult to distinguish between them or loose units in a mass of 
 counters. It all runs in a window as well so you can multitask if you feel like it whilst a turn 
 plays out. The interface is simple to use and is clutter free.
  
  The sound is alright, nothing amazing. The "gas, gas, gas" phrase is my only sore point as every 
 chemical attack that comes your way is reported to you with the same annoying phrase. No music 
 whilst in game. Ambient gun fire in the background whilst turns play out and samples for unit fire 
 are all standard stuff.
  
  Theres a heck of alot of unit types at your disposal from M1 Abrams to MI24 Hind's. You can call 
 for off map artillery and fighter support which is a cool feature. Each unit has lots of statistical 
 values that adds a depth to the gameplay if you take the time to figure it all out.
  
  As a turn plays out you are given information as to what time units will start to move (delay of 
 issued orders) and what time an airstrike will hit its destination for example. An enemy unit may 
 have moved by the time it gets there. There is no unit facing in this game which i quite frankly 
 find strange as you cannot flank a unit or surround it. You just get to fire more often, giving 
 you a greater chance of killing a unit.
  
  The main thing that bugs me about this game is that it takes longer to watch your orders play out 
 than it does to actually issue them which means that you spend most of the time simply watching 
 the screen rather than interacting with the game. You cant do a thing once uve clicked fight except 
 sit and watch your units as they engage the enemy.
  
  The mission briefings are bland and i never really felt any attachment to my units as whatever 
 the outcome of your battle was, the next scenario wipes a clean slate and basically tells you what 
 the aftermath was rather than the aftermath being what you as a player created. i. e. you won the 
 battle but the game then tells you that your side actually lost the battle. This would be alright 
 if u were playing a fictional battle, the problem is, this game is completely non-fictonal with 
 its story so you never get the sense of being involved in it as you cannot change the outcome or 
 the next scenario in a linked campaign. Your units dont gain xp or follow you to the next mission. 
 So units you lost in a previous battle will be ready to fight another day in the next linked battle.
 
  
  This game is fun for a while but it never got me emotionally involved and hence is not something 
 i can reccommend to most casual gamers. Hardcore TBS gamers out there may find something i didnt 
 with this game however but i can honestly say ive played more exciting and involving TBS wargames. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Note: The 1.1 update is not reflected in the below comments but it fixes a number of small issues 
 and adds a number of nice improvements that makes a good game even better.
  ---
  Previously this was a 'first look' review but now I've spent some more time with the game so I 
 am updating my comments. Overall I am not changing my score but my opinion of the game has improved.
 
  
  Overall the game has a very similar feel to TacOps or Highway to the Reich. The graphics are mostly 
 functional and sound is minimal. The map is very attractive but, like many fancy miniature game 
 tables, not particulary play friendly. It is tough to figure out lines of site and movement types 
 but fortunately there are overlays you can bring up that indicate these for you. Sound is minimal 
 but very functional. Various 'sounds of war' happen during the turn including movement and fire. 
 But the combat sounds and graphics are most helpful (except it is sometimes tough to see who is 
 firing) . The target gets hit with various explosions that denote hits, aristrikes, artillery (even 
 chemical strikes) that are all unique and easily identifiable after a fashion. The interface presents 
 all the information you need but not in the slickest or most intutive manner but you get used to 
 it in about a half hour. I wish they used hexes instead of squares but oh well (squares just make 
 for some odd movement and LOS situations) . Some of the log windows (such as the TacpOps Diary) 
 don't allow you to resize the various panes but you can expand the overall window size. I also 
 haven't figured out a way to bring up the Vehicle Database for enemy units. For your own units 
 you can click on them and then the Database will show that unit type. For enemy units you have 
 to dig through the whole thing to find what you are looking for.
  
  Game play starts with a setup phase and then an orders phase. There are great map overlays that 
 show cover, movement costs, and best of all, line of site. The LOS is very well done and you are 
 allowed to see the LOS from any square on the map. This helps offset the  
 game map. You can 'preview' your turn to see where everything is supposed to end up (not counting 
 enemy actions of course) . Then you execute your turn. You have the option to allow certain actions 
 to be taken by your units within a turn (such as air and arty strikes) or leave them to your own 
 assignment between turns. Again this is similar to TacOps or the Combat Mission games (although 
 the turn times are longer) . Besides giving orders to each unit you can set SOP (reaction actions) 
 as well as see the status of each unit (morale, ammo, unit info, etc) . You can give units movement 
 waypoint orders that are easy to edit. You can also vary the amount of time a turn represents which 
 is nice for smaller and larger games. AI seems respectable at least. There is a nice emphasis on 
 command and control and there are various order delays that can be introduced and the interface 
 makes it easy to see what units belong to what HQ units (including a full TO&E) .
  
  Overall the game options are very good and the game play seems solid as well. It is a fun game 
 and does a good job of giving you the feel for higher level command. If you like traditional wargames 
 and enjoy the Cold War subject matter than Flashpoint Germany is probably worth a look. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
