-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FlatOut
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/flatout/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cars and tracks that break and smash apart in wonderful ways.
 Excellent graphics engine that's downright brilliant on the PC.
 Minigames are a riot, if only for a short while.
 Online play is fantastic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Opponent AI is overly aggressive and prone to rubber-banding.
 Middling soundtrack.
 No online on PC; no online demolition derby mode on Xbox.
 Launching your driver out of the windshield gets pretty old.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.4, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,120 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Bugbear
Genre: Demolition Derby
Date:     Jul 12, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For those who just want to race fast, wreck hard, and look good doing it, FlatOut fits the bill. 
 

  After last year's thoroughly disappointing Test Drive: Eve of Destruction, it seemed like the notion 
 of the demolition racer had all but gassed out in this day and age. After all, what fun could it 
 be driving around big, ugly, clunker cars in silly wreck-oriented races when something like Burnout 
 3 demonstrates how much more fun car wrecks can be in sleek, sexy, ultrafast machines? Thankfully, 
 there is yet hope in the form of European developer Bugbear's FlatOut, an over-the-top demolition 
 racer that is heavy on the physics and light on the realism. These cars drive a lot faster than 
 your usual derby car, but they're just as delightfully low rent in design, as are the many different 
 racing environments you'll find yourself crashing all over. FlatOut is hardly a slam dunk, as it 
 leans too heavily on its unique physics gimmicks for its own good. And admittedly, there isn't 
 a whole lot to this package beyond basic (and occasionally frustrating) arcade races and a complementary 
 multiplayer component. But, for those who just want to race fast, wreck hard, and look good doing 
 it, FlatOut fits the bill.  

          Leave it to the Europeans to get the decidedly American sport of demolition racing right. 
     

  FlatOut is destruction racing to the very core, throwing aside any superfluous story elements or 
 anything similarly goofy for the sake of just making a pure arcade racer. When you first boot up 
 the game, you're offered a career mode, a quick race, a time trial mode, and multiplayer. Career 
 is where you'll spend much of your offline time and where you'll buy your first car. Initially, 
 you're presented with a few decidedly slower vehicles, but as you move through the career mode, 
 new classes will unlock and each one will get progressively faster. Plus, you can buy tune-ups 
 for each ride that improve speed, horsepower, traction, braking, and all the other usual upgradable 
 stats you'd find in a racing game. The career mode is really just a long series of races within 
 different circuits: bronze, silver, and gold. You don't even necessarily have to win each and every 
 race to unlock the next circuit, but you do have to place at least third in all of them to make 
 sure you earn a medal. Placing higher will earn you more cash, which you can subsequently use to 
 buy more tune-ups and cars, but you can usually earn enough money just by earning a medal. While 
 this way of doing things does shorten the experience a bit (not having to win every single race) , 
 there are nearly 40 races in all, so there's always the bonus races to keep you busy.  

  The bonus races are effectively a collection of straight-up destruction derbies, races on tracks 
 that seem specifically geared toward maximum destruction (for example, a figure-eight course) , 
 and a bunch of minigames that make specific use of FlatOut's biggest gimmick: the ability to launch 
 the driver of your car out of the front windshield. This acts as a sort of pseudo punishment in 
 normal races when you wreck too hard (as it takes a few extra seconds to let your car reset back 
 on track) , but in the minigames, you're presented with either a gigantic dart board, a high-jump 
 meter, a set of bowling pins, or something along those lines, and a track with which to drive your 
 car up. By pressing a button right before the end of the track, you can set the angle of the driver's 
 launch, and then once you let go, he or she will go flying from the windshield toward the awaiting 
 pins, boards, or what have you. What makes these games so entertaining is the ridiculous rag-doll 
 physics Bugbear has given your drivers, making them contort in horrifically hilarious ways that 
 never fail to make you cringe, even if just a bit. With that said, the minigames do have a limited 
 life span of entertainment, as once you've broken all the records, you can really only watch your 
 helpless driver shatter every bone in his or her body so many times before it becomes a tad repetitive 
 (which is not something we ever thought we'd find ourselves saying, but it's true) .  

  The actual driving mechanics of FlatOut aren't terribly complex or deep, and they rely pretty heavily 
 on lots of powersliding and crazy smashups for entertainment value, rather than on any real racing 
 strategy to speak of. Fortunately, it works... at least, it works well enough. The faster cars in 
 the game can get up to some pretty crazy speeds, and the handling of the cars, though very loose, 
 is pretty manageable once you get used to it. The whole thing of launching your driver out of the 
 car does get old, as we've said previously, but it only happens during the most brutal wrecks. 
 With the punishment of losing precious time by inadvertently sending your driver flying to his 
 doom will be constantly hanging over your head, you might find yourself being a little overly cautious 
 when taking sharp turns. But, you shouldn't be afraid to rub against the scenery or other cars -- after 
 all, rubbin' is racin'. Plus, FlatOut's racing model awards you a degree of boost for smashing 
 up the scenery and your opponents. It might seem somewhat counterintuitive to be rewarded for breaking 
 your car, but only the most severe wrecks really incapacitate you, and frankly, considering how 
 great the wrecks in this game look, it's hard to not want to do it.  

  Everything in FlatOut breaks apart. Cars deform to a spectacular degree, bodies scrunch up bit 
 by bit with each progressive wreck, bumpers sheer off, and sparks fly every which way. Tracks are 
 similarly destructible. You can smash through big wooden signs, send stacks of tires and nearby 
 barriers flying, and leave big chunks of the scenery all over the track to become dangerous obstacles 
 for the next lap. Actually, if there's any one complaint to be lobbied at the level destructibility, 
 it's that some of the debris can be pretty easily driven over the next time around with little 
 consequence. Most often it will be the smaller stuff that you can drive over, but you will encounter 
 some sizable pieces of junk that you'll definitely want to avoid.  

  It would have been nice if there had been more variety in track design and car design in FlatOut. 
 For sure, this is a great-looking game with some excellent car models and track environments, but 
 there just aren't enough of them. Most cars handle exactly the same, and though there are a few 
 notable differences in aesthetic design, there aren't any truly outlandish vehicles to play around 
 with. There are really only five or six different racing environments, with multiple track layouts 
 for each (some of which really just feel like previous tracks in reverse) . The PC version of FlatOut 
 is the clear-cut graphical winner, especially if you have a higher-end PC, as the graphics are 
 almost astonishingly sharp when turned to a higher resolution. The graphics look really nice at 
 a lower resolution too, but they are more comparable to those on the Xbox version, which also look 
 great despite being a little bit blurrier than the graphics on the PC. The PS2 version is predictably 
 rougher around the edges and not nearly as dynamic looking. However, it runs very smoothly with 
 no more frame rate slowdown than the occasional bouts the other two platforms are also subject 
 to (and it still looks pretty great for what the PS2 is capable of) .  

  The best aspect of FlatOut is its multiplayer. It is neither the deepest nor most involved racing 
 multiplayer mode ever put on the PC, PS2, or Xbox, but the races are just a blast when you've got 
 a full eight people going in a regular race or a demolition derby -- at least, on the PC and PS2. 
 The Xbox version is inexplicably missing demolition derbies online. And for that matter, the PC 
 version is perplexingly missing online, period, relegating you to LAN play only (dumb move, considering 
 how much fun the online can be) . Anyway, the main reason the multiplayer is so much more compelling 
 than the single-player racing is because the opponent artificial intelligence offline is pretty 
 hit or miss. The game suffers from some very noticeable rubber-banding, and your opponents are 
 seemingly always right on your tail, ready to overtake you. Fortunately, you're never out of a 
 race completely, as the AI is just as prone to hitting rails, trees, and other destructive bric-a-brac 
 as you are. They're also extremely aggressive, which will probably lead to at least a few moments 
 of extreme frustration as they constantly nudge and push you into a rail, causing your driver to 
 inadvertently flee the scene, so to speak. Overall, you could call the opponent AI serviceable, 
 but not exactly great. But, again, the multiplayer significantly makes up for this shortcoming, 
 since it's so much more fun when you've got people to play against.  

          The gameplay can be frustrating, but that frustration is alleviated somewhat by the sheer 
 ridiculousness of the game's wrecks.     

  Since FlatOut was developed in Europe, it's not altogether surprising that the soundtrack comes 
 from a lot of artists that North American players might not have ever heard of. What is kind of 
 odd is that all the bands that have been culled together for this game all sound like they're trying 
 to do their best impersonation of generic American alternative rock. A few of the tunes are legitimately 
 catchy, but for the most part, they just kind of fade into the background as you play. On top of 
 everything else, the lack of custom-soundtrack support on the Xbox or PC is pretty annoying. The 
 rest of the sound effects are all quite good, though not any better than most other competent racers 
 on the market.  

  FlatOut would be a whole lot easier to recommend if certain aspects of its package were tightened 
 up. The merely mediocre artificial intelligence, the weirdly sporadic multiplayer features across 
 platforms, and the repetitive driver-launching mechanic are probably going to annoy the hell out 
 of some people. But if you can look past some of these flaws, the game's delightfully unscripted 
 core racing mechanics can be a lot of fun, especially when played against others in a multiplayer 
 setting. As it is, it's a very good game that falls just shy of greatness, and serious demolition 
 racing fans would do well to check it out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  The genre of demolition racers was near to extinct lately, until FlatOut was released. It totally 
 relieved the genre and it is the best until now.
  
  Thereb are many cars which can be upgraded and many tracks to race in, everything destructible. 
 These details of destruction are what make FlatOut a very good game indeed. Apart from the main 
 races there are many minigames which are very funny, providing even more crashing. However, the 
 gameplay turns out to be not deep enough, as the computer opponents turn out to be very aggresive, 
 and after a while you will find yourself hit at least five times by another car.
  
  Apart from the previous, there is a very good multiplayer mode, both onlineand on a LAN connection. 
 It is fantastic to play versus someone else, the game becomes more competitive. Free from bugs 
 and online problems, FlatOut gives you a great multiplayer experience, pretty rare for racing games.
 
  
  The graphics of FlatOut are amazing, giving a very high-detailed view of the destruction inside 
 the track, mainly emphasizing on the visual perfection. Therefore the performance may be problematic 
 and very slow, causing the game to crash sometimes. Unfortunately the music and sound of the game 
 are annoying and may make you angry.
  
  But generally FlatOut is a unique experience, despite some bad things about it. You should have 
 a try with it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfs_strKing
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  My first impressions on the game are that it has outstanding detail on both cars and tracks. The 
 graphics are great but the tough and frustrating gameplay distracts the player from the high detail 
 of the tracks and keeps him focused on somehow beating that car across the finish line. Anyone who 
 has played it knows exactly what i am talking about. Even though the game is focused on car crashes 
 and demolition derby type racing, that pretty much isnt the way to go. Crash once, and the opponents 
 take away the lead-until you are back on the road they are miles ahead. Only way to win is to keep 
 drving perfectly and keeping a safe distance from most obstacles. The car physics are great, but 
 you have to take corners carefully, otherwise the slightest brush against any object on the road, even 
 at the back of the car throws the driver through the windshield like he hasnt just bumped into 
 a wall, but has hit a lamp post with 200 mph. High speed in this game isnt possible-accelerating 
 is easy, especially with the help of the nitrous oxide, but there are always corners that require 
 braking. So, basically thats what it takes to win-careful driving and less impacts, because one crash 
 can totally ruin your race.
  The car damage in this game is awesome. The details of the cars are unlike anything i have seen. Incredibly 
 realistic-every part is functioning like it would in a real car. And the cars are not just one big 
 piece that deforms, no, the parts fall off separately. Even though they damage easily and way too 
 fast. Engine flames are very well done.
  The game reminds me of The Dukes of Hazzard ,especially the track Whatahoo town-Its exactly like 
 in the Warner Bros. version. And there is even a ramp that you can use to get some big air, if you 
 can just make it out of that corner with enough speed.
  If you practice enough though, and manage to get the racing right, the game offers an incredible 
 experience. The soundtrack isnt very fun to listen to, it usually doesnt add to the thrill of the 
 race, and just gets in the way, or falls into the background. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylenol
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  As a PC driving game enthusiast I only play driving games with a steering wheel &amp; pedals. Although 
 by nature people would call this an arcade racer but dont let that fool you, there is a good sense 
 of speed, the steering control and car physics feel very good. There is just something wonderfully 
 fun about crashing your opponent and watching their body fly out of their car. The pace of this 
 driving game is perfect for beginners and or first timers. Ive had 6yrs to 60yrs old play this 
 game with wheels &amp; pedals and all have commented on how it was the most fun they ever had with 
 a driving game on a computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game offers a good value for it's price. Inside this kind of genre, this game is no prone 
 to being the best of it, altough it got better than some out there, but it's still just a regular 
 arcade racing game. The graphics and gameplay, are what you will find in a game of this date, not 
 the very best, but it serve well enough. It1s value, well, nowadays you can buy this through the 
 Steam system (Search the web thru Google, Altavista, Yahoo if you do not know what's that) for 
 US$ 10,00. Not a bad price. It will get boring soon, in less than a week, if you have a will of 
 doing something better than playing the minigames (which, believe me, are the ones that you will 
 pass more time on playing) , the you will go try to find another one, or even buy the next version 
 of this one. Multiplayer? Rarely there are servers of this thing. I do not know of the Retail CD 
 version, but in Steam you can not find any server, nearly never ( for me, never found one tough) . 
 Buy it if you got nothing better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  FlatOut is a mix between rally racing and demolition derby, its addictive nature comes from the 
 content and online play, playing the demo of FlatOut just wants you to buy the game itself, since 
 the pricetag is cheap as dirt.
  
  Gameplay/AI:
  Hard, enemy AI is pretty aggresive and hard to beat, like they are programmed to race a certain 
 way, they get all the drifts and speed right unless somebody else gets in their way, the game also 
 has a nice chunk of content and gamemodes for us..
  
  Lets start of with minigames, you'll probably play these more then the races itself, you'll be 
 able to do some addicting and gruesome minigames, like one where you drive up a ramp, and when 
 you are in midair you press the turbo button and see you're driver launche over its speed and travels 
 a certain distance, seeing him collide on the ground is just pure fun.
  
  The gamemodes are from basic racing in a few different tracks, blood bowl (eternal drifting race) 
 and demolition, which is incredibly fun online, you just smash other players until they won't be 
 able to drive anymore, the fun in this one comes from the awesome psychics the game has.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Graphics are great, the explosions look fantastic, the psychics in the game 
 is great because there are lots of stuff that are scrambled around the field, when you hit another 
 car its enjoying to see it roll over a few times and hit a pile of wood.
  
  The soundtrack, other from FlatOut 2 is bad, its just another rally game with just the same garageband 
 rocktunes you'll hear over and over again.
  
  Is it a good racing game;
  Addicting races, minigames, demolition and all of these in online play is great fun, mix that with 
 a great psychics engine makes this game a must-buy or atleast a must-try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay, as you can see from the title, I suck absolute **** at racing games and I don't really like 
 them with only a few actually grabing my attention.
  
  With this game, Flatout, i've only played the demo on PC but own the Xbox version. I think the 
 latter proves to be much better
  
  With this game I find the control scheme to be really frustrating, especially when trying to break. 
 It just seems like the controls on the Xbox make me, well, better at the game. When I played it 
 I admit that I came last in EVERY race. Dead Last. But it doesn't mean I think it's a pile of rubbish
 
  
  I think that this game is very nice looking with great damage effects.
  The soundtrack hosts a couple of good songs but they seem to grate on you after a while. The controls 
 is where I found it most difficult, may be cause I just plain suck at racing games, but who knows.
 
  The gameplay itself it pretty enjoyable. Even though I only had access to 1 car, I know what you 
 are able to do so I know it would be fairly same.
  I think the minigames provided the most laughs and fun for me, they're simple, fun and High Jump 
 landings are THE BOMB
  
  Overall I think this game is a fairly enjoyable, sometimes frustrating, car racing experience, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  This game is a better copy of Distruction Derby but i think it isn't so a good game! after a while 
 it is boring! Really boring.
  
  Better play the demo first because i think that if you buy this game only to try it you are going 
 to be disappointed!
  
  Game play: not so easy the controls and the stability of the cars!
  Graphics: I expected something 
 better! Damn it came out in 2005 the year of Battlefield 2, of NFS Most Wanted, Age of Empires 
 III, .....!!!
  Sound: The same of graphics. They had to spend more time on them!
  
  After all it is also funny because you can play with the man that drives your car! For example 
 using it like a dart in dart game or like a bowling ball!
  
  But as i said after a few hours it will be boring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played Demolition Derby or Demolition Racer on PC, Burnout on consoles? If not you 
 missed out one of the best parts of racing games. Flatout  game that made me a fan of destruction 
 racing game came out on 2005. Though I have to agree with many gamers that burnout series is the 
 best in this category but people like me who plays mainly pc games Flatout is the best choice for 
 them.
  
  So what makes Flatout different from other games? You can complete the single player portion of 
 this game playing like traditional racing games but doing so you will miss the fundamental fun 
 part of this game. The fun that you will get from hitting opponents cars, forcing them to hit various 
 objects  cant be expressed in words.
  
  In this review I will only talk about single player portion because unfortunately I couldnt play 
 online  every time I tried to join a multiplayer game, it shows no player and hosting game doesnt 
 work because it need at least three players to play online game. I also tried Gamespy, but no result. 
 But I know maximum eight players can play an online race.
  
  Lets focus on single player part. There are total three cups in the game  bronze, silver and 
 gold. Bronze has 9, silver 12 and gold 15 races. You have to unlock previous races to unlock the 
 new ones and same goes for cups. All the races take place in five different tracks  snow, construction 
 area, racing track, muddy track and rural town area. And another interesting part of Flatout is 
 collection of some weird and bizarre bonus games; these include bowling, high jump, long jump, 
 clown, dart, bullseye. You can think how can a racing game possibly be related with bowling, jumping. 
 And there comes the surprising fact  you will use the driver; I mean yourself as a ball, dart 
 and jumping material, sound interesting? It is. There are also 3 destruction types games in bonus 
 section  like last man standing. You will play against 7 other players and try to eliminate all 
 to win the event.
  
  A review for racing game cant be completed without telling about its car collection. This game 
 has total 16 cars in 3 class category. Last two sets will be locked as you finished bronze and 
 silver cup. The main differences between these cars are in weight and horse power. Later cars are 
 heavier and have more HP, but they are hard to control. I tried different cars and found that 2nd 
 class cars are the best.
  
  Graphics of this game are really shinny and realistic. Character model looks very nice, you will 
 see lots of animations, structures, objects. Most of the objects are breakable. Cars models are 
 awesome looking, seem I am watching some game on TV. I want to finish the review by writing some 
 sentences on sound and music. Sound like clashes between cars, hitting something has made this 
 game more enjoyable to play. But the music tracks are in a world - rocks, I dont remember how 
 many tracks they put in this game, but all songs are really pleasant to hear and I have to say 
 this game has one of the best music tracks I ever played.
  
  People who like any kind of racing game  Flatout is must buy for them; because Flatout 2 is already 
 out in the market, this game became really cheap. So get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Flatout is one of the best destructive racing games I've played. The crash graphics and flying 
 car parts just makes it awesome. It can be very frustrating but when that happens you can just 
 go to destruction derby to smash some cars down for fun. The racing is really fun since you can 
 upgrade your car to go faster and run better. You can shove your opponents off of the road and 
 cause them to crash and burn, which is my type of gaming :) . Also there are bonus games, about 
 12 of them with different goals, from launching your driver hundreds of feet to shooting him at 
 a wall with holes in it to earn money. there are about 5 cars to choose from, to heavy to light 
 and small. Bigger cars generally please me due to being able to smash the little ones and shove 
 them off the road easier but the littler ones seemed to race a little better when upgraded. There 
 are 3 different racing classes, bronze silver and gold (that i know of anyways, havent exactly 
 beat the game yet) gold being the hardest bronze being the easiest. There are quite a few tracks, 
 each of them harder and more fun to cause destruction on. Overall its a great game, everyone should 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  As a PC gamer I must say I'm very happy with FlatOut, it's totally different from Testdrive, NFS, 
 ToCa or Colin McCrae. Now we also can have some 'Burnout' experience. Fast pace action, just plain 
 and simple. 
  
  Race against 7 opponents at a time, drive 'm off the road and try to let them hit a tree or something 
 to get to the first position. Too bad only they can catch up more quickly then you can, but you 
 should be able to finish at least as number 6, because numbers 7 and 8 always drive slower and 
 worse than the others. Though winning shouldn't be too hard at all, 'cause the game is clearly 
 made to have fun, so the AI isn't that tough.
  
  Besides racing on tracks you also can play some mini-games where you have to shoot your driver 
 out of your car and see how high or far you can get him to fly, or to try and hit the bulls-eye 
 of a huge dart-board. Cruel, but fun!
  
  Graphics and sounds are great and the game runs smoothly with full options in 1600x1200 on my system.
 
  
  For fast money to upgrade your car just go into a race and try to hit every object you see like 
 tires, fences, pick nick-tables, soda-machines, boxes, road blocks and so on. Then just finish 
 the race (presumably as last) en collect lots of cash! You'll make more then by winning the race. 
 One time I managed to make about $6.340.00, while finishing as first would have brought me only 
 a lousy $1500.00. Of course you'll need to win to unlock other tracks, cars and eventually to win 
 the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  If you play this game with a joypad or keyboard i will have to give it a 3.0 score. Playing it 
 with a Steering Wheel easily a 8.3 score. Great fun but its no simulation racing game. Cant go 
 wrong when buying it though! 
  
  Reminds me of Carmageddon alot but with better graphics. Hopefully the second version will feature 
 a bigger veriaty of cars and more characters to choose from. I cant remember the last time it was 
 fun to race while laughing my ass off. 
  
  I would like to see a onboard view when driving asswell, inside car view would be nice like in 
 GTR series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  AFter a long time, there's something new on PC. A totally new racing game, a derby game. Not NFS, 
 not Test Drive, but FlatOut!
  
  FlatOut's concept is great: messy tracks, messy cars with grat phsyics, agressive oppenents, and 
 buncha' things to destroy! Sounds great, right? 
  
  I wish it was that great while playing, too. :/
  
  The main problem with FlatOut is what makes 
 it unique: the physics. Although it's always fun to crash, to send your driver out flying (ragdoll 
 phsyics!) , it gets annoying after a while. You crash into rubberwall, you cant get out, only if 
 you press reset. You crash into wooden, press reset. You get knocked by your oppenent into the 
 wooden fence.. press reset.
  
  Everything's too heavy, and your car is too light. [FlatOut 2 fixed this issue. I have played it 
 and reviewed it aswell. The driver doesnt fall out so easily anymore, and for example, you can 
 easily mop a wooden fence, no need to reset] The oppenents are cheating (Catchup... when you're leading, 
 they go faster than they should be to catch you up) , and they are way to agressive. Also, the career 
 mode gets boring after a while.
  
  There are minigames, like high jump, you have to launch your guy out of the car and jump as high 
 as possible. Yeah, fun, but nothing big.
  
  Forget online gaming, only LAN. Thats a big minus (however with addon you can play multiplayer., 
 but thats not made by BugBear) .
  
  Graphics are fine, and system requriements are low. Just the way it should be.
  
  If you have 
 PC only, and want some derby action, get FlatOut 2. If you LOVE FlatOut 2 and want more, get 1! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who are looking for an all out fun racing game where you can burst through the backroad 
 trails while trying to keep ahead of your opponents by driving them straight into trees will be 
 happy with Flatout. Releasing on July 12th of 2005, Empire Interactive took what could have been 
 just another racing game and gave it so much more. With great graphics, physics, and decent sound, 
 not to mention the unique and hilarious mini-games, Flatout stands out from most racing games in 
 its genre.
  
  Empire Interactive created the whole experience with Flatout. Giving the player thirty-six different 
 tracks to run rampant through with their car that they can upgrade and update between races. Keep 
 in mind that al thirty-six are not exactly unique in design though; most tracks are almost like 
 other tracks, except youll be racing in the opposite direction or taking different directions 
 around different turns. While this may seem like it may get boring after the first few tracks, 
 the developers did their best to make each track its own experience with putting in different shortcuts 
 and blockades along the way. The different environments youll be racing through range from snow 
 covered drifts, to offroad construction sites, to downtown avenues. Each terrain will have you 
 driving differently making adjustments for the different ground texture and also, when upgrading 
 your vehicle or just buying a new one youll be able to get better tires and parts that can handle 
 the different environments better. While you race through each track, youll only be allowed to 
 progress to newer tracks if you place well in the previous ones as is with most racing games. There 
 are a variety of different types and models of cars to choose from at the start and also in between 
 races, and they all have their own strengths and weaknesses. 
  
  One great aspect in Flatout is the physics. Pieces of your car will break away or smash while you 
 rub up against other racers or objects in the environment. Your car will start off each race in 
 perfect condition, but during the race, youll notice how it realistically takes damage to the 
 point where the engine is fully exposed and is on fire. Youll never have your car blow up and 
 be made to restart the race, but as your vehicle receives more and more damage, itll begin to 
 go slower and slower. This element really provides a lot of realism to the game where as most other 
 racing games dont even show damage or dont even begin to deal with it at all.
  
  The racing is a lot of fun, but thats only half of Flatout and players who are not quite fans 
 of the racing genre might enjoy the different games you can compete in to gain extra money on the 
 side. There are different and very unique mini-games which can provide quite a lot of laughs. Some 
 are more standard than usual such as a small figure eight races or even the all out destruction 
 debry, but there are also some extremely different games where you try to vault your driver through 
 his windshield as high as you can or where you vault him into a dart board from meters away to 
 collect as many points as you can. Most of the odd mini-games probably remind you of being at a 
 carnival, especially the mini-game where you try to vault your driver into different areas of a 
 clown poster board to gain as many points as you can. This side of the game can really provide 
 a lot of entertainment to those players who are looking for a little time off from going through 
 consecutive races.
  
  Graphics in Flatout look really nice and the physics really shine because of this. All the different 
 car models look great and the same can be said when theyre being demolished. Everything in the 
 different terrains is destructible and can be used against your opponents. And running the other 
 racers into trees and buildings really looks great when theyre drivers burst through the windshields 
 and go skidding off the pavement thirty yards from their cars. 
  
  Sound in the game is pretty unique. While youre racing, youll be listening to different no named 
 bands, Im guessing from Europe where this game was developed. While you may not know any of the 
 artists or their tracks, the music is decent enough and provides the adrenaline youll need to 
 compete against your opponents on each course. Besides the music in-game, there arent that many 
 other sounds to hear. When you brush up against something or smash into another car, youll hear 
 the sounds of destruction, but pretty much thats it.
  
  One thing should be noted though, the other races on each track are quite aggressive and some courses 
 will be extremely hard in the later stages and the computer players seem to suffer from the rubber-band 
 effect where if youre leading from a distance, sooner or later, whether you make a mistake or 
 not, theyll be on your tail again. The game also doesnt come with an online support which really 
 takes away a lot of fun that could have been had. If you want to compete against others in races 
 or the ever fun destruction derby aspect of the game, youll have to play over lan. And of course, 
 with most racing games on the computer, its quite a lot easier to play with a gamepad controller 
 than with the mouse and keyboard. 
  
  In the end, this is a very fun racing game, that sort of creates its own genre in the meaning that 
 its both a racing game, but also a game full of entertaining mini-games that will keep you laughing 
 for quite a long time. Whether youre into the racing genre or not, you should definitely try this 
 title out, considering that its in most bargain bins. Be sure to check out its sequel coming out 
 this fall.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman650
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  When I bought Flatout, I knew from the start that I would enjoy it at least for a month. I was 
 right. While Flatout may be short and frustrating at times, it is a whole lot of fun. The controls 
 are that of a standard racing game, but the physics and the damage models are absolutely stunnning. 
 For example, when your car gets hit on the roof by something heavy, say a light post, the roof 
 crumples accordingly, unlike most demo derby games (don't remind me about Demolition Derby and 
 Figure 8 race) and also the parts actually break of like they should. With this game, there are 
 no parts that simply break off and disappear, but rather, they slowly deform and then break off. 
 
  Unfortunately, there are some things I am a bit bummed about: First of all, the cars, even with 
 a lot of handling upgrades, can become unmanageable on things like dirt. Also, the soundtrack is 
 positively nauseating. If you listened to it, you'd go nuts. My last complaint is a lack of levels 
 that take place in the city along with a free- roam option. 
  Those flaws aside, Flatout is pretty close to perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedGer9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  this is a must buy and a good quality game if you like the destruction derby series and test drive 
 eve of destruction this is far by better the graphics are good and the sound might get on your 
 nerves after a while but just try to ignore it, the longtitvity on it is suitable and i for one 
 have yet to complete it. yet the handling is easy to get into and theres even fun mini games like 
 high jump where you have to drive up a hill and bale out to score the crashes are the best i've 
 seen in a racing game and certainly a must buy. but conrolling is slightly harder thaan the cnrols 
 on the PS2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I love ragdoll physics! I love car crashes! So, it would be normal if I loved Flatout. It combines 
 my two very favorite things in games and I am currently awaiting the sequel. I went out and bought 
 this game the day it came out and I was thrilled to play it. My only problems with the game are 
 1. Why didn't they add blood when you crash? That would have made it the best game ever on my list., 
 2. Only some of the minigames are fun, and 3. It all gets a little repetitive after a little while. 
 Aside from those minor problems, this is a fun game that can be played over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  Games like FlatOut don't come along often. Most racing games include several clear circuits with 
 indestructible pretty super-cars that race under techno-rock tunes: down to Earth serious racing. 
 Well FlatOut is sort of a clown that makes an entry by jumping through the ceiling, holding a mini-gun, 
 announcing "ta-daaam!" to the shocked public. So let's applaud....
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game gives the player a choice of several American muscle cars (you know, the huge, juicy and 
 roaring monsters, with a casual number on their doors) , and throws him to complete a large number 
 of challenges in either "Career mode" or the "Quick race". These consist mainly of races in three 
 categories: bronze, silver and gold, with each new race harder than the previous one. Each victory 
 (third place or higher) wins the player cash, which he can then spend on upgrading his vehicle 
 or buying a whole new one. Upgrading is done in quite an arcade fashion. For example, there are 
 three types of suspension, and one is better and more expensive than the other. There are no specific 
 technical explanations or thorough tweaking with the parts. As the player progresses through the 
 challenges, new cars also become available. Theres nothing particularly noticeable about them, 
 other than that they are even bigger and faster than the initiate vehicles.
  
  The racing part occurs in all kinds of environments. There are paved circuits and farmland dirt 
 roads and ways with black ice for skating with your 8-cilinder monster. Of course the cars behave 
 differently in different places. When the car put on ice and gravel, things turn crazy and driving 
 becomes a thorny task. But even on the pavement any secure feeling is quickly shot to pieces when 
 the car is brought to its unrealistically high maximum speed. Everything starts to pass by, as 
 if you were flying a jet under the line of the radar and not driving an old timer from the 50s. 
 Slowing down doesnt work because you will have to maintain high speed if you are to be competitive, 
 which brings me to the AI.
  
  The AI in many racing games is a point of frustration for many because it rarely makes any mistakes 
 in cornering, as it follows an invisible line, drawn for it on the road. The players advantage 
 then often lays in speed that he is able to gain during the straight stretches of the road. In 
 FlatOut this AI aspect is back, worse then ever. First of all, the other drivers are completely 
 oblivious to the player, and second, they all perform their driving on ferociously high speeds. 
 The competition of any racing game can get irritating after a while. However, BurnOut might just 
 be on top of this ladder. When youre flying off the road, straight into a tree, trying desperately 
 to catch up with the perfect rockets of your opponents; when youre car is wrecked and is on fire, 
 while their cars only have a few bumps, the irritation starts to really boil over. 
  
  The wreckage system part is one of the most noticeable features of the game. Many parts of the 
 environment, and more importantly, the vehicles are destructible. This is where the core of the 
 fun lays, and for some, perhaps, the irritation. The roads include many obstacles that the player 
 can drive through. The cars can be reduced to a pile of burning metal on wheels. Its fun from 
 the immediate entertainment point of view, but can get annoying if you start making an effort to 
 get alive to the finish as a winner. Perhaps where this feature is best utilized is in the destruction 
 derby, one of the bonus challenges of the game. The goal here is to stay alive while wrecking other 
 cars.
  
  Another highly advertised by the developers feature, part of the destruction system, is the Rag 
 Doll driver that flies out of the car during serious collisions. For those who dont know, Rag 
 Doll is a realistically behaving model, much like a puppet. The game creates several amusing mini-games 
 with this feature. They are the central element of the bonus challenges. One of these consists 
 of a huge dartboard with the challenge to throw the driver as precise as possible, and another 
 of a huge ramp to throw the driver as high as possible. The game sure has a sense of humor. 
  
  The destruction derby and the mini-games, although combined under the name bonus challenges, 
 seem, in fact, to be the core of the gameplay. Yet all of it grows old after some time. In most 
 action games Ragdoll pysics is usually just a small part of the game. FlatOut attempts to make 
 it one of central features. Its original, but not that original to be such a trusted support column 
 for the whole game.
  
  Like any self-respecting racing game, FlatOut contain a multi-player. This is where all of the 
 AI problems described earlier disappear. Eight players getting smashed all over the place is a 
 lot more fun than common racing. The problem with the PC version is that theres no on-line play, 
 just the LAN.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are the game's highlight. Almost every part of the car can shatter, dent or fly off 
 with sparks every time the car hits something, and the engine can smoke and catch fire. All these 
 things are well modeled and detailed. The fun can be immortalized through the recording of it. 
 The camera work is well done. Replays of your destruction fests are particularly pleasurable to 
 watch.
  
  The racing environments are all nicely depicted. The game succeeds in transferring a mood for every 
 setting with things like gravel and snow being thrown from under the wheels. All models are very 
 soft and curved. The reflections are on both the windows as well as the realistic looking metal 
 texture of the car. In short, the game is colorful and detailed, like any arcade-oriented game 
 owes to be. Consequently, the high graphical settings will tax the low-end systems heavily.
  
  SOUND
  
  Most remarkable about the sound in the game are the soundtracks. The music, which 
 consists of energetic rock, fits the games personality perfectly and is just as good for listening 
 outside of the game as inside. The only flaw here is the menu soundtrack that gets really annoying 
 after you've heard it several thousand times. Sound plays a big part in portraying the character 
 of the muscle cars, and it does the job well (not as good as one might expect, but well) . 
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  FlatOut is enjoyment on wheels. Unfortunately there's not much to add to 
 that phrase, and it all gets a little boring after a while. Yes, the guy flies out through the 
 windshield. Yeah, very funny, ha-haYes, the car is trashed up, ha-ha-ha, but the competition seems 
 to be immune to hard corners, and doesnt give an impression of a dynamic competition. Hopefully 
 you can find a few living participants to play with on LAN, to get the most out of the game. The 
 highlight of the racing is seems to be a few bonus races, and that's just not enough for a serious 
 value. Nevertheless, it is more than enough for a burst of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicktacular123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of those games that comes out every so often and it pushes all the right buttons. 
 Shure we have a million destruction derby rip offs all the time but this one shurely breaks the 
 mold. First you have to buy you're car and tune it up. Shure it aint no Need for speed in this 
 department but you do feel it once you have just squeezed that extra few BHP out of you're car. 
 And also the cars themselves. Most are like tributes to the American Muscle cars but there are 
 a few like the Pepper (which as you gathered must be a small car) . Also the burnout style twist. 
 But instead of you driving fast until you hit an object whch you aint able to go through and simply 
 crash. No in true redneck style the driver goes through the window and rag dolls around being hit 
 by other cars and many other things. This Opens up a whole new kettle of fish. There are an array 
 of mini games like the high jump and darts. This is where instead of the boost button making you 
 go faster. It charges up a little bar and when released at the correct time launches the driver 
 through the window. There is nothing quite as fun as firing a man 100 feet in the air. And as we 
 all know what goes up must come down. There is nothing bad about this game apart from the ice stages 
 being really nasty and the drivers looking to bland. But who cares because you can make them fly 
 like superman head first into the ground.
  Mr Frosty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARTHvayda
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The handling is the worst I have ever seen. The steering just plain sucks, the rpm goes up too 
 fast, and the cars all spin out too easily. Damage is good, almost fully destructible environment. 
 The bonus events, such as high jump are very annoying, I tried it about 20 times and failed every 
 one. The graphics are pretty good, the cars and environment were well detailed, and the engine 
 is good too, it ran smooth on my radeon 9200se (while overclocked) (card is outdated) . The soundtrack 
 was not even worth listening too, I turned the sfx volume up, because the car engine sounded better 
 than the crap they call music. It should have an mp3 folder where you can put your own music in. 
 I was very disappointed with this game, it could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgoth22
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  o, here I am in the UK, astounded that we have actually received a game before the USA get it! 
 I've been waiting a while for this, despite its release being somewhat overshadowed by HL2, and 
 rest assured this is a fantastic game that is fun, but also pretty imaginative...
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Some may think that this is a little too high, and I don't generally believe 
 in giving perfect scores, apart from when a game really, really impresses in a certain department. 
 Without doubt, Flatout is the best looking stock car/destruction derby style of game ever, by a 
 long margin. The environments are well detailed, but the cars are the clear highlight. Highly detailed 
 and shiny when they start off, and guaranteed to be a smouldering, twisted lump of metal by the 
 end, the damage model really does a great job.
  
  Bumpers fly off, engines set on fire and the bodywork becomes realistically altered depending on 
 the severity of the collision, and believe me, there will be a lot of these. Skidmarks, tire smoke 
 and dust and snow kicked up behind the cars over the varying surfaces is also extremely satisfying. 
 The game also runs really smoothly, even at high resolution and maxed out settings, on my machine, 
 which has had some trouble keeping stable frame rates with some of the new games out there recently.
 
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Surely the most important aspect of the game, again Flatout shines through, not only in terms of 
 variety, but through the sheer fun that is to be had by high speed crashes causing the car to barrel 
 roll realistically, or smashing through fences to try to get a lead. Shortcuts are well applied 
 on many of the race tracks, and usually involve smashing through some kind of scenery - this can 
 be damaging to your car, but their existence means that even if you are lagging behind, there is 
 always hope.
  
  The career mode is involving, with both professional and normal handling to choose, from, though 
 the difference between the two is negligible to those using a gamepad, or those with experience 
 of racing games. You will move through 3 classes of car, bronze silver and gold, and as you progress 
 through the races and bonus stages (more on these later) you will earn money, allowing you to upgrade 
 the car. There are around 6 cars to choose from in each class, and races will take you from tarmac 
 roads to dust bowls and through icy lands.
  
  This variety of races alone is enough to keep the avid race fan involved, but where this game takes 
 a new step is with the creation of a kind of sick form of Olympics. Whilst making your way through 
 the game, you will find some objects are solid, so that your driver flies through the windscreen. 
 This tactic is applied in the bonus games, which include, amongst others, high jump, long jump, 
 darts and bowling. Each will require launching your character out of the car at the appropriate 
 moment and angle to gain the highest score. This can also be played as a multiplayer option, and 
 though hard to master some events, there is nothing quite as satisfying as battling with friends 
 to see who can get 3 strikes in a row.
  
  The AI is not bad for a racing game, but is fairly standard, so don't expect any huge surprises. 
 Progressing through career mode, you will generally find that there tends to be one car that takes 
 the lead way ahead of the others, though this is not always the case. Thankfully though, the AI 
 cars seem just as prone to mistakes as you (they can be easy to make during a mass pile up over 
 a jump, or smashing through a barn door at 100mph) and they will react to you, instead of sticking 
 to a set path.
  
  Sound - 6/10
  Here, in my opinion is where the game drops a few points. Despite the fact that sound effects of 
 shattering windscreens and bending metal is well executed, the engine sounds seem a little underpowered, 
 and the option of a nitro boost doesn't give much of a booming effect. They are fairly minor annoyances, 
 but the soundtrack is also fairly limited, and altogether too similar. Most of the tracks are metal 
 and rock, but there is little variety between bands, and the short playlist leaves you wanting 
 more. A longer playlist, with a little more variety would have improved this aspect of the game 
 significantly, and set the mood for a destruction bowl more effectively.
  
  Replyability - 8/10
  Overall, this game is fairly addictive, and I have found myself playing 
 through career mode a second time, with options of different cars, time trials and the bonus levels, 
 it does make it hard to put down. A few friends into the mix for the bonus stages also add to the 
 longevity of this game. Though the tracks are all based in the sae 4 or 5 environments, variety 
 of routes and the promise of smash bonuses for breaking up the scenery add to the 'wow' factor. 
 Though not usually one for watching replays, I am finding myself addicted to them, as they show 
 up the crashes in great detail with no slowdown whatsoever.
  
  In conclusion, this is a very fun game that I would recommend racing fans to buy. Those new to 
 the genre may like to consider some more lengthy titles, as this is a relatively easy and fast 
 paced ride. Extra features are innovative and the damage modelling and handling of the cars is 
 impeccable. However, it only gets 8/10 due to the let downs on sound, and at times AI that is only 
 too easy to beat. A shame is this lives up to much of what it promised, and if it's smashing and 
 pure fun that you want out of a racing game, then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  ....... and I don't even like racing games, but this one is just too cool. Racing games always 
 bored the h*** out of me, but when I loaded the demo for this one, I was sold right then. I kept 
 playing the demo until I bought the game and loaded it, the game was so addictive. The graphics 
 are just awesome, some of the best I've seen in any game released here recently. The soundtrack 
 is a bunch of unsigned artist that rock you through each event, they're all totally awesome. The 
 physics engine and the ragdoll make it all the more enjoyable to play again and again. It never 
 gets boring, if you get tired of racing there are little mini-games you can try with your car, 
 or you can just jump into one of the demolition derby arenas and go for all those cool wrecks and 
 see if you survive. Destructable cars, destructable environment, people flyin' out of thier windsheilds, 
 what more could you ask for? It's the most fun driving I've had in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Flatout, its demolition and racing wrapped up in a neat little package, and sprinkled 
 with some weak windshields.
  
  Gameplay: Flatout consists of 2 main parts, numerous races, and several minigames. With the races, 
 you are presented with several different racetracks, and cars. The racing itself is pretty simple, 
 albeit tricky as your car is hard to control at its insane speeds, and the mean AI slamming into 
 you. One of the main parts of the game is its crashing physics, which come into play very often. 
 While racing, its almost encouraged to crash once and awhile, which launches your driver right 
 out of the car via the windshield, letting his body tumble around on the ground outside. This may 
 seem beyond the point for a racing game, but its where its minigames shine. When your tired from 
 racing around a track, you can choose to play one of the numerous optional games. The majority 
 of the games consist of intentionally crashing your car to force your driver out of the windshield, 
 to achieve a specific purpose, such as to knock over bowling pins, hit markers on a gigantic dartboard, 
 or to try and get the driver launched as high into the air as physically possible. For the most 
 part, unless you really love racing, the minigames are the funnest part of the game.
  
  Story: .... its a racing game....
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are absolutely amazing 
 and fit very well with the game. The sound isnt bad, but not remarkable.
  
  Replayability: As for its racing portion, I wouldnt say Flatout had much replay factors, but with 
 its hilarious and challanging minigames, they're more then enough to keep you entertained for a 
 long time.
  
  Final Recommendation: Id recommend Flatout to anyone who likes mindless, insane destruction, and 
 racing games. Its not the best, but its very fun and can amuse you for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drivex3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  This game is fun.
  the graphics surpassed expectation, and the different things to do keep ya involved.
  I love 
 the physical realism behind the controls and crashes.
  Makes me wish I had surround sound from my PC.
  Learning curve is less than 15 minutes, but to 
 get good at the driving on the Higher classes of racing is definatly more involved than the base 
 cars.
  The need for braking comes into play in many upper echelon tracks and races.
  Too much fun to really describe, but the game is a class act amongst off-road racers. Especially 
 since the cars take damage.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spfn7
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has an element of hard work put into it, but isn't that great of a racing game. Forza 
 is a much better game than this so give that a go around instead. 
  The game also tries to put off that it is so awesome just because the driver of your car can fly 
 out of the vehicle. Hmm... haven't they already created seat-belts in cars. Sound isn't that great 
 in the game and the graphics are not up to par with other racing games. The physics on the cars 
 do a feel a bit choppy and could've been improved. The character model of your driver looks like 
 it dates back to the original playstation days. Some times I can see slowdown even on a amd fx-55, 
 2gig of ram, and a 6800 oc, don't know why because every other game I have plays flawlessly compared 
 to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3Astra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  There is no way that this game could get less than a 12 (T) rating. The fact is that a poor man 
 or woman screaming and flying out of a window, and crunching onto the floor, then to be hit by 
 7 cars is not for the faint of heart.
  
  This is really what this game is based around, buy a banger, do it up, race it against some maniacs 
 and win! Simple stuff. Almost too simple, maybe. OK this is the first of hopefully a trilogy, but 
 with no diaglogue the game feels a little empty, but really, I see this as a minor gripe. The fact 
 is that this game is thouroughly addictive and completely mental.
  
  As I have mentioned twice, the main original part of the game are the ragdolling men and women 
 flying out of the front windscreen. This works well; when you have a big impact you fly out of 
 the car, but annoyingly, at very low speeds it can happen, as well as it happening after a large 
 jump. This can get a bit frustrating, especially if you only have a minor lead against your 7 other 
 rivals. I relaly think that more than 7 rivals wouldn't have gone a-miss either, I think that the 
 game is capable of about 11 opponents, but it would get awful frantic. Probably because the AI 
 is far too crazy, for instance, get t-boned, and they will keep pushing you along, and due to the 
 odd, but good physics, you kind of get stuck on their car.
  This is no real problem, as you can use the over-used reset button, which you can use when you 
 have crashed, gone off course, or are standing in a sticky situation. 
  
  You don't just race on FlatOut though, I mean you wouldn't want to waste the ragdoll man would 
 you? No, you get to play olympics with the poor guy, with high jumps, long jumps, darts and many 
 more! These work well, and take a bit of a technique to master. 
  
  The sound of the cars and music is really quite average, with the engine fading away with every 
 gear change, and with an Eastern European rock soundtrack, with a couple of jems. But these get 
 very repetitive.
  
  The highlight of FlatOut are the amazing graphics and physics, like the way you can bash into a 
 tyre wall and see all the tires bounce along and hit other rivals in a very satisfying way. What's 
 more, is that when you litter big objects, on the next lap you'll see your rivals flipping all 
 over them! It's stunning, it really is. So are the environments, they are quite big and all look 
 different with simple yet satisfying track design. 
  
  All in all, this was one of the highlights of the 2004 gaming year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stagathe
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game but you must know that it becomes very repetitive after a while. The racing tracks 
 were repetitive even after changing level (bronze, silver, gold) . You have ugly cars in the bronze 
 and silver levels that don't exist in real life which I found sad but when you evolve in levels 
 you get nicer cars. 
  
  Its always the same upgrades after each level and I found that upgrades change almost nothing. 
 Only the horsepower does. I saw no difference by changing my muffler or my suspension and tires.
 
  
  The graphics were great. The damages that your car could get are almost infinit. There is so much 
 damage you can get. When your car is really scrap though, your engine burns but you can still go. 
 The damages affects the speed realisticly. 
  
  Going through your windsheild was very fun at the begining but after a while you get fed up of 
 going out of your windsheild. It makes you fail races. The mini-games were cool, having highscores 
 of high jumping with your guy going out of your windsheild was not realistic but so fun and original.
 
  
  As you go on in the levels, it becomes more and more hard. At gold I stopped because I found the 
 races almost impossible. You made one small mistake and you failed the race (caused me to swear 
 my lungs out almost all the time) . If you are not patient and don't like racing, well don't get 
 this game.
  
  This is a great racing game that I recommend to anyone who likes racing games although you can 
 get so mad but that might be in every racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagr3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing FlatOut for a week now and I keep comparing it to NFS Underground series. The 
 games are completely different but I cant help noticing how BugBear was able to make a much better 
 game with much less resources. FlatOut has no licensed cars, no famous names it the soundtrack, 
 no flashy upgrades and just 5 different racing environments. And the graphics look amazingly sharp 
 even without a graphics card that costs more than all the other CPU parts together.
  
  The point of FlatOut is to win, not only by driving fast, but also, by hitting other cars and obstacles. 
 Every time you crash into an opponent your boost meter fills up slightly and lets you fly past 
 your competition. This is the core of FlatOut.
  
  The game has few race modes. Career is the one you are going to play most. Besides that, there 
 is single race and time trial. Once in the career mode you have bronze, silver and gold cups, each 
 with faster cars and slightly better opponents. You can also upgrade you car with better parts 
 to make it faster, easier to handle and harder to destroy. Each cup has 12 races, and you need 
 to be at least third in each race to unlock the level of the cup. You also have bonus competitions. 
 These range from auto battle to the last car in an arena, races on shorter tracks (oval, figure 
 eight, ) with more laps, the point of which escapes me and the trick shots. Games like high jump, 
 long jump, bowling, darts,  in these games you throw your driver from the car at the right moment 
 by holding and releasing the boost button. The driver then crashes through the windshield and tumbles 
 down the course.
  
  The cars in the game look like something from junkyard in the seventies. There are three basic 
 performance levels, each corresponding to a game cup. Cars are compared by horsepower and weight 
 and in this game both stats are important. More horsepower means better acceleration and speed 
 but heavier cars are better in a crowd or when you hit an obstacle. Both of which will happen a 
 lot. When you race you need to hit things to get your boost counter up, and when you do that, the 
 cars deform. And the car deformations are beautiful and intensive. Unlike some games where you 
 can only scratch the paint and twist metal a little, FlatOut really tears the cars apart. For a 
 better look check out the screenshots, you cant really describe it so well.
  
  The gameplay and the driving in the game are made for the casual driver. This is not a realistic 
 racing game, its not meant to be. The driving relies heavily on sliding round the corners and 
 hitting your opponents on the inside line to gain places. The nitrous boost is great for overtaking 
 but is also useful if you take a turn too wide or too fast. Just slide the car into the turn and 
 hold the boost until you are back on course. This is a nice mechanism of recovery for a price. 
 You dont wipe out, but your boost is gone. Almost everything on the track is destructible, but 
 the pieces will still be on the ground on the next lap. FlatOut also has an impressive soundtrack 
 that really goes with the game and helps create the reckless mood that helps you get in the game. 
 The rock bands dont include any names known to me, but the music does rock. The tunes are catchy 
 and fast, perfect for the game. This is another part of the game I keep comparing to NFS Underground. 
 While the NFS tries to please everybody and ends up with an average sound, FlatOut chooses what 
 it is and sticks with it. Personally I prefer the way of theme music that FlatOut chose.
  
  But no game is perfect and FlatOut is no exception. It does not have enough game time for one. 
 Once you finish the career there is nothing left. Single player is no fun, time trial might be 
 interesting to me, but not everyone is interested in better lap times on the track they have already 
 beaten. Same goes for the bonus games. They are fun for awhile, then you get tired of the same 
 old stuff over and over. The repetitive nature of the game becomes more obvious the longer you 
 play. The tracks all start to look the same, the career offers almost no motivation to keep playing. 
 This is an aspect of the game that the NFSU series does much better. There is supposed to be some 
 online play, but I have never found any games to join.
  
  FlatOut is after a long time a destruction racer with great sound and graphics, very enjoyable 
 gameplay and some funny sub games if you want a time out from the hard racing life. You slide and 
 crash and push your way to victory until there are no more races to win. And then get another racing 
 game. It is a good solid game that is definitely worth playing. Give it a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greg_zielinski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  
  The games graphics in both visuals and performance are smooth and clean. Level design is fun and 
 exploration is rewarded well with seconds shaved off your lap times.
  
  I enjoyed this game a lot as I felt that you got the sensation of going as fast as you can in a 
 car to do anything to win. Some could say Burnout offers the same but in Burnout most crashes end 
 up being a neat cut scene in crash mechanics. In Flatout, if you can end up back on your wheels 
 in the right direction, just keep going! Take a shortcut through a forest, dive deep into the ditch, 
 blast over a path in a ramp, just DONT let off the throttle.
  
  The bonus games are fun too but I wish there could have been an arena designer much like Stuntman 
 on the PS2. This game has too much going for it in the physics department not to allow you to play 
 around with a few ramps and crash targets. For a quick laugh sit your friends down as they try 
 the high jump and cant help but make themselves laugh at the over the top thought of launching 
 your soon to be corpse 100+ feet into the air, Just Because.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarecrw28
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  It's no MCO but it's just as fun! AWSOME replay value. This is one game that may never come off 
 my hard drive! If you are in the mood to take out some agresstion then this game has it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatyfrog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 30, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I hate to say it, but this game is my favorite racing game for the computer. If you are a casual 
 gamer like me and don't want to get caught up in the technical aspects of right hand turns than 
 this is your game. The AI can be a little frustrating, but the physical destruction of the cars 
 and the pure adrenaline of racing this sim more than makes up for it. 
  
  The side games are a blast and I still laugh at the rag doll driver colliding with fences, boxes, 
 pins, etc. It would be nice to have more choices as far as cars and parts, but the reason I love 
 this game is because its fast, simple, and violent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuxrox1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  Killer Racing game.. Some of the best racing I ever had with my friends on LAN. Close head banging 
 laps with dirt flying and metal as well.. Laugh untill your side hurts while you slam your buddy 
 off the road for the pass. But make sure to turn the dummy off that flys through the windshield. 
 Its funny for a minute, but the race slamming is the best.. Get 3 of your friends in on a game 
 and I bet you dont get up untill you have to go to the bathroom. After everyone learns the shortcuts 
 that are hidden through the tracks, some tracks more than others, you will see where the game play 
 falls in. You just cant beat the LAN MP play of this game once everybody knows the tracks and the 
 short cuts. And one of the best things about this game is its mostly on dirt. There are so many 
 all pavement games out there. And this game takes up all the dirt lovers slack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomdude12345
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 28, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Flatout is a game from Empire Interactive. It's pretty good but not the best game out there. Gameplay 
 is pretty good. The career mode is pretty standard. You race, upgrade your car, race again, upgrade 
 again. Eventually, you can get a new car. The cars take on pretty realistic damage although it 
 seems like your hood flies off just about every race. The graphics are pretty decent. The tracks 
 and cars look realistic. The sound is also good. There are a lot of interesting sounds. The soundtrack 
 isn't that good though. The songs are okay, but I've seen better ones. This game is a good value. 
 Overall, I think you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarAnakin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  If you love car crashing and racing at the same time , than this is a game that you might like 
 . When the game starts , you have the option to create a profile and to chose your driver , male 
 or female . You start with a budget of 4000$ and the first thing that you can do with this money 
 , is to spend them on a car . The cars are all diferent in size , weight , horse power . Usualy 
 the car with the most HP (horse power) is the most expensive one .
  
  You have 36 tracks to adventure on with different type of assets , including winter and different 
 times of day like morning , evening , dawn... You also have 12 additional tracks that can be found 
 on bonus . In this tracks the only thing you do is to throw the driver out of the car in different 
 chalenges like : LongJump , HeightJump , Bowling , Darts , BullsEye and Clown . The other tracks 
 are demolition tracks where you have to crash the other cars and be the last one standing in the 
 arena or you have to make circles of 8 and avoid getting crashed in order to finish 1st . After 
 each track you earn some money . The vlaue of the money depends on what place you finish : 1st 
 , 2nd or 3rd . The money can be spent on car parts in order to upgrade your car . After finishing 
 a track you can also see a reply of your game . The bad thing is that you can't pause the reply 
 . You can go fast forward but you can't go rewind and you can't control the camera .
  
  The game has nice graphics and there are many ways to get crashed . In many games with car accidents 
 , there aren't many ways of getting crashed and the detail becomes boring of seeing the same animation 
 on the crashed car. In FlatOut is different . Each time when you get crashed the car looks different 
 but that depends on the way you get hit and by the game's physics . You can lose your doors , windows 
 , hoods , bumpers , spoilers , exhausts , sideskirts and the driver too . The only thing that you 
 can't lose is your wheels , thing that disapoints me .
  
  If your engine is taking a lot of damage , flames start busting out . It starts with small flames 
 and than with big flames , but this depends on how hard you get crashed . If you take a minor or 
 maybe moderate hit , you can see small flames . If you take a big hit you can see large flames 
 . As i mentioned the game has nice graphics it runs on DirectX9 . You can see the sun reflection 
 in the water , in the car's windows . You can also see the environment reflection on the windows 
 . The metal and the ice are also reflecting the sun's light , just like in real life . If you pay 
 attention you can see the sun's flares between the trees . 
  
  There are also some graphic anomalies . When your engine is on fire with big flames , you won't 
 see a heat haze . Usualy the things that generate heat , create a heat haze around them . The car 
 also has nitro but it's available only in the race mode . You collect nitro by crashinginto other 
 cars or by crashing tires , fences , ladders , houses , boxes and many other things . When you 
 will use the nitro , you won't see flames busting out of the exhaust or a motion blur . The only 
 thing that will happen is that the image will concentrate on the middle of the screen , making 
 the objects to look more distant than before . Enyway , the game is one of the best racing games 
 that I've played and if you loved or love Burnout 3 than you have to try this one too . The only 
 thing the i suggest you is the next one : Try to avoid NOT getting crashed ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  I have played about one third of the racing circuits which is enough to write a few sentences about 
 Flat Out. 
  
  Of course the damage modeling is the best ever from my experience (stuff flies off and cars flip 
 upside down) . It also has very good physics ( not quite Havoc level) but better then any other racing 
 game I've tried. The jockeying for position is a blast with all that bumping and grinding going 
 on.
  
  The graphics are between DX8 and DX9 so that's plenty good enough. The dirt and dust effects are 
 nice just like Rally Trophy. The replays are fun to watch sometimes just to see what was going 
 on behind you.
  
  The A. I is very good but not as good as human competitors would be, so thats the only complaint 
 I really have. I'm getting my moneys worth out of the game anyway.
  
  Also, having a nVidia card (6800 GT) , I can use my 3D shutter glasses to get an amazingly un-flawed 
 stereo perspective. I have played it both with and without the shutter glasses, and both are fun. 
 The partial cockpit view is amazing with the 3D glasses on. You actually flinch at the collisions 
 sometimes.
  
  I think this kind of game is more of a simple speed rush gaming experience, rather then say a shooter 
 with a story to follow. You can pick it it up at any time and play for ten minutes, or an hour 
 and a half. You don't have to remember what was going on. Over all it is all a very good racing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CornCake
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  First, let me say that if you're looking for a driving sim you need to look elsewhere. If you're 
 looking for a great looking arcade racer, this game delivers the goods.
  
  Graphics: What can I say? The environments, the cars, the damage modeling are all superb. If your 
 system can handle it, turn up the resolution, turn up the AF and FSAA all the way and you're in 
 for a real treat. Control: Using a dual analog joystick, the controls feel just right. The major 
 factor is learning how your car handles on the various tracks and keeping it under control at all 
 times. Cars feel responsive and react accordingly (again, for an arcade racer) .
  
  Physics: One word... quirky. Considering this game rewards you for taking out obstacles for added 
 money and to fill your nitro bar, some seemingly small objects will dump you through your windshield 
 while other larger objects are perfectly fine to plow through.
  
  Sound: Hit or miss. The cars sound good enough (I've definately heard worse) . It comes down to 
 your taste in music. I can't say any of the songs are really bad but they aren't that great either. 
 Overall, the sounds do their job well but there's nothing that will really grab you.
  
  Depth: You can upgrade your car but can't fine-tune it. 40 tracks (many are slight deviations of 
 others but are still fun) . 12 bonus track/events (more fluff than fun) . 15 cars. It'd be nice if 
 you could own more than one car at a time.
  
  Summary: Despite some flaws and shallow features (e. g. uninspired car upgrades and bonus events) 
 I'm still having fun with this one. This is an old-style arcade racer and should only considered 
 for purchase if this genre appeals to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Many people who have a pc would agree with me on the fact that there isn't that much of a racing 
 selection for us to choose from. This often leads to the few racing games we actually have to be 
 extremely diverse, with little quirks to make them stand out to their 3 or so counterparts. Flatout 
 tries to attempt this with a few unique blends of gameplay, some decent gritty sound, and a decent 
 graphical presentation.
  
  First off, let me say how dissapointed I was with Trackmania Sunrise. That game's overall presentation 
 was somewhat lacking. Flatout more than makes up in the graphical department for this genre's last 
 black sheep. The granding steel, sparks, dirt, and flying debris make the overall presentation 
 like watching an overly eccentric pixar movie. The graphics get an A +.
  
  The second thing thing I'd like to talk about is the sound. The game supports 5.1 ss, which is 
 a good thing for all you hardcore sound enthusiasts out there who have the latest and greatest. 
 All the grinding, gritty sounds make the overall sound score just perfect.
  
  Finally, the gameplay itself is a crisscross of racing, demolition derby, and carnival style side 
 games which include the long jump and high jump. These are stunt games which allow you to fling 
 your drive through the windsheild into unseen hurdles. You can go this in the regular cup game 
 to, which is a little lacking in AI respect.
  
  Overall, I give this game a definite buy. Its one of the better pc racing games out there right 
 now. The sonud, graphics, and gameplay make for a decent driving experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goodman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely wonderful cross-driving sim game.... of course it`s arcade, but it`s beautiful... Stylish 
 game with astonishing graphics and nice game play...... I was driven away for many hours.... Play 
 this game you wont be disappointed. Another thing that grams is very interesting songs playing 
 while driving..... I liked it a lot. Also easy understandable upgrading system. As we speak about 
 graphics quality i`m playing on P4 1,8 MHZ with 1 GB RAM and GeForce 6600GT AGP with 4x AA and 
 8x AF and as I`m saying sometimes I had wrecked my car just because of the beautiful sites around 
 the track.. it grabs you.. try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 336_07
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  Man, I usually hate racing games but this game is awesome. I downloaded the demo and it was great, 
 so the next day I bought it. Almost everything is destroyable and the ragdoll is actually pretty 
 good. The mini games are cool and the destruction derby is awesome. I figured it would be good 
 to because it isn't made by EA because they suck at making racing games, and I can actually play 
 it with the music in the game on. Ea has the worst taste in music ever.... anyway the only thing 
 I don't like about the game is that you fly out of the windshield to easily, but what can you expect 
 its like the first game to do taht so whatever. Overall great game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
