-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FlatOut 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/flatout2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cars and tracks wreck and deform wonderfully.
 New plenty of content to mess with throughout the career mode, stunt mode, and online playto the stunt mode.
 mostly good soundtrack.
 stunts can be a real hoot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overall vibe of the game just isn't quite as engaging as the first FlatOut was.
 floaty, somewhat generic feel of the cars can be off-putting.
 a few graphical blemishes.
 driver launching mechanic during races is barely used to any notable effect.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.8, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,636 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Developer: Bugbear
Genre: Demolition Derby
Date:     Aug 1, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FlatOut 2 seems a little too slick for its own good in spots, but it still manages to provide plenty 
 of destructive racing fun. 

  As much fun as the Burnout series of racing games can be, sometimes you want something a little 
 grittier and grimier than the glossy, pristine-looking races that series has had on offer in recent 
 years. Enter last year's FlatOut by developer Bugbear, a demolition racer in the purest sense. 
 That game consisted of big, clunky, filthy-looking cars that deformed in all sorts of spectacular 
 ways while flying through the air, crashing into one another, and even periodically sending the 
 drivers of said vehicles crashing through the windshield in a rag-doll-heavy heap. In FlatOut 2, 
 the same basic concepts found throughout the original game are once again on display, but while 
 more content has been added to the package to try to flesh things out, it is with these additions 
 that FlatOut 2 begins to lose its way. FlatOut 2 throws in some new, stylistic touches both in 
 its content and aesthetics that make it feel more like a clone of other established arcade racers, 
 rather than something original. And some of the things that Bugbear didn't change still prove as 
 problematic as they were a year ago. However, these irritations don't suck away all the game's 
 enjoyment, and those with a penchant for smashing and crashing cars will find FlatOut 2 an appealing 
 piece of work.  

          Massive automotive destruction returns in Bugbear's FlatOut 2.     

  FlatOut 2 takes 
 much of the basic content from the first game and tosses in a bunch more of it. All the stuff you 
 liked -- like demolition derbies, figure-eight races, and stunt mode -- is all there, with more track 
 options and stunts tossed in. There are even new car classes, with race cars and street racers 
 to go along with the typical junk cars. The odd thing about the new cars, however, is that apart 
 from some expected speed differences, they really don't feel any different than the clunkers in 
 terms of handling or durability. Size is really the only major difference, and even that is purely 
 cosmetic (big trucks trump small racers in crashes, and so on) . Each car in the game has several 
 ratings in categories like speed, acceleration, strength, weight, and the like, and all of these 
 categories can be upgraded via new parts in the career mode. But even these upgrades lack a measure 
 of tangibility. Again, you notice differences in speed, but no matter how much you crank up the 
 handling rating or the weight rating, you'll still feel like you're driving the same basic car 
 across the board.  

  That's not to say that any of the cars handle particularly bad, mind you. Though the floaty car 
 feel from the first FlatOut is front and center once again in FlatOut 2, and though that feeling 
 can be very disconcerting early on in the game, you'll get used to it, and because all the cars 
 handle so similarly, you don't have to make any dramatic shifts in how you drive as time goes on. 
 The one problem with all this, though, is that frankly, some of the cars just don't look like they 
 belong. Even though it's fun to smash up tricked-out tuner cars, they drive just about the same 
 as the derby cars, so they don't really add anything to the package except a different visual style 
 to those races. Unfortunately, that style just doesn't jibe with the dirty feel of the races. With 
 so much dirt and debris all over the place, it's almost counterintuitive to want to drive these 
 clean-looking rides right into the thick of it.  

  This is an issue that permeates most every aspect of FlatOut 2. The whole game simply feels less 
 down and dirty than the original did. It's like someone in a suit somewhere said, "Hey, those Burnout 
 games are a lot slicker looking than what we've got. What if we try to do something more like that?" 
 That's not to call FlatOut 2 a rip-off of Burnout, because as a whole, it still feels like it has 
 more in common with its predecessor than Criterion's racing franchise. But the way that some of 
 the cars look, the way that the tracks are designed, and just the basic feel of the game simply 
 make it a little too immaculate for its own good. Even the whole thing with the driver flying out 
 of the windshield after huge crashes, a much-used (perhaps overused) concept in the first game, 
 has been dumbed down to the point where it's no longer entertaining during races, and it's now 
 purely a punishment. There's no distance or exaggeration to this mechanic now. Your guy just kind 
 of flies out very quickly, flops to the ground, and it's over. While it's a welcome that it doesn't 
 take as long to reset your car when this happens, it lacks the same level of silliness contained 
 in the original game's mechanic.  

  With all that said, there's still quite a good time to be had with FlatOut 2. If you enjoyed the 
 first game and can get past the sterilization of this one, you'll find plenty of destruction to 
 play with. Cars still break apart wonderfully, with tons of body deformations, pieces that fly 
 off, and all sorts of debris that stay on the track for you to drive into as you round another 
 lap. Tracks break apart similarly well and provide plenty of jumps, shortcuts, and alternate paths 
 for you to crash through. Modes like the demolition derby and figure-eight races haven't changed 
 much between games, save for the addition of some more tracks. But the stunt mode has gotten a 
 number of new games to go along with the previous bunch.  

  If you never played the original game, FlatOut's stunt mode was a mode specifically designed to 
 take advantage of the whole guy flying out of the car thing, with extra-ridiculous games where 
 you could try to launch him in a high jump, long jump, or even use him as a bowling ball in a bowling 
 game, or a bean bag in one of those carnival-looking point tosses. FlatOut 2 adds new minigames, 
 like a basketball game, where you try to drop your dude through one of several available baskets, 
 all with different point totals; a baseball game, where you try to launch the driver into the best 
 possible spot on a gigantic baseball bat, and then watch as he gets clocked like a ball as far 
 as you can go while trying to avoid landing in one of several giant-sized baseball gloves; and 
 royal flush, a card game where you launch the driver into a board filled with giant cards, and 
 then try to get the highest hand possible in five turns while lining up straights and flushes. 
 Aside from the addition of a nudge mechanic that gives your airborne driver a little boost while 
 in midair, these games functionally work exactly the same as the old ones, and they don't have 
 any more replay value than the old games did. Still, they're all pretty challenging in their own 
 right, and there's fun to be had throughout the mode.  

  One area where FlatOut 2 has unquestionably improved over its predecessor is in the multiplayer 
 category -- specifically, online. Last year's game was weird, in that the Xbox version lacked demolition 
 derbies online, and the PC version wasn't online at all. Here, the online is as it should be, available 
 across the board and with all modes available on all versions. Apart from races and demolition 
 derbies, FlatOut 2 also includes the stunt mode online. Stunt mode is inherently more fun when 
 played against other people, so this is very much a welcome addition. Our online testing came out 
 smooth on all three versions of the game, with little to no lag.  

          The core racing action is just as good as it was last year, but there's just something 
 about the use of tuner rides in this game that feels... wrong.      

  Apart from the occasionally questionable aesthetic choices, FlatOut 2 is still a great-looking 
 game. The sheer amount of deformation and destruction you can do to the cars and tracks sees to 
 that, and all of that destruction is contained within some nice-looking environments and arenas. 
 Some of the street tracks are a little dull, but the filthier country back-road tracks are pretty 
 cool. The amount of debris that can litter the various tracks is quite impressive, especially since 
 wrecking into it often slows down your car. Sometimes the animations of your car getting tangled 
 up with some destroyed sign or someone else's bumper look janky, with pieces clipping through one 
 another, but that doesn't happen too often. FlatOut 2 also runs quite well. On the PC hardware 
 configurations we tested the game on, we noticed notice a touch of frame-rate slowdown during particularly 
 huge crashes, but otherwise the game runs at a solid 30 frames per second throughout (though depending 
 on your system's capabilities, your mileage may vary) . Another thing that has been improved over 
 the original FlatOut is the soundtrack. While the first game was made up of purely generic rock 
 from people you've never heard of, FlatOut 2 is made up of far more recognizable generic rock. 
 Inclusions of tracks by Megadeth, Alkaline Trio, and Supergrass are weird but good, but inclusions 
 of tracks by bands like Fall Out Boy and Nickelback are just kind of obnoxious. Still, there are 
 more great songs than bad ones, and there's also an array of high-quality sound effects. It's just 
 too bad there's no custom-soundtrack support on the Xbox or PC versions of the game.  

  FlatOut 2, while not a major improvement over the first game, is still a quality demolition racer. 
 The addition of more content in each and every mode is certainly a plus, and the driving still 
 has a satisfyingly destructive vibe to it. It's just too bad that it doesn't have the same quirky, 
 filthy vibe as the first game. Fortunately, there are still plenty of lovable qualities to be found 
 in FlatOut 2, especially if all you want is the same basic racing gameplay as in the first FlatOut, 
 but with a lot more of it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (81 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  After the great success of the popular now demolition racer FlatOut, there is now a sequel which 
 is the same immersive and destructive as the original was. FlatOut 2 is the second, succesful game 
 of the franchise.
  
  Like the first game, FlatOut uses destructible cars and environments to play in. Apart from the 
 career mode, there is a new, stunts mode where you take your ride to jump high and get points. 
 It is another huge success from the developers of the series. But despite all these, as it is happens 
 to almost every sequel, FlatOut 2 has lost alittle something from its atmosphere and vibe.
  
  Almost everything is as it was in the previous game: the multiplayer mode is as good as ever, 
 in both online and LAN connection, while the details are very realistic and extraordinary as they 
 should.
  
  But visually the game lost a bit of the previous amazing detailed system: it seems that now the 
 developers gave balance between performance and graphics, decreasing something from the great details 
 the game had, but increasing the speed and high performance in almost every PC, thus giving the 
 game a new interest. It is also very positive that the soundtracks and voices are so much improved 
 in contrast with the first FlatOut.
  
  FlatOut 2 remains as good as the first was. While some cons are now fixed, other problems are revealed, 
 preventing the series from improving so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Gran turismo has you passing a driving test before you're allowed on the race track, encouraging 
 precise driving Flatout 2 has a sort of anti driving test telling you to smash into as much scenery 
 as possible to earn nitro boosts. Shortly after that you take part in a high jumping event in which 
 higher your driver lands after flying out of the windscreen of your car the more points you score.
 
  It's clear what Flatout's intentions are then put fun and destruction first.
  Surprisingly Flatout's handling is more skewed towards realism than similar games, but that just 
 serves to make it feel like Project Gotham with pile ups, or Sega Rally with turbo boosts. True, 
 this might not be quite so polished there are too few themes to the courses and the mud and water 
 effects are nothing special but the handling is brilliant which in turn makes tearing through muddy 
 countryside and around cities a lot of fun.
  The game's instantly accessible you don't need to place first or even third to move on to new events 
 most of the time.
  But getting placed does give you more cash to spend on new cars or upgrades. It's not all racing 
 either there are destruction derbies which are just big smash fests, as well as events where you 
 play darts and go bowling for example by shooting your driver through his own windscreen.
  It's the most fun we've had with a driving game since burnout revenge and if you like wrecking 
 cars this is the racing game for you.
  Destruction:
  When you start the game you only have enough cash yo buy a clapped out destruction derby car. By 
 placing near the top in each event race you earn money to upgrade tyres , engine and so on, then 
 eventually a new car. The game's Al is good enough to keep you replaying until you win. Certain 
 drivers will seek revenge if you knock them of the road. Races can be won and lost on the final 
 seconds thanks to the nitro boost and fact that you can smash other drivers out of the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  When I first got FlatOut 2, I was very excited to be getting a game like this. The first FlatOut 
 already amazed me enough, so I was waiting for FlatOut 2 to amaze me even more.
  
  The control's were pretty easy to learn. They were pretty much like last years game, so the cars 
 were pretty easy to control.
  
  Some new tracks were added to the game, while some of them were looking like the first FlatOut's 
 tracks. All of them were still fun to play either way.
  
  The graphics improved from last years game. The Cars and places around the track looked more realistic 
 than the Original FlatOut, but they weren't amazing enough.
  
  Gameplay was taken to a new level this year. Online mode was added. When you race, there's a Destruction 
 Bar. What that is, when your in a race, everytime you hit an opponet, the Bar goes smaller. When 
 the Bar isn't there anymore, the next hit made to the car, Boom! They're out of the race. Whoever 
 hit the car get's a Destruction bonus at the end of the race.
  
  Destruction Derby was added this year with about 5 or 6 tracks. How to win: Crash and Destroy any 
 car to get a high score. User with the highest score wins the race. Stunts, Race Tracks, and Special 
 Race Tracks were added from last year to this year, with a little improvment. There were new Stunts 
 added, while the High Jump was the only race that stayed as it was.
  
  Online mode is a little fun. Yes, you get to race other racers Online, but there's no Leaderboard 
 and it really looks all plain. If you make a game, you chose the race, the track (s) . You can kick 
 users if they're taking too long choseing a car, but the rest of it is really plain. No Voice Chat 
 makes it a little fun so you don't have to hear someone swearing when you, or someone else, messes 
 him/her up.
  
  Overall, the game is pretty fun. Online mode is plain, Some tracks are new while some of them look 
 liked it was imported from teh first FlatOut. Racing is fun. The Destruction Bar for racing makes 
 it fun, which is also another fun thing for Online.
  I give this game an 8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  The Need for Speed series are the most popular games in the racing genre, mailnly because every 
 person liked at least one game from the 11 games: from the professional racing sims like Porche 
 Unleashed & ProStreet to the arcadish & action oriented Undergrounds & Most Wanted. Unfortunatelly, the 
 series did not include a destruction derby game, so FlatOut, a finnish game from 2004 did it. Now 
 FlatOut returns...
  
  I know we all wish, at least from time to time, to kill as many enamies or destroy as many objects 
 as we can. FlatOut 2 is clearly the most enjoyable game that never loses intensity... let me explain.
 
  
  After you create a profile you will see that there are 3 big cathegories of races: Derby, Street 
 & Race. Derby involves cheap but durable cars, mostly dirt tracks & destruction derbies ;street has 
 some cool cars that you see everyday on the streets ,& you'll get to race... well, on the streets. 
 Finally, race gives you sportcars, racecars & prototypes which you'll race mainly on racing tracks. After 
 all these come the finals, which I think you know what mean.
  
  You'll start your career in derby, buy a truck & go racing. The cool thing is that you don't need 
 to absurdly win every race on the 1st place to advance in the game... there are championships, each 
 consisting in three or more races. In every race,1st place takes 10 points, 2nd takes 8 , 3rd takes 
 6 , 4th takes 5, etc ,until 8th takes 1. The driver with most points at the end of the championship 
 wins. Of youre, you can finish a championship on 3rd place, no problem, but you'll less money. Money 
 is also received from crashing the opponents (a simple crash brings you 100 $, but a huge crash 
 that sends the pilots flying trough their windshields brings you no less than 800 $! Also, winning 
 some titles as Best Wrecker, Bulldozer (destroy as many environmental objects as you can) or having 
 the Best Lap Time are also rewarded with money. Why is money impotant? For buying new cars & tuning 
 them. Yeah, they have the classic attributes like Top Speed, Acceleration, Handling ,Nitrous Oxide 
 ,Strenght & Weight. The interesting thing about tuning is that you can never have the perfect car; 
 if you want a strong car that will not blow up when hit a little bit harder, you'll need to increase 
 the Strenght, by installing a variety of parts. Which parts are quite heavy & will increase the weight 
 of the car, making it harder to handle,& this also negatively affects the Top Speed performance. Oh, you 
 can sacrifice strenght & maximize top speed & acceleration but that can also prove bad if you are 
 first place in the last turn of the last lap, but at that speed you could not see the water tower 
 in front of you until you crashed in it & blew up. As a conclusion, either have two cars which you 
 can always change, depending of what track comes next, or you can tune a really balanced car, which 
 I'd say it's the best option. But do as you please.
  
  Now to speak about the races themselves... they are basically tracks trrough  
 cenrtes, abandoned airports... almost everything. Without you, there are 7 other drivers which you'll 
 grow to know, anticipate, even like or dislike. Every one of them had their good or bad moments, as 
 well as their specific tactics & their own skills. This is the game where if you see Jack Benton 
 behind you, closing, you get scared, trying to avoid him at any cost, but if he's Frank Malcov, you'll 
 just laugh, intoduce him to the nearest gas station & carry on the race. Because, yes, you can do "whatever 
 it takes" to win... including slamming your adversaries into walls, trees, rocks, shops,... gas station 
 (huge explosion FTW!!) ... basically everything you see.& they could just do the same with you, so 
 beware. Oh I forgot to tell you how nice the cars dismember, parts falling down from them one by 
 one... artistic; you've really gotta watch some videos or pictures to trully understand what I'm 
 talking about. The environments are COMPLETLY DESTROYABLE. Yes, that means you can destroy ANYTHING!!! 
 Walls, fences, pipes, advertising boards, gas stations (again) ,shops, ... basically everything you 
 see (except some objects earlier mentioned, which are used for crashing cars into) . Yeah ,you can 
 take shortcuts trough shops, malls, construction sites , destroying all the furniture, statues... every 
 goddamn thing!!! It really is a symphony of destruction. However, the physics are somehow exagerated 
 sometimes, because once I crashed into a fallen front bumper & I flew trough the air while countinuesly 
 spinning, the car desintegrating, till it hit the gas station, creating a huge explosion & a chain 
 crash, pilots flying in agony trough their windshields... from a damn front bumper!!! But I never 
 said this wasn't fun, oh no. Once, at the end of a race there was only me & another guy left, the others 
 being... scattered troughout the track!!!
  
  OK, but FlatOut 2 still wouldn't be FlatOut 2 without the  
 ,ring of fire ,stone skipping, royal flush, etc. They all start with you speeding up on a runway, than 
 setting the angle of the launch & launching your driver, in order to use him as a dart, as football, 
 basketball ,bowling ball ,to pass him trough the rings of fire, to make him hit the right card 
 in order to make the royal flush, etc. These minigames are incredibly fun & relaxing & go greatly 
 between two championshipsm,& also bring you money in the career mode. You MUST try them!!!
  
  But what do we really need in order to really feel there, in middle of all that chaos & destruction? I'll 
 tell you: music, the right soundtrack. And FlatOut 2 has... yes, has the best soundtrack EVER!!! At first, not 
 all the bands seem too great, but the songs are perfectly chosen & not one gets boring. They all 
 deliver the perfect atmosphere, blending perfectly with the carnage that's happnening on your screen. We 
 have some heavy metal as Megadeth-Symphony of Destuction ,Rob Zombie-Demon Speeding & Feel so Numb 
 ,some hard rock as Nickelback-Believe it or Not ,Flat on the Floor, Motley Clue-Dr. Feelgood, Papa 
 Roach with Blood Brothers & Not Listening, The Vines-Don't Listen to the Radio, Alkaline Trio-Mercy 
 Me & Fall Victim ,Pyramid & Dimension from Wolfmother, Audioslave-Man or Animal & Your Time has 
 Come ,oh,& Supergrass with Road to Rouen & Richard III. Also, there is some nice metalcore from Underoath, 
 with the best song in the game (I'd dare say) , Reinviting your Exit. The punk part is also extraordinary, featuring 
 Rough Landing Holly & Breathing from Yellowcard, Give it All from Rise Against (also seen in Need 
 for Speed Underground 2) , Zebrahead-Gimme Some More & Fall Out Boy- 7 Minutes in Heaven & Snitches 
 & Takers get Stiches & Walkers (what a cool song name) . So, I think you've got the point, both the 
 lyrics & the instrumental parts of the songs suit the game at their best, like no other songs could 
 ever do it. Heil Bugbear!
  
  As a conclusion, FlatOut 2 is simply the best racing game ever created, possibly until FlatOut Ultimate 
 Carnage (PC) this summer. With perfect ingredients perfectly blended together, FlatOut 2 is an unpredictible 
 game, where you are on the last position & it's the last lap, but you could as well win the race 
 on 1st place! But no more... try the game,& then we'll talk. You'll never get bord of it; I've passed 
 it four times by now & I still play it. Go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makemap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is fun in every way, but it has some flaws.
  
  Con: Some stunts are just plain hard and not fun, no 2 player split-screen, running out of money 
 can mess you up in careers.
  
  Pro: You don't need to beat stunts to unlock everything except 1 car, Tons of tracks and cars,
 
  Demolition derby is really fun, lots of people online, great graphics and explosion, any car can 
 be played in demolition derby in single event, can play a race non-stop to make money in careers, 
 and people flying out of cars can be really funny.
  
  This game is worth it to buy, you can smash and crash people out of their car.
  computer players 
 are easy to crash out. Using any car for demolition derby is fun and players can trash up their 
 car until they have no more health. Destroying players car during races give you advantages and 
 make them lose. There are Shortcuts in the races also. 
  
  Playing with others online is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinvel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  FlatOut 2 is a demolition derby that allows the user to make up his car and play with it. It has 
 a good quality of graphics and mostly the soundtrack. You can make your character to stunt and 
 this can be very beautiful seeing the stunt. Also you can play online with your friends and this 
 can be very funny that you demolish your friend's car. It has an awful carrier that allows you 
 to buy cars and upgrade them to a better car. In the stunt you can press the Control Key and see 
 the character fly out of the windscreen and see the beautiful scene. Despite all this the first 
 FlatOut is more engaging and has more features. In FlatOut 2 you see more cars and can play more 
 thus more fun than the first FlatOut and you can make more stunts. FlatOut 2 is the best demolition 
 racer that I've been playing in all my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Flatout 2 is a great game for driving mindlessly into anything that can be destroyed. Fences, poles, shop 
 windows, junk lying around the streets. It can be fun to race the 7 other drivers that will run 
 you off the road any chance they have. You can attempt records by firing your poor unexpecting 
 driver out of the car into the air and landing face first in a pile of dirt. There are several 
 driving modes where you'll need to buy addons to your car to keep up or make it stronger. There's 
 just plain driving crashing where your soul objective is to finish and cause destruction. There's 
 a derby mode so you can spend your whole time maming the other drivers. A challenge mode which 
 has jet powered cars that propelle you off the end of a ramp into space and attempt to break as 
 many of the driver's bones as possible. All good clean fun. Oh yes, you can have headon and your 
 poor hapless driver will disappear thru the front window, once again coming to grief is some poor 
 unfortunate way.
  
  Definately one for the drivers, and probably ONLY for the drivers, because once you've driven around 
 the circuits for awhile, it gets repetitive and dull. Just much harder and frustrating when you've 
 got a 10 second lead, then magically the computer driver will disappear down a hidden pass and 
 beat you to the finish line.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and will look great on any of the better graphics cards, the sound and 
 music go hand in hand with the crashes, the controls, well break out your steering wheels for this 
 one and finally lastability ??? Well I suppose your could play it again and again if only to beat 
 your lap times. Me well a few hours (about 30) of driving and its back in the cupboard for safe 
 keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmaullu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  I wait a long time, before buying this game, mainly because some negative reviews around.
  Well, I never seen a game so UNDERRATED !!!
  Reviewers complained that the game was the same 
 as Flat Out 1, just with better graphics. But this game is much more.
  First of, they introduced a point system, which is more enjoyable to play with.
  Also the separation 
 in 3 different class is a nice touch.
  The soundtrack (which was great in Flat Out 1) is huge.
  The Stunt games are better than the 
 previous game.
  The graphics are vastly improved.
  Also, now if you keep crashing your car, it eventually get wrecked; making the game more realistic.
 
  The only bad thing about this game is, the problem with sound acceleration,
  which was the same in Flat Out 1.
  This game shows that sometime reviews are NOT to be trusted.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kendu10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I played this game to start to end and that game didnt bored me.
  There is all the time some action and crashes and jumps and lot moree.
  This game is just worth 
 of playng.
  I like that one thing too that there was somekidna tuning or something like this.
  I hope there 
 will be some time coming Flat Out 3 too,
  And this game is very good.
  If u like racing and crashing then this game is for you.
  Thats all i give 10 points because 
 its worth it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth 
 it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth 
 it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth it.
  Thats all i give 10 points because its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashmanalum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Flatout 2 has everything one would want in a destruction/racing game: good graphics, wide variety 
 of cars/tracks, innovative modes (like stunt mode) , amazing physics and an incredible detailed 
 car/scenery destruction but all this, at the same time, are it's downfall because the developers 
 got the concept of this game wrong...
  
  Let me elaborate, how cool it sounds to race in cars that are almost fully destructible, tracks 
 having LOTS of debris and 7 other opponents for you to throw your car at? Sound fairly nice right? 
 We'll I thought it too BUT that's not what really happens... You know when you're nailing that 
 perfect turn at the last corner of a race? The last turn that will get you that last and most difficult 
 trophy of a racing game you've been playing for weeks? The trophy that will finally end the game 
 and give you the sensation of job well done?
  
  Well imagine at the middle of that turn a box... better yet, 50 boxes with incredible details and 
 physics that get's out of track and crash... do you get the picture?
  
  That's what is really annoying about Flatout 2, all these high detailed/physics-true debris are 
 only good to spoil your race, thus, having you restart ALL OVER AGAIN!!! I've lost count of how 
 many times I restarted a race because of this situation and I can tell... IT'S SOOOO ANNOYING!!!
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, this game has lots of potential but the concept is all wrong, instead of making 
 racing game (with about 30 championships with countless races of same old tracks) they should've 
 had used all those good  to create the most amazing car-destruction 
 game and not just one more Burnout copy. What I'm trying to say is why the hell make a racing game 
 so annoying that, instead of destroying everything in your path, you have to be careful not to 
 hit too much stuff or your car will spin around like crazy, making you lose the race? If you're 
 going to make a game this strong in detail and destruction then make it so our only worry is to 
 DESTROY!!! IMHO they could have made less racing tracks and explored much more the carnage/humor 
 from the battles of 8 cars of the stunt games.
  
  The rest of the game is good, nice soundtracks and all, but it's CORE is wrong... I hope they see 
 that and make a sequel worthy of all those amazing crashes...
  
  PS: I HATE THOSE *&uml;$%@$#$ BOXES!!! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canzy28192
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  i don't speak english as my first language, please forgive my mistakes ;P
  
  Gameplay: 9,5
  The driving system is very well done! you'll have lots of fun drifting on the 
 roads that this game offers you. the sense of speed is really great and nitro's effect is awesome. 
 cars are actually very tough but if you squeeze an opponent on a wall... well, you could destroy 
 him with only one hit...
  this game is really fun... and that's all...
  sometimes it gets quite easy, but it never stops to be fun...
  
  Graphics: 8,5
  graphics 
 are generally great and there's an important thing i must tell you: you can use this game with 
 high graphic settings even if your computer isn't very powerful: i played this game on my old computer 
 (3Ghz not dual core and a really bad 256mb geforce) and i played it with cool graphics and always 
 25 frames per second (now i've got a 2,6Ghz dual core with a geforce 8800GT and i play it with 
 highest graphic detail at 75 franes x second ;P)
  damage system is really well done, too, but actually i think it is not realistic the pieces of 
 your car come off so easily...
  anyway there are some little graphic problems: for example after you move a cone its shadow does 
 not move... -.-'
  
  Sound: 9
  great sound effects. really awesome.
  in my opinion this game has one of the best soundtrack ever... the problem is that songs are not 
 enough. that's a pity. anyway it's more important the quality than the quantity...
  
  Longevity: 9
  well, i've played this game fore lots of hours... the carrer is short, but i spent 
 lot of time to buy all the cars and i played this game 3 times... it's too fun! ;P
  
  The Good
  - FUN!!!
  - Great driving and damage system
  - Nice online multiplayer game
  
 - Nice stunt races
  - Works well on weaks computers, too
  - Great soundtrack
  
  The Bad
  - A few graphical blemishes
  - guys... i really loved this game... i can't think to 
 any other bad aspect! ;P
  
  see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylenol
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  As a PC driving game enthusiast I only play driving games with a steering wheel &amp; pedals. For 
 the most part I only play driving games in a multiplayer LAN environment. This is a very fun arcade 
 racer, the pace of this game is a little faster than the original Flat Out so it can be a little 
 intimidating to beginners. The sense of car speed, the steering control and car physics feel good. 
 There is just something wonderfully fun about crashing your opponent and watching their body fly 
 out of their car. The stunt portion of this game, once you get the hang of it, quickly becomes 
 a multiplayer crowd favorite. Trying to project your body out of your car at the correct angle 
 to do stunts for points is wonderfully twisted. I cant tell you how many times Ive watched friends 
 laugh so hard they couldnt talk while playing this portion of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Get speed, crash and destroy you opponents. Good game, graphic, gameplay and big list of a cars. The 
 graphic is cool and the effects when you crash are perfect. You can choose different styles, from 
 racing, crashing or stunt events. The Flatout 2 is much better than the first game was. But the physics 
 is steel not the right. When you crash with your car, the car doesn&acute; t crash in peaces and so 
 on.... But the game got something very special. A good multi player, but the bad thing is, that you 
 must wait very long, to get the game started again. But really good game.
  
  Graphic: Standard Graphic with some good effects.
  
  Sound: Mhm, the music.... well.... not the 
 right thing. (Some are used from
  another games) .
  
  Gameplay: Cool gameplay, but too slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonOtaku7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Evenin.
  
  Opening statement : I usually hate racing games. RACE FROM POINT A TO POINT B OMFG DURRRRR... Stuff 
 like this adds lovely variety to things, where fallen debris gets in the way, opponents can be 
 killed, and so on however. So if a racing game-hater likes it..;-D
  
  THE GOOD :
  
  Graphics : It looks damn smooth o_o. Perhaps not the best, but FAR from the worst, too! I was shocked 
 how smoothly the game ran. No lag at all on my old 9600 XT 128 MB.. Ten out of ten for being such 
 a sexy thing :-D.
  
  Sound : Funny thing about that. I wasn't paying attention. MWAHAHA...*ahem* no, really, I was busy 
 raping stuff, but I suppose I would have noticed if it sucked, y'know? Five out of ten for being 
 average 
  
  Music : I wouldn't call metal, heavy metal and rock exactly music ;-D... but they're good, enjoyable 
 little Happy go lucky tunes. Eight out of ten, matches the atmosphere well!
  
  Controls : Standard. Simple, too, for you people who are clueless on which button is which function 
 ;-D. Seven out of ten.
  
  Challenge : This game is HARD. It won't look it at first, but some of the minigames are insanely 
 annoying, and later, the opponent cheats a lot (Check THE BAD section) . Ten out of ten Level design 
 : It actually looks beleiveable and meaningful to an extent, even though this is just a racing 
 game. They worked on it alright. Points for that - eight out of ten.
  
  THE BAD :
  
  Rubberbanding : This term, for those that you don1T know, applies to skill versus skill things. 
 Or, in this case... say you own the field nad WOOSH away from your opponents. Even if you are tens 
 of miles away and you took 5 mins to get there, they will appear behind you in ten seconds or less 
 -_-. Ridicilously impossible speeds, too. I've SEEN the AI go through walls to get to me, LITERALLY. 
 That is BAD, because you have no real sense of achievement.. 9 out of ten (On the how annoying 
 this is scale) .
  
  Cheating AI : Ah yes.. the AI loves doing this. Jack And Sofia especially. They rubberband a lot, 
 but more than that, Jack's car is fast - I can take that, it's a RACE car. But how can Sofia almost 
 ALWAYS be in first place, MILES away, with that big, ugly car she's driving? I'm dead serious, most 
 of the time, she'll be in the top three, near you, or ahead of you, it's disgusting. Ten out of 
 ten!
  
  Physics gets in the way : It does. Debris you scatter in laps 1 and 2 act bad when you land on 
 them or roll over them. I like driving huge but fast truck type vehicles to slam the opponents 
 into walls. That huge tank rolled over a tiny pebble and flipped like a f*cking bycicle. IT was 
 terribly annoying to lose first place to something like that and have to work my way back up again 
 -_-. Eight out of ten, but only because it happens rarely.
  
  Misleading stats : This is only a minor issue, but most handling stats of carrs don'T mean anything. 
 The smaller cars that don't look like trucks or bigger vehicles arE IMPOSSIBLE to control on dirt 
 road, they slide around stupidly and they aren't that much faster :-\.. it's terribly annoying, 
 ya know, try it for yourself! Seven out often.
  
  Conclusion : Despite the annoying shortfalls of this game, I found enjoyment in it. The happy go 
 lucky music, the racing carnage and the insane minigames all added up to a wonderful, if not light 
 little mix of rape everything in sight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smasherbmxer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  this game is really awesome, i'm playing this game for more than a half year and i still like the 
 destruction and the speed in the game. it's a blast to smash up your opponents to pieces while 
 still get to the first place (which isn't always that easy) and the cars handle pretty good, only 
 the Rear wheel drive cars are a big challange to drive in the dirt (like the Ventura &amp; Speedshifter, 
 Bullet GT) but with some practice you can do it.
  
  The Graphics are great, even on my Acer laptop it's amezing how much stuff you can destroy in the 
 track, the High detail in the cars are cool to see whan your car is smashed up I love it! plus 
 the car upgrades are a cool feature.
  
  to me is it a awesome game! is it to you?
  
  Grtz. Biohazard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  A good example of what all game developers should keep in mind when creating a video-game: FUN
 
  
  This is where Flatout is best at. I have very much enjoyed this game. Just plain fun ! The game 
 is very well crafted, although many of the races settings are repeating often. But, the game provides 
 superb graphics at reasonable system demands. The cars and the surroundings looks and deforms beautifully, 
 the races are crazy; a true and splendid madness. The game provides also some good (unfortunately, 
 few) pieces of music increasing the dynamic feeling of the game. The stunt mode is very funny, 
 but maybe should have been more developed. Played on multi-player, together with your friends or 
 over the internet in derby mode (smacking each other's cars) is very funny. Anyway, you should 
 definitely not miss this one, no matter what kind of gamer you are. A very enjoyable game, despite 
 its minor minuses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Gran Tourismo meets Demolition Derby. Beautiful graphics. Physics are a little annoying. (Example, 
 no matter how hard you try, your car will NOT stay stable on the road courses... LOL)
  
  This game is extremely enjoyable. I find myself closing out every evening with a nice game of FlatOut2. 
 Just enough destruction to fill the need. A definite Must Have for any gaming community. The side 
 games are a blast as well. Catapult your driver a few 100 feet into a field goal net type contraption... very 
 nice. If you gotta trash it, you may as well Crash It! Once again, the graphics are amazing, and 
 the gameplay is simply fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaDiZTiKStyLeZ
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  It's awesome to see the physics in games taking off, sort of gives us a better idea of what to 
 expect in the future.
  First of all, if i could have, the sound would be deep into the negatives. That is in no way, racing 
 music. More like, I'm going to put crappy whiney music in, in attempt to ruin this awesome racing 
 game, because daddy didn't buy me that hot pink Ferrari when i turned 16. I am glad i was able 
 to turn of the music and run WMP in the background without problems, but there was still audio 
 conflicts, sometimes it seemed like it was trying to override audio with a buzz or hum from the 
 fx audio.
  The racing seemed less than great, but not bad. The sense of speed isn't up to par with other games. 
 All the destruction sort of makes up for it.
  The tracks were fairly short and restricted which had me wanting more.
  Even though, for the 
 most part, theres lots of junk around to mess with, it gets a bit redundant laying around after 
 2 or 3 laps.
  I didn't play too much into the mini-games, because they just suck, but thats not really effecting 
 score, as its easily ignored.
  Before I got the game, I had read around a little, and bugs and other problems were mentioned. 
 I was greatly suprised that the only problem I had the entire time was nomore than 1 or 2 crashes 
 or freezes, which im glad for since alot of games hate my high-end hardware.
  If not for the crap music, the game would have gotten an 8. Definitely worth looking into if your 
 into racing games, check the bargain bins, but not worth going out of your way for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techytez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  In order for me to be impressed by a racing game, it has to include one or two of the following:
 
  
  1. Crashes
  2. Money
  3. Car upgrades (plus a variety of cars to choose from)
  4. Great graphics
  5. Being able to win!
  6. Extras FlatOut 2 includes all of these! The gameplay 
 itself is rather addictive, the combination of great tracks, high speeds and destruction means 
 that the chances of getting bored are quite slim, and if you do, you can always go backwards around 
 the track crashing into every opponent that comes your way (allowing you to gain credits for Power 
 Hit 's etc. and gaining the title of Top Wrecker) . The advantage to crashing into other cars and 
 (non-fixed objects) is Nitro! Whilst racing I tend to stalk the track like a blood-thirsty ware-wolf 
 looking for my next kill. Generally speaking I'm not the best at racing, I either lose or crash 
 my way to the front; FlatOut 2 provides great alternatives to the racing itself, including Bowling, 
 Stone Skimming, High Jump etc. The general idea of these little extras is to flog your driver as 
 high or as hard as you can by speeding and launching him at the appropriate target, the better 
 the hit, the more points/credits you get. Similar to Destruction Derby, it includes events
  in which you can wreck the (insert vulgar word) out of your opponents. Ultimately the graphics 
 are great, with stunning crashes implementing the use of clever camera panning, you can see your 
 car as it is wrapped around a tree, or your driver as he/she is hurtled through the air. It's also 
 a good thing to know that the game isn't too demanding on your computers recourses, so if you don't 
 like the (pretty good) soundtrack (featuring Rob Zomby and Alkaline Trio) , you could always put 
 WMP on in the background and race along to DJ Tiesto. Once you've learnt the simple ins and outs 
 of the game winning isn't so much of an obstacle as getting a decent car. Unfortunately you can't 
 just go straight to the fastest car and do it up, you have to win stages and unlock them, making 
 a bit of a catch 22 if your not very good at racing. Luckily there are upgrades for the car, making 
 it up to double the speed, but at a cost to handling and/or strength, adding a bit of strategy 
 to how you play the game. It does cost a bit to do all this, but money isn't too hard to come by. 
 I haven't yet played the multiplayer game, but from what I understand it's as good as playing single 
 player, so if you fancy pitting it out with real people give it a bash! FlatOut 2 is flat-out great 
 (sorry) , if you get the chance, buy it!
  
  Terry B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad0260
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you just start up and the next thing you know hours have passed 
 and your eyes are bleeding. Even though concept is nothing original but this game pulls it off. 
 Flatout 2 is to arcade style racing is like what call of duty is to world war 2 games. It is all 
 presented in a clear way with polished interface and gameplay. The graphics look almost perfect 
 and frame rate never skips a beat. Physics play a nice part in the way the track is personalized 
 after the first lap. In the classic arcade way there is always the best car to use in the class 
 so it keeps you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damansandhu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  this is best racing derby game i have ever played . it has wonderful graphics, good game play and 
 the good thing thing is that it has not much system requirement . i have amd athlon 3000+ , 1gb 
 ram and 7600 gs 256mb and i play this game with maximum settings, this game is just awesome , This 
 game has a lot to offer whether u play single player or multi player , this game has everything 
 races, derbies that a game should have. I love playing this game online especially with truck and 
 bus, lol, you can do a lot of this in this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAARKANTOS
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  FlatOut one was a great game, i've played it alot, it was very rewarding and extremely fun to play. 
 That also meant i was really looking forward to this game... Was, and looking are defenetly meant 
 to be there.
  First of all : the controls suck, FlatOut had perfect controls and this is a drag.
  And then... that 
 what has made me hate this game. Why the hell, no matter how hard you suck or how perfectly you 
 drive, have they made it so that the cars will ALWAYS stick close to you. This is so frustrating 
 if i ram a car into a tree i want to notice i did that by never seeing that opponent again untill 
 the next race.
  No, buy flatout one, its cheaper, its better. This is boring, lame, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Many of my friends said that the game was pretty good. At first I wasn't so sure. I took some looks 
 at it and it looked awesome, so I bought it and I'm really happy about it. This is a great game 
 that isn't getting recognition it deserves. Flatout 2 rocks!
  
  The game is fun no doubt about it. Racing is awesome, exploding your rivals is freakin sweet, and 
 one of my favorites is launching the driver into a a metal net with score numbers! I like launching 
 the driver and giving him giant glasses of pain as he dies. Really cool. Graphics: Definitely lookin 
 good here. The crashing is absolutely wonderful, the reflections off the car are excellent, explosions 
 are realistic, and the driver launching physics are ever so realistic! Incredible. There are a 
 few grainy textures, but the graphics are truly sharp.
  
  The destruction sounds amazing, and I just love the sound of the driver's bones breaking! The explosions 
 are great too.
  
  Fan of racing and annihilation? Pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  If I had to use one word to describe Flatout 2, it would be madness. The developers of the game 
 have created a very fleshed out crashing and physics system which makes the crashes very realistic 
 and entertaining to watch. The game has 3 types of races. The first is derby. Derby races have 
 sturdy, rather slow junker cars in them. Race races....... have rather fast and less sturdy cars. 
 And last but not least street races are the fastest cars. The graphics in the game are amazing 
 and really convey the chaos caused in the game. The soundtrack is in my opinion a little weak but 
 worth listening to nonetheless. The overall value is good with the game going for only 30$ at a 
 best buy for a game with quite alot of replay value. In the end Flatout 2 is a Solid rather inexpensive 
 game that should be considered by any racing game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gory-Gamer-25
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The games graphics are excellent. you may need to get a video card if u have it for pc but its 
 worth it. This game is a game that will keep you busy for a long time. the cars are great and so 
 are the tracks. there are plenty unlockables for u to find. the racing is unbelievable and the 
 demolition derby is even better. But one thing to look for in this game that's in no other are 
 the ragdoll games. the ragdoll games are just another feature that makes this game simply amazing! 
 I mean how many other games can u can u launch your driver out of the windshield and play basketball, 
 cards, darts, or even skip em across water! This game is just amazing and is worth the money!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazf2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play flatout1... andI haven't seen so great phsyics since gta, this racing demolishion 
 game has the best graphics, the soundtrack is awesome, can be played online.... ive spent a lot 
 of hours playing it and theres no cons only pros,, its way much better than any needforspeed, this 
 game should be ranked 10.
  
  Theres no technical issues, the game runs smooth with great fps, i run on my athlonxp2400, 768ram 
 and a geforce 6800oc with 128, magnificent graphics with all high details setup. Runs good online 
 also
  
  Great fun, easy to play and the minigames are also great, filled with fun minigames where you throw 
 your driver for a high jump, long jump, basketball , dart target and much more
  
  Highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Coming out on August 1st of 2006, players are once invited to participate in some of the wackiest 
 stunts known to man, plus a multitude of races in a variety of cars. From beginning till end, Flatout 
 2 is much like its predecessor in providing hours of entertainment with crazy car physics thatll 
 have your car reduced to nothing more than a fire-filled pile of scrap metal, but does it suffer 
 from the same faults as its prequel?
  
  The Flatout games have been pretty unique in their own right providing quite a lot of laughs for 
 not only racing fans, but fans of the old Destruction Derby games that once grazed the Playstation. 
 I remember playing hours with friends just beating the crap out of my car, hoping to last the longest, 
 but in Flatout 2, its a little different. Lasting the longest wont always get you the most points 
 in the end. In their destruction derby, its all about the destruction itself and how much you 
 can wreck upon everyone else. Having the ability to pick whatever car youd like in the derby, 
 youll soon find yourself after only a couple minutes riding around on three tires and a rim still 
 trying to decimate your opponents to scrap metal. There are quite a few tracks that youll be able 
 to choose from which are unique in their own right and this adds for some of the strategy that 
 you may plan out ahead of time, but the destruction is simply only one part of the game. If it 
 were the destruction derby alone, this would be an awesome title, especially for the online components 
 with friends. There are quite a few different modes of play in Flatout 2 including the usually 
 racing which takes you from forested log roads, to dirt tracks, and then to pavement city zones 
 much like the first game when it was released and in this respect, theres truly nothing new to 
 the game. The tracks that are provided are quite entertaining and need some amount of skill to 
 master in whatever car you choose to buy and upgrade and there are three types of racing which 
 youll have to purchase three different types of cars to utilize during those tracks and they include 
 derby track cars, street racing cars, and then some top tier cars that will outperform any of their 
 predecessors. As you race through the different tracks, youll win money to upgrade your cars to 
 perform better on the different tracks, but after the first hour or so, youll have seen most of 
 the tracks that Flatout 2 has to offer and this is where the game suffers like its prequel. Both 
 Flatout and Flatout 2 have some great track design, but they reuse their tracks over and over throughout 
 your goal to take first place in all three types of racing tiers. Another mode of play would have 
 to be the crazy stunts that are available. Much like its prequel, Flatout 2 has some strange stunts, 
 but even more this time around. This time, youll have the high jump, bowling, baseball, basketball, 
 and many other stunts that may make you feel awkward when youre propelling your player from his 
 windshield to skip across water in a pool much like youd throw a rock. You could spend hours just 
 honing your skills to take first in all of the stunts, but that would take quite a while mind you, 
 because they do require quite a bit of reflexive skill and some of course, some knowledge in what 
 the correct angle would be to propel your character out the window at. No matter which stunt you 
 try, youll find yourself hooked until you finally learn the rhythm of the key strokes to take 
 first place in all of the competitions.
  
  One thing should be noted, although youre able to play this game with your mouse and keyboard, 
 I would highly suggest getting a controller. Something with dual analogs for steering if you like 
 that, or else you can use the D-pad, but the buttons are easy to configure through the menu and 
 the game plays like it should only be on a console, but the developers took their time in making 
 the player believe that it should be on the home computer. Although the mouse and keyboard work, 
 its just easier to steer around those tight corners and do some skid sliding when using the D-pad 
 of analog stick.
  
  The graphics within the sequel have been upgraded and look great for the times. Having to compete 
 with a variety of racing games on the market, Flatout 2 looks superb, especially when your cars 
 being decimated to metal shards during the destruction derbies. Pieces of not only your car, but 
 your opponents will fly away as you smash into each others car trying to deal out the most damage 
 and this destruction of your car is only for the destruction, but for everything in the game including 
 stunts and the racing component. Although the first Flatout looked great, Flatout 2 just seems 
 to look so much better in every aspect of the game including the cars, terrain, and your racer 
 as hes flung from his car from time to time. The track designs are well presented and are unique 
 enough from each other to not seem copied, but youll soon see the same track time after time when 
 competing for the gold to earn money to either upgrade your car or buy a new one to compete in.
 
  
  The sound in the game has definitely been upgraded. Although the prequel has decent enough music, 
 it consisted of some pretty generic rock music to keep your adrenaline pumping. This time around, 
 the developers enlisted the music of some well known musicians including Nickelback, Megadeth, 
 and Rob Zombie to list a few. The music is quite a nice touch and will keep your adrenaline pumping 
 much like the first game, but it will be of bands that you have actually heard of this time around. 
 The sound effects that are heard when your cars be broken apart are decent and so are most of the 
 sound effects thatll pan out in front of you as your power-sliding through a log road, or bashing 
 into the front glass doors of a strip-mall.
  
  There is a great multiplayer component for the game to compete with your friends online whether 
 you want to race or participate in some destruction derby. Although, with all the fun that can 
 be had in multiplayer, Gamespys servers arent the best for either connection to the main server, 
 or even connecting the multiple games that are online at any one time. But once youre in a game, 
 such as destruction derby, and you have a good group of people going, it can be quite a blast with 
 the limit set at eight people possible. You could easily spend hours just on online play competing 
 against others, but watch out, because the leader of the game can hold an anonymous vote to boot 
 you from the game without your knowledge if he thinks that youre not competing hard enough, or 
 interacting enough during the destruction derbies, but this rarely happens and when it does, its 
 usually for a reason.
  
  Upon release, the game was pretty stable with Bugbear releasing a small patch to fix a few things 
 with multiplayer and other small items. But other than that, Flatout 2 is a solid game, much like 
 its predecessor. If youre looking for a way to spend hours upon hours busting through other cars 
 with the destruction derbies or go online with some buddies to have some fun, this is the game 
 for you. If youre a fan of the first, then this is definitely the game for you, because its just 
 as good as its prequel, but only better in each aspect including races, cars, and stunts. This 
 game cant be categorized as just racing, because it offers so much more.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Options/Upgrades: 8
  Replay Value: 7
  Stability: 9
  Multiplayer: 
 8
  
  Overall: 8.45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I've come off the NFSMW and NFSCarbon games. Now If you like those games like me, you'll have no 
 problem with Flatout2. I can't say which is better, but there are a couple of things that this 
 game has that the NFS games don't.
  
  1. Fun destructable cars where cars explode upon impact with all the parts flying every which way 
 in the smoke. Notice the silvery surface of your brake rotors as your wheels fall fly off !
  
  2. Amazing FPS. Runs fast like a 3 year old game on my less than top-of- line computer. But 
 the levels are first rate without a doubt -and with alot of variation. The developers made some 
 crafty tradeoffs, I think , in render quality. The weather and general atmospheric effects might 
 be a little static compared to NFS, but they are still convincing.
  
  3. Fun mini drving stunt games that are part of the campaign.
  
  4. Bodies eject from cars 
 upon nasty collisions
  
  5. Physics are wonderful.... different from NFS... Sort of that same buttery arcade feel, but this 
 games also seems to mimick real physics in a fun way that's believeable.
  
  6. Under $20 fast download. Now the only thing I don't like: For some reason, I can't see the gear 
 display in the destruction events. There's no visual information about what gear your in. I don't 
 know exactly what's up with that. Minor. And it's too hard to get into reverse when playing with 
 manual transmission with a gampad.
  Oh, one more thing: The interface doesn't work right with the gamepad. One has to use the keyboard 
 to switch game modes. These are gameplay issues and that's why it got an eight. But have fun. This 
 is a great racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Flatout franchise is improving so far... In flatout 1.. the game is kinda slow paced and not quite 
 fun to play..
  
  But when i touched Flatout 2.. i'm beginnin to hooked with it.. seeing the destruction is cool.. a 
 stable gamespeed.. and better driving controls!
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are quite nice.. of course burnout and NFS has nicer graphics.. but hey. u 
 dun need any high specs system to play this game.. it still has the current standard of a driving 
 game.. The bloom are well done, deformation of cars are very nice to look at.. and the environment 
 have the standards of a demoliton racing!! i've tp say that the graphics are still perfect and 
 NOT outdated!
  
  Sound: I got no problems with the sound, except the music... some of the musics are quite lame though.. but 
 u can customise ur own music as well if u go to www. flatoutjoint. com to learn the tutorial... but 
 at least those musics are licensed music... artiste like Rob zombie, Yellowcard, Papa roach and more 
 are all in it!! Good sound!!
  
  Gameplay: I have to tell you guys that the gameplay is almost excellent!! u wrecked ur opponents 
 car from every angle during racing!! the controls are very well done!! and it's not like motorstorm 
 or burnout ripped off!! the only time u reset your car is when your driver flew out of the windshield, overturn 
 your car or get out of track...!! and the good part is even after you reset your car.. your car 
 is still on damage... you'll still be able to see your car deform all the way... so do the opponents!! 
 No matter what you do.. it's all destructive!!
  
  But of course every game isn't perfect..
  
  here are the cons:
  
  Not much driving tracks...
 
  cars can't be customized except changin of colours
  Race Mode are all Lap Race 
  Some opponents are always the top three (only 7 opponents)
  Mini games are quite tough to beat (But 
 fun to play)
  No storyline!
  
  so far that's all i could think of.. but i recommend any racer who loves destruction and loves to 
 race.. to buy FLATOUT 2... this is the only game with simulation, and fun to play... with a lot to 
 bang on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detoam13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is what a game should be. I keep hearing people say that they like how realistic games are. 
 Games are not supposed to be realistic. They supposed to be fun. If someone wants reality than 
 go outside. I get enough of reality in my life and this game lets me forget about it. I have not 
 had so much fun in a while now. I keep redoing some races over and over just for the fun of it. 
 And I am planning to replay the game for a couple of times. Some of the bugs in it are frustrating, 
 but overall I gave it a nine. The biggest beef I had is with the stunts. There is nowhere that 
 the game tells you which key is to launch a driver out of the car. I did have a lot of fun with 
 the part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boriszex
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  When I did installed Flat Out 2 for a First time it surprise me with new menu look, there is great 
 background music and videos. Great music altought there are some songs from NFS Underground 2 but 
 sound of engine and tires is great. Graphic is other story beautiful colors and it seams like you 
 are really in that place, great environment especialy because it is in USA. It is true that this 
 game is not exelent but for me it is especially because these stuffs. If you like Racing game and 
 you don't know which you should buy I think that Flat Out 2 is right game for you. If you did like 
 Flat Out 1 you will also like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  Upon first starting up FlatOut 2, you'll quickly learn that this game is all about the fun. The 
 mechanics aren't deep and sophisticated, you're not required to master the art of drifting or the 
 inside corner, and your main goal in the game is simply to get to the end of the race in one piece 
 - by any means necessary.
  
  Something that's common in all of the modes in FlatOut 2 is a system which awards you bonus points 
 for performing various tricks or crashes. For instance, if you manage to run into one of your opponents 
 and flip them over, you'll get a two start bonus for the feat which will be added to the amount 
 of credits you earn at the end of the race. Destroying an opponent entirely, in any mode, earns 
 you a five start bonus. For the majority of the time in FlatOut 2, you'll know that someone has 
 dropped out of the race because of damages when you hear a big explosion and see a large fireball.
 
  
  The other thing that's common is the wonky physics. The majority of each arena and track can be 
 utterly demolished if you run into it; wooden fences, glass, poles, metal building, and the like. 
 There are a few levels that through some completely insane twists to this formula - take for instance 
 the track that allows you to drive through a mall boardwalk, smashing through benches and soda 
 machines, with a burger joint as the finale.
  
  The environments aren't the only area of the game that get this kind of attention though. Car physics 
 in FlatOut 2 are just as insane, though not overly so. You won't see your car spin off like it 
 were on the surface of the moon, but you notice that it has a very light feel to it's mechanics, 
 which keeps things fun and interesting when wreaking havoc on the game world.
  
  FlatOut 2 is split into several different gameplay options. There's Career mode in which your main 
 objective is to start out as a lowly Derby driver and work your up to the big leagues, with a fast 
 car and all of the upgrades. This is the most interesting way to see the majority of the tracks 
 in the game, as the freeplay mode doesn't contain them all.
  
  There's the Derby mode, where you're placed in an arena with a slew of other psychotic race car 
 drivers and tasked with making sure they all go up on a huge fireball before you do. In this mode, 
 you'll be able to use nitro in order to get those power hits and you'll get more nitro from either 
 ramming the cars you used it up to hit or by running over the various set pieces in the arena. 
 You're also given a contact timer. If this timer reaches zero before you make contact with another 
 vehicle, then you're disqualified.
  
  Race mode is the main foray of FlatOut 2. You're placed on a track with 7 other drivers and the 
 goal is simply to win. Many tracks will have certain jumps that will give you a major nitro bonus 
 if you hit them just right, although nitro in this mode is to be used more for taking on tough 
 corners than it is for smashing up your opponents. Wrecking your competition in Race mode can prove 
 to be a difficult task on most tracks, unless that's your goal from the start, in which case you 
 probably won't win.
  
  FlatOut 2 also has two special modes. The first is Stunt mode, where you're given a variety of 
 games to play by launching your driver out the windshield. The other is a sort of speedway mode, 
 where your main objective is the same as Race mode, except that the tracks are much faster and 
 dangerous, owing to a lot more crashes and wipeouts.
  
  ---Gameplay ---
  FlatOut 2's gameplay is simple and fast. There's not fancy moves to learn or overly difficult tracks 
 to master, so this is the perfect game for the gamer who's looking for something a little less 
 punishing. It should be noted though that FlatOut 2 is near impossible to play with a keyboard 
 or mouse, so investment in a controller is probably a good idea. The main Race mode provides great 
 entertainment and the Derby mode is simply a blast to play, especially with more than one human 
 player. The speedway mode is fun as well, although the limited amount of tracks in this mode is 
 a tad disappointing. The Stunt mode is a little harder than the other modes and can be a hoot to 
 play, but it doesn't really add anything worthwhile to the experience.
  
  ---Graphics ---
  For the most part, FlatOut 2's graphics are gorgeous. Car detailed is articulated very well and 
 damage zones and models are great fun to look at and make happen. The vast majority of the game's 
 track collections are beautifully rendered, looking photo realistic at some points. For some reason 
 though, road cones are unusually large and there a few patches of very blurry texture here and 
 there, although not enough to detract from the main gameplay.
  
  ---Sound ---
  Sound in FlatOut 2 comes in two fronts; the soundtrack and the actual audio. The in-game audio 
 for cars in your generic fare, but it does the job without feeling extremely low budget or tacky. 
 Engine sounds can get a bit grating at times, but usually for no more than a few second.
  
  The soundtrack on the other hand is a matter of taste. Most of the songs included are alternative 
 or rock songs from a varied collections of today's top artists. It will most likely appeal to most 
 users for the first hours, at which point you'll find your turning the music off to just listen 
 to the main audio.
  
  ---Value ---
  For a game of this kind, FlatOut 2 offers an extreme amount of entertainment value. Watching crashes 
 and taking part in them in a blast no matter how many times it happens and the tracks, locations, 
 and destructible items are varied enough so that the game doesn't feel monotonous on multiple play 
 sessions. If you've got more than one system on a home network and others in your household that 
 enjoy this type of game though, FlatOut 2 begins to really shine through a great multiplayer experience 
 and way to share a load of laughs with your companions, especially the Derby mode.
  
  ---Overall ---
  FlatOut 2 improves upon its successor in almost every imaginable way, which is 
 the way that a sequel should always be. The graphics have taken a major leap in both realism and 
 consistency, the gameplay has been refined to near perfection, and the entertainment value has 
 increased nearly ten fold. With FlatOut 2, Bugbear proves that it has a working formula in this 
 genre. If the next game in the FlatOut series can see the reduction (or complete dissolution) of 
 mainstream in its soundtrack and find a way to make the eject mechanic a tad more interesting, 
 it could very well be that Bugbear will have made the perfect destruction race. Until then though, 
 FlatOut 2 is the closest you're going to get - and that's not far off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceColdCanadian
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  I picked this game up a while back and have been slowly working my way through the Career mode 
 which involves a few different levels that constantly get harder and harder as you progress. For 
 each race you complete you get a cash reward as well as an unlocked vehicle. Other than winning 
 races you can simply wreack havoc on the roadways by destroying obstacles, cars, and crashing into 
 objects at such high speeds your body is hurled through you windshield and into various terrain. 
 Although the crashes look realistic and are fun to look at, you can't hope to wreak havoc AND complete 
 the race in First Place. So it's a somewhat awkward gameplay device. FlatOut 2 has a definite arcade/console 
 feel to it and doesn't involve the mouse at all (in menu or game) so it's a pretty straightforward 
 port that does it's job nicely.
  
  There are 3 different kinds of racing in this game, starting with the entry-level racing which 
 is Derby Racing . This involves mashed up, old classic cars and trucks that smash into each other 
 and don't look to perty. The next level is simply Racing which varies from Dirt Track to City Street 
 racing which involes cars that are bit nicer and cleaned up than Derby ones. The final level of 
 Racing is Street Racing which should have been kept out of the game, simply because, racing various 
 NFS Tuner cars through city streets has nothing to do with Demo-Racing. Who is gonna buy a 20,000$ 
 car and then smash the hell out of it? Bad play by the developers on that one.
  
  The final aspect of the gameplay is Stunt Tracks which allow you to drive the **** out of your 
 car and crash it in such a way as to hurl your character out the front of the windshield and into 
 a flaming hoop, or bowling pins. This is where the realism goes right out the window, with Stunts 
 like Bowling , High Jump , and Keno , you know things aren't looking up for that poor unbelted 
 driver in the driver seat.
  
  Graphics
  
  The best part of FlatOut 2 is definitly the eye-candy. Each level looks scarily realistic, as well 
 as the crashes, characters and explosions. During racing you will get into various accidents and 
 you will notice the paint on the car begin to rub-off, parts of your car will start falling off 
 and flying toward the screen and will actually cause accidents if you are not careful, as they 
 are left on the track for the entirety of the race. The graphics in FlatOut 2 are probably some 
 of the best I've seen in a racing game for the PC.
  
  Soundtrack
  
  The second best part of the game. With a total of about 25 songs that never get old, you will be 
 burning rubber to some of the best demo-racing songs out there including; Breathing by YellowCard, 
 Feel So Numb by Rob Zombie, and Believe It Or Not by Nickelback. There is no custom MP3 playlist 
 capabilities in the game but you probably won't spend more than an hour at a time playing this 
 one so the songs don't usually get repetitive.
  
  Storyline/Depth
  
  Don't expect much of a story or an depth to this game. The game has no intro video, just simply 
 a menu with good music, then it's right into the game. There are no voice-overs in this game, just 
 faces that show the player who is ahead of you.
  
  Summary
  
  If you enjoy arcade racing and cool explosions, this is a game for you. If you are more interested 
 in realism and actual racing then stay away from FlatOut 2. This is definitly a console game, and 
 probably should have been left there, but since the visuals look great, and the game does pass 
 the time and can be quite enjoyable I would say it gets the job done as a PC Racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksubstanx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Es ist ein guter nachfolger Titel. Ich denke das der multiplayer gar noch besser ist als bei nfsu2. Au&szlig; erdem 
 kann das Spiel auch noch mit einem Medium PC auf schlechter Detailstufe spielen. Das Spielt holt 
 alles aus deinem Rechner raus.'Deswaegen kann man schon sagen das das game einer der besten nachfolger 
 &uuml; berhaupt. Get ready to race one of 16 upgradeable cars on 45 challenging tracks. Each environment 
 in FlatOut is fully destructible, so you'll see all the damage you cause in broken fences, free-rolling 
 trees, and mangled car parts; not to mention your own vehicle. FlatOut 2 is the sequel to FlatOut, 
 a destructive racing game with multiple play modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  hiya'll people, Flatout 2 is one of the nicest crash-em-up-racing-games.
  It got really good graphics, nice gameplay too, well it goes like this, you're a racer but you 
 got to drive your way to the top, like never heard that before, but this game has lot's and lot's 
 of cars plus you got to upgrade your car to, you can drive from very cheap and clumpsy cars to 
 reall nice mustangs or jeeps, and there is a very big difference between RWD, FWD, and 4WD... You 
 got lot's and lot's of tracks so pick your car wisely, like a mustang is RWD, very fast but once 
 you go sliding in the durt you get last, but a jeep is slower but is 4WD and that's usefull in 
 derby's of off-road tracks, same with FWD and dirt-tracks, they're just a bit faster than the jeeps, 
 but in derby you'll see the difference, you can have lot's of cars so that's good, but beware of 
 buying all those cars, they cost money, don't forget that, and some cars cost lot's and lot's of 
 money...
  
  the gameplay is good to, but I think if you buy it on computer you'll be better of with a nice 
 joystick, i use my keyboard, it works pretty well.
  
  The graphics, well of the graphic inpruvals i can keep on going talking about them, like if you 
 hit a pole or something and it's well aimed it will stuck into your car, very sweet, and the damage 
 is very well done, like getting a bumper off and suck things, all very well done...
  
  the racing is also very nice done, so are the tracks, you can drive trough lot's and lot's of things, 
 like windows, traffic lights, everything you see you can run into in real life to... very nice 
 done!!!
  
  The sound is good, but could do better, but sound are always difficuilt to be excellent in a game. 
 so i inderstand it.
  
  Have fun!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Flatout 2... the first thing that came to my mind when i heard the title was just another lame game 
 in which you have trash your opponent's car all of this some annoying control and expired graphics 
 . After installing the game i was amazed that everything I thought about the game was not true. 
 The game with all the options high looks simply amazing, it looks just like the way i imagine myself 
 that a car game should look like, colourful cars very well designed. I've choosed a car (there 
 three available categories, each one with FW, RW or AWD which is kinda nice because you could choose 
 the one that fits your driving skills and upgrade it once you advance in your carrier) , started 
 playing and once again i got shocked by the way you could control your car without having the feeling 
 that the car is not moving the way you want it to move. Another thing that surprised me in this 
 game was the physics, you can trash your opponent car, your own car and even some of the things 
 getting in your way like barrels, fences, trees and banners. After you get tired of racing you 
 can have fun in the old Flatout way..... crash your car while making the driver jump higher or farther 
 away, u can even play bowling, poker or shoot hoops with the driver. My biggest surprise was when 
 i saw that the game is able to run at 1280x1024 with high details (including AA) on a 6600GT. My 
 final words would be A very well optimized game that can relief you of your everyday stress 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwillett2003
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  If you like racing games where you can run over almost anything, this is the game for you. In flatout 
 you race arcade style races where you can loose wheels, doors, hoods, fenders, windshields, etc 
 .... even the DRIVER!! There are many game modes other then racing, bowling, darts, destruction 
 derby etc... I love this game because I can just kick back and run everybody over and keep going. 
 Nothing like powersliding with nitro into other cars. For those who love destruction and just sheer 
 fun. The game is only 20 bucks now so go out and get it while you can. If not too sure, download 
 the demo for free. Demo includes 4 races, 3 cars. Two actual races, the game of darts and one destruction 
 derby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Have you ever felt that your car is a piece of crap and you wanted to blow her up smashed into 
 a wall? Well it's time to give up upon those dreams and do it virtually. This is a great game with 
 tons of fun, single player, multi player, race or derby it guarantees the maximum satisfaction 
 of smashing cars and ambiance. It's a very simple game with great graphics and sounds. The locations 
 are exceptional : that autumn countryside or through sewers , great!
  
  It becomes repetitive after a while and then you turn to multiplayer and there you'll never get 
 enough.
  
  So then cheers and rock that cars apart and see you at multiplayer online!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  Okay, so there aren't any commercial cars around Flat Out 2 like in most racing simulators such 
 as Need for Speed series or the Gran Turismo classics. However, there are 2 reasons for the perfect 
 score. One is the amazing resolution that this game can run on even in medium or low ended machines. 
 This might not bode well if you're one of the lucky few who own a thousand-plus system, since there's 
 not much in terms of graphics customization. But for the rest of us who only have a medium spec 
 pc, Flat Out 2's a dream come true, since it produces stellar detail yet runs at a very decent 
 frame rate of 60-70 for my medium spec pc. Here's some proof for those still skeptical. In Need 
 for Speed Carbon AND Most Wanted, the maximum graphics that I could juice out of my poor pc was 
 a mere 1024x768 with mostly medium settings on filtering, antialiasing, and shaders. Then on Flat 
 Out 2, it recommended me at a whopping 1280x960. Needless to say, the detail in Flat Out 2 was 
 much superior to the glazed over look of the NFS games. In other terms, Flat Out 2 looked very 
 much like real life cars while NFS looked like matchbox cars in virtua.
  The second reason for the high rating is due to the realistic environment in Flat Out 2. Not only 
 are the trees, sky, and general background much more natural than any other racing sim out there, 
 but the stuff in the foreground's amazingly textured as well. For example, the fences or grass 
 on the edge of the racetrack stand out like real objects, unlike in NFS, where most objects seem 
 like the background; in other words, like 2-D instead of the actual 3-D that objects are supposed 
 to embody. No complaints in the graphics department.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Now here is where Flat Out 2 shows its unpolished presentation. The soundtrack is satisfactory 
 at best, poor if you don't like the music, which, funny to say, doesn't sound like anything like 
 pop, rock, jazz, or any musical genre at all. It's more like an assimilation of several genres 
 of music, including of course, rock and pop in it. The sound effects, sadly, is as uninspired as 
 the soundtrack is monotonous and lacking direction. For a game such as Flat Out, where crashing 
 is half the fun, you'd expect the sound effects for crashes to sound much more distinct and sounds 
 directly linked to crashes to be much more realistic. For example, tires screeching right before 
 a crash or an avoided one (darn!) should be loud and grasp your attention much like the movies 
 do. However, in Flat Out, the sound effects doesn't get your adrenaline going, but instead seems 
 to be faraway and unconcerning the player. This creates a sense of detachment in the player, which 
 isn't something a game should be proud of.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  What do you get when you try to combine a realistic racing simulator with a wild crash and burn 
 racing game? Flat Out 2 certainly attempted it, and a great job was done as well. It just wasn't 
 perfect, that's all.
  Here are the goods: Very impressive physics, complete with tilting, drifting, and... you guessed 
 it, crashing. The interactive environments truly make this game a perfect racing simulator in the 
 sense that everything you hit either breaks apart, or breaks you. Even the road has variable surfaces 
 including ditches, puddles, and hills. This allows tilting as you hit the puddle, jumps as you 
 fly over the hills, and even flips as you misaim the trajectory for the ditch. The bottom line 
 is, not only are the car physics great, but the tracks provide an extremely interesting experience 
 every race.
  Now to the bad: The minigames are quite retarded after several run throughs. Examples of the minigames 
 include soccer, basketball, baseball, etc. but not everything is as it seems. How do you play soccer 
 with a car, you ask? Well, this certainly isn't soccer polo, so most of the minigame doesn't have 
 anything to do with the car itself. Instead, in most of these, you're tasked to launch your driver 
 into a goal, a basket, or gloves, which gets very boring after a very short time. I mean, how many 
 times can you sit there adjusting your launch angle and speed before watching your driver get plastered 
 on a wall or something of that sort becomes uninteresting? Truly, Vivendi Games could've simply 
 used the time and effort they put into developing these minigames into making more tracks and cars.
 
  
  Value: 9/10
  With the interactive environments, every race is different, so the value is definitely there. In 
 addition, there are quite a few tracks and cars, including street cars, derby/mudcars, trucks, 
 and racecars. Finally, if you actually get bored of racing, you could try out the minigames named 
 above (but only if you're really desperate) . Good value compared to Need for Speed Carbon, and 
 even Most Wanted. Flat Out's got more replay value than any racing simulator I've encountered due 
 to the destructible environment and cars.
  
  The Good: Interactive environments, destructible cars, great physics, good graphics, low resources 
 needed.
  The Bad: Soundtrack, minigames, uncustomizable settings (graphics, difficulty) .
  Award: The Unsung Game of the Year Award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  I would have giving this game a higher rating however im experiancing so many glitches and still 
 yet no patch for the US version of the game!? About every 15-20 minutes the game Freezes. NEVER 
 SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT! and the multiplayer offers almost zero options along with blg glitches also 
 that prevent you from even playing online! OH and the game freezes EVERY SINGLE TIME I ATTEMPT 
 A STUNT!!!! as soon as i press R1 on my controller the game freezes up??? Patch?????
  
  ok, now that ive got that out of my system.... i can explain a little about the game. The visuals 
 are great, your and your opponents cars bend and break on impact! its very fun... by the end of 
 the race you and there cars are absolutely destroyed, and so is the track, almost EVERYTHING on 
 the track is distructable. The 1st lap you go around is not the same as the second do to trees, 
 stands, buildings, car parts, and just about everything else imaginable is all over the track and 
 threw the corners, leads to very interesting racing! Great soundtrack also.
  
  There are better racing games out there GTR2 however this is still a fun buy do to its over the 
 top racing! However the main campaign does seem a little short lived... figured i would throw that 
 in there too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, it just annoys the hell out of you alot, crashes are amazingly realistic 
 and fun to cause though. When racing youll sometimes lose your direction and try to correct it 
 and end up in a war with the car when it swerves back and forth and eventually crash, its realism 
 tends to be a disbenefit at times. The graphics are pretty good overall, a few flaws but they look 
 great ingame. The stunt mode I felt was partly ruined because of the barrels and other things placed 
 in the way to make it harder to achieve a higher score. The racing is really great, smashing oponents 
 into trees and other objects just makes it even better, the opponents can be very aggresive and 
 i love that, because i love having challenges as annoying and frustrating it can get. It also has 
 a great soundtrack with some solid vehicle sounds. Overall i thought it was a great game and anyone 
 that likes racing challenges/ big crashes and fun stunts to do would definately love this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacheater2k5
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Flatout was fun. Flatout 2 is fun as well. There's just one thing missing. Flatout 2 is extremely 
 similar to the original. This leads some people who enjoyed the first one enjoy this one a bit 
 less. This game is fun, as I said, but it's the same. I have to admit that it is ridiculously fun 
 to fling your driver out the window in one of the many mini games, but even that gets old after 
 a few hours. This game's career mode has a decent tune up system for your cars, but it's not enough 
 for hard-core racing fans. The career also feels tacked on. It's not the best part of the single 
 player experience as it should be. The mini games beat the career to the chase, and destruction 
 derbies are fun too. The career has these in it too, but they lose a lot of the fun due to the 
 fact that the computer opponents are extremely cheap. An overall decent game, but it could have 
 been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I played the original Flatout and thought it was okay, with the carnage factor of going though 
 the windshield of the car pretty cool. In this latest game, the formula is the same, and some pretty 
 banged up cars and throw them on mostly dirt tracks, litterd witth crap, and try and race while 
 killing each other. In this title though, it seems a lot more polished. The racing seems more fluid 
 and fast paced and the overall feel of the game is greatly improved. The sound and graphics are 
 not of absolute best quality, but the physics of the cars and the bits and peices you throw around 
 is really quite impressive. The whole enviroment changes on each lap to give you an overall sense 
 of anticipation, no matter what place you are in. I recently finished the game and was left wanting 
 more. Thre is a large selection of races in the carrer mode but really, a few more championships 
 and incentives to continue on would be nice. I have gotten 32hrs of gameplay out of it so far. 
 The multiplayer is okay, but really there is no substance to the multiplayer at all. I also played 
 this game with my MOMO force wheel. i would highly reccomend that you use a analog controller for 
 this game as the keyboard seems like it could be really gay.
  
  Overall I thought that this title was a great one. I enjoyed the crazy stunt mini games that would 
 make you laugh when the guy bounces off the concrete floor about 50m. I just felt that the game 
 lacked overall substance in length. maybe a few more cars to unlock and tracks to see with a few 
 more challenges to increase longevity. A more meaty multiplayer would be nice too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is just plain fun. the graphics and sound is ok. the whole concept is alright. there's 
 a substantial ammount of vehicles to choose from. what's better than just driving and just destroying 
 cars nothing. it's a good game to play when you're bored. i just love the tracks u can pass through 
 building which is so great. play this every chane i get as i said it's just plain fun. i love it. 
 try it and see for your self u won't regret it hopefully. don't take my word for it take all those 
 who gave it such great ratings. iight!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardC0re69k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Flatout 2 is cool game, but very hard to play tho... Crashes and things like that r surprisely 
 funny and u can destroy others players cars!
  But as I said, the gameplay sux a lil bit. Its rlly hard to control our car and the npcs are fast 
 like hell! For example Sofia Martinez... Damn its freaking hard to pass that girl and she is driving 
 a fu*** MINI!!! Stunts here are bad, or else GARBAGE! LoL! Yep its sux!
  Events, some times r funny.
  Wtv, its a cool game to relax (sometimes, other times it can drive 
 u rlly pissed off) , the crashes r funny and u always have the Destruction Derby to kick some ass! 
 xD
  Oh yes I almost forgot... THE GAME SOUNDTRACK RULES!! Great job! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebolanow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I didn't had great expectations for Flatout 2 ,i liked Flatout 1 but the game was a little bit 
 difficult ,in the end a fun to play game, for the weekend. Flatout 2 is much more ,and i'm not talking 
 about graphics or sound ,i'm talking about GAMEPLAY .Yes , the way the game plays. It just takes 
 everything that was fun and good from Flatout 1 and ads even more .Much more. The game is SUPER 
 FUN and you are gone love playing it even if you don't win because you will have a lot of fun trying 
 to win .This game offers you twice the number of cars and track of the first Flatout and the carear 
 is much better done with a lot of characters witch you are going to race against in some cool races 
 .The A. I. is much better done in Flatout 2 ,is so good that sometimes you will think that you are 
 racing against real humans ,not just the computer.
  You have to try this game , it's simply a must have for every one out there how likes cars, and 
 most of all crashing cars .So buy the game and we will see each other on-line for a race ,or maybe 
 a destruction derby . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  Adrenaline pumping through your veins, your heart synchronously beating with the pistons as you 
 push the pedal to the metal. The finish line already in sight as you feel the enemy coming closer. 
 Just a few seconds. Now where did that bump just come from? And as you furiously hit the nitro 
 key to make up for the loss you see him speeding past and taking the lead, last-minute. And even 
 tho it's already 3 a. m. you try again and this time you gonna beat him for sure.
  
  FlatOut 2 introduces the player to a world where racing is taken to a different level. And it rocks. 
 There are three categories of challenges available. Derby, Street and Race. You will start, as 
 expected, with a car you could easily outrun by foot. Anyways, as you proceed and gain more credits 
 you can buy many different upgrades and also purchase new cars which are unlocked by completing 
 some of the tournaments.
  
  Gameplay is often quite challenging as every car feels different on the road. You have to adapt 
 a new driving style if you want to reach the goal at all. Graphics are detailed and lovable yet 
 simple enough to provide an amazing performance. The soundtrack is a great compilation of hard 
 rock and metal which just perfectly suits the style of FlatOut 2. Artists such as Megadeth, The 
 Vines, Rob Zombie and Nickelback will make you drive even faster.
  
  Although the repetitive gameplay gets slightly boring after a few hours it's really spiced up by 
 funny mini-games such as 'stone skipping' or 'basketball', all done with special cars and your 
 faithful dummy.
  
  FlatOut 2 is an amazing game which will definitely appeal not just to racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahba2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Flatout for first time published last year, a game with medium graphic and some intersting item, now 
 after one year the maker company decied to publish the second prescription of flatout under title 
 flatou2 for Ps2, PC and Xbox. The game has more map, more car, more driver and so many same.
  In a first look in race you 8 driver with thier own car and a map in a street or road. but after 
 time you play game you see some of intersting object for example you can hit and destroy all of 
 object in a road or street and finally when you finish game you see you car near wreack. same things 
 are very much in game that is one of them. in gameplay one thing make you intersting and that is 
 the great handle of car. the car cleavage in 3 class: Street Clas, Road Class and Derby class this 
 junta birth with cleavage of race, in game we have 3 race model: Derby model. Street Model and Road 
 model. in model 1 you must choice a car and go to race but the story not finish with that this 
 in this model you must try to destroy other car in race. Derby class have some cup each one you 
 win one mini game unlock. you see this thing in derby, street and road. Road class is a about race 
 with rally car in road. and street class is a race with fastest car proverb need for speed most 
 wanted. one thing is joint three class is a complete destroy of car. for example if you hit all 
 object in road thinkable your car destory or one of your tyre puncture . when each race finish 
 you you see 4 title: bulldozer. best wreak. master blast and fastest lap. if you want won each you 
 must do it in game. the graphic of flatout2 is good for xbox and ps2 but is very old and shaky 
 for Pc today games. the graphic of game is similar of 2 years ago game. in this part the game have 
 nothing to say. flatou2 unlike NFS: Mw use a unknown singer music. but the number of music in game 
 is very little and after 3th or 4th you play game the music is repetitive. but the sound of wreack 
 and hit object in game is good not great. the thing make game good is game physic all object you 
 hit yoy cand diagonse the gravity of that object and that is the one of the power of game. the 
 game have so many mini game. in each of mini game you must shoot your driver out and give a point. 
 this thing in each sport for  and.......... the flatou2 is 
 one normal game not a great not a bad. but if you want to play a powefull game flatout 2 is not 
 great game but if you like a normal game that fame is good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Flatout makers made a big reconstruction on the game. This game is much better then the first one. 
 You can try every racing style, track style etc. You can use muscle cars, derby cars, tuned racing 
 cars and you can race with these cars on dirt tracks, in the forest, on the streets, in the city 
 etc. And the graphic site of this game.... Wooow. The wrecking system is so great, its realistic, 
 you can enjoy the whole game. And the minigames are also great, this game is just fun. You better 
 try it, its a great driving game filled up with great minigames 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony2153
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Organised chaos, that pretty much describes the experience of BugBear's FlatOut2, a game that can 
 be best defined as the illegitimate off-spring of Destruction Derby and Full Auto, with (dare we 
 even say it) a dash of Burnout. Expanding upon the gameplay offerings dramatically compared to 
 its surprise hit of a predecessor, BugBear hopes to push FlatOut2 beyond the original's boundaries, 
 with new modes, car classes, and a refinement of what made the original a dark horse title to begin 
 with. Players can access quick Single Events from races to stunts, the main meat on the bone rests 
 with the Career Mode, which sees players rise through the ranks of destruction from barely roadworthy 
 Derby vehicles to high-speed Street racers. Set across various environmental locations across the 
 US as diverse as forests, deserts, and cities, FlatOut 2 isn't grounded solely in the traditional 
 jalopy dirt tracks of old, despite its 'demolition derby on a track' style gameplay. Beginning 
 at the bottom of the pack and sat behind the driving wheel of a rust-bucket with seven other vehicles, 
 players have to race their way through the different levels of championships in order to progress. 
 So far, FlatOut 2 doesn't sound like the sort of game that stands out from amongst a crowd of other 
 racing titles, but this is what does (especially on the current-gen platforms) - physics. Assessing 
 the use of drag has to be factored into the addition of such stringent physics; racing down the 
 street with a carwash brush seemingly fixed to the car's bumper obviously slows you down to a sedate 
 pace, allowing competitors the chance to overtake. The concern is of course whether these occurrences 
 increase the levels of frustration felt by gamers; players could almost be forgiven if they committed 
 violent acts after losing an annoying race thanks to a rogue barrel slowing them down. Thankfully, 
 such frustration is limited, with carefully balanced elastic-AI making it possible to claw your 
 way back up the grid over the course of a single lap. It doesn't mean however that a woefully unlucky 
 player is guaranteed a win, in fact FlatOut 2 races are difficult to win (something that could 
 alienate non-racing fans) , but BugBear has been keen to deliver a balanced level of challenge by 
 the AI and it does justify the physicality of objects in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun as hell. I love this game! Im not much of a racing game person, but 
 man, this game is awesome! I have the first flatout, and that was ok, but this one is MUCH better! 
 I must say I didnt think there would be another racing game as fun as Need For Speed Most Wanted, 
 but I was wrong! This is a must have, and I dont think u will be disappointed. The graphics are 
 pretty cool, but I think what makes this game is the ragdoll and real impact damage. And being 
 able to upgrade your car is cool too, also change the color of the cars & trucks! So run out and 
 grab yourself a copy and maybe you will run into me in the online demolition derby!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locnor69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  I liked the first one and I think this one is better. There is more variety and more interaction 
 in the bonus rounds. Rather than just letting your guy fly you can control him some in the air. 
 The vehicles can be destroyed now and it does affect your driving. Last time your car just looked 
 beat-up and that was really it. And there are more upgrades to buy. There are some differences 
 in how the vehicles handle and you have to learn a little for each one. There are different strageties 
 for winning each race, you need to choose the right car and decide if you want to try to race to 
 win or try to smash your oppenents. I love the destruction and the computer A. I. is smarter too. 
 In the last one the computer never took any of the shortcuts. Now they will and there some good 
 short cuts and some bad ones. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  I have'nt played it alot but it seems same as the first one, just way better graphics and more 
 cars to choose from.
  
  Seems like the same recipe as previous, you need to win a race to make money so you can upgrade 
 your car and buy better cars. You need to brake before a corner and keep the racing line as much 
 as possible, off coarse its all made very difficult by other racers trying to take you out.
  
  Crashing has its rewards but to me it all about winning in the end, crossing the line first.
 
  
  I really like this game if i just want to have fun racing, i am use to GTR, GT Legends and the 
 like where precision is the key.
  
  One thing though, you need a steering wheel to really appreciate this game, or maybe a joypad. 
 Using a keyboard will only frustrate you.
  
  Otherwise its a rock solid game with many a good features! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarrfive
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out pretty great but after the 2nd and 3rd day you realise that its the same thing 
 all the time, so this gane is very rapidite and the cars you pick arent very great. Like maybe 
 the best and only looking car in this entire game is the Street Boss, the yellow mustang and Im 
 not really the mustang person. There is alot of crap out on the track that will make you lose control 
 and crash, even the smallest thing if you land on it the wrong way then you will find your self 
 going into a wall. The worst thing in this game is the A. I and It seem that the A. I has unlimited 
 supply of NOS making this game very frustrating. I play games such as Gran Turismo from the PS, 
 PS2 so I learned how to cut corners very fast/learned how to drive a car that reflects real life 
 driving. So I would be pushing my car to the extreme limit and avoiding everything and the A. I 
 would still catch up with no problem even if the A. I was in a big crash fest and was like +1.00 
 behind.
  
  When there was no crap on the floor the cars handled with easy and you didnt have to try nearly 
 as much as Gran turismo. The graphics were pretty good but nothing special and the load times were 
 maybe the best thing in this game. The music was pretty boring and I kept it off for the entire 
 game and thank god I actually never bought this game. I beat this game in maybe a week and thats 
 going on and off. Im pretty nice by giving this game a 6.5 when it should be in the 5 section. 
 Also the way this game awards you sucks big time.
  
  Rent it and if you like it then buy it but you should play this game atleast 3 days. This game 
 starts off pretty strong but dies very fast soon after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starsky303
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Flatout 2 is a massive improvement on its former. The graphics and physics are fluid and brilliant 
 and theres no more sliding into a corner sideways then suddenly falling out of your car. (That 
 was my main vice- man, that done my head in!)
  Single player is great, Ive yet to play multiplayer but I love it.
  I think Gamespots review 
 score is terrible and also are their reasons for giving it such a low score. I think the driver-launching 
 mechanism is fine and used appropriately rather than just tapping the back of you car on something 
 that wont budge then flying out of you know where Im going with this.
  
  One you've continued down the career path a little longer, you'll notice how ridiculously fast 
 the cars get, especially after applying the nitro! The speed can then be applied to say, the rear 
 of someone elses car which always amounts to a hilarious chaotic crash.
  The difficulty level gets gradually higher as well (a good curve though) and even though you'll 
 find you have lots of money to begin with, the higher the prize, the harder it gets, the more you'll 
 be upgrading your car, the more you'll be hanging on to those pennies.
  
  The PC has been really short on a brilliant racer for ages now (ok, NFS Most Wanted was cool) so 
 why not give this a chance whilst taking into consideration the amount of cack and repetitive racers 
 out there. I thought this was a well programmed piece of work.
  
  Oh yeah, the soundtracks wicked. Yellowcards ace and forgive me if youre a fan, but Ive never 
 heard of Alkaline Trio. Ive now found them by playing this game, and think theyre amazing.
  
  Right then, onto more crashing! Vroom Vroom!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronw23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I have never written a review or anything for a game but I just had to put my two cents in on this 
 one... I think the gamespot score was really low. I like all kinds of games so I usually only play 
 the random really good racing games. But there seems to be a lack of them for the PC since I've 
 been a computer gamer. Too much pop-up... corniness... bad single player etc. So this game is near 
 perfect for me. And a big reason is that on my machine... NO POP-UP GRAPHICS. Wooo. And I've never 
 enjoyed the in-car camera in a racing game before but this one makes it playable and even more 
 realistic. On that note the graphics are amazing... certainly among the best I've seen actually. 
 It is like reality but more colorful. Lol. Well worth the money and an outstanding racer even for 
 demanding gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsk2293
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Compared to Flatout 1, this game is junk. Compared to other racers aimed for 10-year olds I'm sure 
 it is ok.
  
  The handling of the cars is terrible. There's not that feeling of actually driving a car that FO1 
 had. You barely have to use your brakes, the different cars all feel the same and top speeds are 
 ridiculous.
  
  The tracks are boring. There's just too much debree lying around after a few laps, and it ruins 
 the experience totally. The city tracks are most boring of all.
  
  You might have to listen to Nickelback in the menus.
  
  I'm not after 100% realism or anything, 
 I just want the perfect balance of arcade and realism FO1 had, and that when you watch a race replay 
 it actually looks like real cars with realistic physics. FO2 replays looks more like Track Mania. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurrieG
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  Flatout 2 is a fantastic game.
  
  The reason why is the ideas of all the computer opponents have their own personality which makes 
 it really interesting. So your find out who the hardest ones to look out for and the ones that 
 don, t tend to win much points but try to smash your car up you will notice.
  I like the events you can play like darts which I am really good at also other ones like basketball 
 poker stone skipping and much more.
  
  The destruction derby, s are really good as well because each player has their on damage metre and 
 once that goes down your out. So try to go for good hits get out of the way for ones coming at 
 you.
  
  The graphics have to get a mention. I like the forest tracks and ones like the cities.
  
  I 
 would say this flatout is a bit different to the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongpuikuan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  this is amazing.... i like this kind of games... let me reduced my stress~and few so exciting on 
 this, graphic is nice, and more reality, cus if compare with NFS.. those car just like never broke.. CAR 
 = TANK~~hehe.. i like the sound effect, just like really driving in an old crap.. alot of broken 
 noise.. like something will fall off... and personaly i like drift so much.. and this is the nice 
 game to let me playing drift... the enviroment is good, alot of interactive, i guess this is almost 
 like BURNOUT for PS2.... but different is BURNOUT have street section... i mean with other's citicen 
 car is driving around...
  
  well, the thing i like it most is... heard someone fall out from the car.."ahhhhhhh!!... pok!!" hehehe..
 
  
  and the most problem for me is to play those event.... is really hard to make the measurement to 
 score high point... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mud12345
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game suprised me alot than the first did. The first was great, it had all these high pace 
 "Burnout" style races and more, with the additon of stunts, made it a good game, but this one adds 
 more to the game which makes it even better. First off there are ALOT of more cars than in last 
 years game. They are divided into three classes, Derby, Race, and Street, with also some bonus 
 cars such as a Flatmobile (Obvious rip-off of the Batmobile :P) and a SCHOOL BUS THAT GOES INSANELY 
 FAST!! The Derby class is like the cars that we had last year, Race is a better class with a mix 
 of muscle and racing cars, but not super, street goes into the nice looking, dirt free as I should 
 say cars that are the best to use in some races, but I must warn you to get a car with GOOD HANDLING, 
 I suggest the Nevada pick up truck as it has got good top speed and Great Handling. If your car 
 has bad handling and a good top speed, expect to drive into walls alot cause it is very hard to 
 control the car. I havent really played the Carrer mode yet but I am sure it will be like last 
 years carrer mode, check the GS review for more details on that, cause I just rented the game and 
 used a cheat to unlock everything. :P I just wanted the cars from the start. The added stunts this 
 year are also fun and pretty good. It is a little harder to do than last years stunts, but after 
 a while you will get the hang of it. Added stunts such as Basketball, Soccor, Field Goal, Stone 
 Skipping, RING OF FIRE!, and more make stunts a bigger mode than in the first game. They added 
 a Nudge button that makes it where if pressed during launch, the driver will move a bit, but it 
 makes drag, which makes it harder to go forward. Also there is a sorta Burnout feature that makes 
 it where you can move your player around so you can try to hit something you want while he is launched, 
 but as well this causes drag. There are much more tracks this year around and all just about are 
 fun to play. I enjoyed most of them such as the Forest tracks and such. There is also some special 
 tracks such as unfinshed race tracks and figure 8 tracks. There is a track called "Crash Alley" 
 which is REALLY FUN! IT is shaped like a bone sorta, you go, turn around at the end, and take the 
 same straightway to get to one end and the other, which makes alot of head on wreaks, which are 
 fun to watch if you are playing around and not serious about winning the race much. There is also 
 Destruction Derby, which is a neat idea, but can be improved on a bit to make it much more fun. 
 It has its moments, but just isnt as fun as you think. Not much to say about that. The soundtrack 
 is good also, with some very good song in the playlist, Rob Zombie, Papa Roach, Nickelback, and 
 more rock artists just to name a few each have at least one or two songs in the game, most with 
 two. I find the soundtrack very enjoyable to listen to while I am playing the game. Well to close 
 out I would first say if you are curious rent it like me to just test it out. I would say for myself 
 though if I had enough money I would want to buy it. It is a very fun and enjoyable game and better 
 than the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DV2THEFOX
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  FLAT OUT 2 is one of those arcade games that got inspired from the BURNOUT 3 TAKEDOWN!/REVENGE 
 saga...
  
  The "copy" FLAT OUT 2 used is from the speed sensation when using the NITRO, just like when you 
 play BURNOUT, but without past-light FX's into the tunnels (Tunnels?, Lights..?)
  
  The control is hard to dominate.. every turn you make without precision and braking can send you 
 to a wall from side or.. crash ya car forwardly and make the driver fly the hell away.. no matter 
 how many pieces you buy at the shop, it's the same stuff always...
  
  the game modes are a bit awesome.. Racing, Destruction and break times.. in Racing, of course, you must 
 drive throu lots of different stages against the same car driver enemies... Destruction means to 
 break up all other enemies's vehicles by smashing 'em at high speed.. and Break Times... well, you 
 get a Double Rocket vehicle and run to hell, sending the driver flying away by pressing a button.. and 
 making him smash to walls, make lil jumps on the water, play poker.. even bowling.. poor driver 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jas0n3x
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  With all my honour .... I say .... This game is like the perfect pancake .... You can race and 
 also K-BOOM your car :) ... What else I can tell you about this game ... it's better than NFS and 
 even you lose a race in the game you won't be mad, you're happy ... like I wa saying this is the 
 perfect game and nobody can't stop me playing it; MU HA HA HA .... I'm tired of this **** ... ce 
 sa va mai zic oameni bun, ce va pot zice in primul rand e ca jocul este foarte tare the best, inse 
 cel mai ingrozitor lucru este ca tre sa scriu ca prostul aici cel putin 100 de cuvinte .... mamamie 
 e ingrozitor dar jocul ramane in topul celor mai tari .... MU HA HA HA din nou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pegasus2k5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  I must be honest, but i don't buy that much games, although this was a game i HAD to buy! I just 
 love to wreck other cars and race like a madman. 
  Can't imagine why it is rated just a 7.4.. that just sucks. Really disserves atleast an 8.5 or 
 higher! Graphics are over the top! And there is plenty of fun.. more then in Needforspeed Most 
 Wanted ,, (which got a godlike score) 
  Anyway, just play this game! You won't be dissapointed!! If you liked the original Flatout,, you 
 certainly gonna like this one.. allmost the same, but with better gameplay and graphics and extra 
 mini games.. this is gonna make you smile :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WPxPaladin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Solid game play. This isnt your standard race around the track to win game. This is a "Hey your 
 in my way so Im going to smash you off the road to cross the finish line!" kind of game. The driving 
 is not as solid as say, Need for speed, but it is good none the less. Using a keyboard its a little 
 difficult to get used to at first - since you have no precision turning or acceleration (Yes that 
 makes a difference) . The crashes are wicked, the entire track feels as if it can be destroyed, 
 the massive battles you do with other racers and oh... did I mention everything seems like it can 
 be destroyed?
  
  Graphics
  Good graphics, everything seems well polished and fits in the game well. The cars and environments 
 are well done and look really nice. This isnt the biggest graphical game on the market so even 
 weaker machines will run it at a decent setting and have it look nice.
  
  Sound
  One of my favorite things, I loved the sound track! The sound of crashes smashing together, explosions, 
 people screaming, tires screeching around the corners. It really put you into the game, it was 
 fantastic! Games like this often have very poor sound. Not this one!
  
  Value
  When it comes down to it, this game is FUN. It looks good, it sounds good, it plays good and playing 
 it is a blast! Especially with other people, oh wow the multiplayer aspect of this game is fantastic. 
 Racing around with friends or family smashing them into trees, off cliffs, into other cars, through 
 malls. Phew.
  
  Tilt
  Because this game is so ridiculously fun to play with other people, I give it the max amount.
 
  
  Final Thoughts
  Give it a shot. Its not one of those mega serious games - it was built for people to have some 
 fun racing around smashing into people and other random objects. They did a great job.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdragon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I've played the original and I could say there is a nice change in about everything.
  
  The graphics seem to be the biggest changes; bloom, speed blur effect, sun glare and the cars/environment! 
 I like the choice in cars, over 20 different vehicles, from off-road to street racing vehicles.
 
  
  The sound effects is the highest rating of the game, everything from crashing to sounds of wood, 
 metal, plastic, glass flying and bouncing around the tracks really brings life to the game. I heard 
 Bugbear did extensive recording of various surfaces and such do achieve this and I like it.
  
  The soundtrack is the only weak point in the game, some tracks like Fall Out Boy, Yellowcard 
 and a couple others don't really belong in a destruction derby racing game! Once proper tools are 
 out I will customize my music playlist for the game with my personal MP3s on disk.
  
  I also like the gameplay change; one heavy crash will not wreck your car like it did in the original 
 game, and flying out of the windshield doesn't happen as often... also the "Reset" is better as 
 it doesn't drop you on track at 0 MPH/KPH so other racers end up benging your tail.
  
  The upgrade section is neatly set up and one of the biggest improvements over the original is ONLINE 
 PLAY! Good job Bugbear on the implementation, which will give longitivity to your new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sp0ckster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this game I expected less graphical beauty. I started of racing and noticed 
 the nice gameplay.
  
  After racing for a while trying to be the fastest I already thought this was fun enough. Then I 
 discovered the fun of crashing into others and discovered what Flatout 2 really was about.
  
  Perhaps for real racing there are other games more suitable but for the first time I felt that 
 this racing game is really giving something extra.
  
  The unloch system (both cars and stunts) is also highly addictive for continue with racing.
  
 
  Best race game I ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewyfurball
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This is deffinatly one fun game, nothing better than blowing up another car,
  which you can do in the derby where your in an arena and other cars are trying 
  to ram into 
 you. You have stunts where you eject your driver and try and get the most points in games like 
 skiing where you try and get the longest distance, to soccer where you try and score a goal, or 
 shooting your driver through flaming hoops. You also have racing which is fun by trying to do damage 
 to other vehicles to get more points and also trying to win the race. Its not very difficult, the 
 multiplayer is fun especially with friends. Graphics are really good enjoy this game alot what 
 a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yianaki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a game. I am usually in full agreement with gamespot ratings but whomever rated 
 this game must not be a racing fan, just likes the same kind of cookie cutter crap day in and day 
 out. If you enjoy vehicular manslaughter you simply must add Flatout 2 to your collection. 
  
  The driving is intense the AI is competent but doesn't seem to cheat. The people at Bugbear 
 have given the racers a personality. You know which racers you have to look out for and which you 
 can forget about after the first series due to their personalities. I for one got a real dislike 
 towards Sophia and try to completely wreck her car and then proceed to run over her broken body 
 again and again. I don't think I have ever had any malice toward any AI character before but I 
 despise Sophia. So much so that I find myself trying to blow up her car more than I care about 
 actually winning a race. But she is usually at the top of the standings so killing her off is a 
 good thing! In general if you have someone behind you you'll know after a few races if they will 
 try to go through you or try to pass clean.
  
  The car's handling takes some getting used to as this is NOT some kind of crappy racing clone. 
 These cars have their own kind of handling and you must get used to it. Using the nitro and handbreak 
 are key to getting ahold of your car. However if you played the first Flatout the controls are 
 exactly the same and you will be ripping apart the competition. Anybody who doesn't want an actual 
 fun challenge then please don't buy this game and then complain about how the cars handle. And 
 any FOOL that says the cars handeling rating mean nothing need to have thier head examined. You 
 really need to test drive any car before you buy. Some insanely fast cars will not make it to the 
 finish line because they are way to hard to control.
  
  Another complaint is that the cars in the final racing category look out of place in the game because 
 they are too shiny and not muscular enough. Well that is the stupidest complaint I have ever heard. 
 You start out with wreckers, make it to somewhat used looking cars and then rightfully so graduate 
 to new street racing cars. Just because the game takes place in crappy middle america doesn't mean 
 they don't have tons of ricers on the streets or they can't possibly afford newer cars. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. What is REALLY spectacular is that I have a first generation geforce 
 6800 128 meg (similar to a 6600gt) that I really can't put many games at full settings nowadays 
 but flatout 2 is no problem at all for it. And Flatout 2 is gorgeous! The lighting effects make 
 many races photorealistic. Some races change from afternoon to setting sun and your entire view 
 is washed out. It doesn't make the game feel phony like it is some feature tacked on.
  
  The sound effects are great and the soundtrack is good I did not like many of the songs but they 
 did grow on me. I am a big fan of rob zombie and I am glad to see him represented nicely. Although 
 I think EVERY racing game I have purchased has a rob zombie song in it.
  
  There is online fun for everyone and this game very much brings out the WORST in people. People 
 would rather wreck your car than win the race and that is very much in tune with the type of game 
 this is. This game has unlimited online fun especially the ton of mini games which arent fun playing 
 by yourself but with freinds are like a whole new game.
  
  I perceive the negatives of this game to be the following. There is no story at all, which was 
 kind of a letdown to me in the otherwise perfect game. Even a cartoon story board comic kind of 
 this with just silent text with some maniacal psychotic story would have sent this game into the 
 stratosphere. Secondly if you played the first game at no time will you really be challenged in 
 this game. The hard part about this game is figuring out how to handle your car and avoiding and 
 crashing into the AI drivers there are no moving non AI vehicles in this game. And just about everything 
 can be driven through. Also there is an unlimited retry funtion that takes away any challenge this 
 game could have had.
  
  In closing I feel the makers of this game Bugbear who going back made the excellent rally trophy, 
 flatout and finally flatout 2 have really outdone themselves. They have just about perfected derby 
 type racing and I can't wait to see what they do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_of_chaos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  At first, FlatOut 2 seems to give the same as the original release does, but an in depth look and 
 play reveals lots of new features and refurbished content from the original release.
  
  One of the greatest add-ons on FlatOut 2 is the online multiplayer mode with derby, racing, rally 
 and other special modes. You can now rumble against up to 7 more players in any of the previously 
 mentioned modes. Unlike the last release, the game rooms are now filled with players so competition 
 isn't hard to find.
  
  The single player mode delivers action packed hours of fun with a career mode that contains 8 rally 
 cups, 9 race cups and 10 street race cups as well as 27 special events such as mini games, destruction 
 derbies and much, much more... The ai has much improved with different characteristics ranging 
 from aggressive, to destructive, to calm and reckless. The number of cars has as well increased 
 from 14 to more than 30 with 4 types of cars (rally, race ,street and special) .
  
  The feel of the road with a racing wheel with force feedback feels great and is actually the most 
 realistic feel from all the racing games I've played. The sound s as realistic as you can get to 
 in a game and the soundtrack is simply great (Check the end for a full list of tunes) . You may 
 think that it can't get any better, but it does. The cars have now 40 deformable parts and the 
 tracks have more than 5,000 fully destructible objects each. Bugbear really worked their @**es 
 off for this release and added a brand new graphics engine with near to photo realistic engine 
 that runs great even on older graphic cards. The last but not least feature contributing to the 
 realistics of the game is the powerful physics driven by the Havok engine that affect each and 
 every single object, explosion, car, rag doll, you name it!
  
  Ok, I admit it. No game is perfect, but there are only 2 cons I can call out. First, the crash 
 and error you get when searching online games and that there are too much results. The solution 
 is to use the filter to narrow down the results. And lastly, the fact that you don't have a chat 
 lobby or chat in the game... This really sux when you really want to give a piece of your mind 
 to that guy who's really a r3t@rt. But then, it may be a choice to make the game cleaner... They'll 
 probably patch these two cons anyway.
  
  Still, if you're looking for a great racing game, this is it! It's the most thrilling race game 
 I've ever played and it's available for all the main current consoles and pc. Thirty dollars is 
 well worth spending on this game. If you're really not sure of you want this game, just rent it 
 and I guarantee you'll change mind and buy it cus it simply rocks!
  
  Flatout 2 In-Game Soundtrack
  
  "Nowhere Ride" - The Chelsea Smiles
  "Fall Victim" - Alkaline 
 Trio
  "Blood Brothers" - Papa Roach
  "Road To Rouen" - Supergrass
  "Mercy Me" - Alkaline Trio
  "Believe It Or Not" - Nickelback
  "Symphony of Destruction" - Megadeth
 
  "Rough Landing Holly" - Yellowcard
  "Breathing" - Yellowcard
  "Gimme Some More" - Zebrahead
  "Give It All" - Rise Against
  "Not Listening" - Papa Roach
 
  "Reinventing Your Exit" - Underoath
  "7 Minutes In Heaven" - Fall Out Boy
  "Richard III" - Supergrass
  "Man Or Animal" - Audioslave
  "Your Time Has Come" - Audioslave
 
  "Flat On The Floor" - Nickelback
  "Feel So Numb" - Rob Zombie
  "Dr. Feelgood" - Motley Crue
  "Demon Speeding" - Rob Zombie
  "Pyramid" - Wolfmother
  "Dimension" 
 - Wolfmother
  "Snitches And Talkers Get Stiches And Walkers" - Fall Out Boy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Grubby_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  I'm usually pretty carefull with giving high ratings to a game, but this masterpiece just deserves 
 every last point.
  
  gameplay is the only attribute that gets "only" 9 points. As you progress in your career, the races 
 can get next to impossible. Also, the stunts are sometimes a bit too difficult.
  
  Graphix are pure magic, everything looks crisp and clean. Textures are cool, and dont get repaeted 
 too much. There are a whole lot of different cars, that all look very cool and detailed. And the 
 coolest thing is; it runs like a clock :)
  
  The music is brilliant, just like flatout 1. The soundtrack has a whole bunch of (mainly underground) 
 rock tracks. The tracks fit the game perfectly, and some of em are good enough to be released on 
 single. Sound effects are pretty awesome too, craehs are realistic, and you simply cant beat the 
 sound of a driver getting catapulted out of his car and smashing into the ground
  
  Value is also great, the pc version is cheaper then most games, even though it offer much much 
 more than your average game.
  
  all together, this is one of the best games I have played in a long time. It offers action like 
 you've never seen before, and then some. Seriously, get this, or I'll run over you with my car 
 ...... mwahahahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Very good sequel it has the same engine that powred flatout1 with a litle more eye candy & many 
 more ! One of the most chalinging facts of Flatout2 is its A. I. wich will do anything to get you 
 out of the race & the most exciting fact of this game are the 3 classes of cars ( derby, race, street 
 ) & a variaty of locations specialy made for each one of them ! Play the game & enjoy , if you 
 want to feel the speed you should play it with a steering well , beliv it works ! Try the game 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Great graphics, low system requirements. Excellent loading times, great menu-system.
 
  
  Very fun races: gain nitro by destroying your oppenents and basically everything around you. Great 
 track - design.
  
  The controls are, however, not that great. Better physics, however, due to the track design, with 
 a faster car, on certain tracks, it's impossible to drive, and can result in annoying races which 
 you can only win by luck.
  
  AI is too agressive, they only care about ramming you and eachother, they don't really care about 
 the race.
  
  After a while it all gets repetative, and boring, thats why mini-games are included. I'm sure most 
 of you will find it fun, however, I don't.
  
  FlatOut2 is a great game. It's great on PC. However, if you own a console, I recommend Burnout. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephirothaz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  I'm addicted. Just like the first Flat Out, the second one delivers with all the goodness of the 
 first and oh so much more. More cars, more upgrades, better designed tracks, and more clever stunt 
 missions. All and all very solid. In my opinion the crashes make Burnout's look like hotwheels' 
 cars in the sandbox. 
  
  Car combat/racing hasn't been this good since Felony 1179 and Vigilante 8 back on the PS1, both 
 excellent games. If the 'hic-ish' appearance of the first Flat Out scared you off, Im happy to 
 say... well, it's still here, but there are also now three tiers of racing; from Derby, to Stock-style, 
 to Street. Good fun, a little ridiculous, and extreme speed make this game a winner, plus you can't 
 beat the $30.00 price tag.
  
  (if you noticed I said $30.00 and not $40.00; you see, Im referring to the PC version which having 
 bought both the PC and the XBOX version, I can say the PC version looks and runs a million times 
 better then the XBOX version. It's a crime to have to pay $10.00 more for a game that looks only 
 half as good, and runs at half the speed. To make matters worse, Microsoft is currently not offering 
 a patch for Flat Out 2 for the 360, making us next-gen boys steal back our XBOX's from our little 
 brothers or simply jump ship to PC. Oh and although I pride myself in the power and customization 
 of my PC, it's 3 years old and it eats this game alive with all the settings maxed, so even a store 
 bought PC should be able to run this game better than the XBOX. Check it out! (And if you still 
 don't trust me, come on over and play it for yourself.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  First off this game does not have starforce. The game in itself is just fun to play. The new addition 
 to the game, even tho they is not many, are fun to play like the street racing and new mini games 
 that are still fun to play. The graphics are amazing too nice detail on the game and nice detail 
 around you i have an ati card and with high af on it looks amazing, the physics are amazing too 
 the number of things you can destroy in a race is amazing and stay on the road for the whole lenght 
 of the race. The AI is challenging and very aggressive which i really like because the hit you 
 and try to make you go out the road or into a building. The soundtrack is good for this kind of 
 game even tho i dont like rock that much and the engine and other type of noise are good too. Overall 
 is a good game if you want to have fun for a long time and destroy everything you can touch and 
 throw your driver and other out of they car 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creative
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  If you played the original, you probably loved it, but could not overlook some of the shortcomings 
 of the game. The physics was good, but not quite there, single player was fun, but repetitive and 
 at times frustrating, since it was virtually impossible to catch that #1 car. 
  
  Most of those annoyances were fixed and improved. For instance, you get rewarded for crashing cars 
 while in career race mode, and not some petty-cash, but sums usually x10 more than the actual reward 
 for coming 1st, hence you wont restart game 10 times just to come 1st, since you will be loosing 
 a lot of money you made by crashing opponents. You loose championship points, to make some money, 
 but even this was fixed. AI is no longer super smart and will make mistakes. 
  
  With more money, there are way more upgrades to cars, and in each class (derby, race and road) 
 there are different kinds of upgrades. Car physics was also improved and you car tell the difference 
 between car that has weight rating of 8 or 3. Same goes to drive train, there are 3 kinds now (FF, 
 RW, 4W) . Some say that handing is not as sharp as original, but once you upgrade suspension, you 
 cant tell the difference. 
  
  The mini games are back, and they are much better implemented, thanks to improved physics. The 
 best mode is destruction derby, which reminds Carmageddon series with improved graphics and physics. 
 
  
  And wait till you see some of the crashes. I watch replay of every race, because crashes are just 
 spectacular, too bad you can save them (thats the only gripe I have about porting part) . 
  
  I cant think of anything bad about this game  loads of fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Wow what can I say this game is truely the best game of the year so far I've played hundreds of 
 games this year and so far this is the game of the year I've played.
  
  The Graphics are absolutely amazing. 
  The steering its a little differnt but nothing you can 
 get used to. 
  Sound is awesome great music choices they shoved in.
  Shades and textures are abosulutely amazing.
  I cant beleive the graphics in the game on a single 
 7800 GTX.
  
  This is a game you want to buy for sure support the company.
  
  this is really really one to add to your collection it is by far the best game of the year.
  
 
  I hope this review was helpful thank you for your time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  FlatOut 2 - Reloaded
  
  Driving this reckless is no accident! But you might want to cause a few. In these high-speed races, the 
 more damage you inflict, the better. The ultimate in turbo-charged cars and the craziest of tracks 
 wait for your best in destructiveness. Responsible drivers need not apply. And battle you must 
 as you take to the races against seven fierce AI opponents each complete with personal driving 
 style and hidden agendas. Youll be delivering amazing amount of damage to you rivals and the track 
 visualized like never before with FlatOuts peerless physics and damage modeling engine. Featuring 
 even more craze in the form of destruction derbies and ragdoll stunt events, youll be punishing 
 your poor driver in twelve ragdoll stunt events. Destruction fans will be delighted with full online 
 support on all platforms, as the heated battle moves online with racing and destruction tracks 
 hosting up to 8 players on Xbox Live and PC and 6 players on PS2 Online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I just preordered a copy of flatout 2 , reason because i know its gonna be a good game ive been 
 watching demonstrations for the past 3 months im so eager to buy it all the smashing , the new 
 cars , the City maps! crashjng on a city highway is really damn fun like cmon who wouldnt say that?. 
 The new car renders are really well done , you can now drive trucks!!! and the damage physics has 
 been greatly improved by alot since Flatout 1. The game provides you with 2x the cars and tracks 
 then before in the previous flatout , its ragdoll has been improved as well , and the graphics. 
 I do recomend this to you people who like to see ur car crash and twist in high speed rumbles on 
 the road!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTommyVH
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  At first sight, the game's graphics look amazing for a destruction derby game and when you play 
 it, it looks even better. The damage model is astonishing and the racing is just extremely fun. 
 The game's music fits right in and when playing you just don't won't to stop racing and crashing. 
 There's just one minor let down, and that is that racing is kind of difficult when crashing into 
 destructible obstacles and ramming your opponents all the time. Although that's what the main part 
 of the game is about. And they did it well... very very very well...
  
  This sequel to also an amazing game might be the best derby game I have ver played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3_Doors_Down
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  So the sequal to my all-time favourite racing game is here - FlatOut 2. After having cleared all 
 three racing classes (Derby, Racing and Street) in the Single Player career mode and played numerous 
 hours of FlatOut 2 Online - i can honestly say that i love it, despite my initial impression that 
 the games new roster made the sequal take a questionable step away from the charming folkracing 
 theme of the original.
  
  It doesnt. It takes the formula, adds more to it and all the while offering everything that made 
 the original such an enjoyable racer - the highly enjoyable physics, the nicely modeled and textured 
 cars themselves, the physics properties of all that wonderfully destroyable scenery and those crazy 
 rag doll mini-games we-ve all come to love. All that is there and more - much more.
  
  The added content and design changes.
  
  Besides the fact that there now are no less then 
 34 choosable cars spread across four categories, the sequal now offers the new addition of city 
 racing - six tracks concentrating on downtown-esq environments, and three located in/around a central 
 canal system. All of these tracks are very well designed and offers a great deal of variation, 
 something im sure that many of you wanted to see in the original. Other environments include six 
 tracks located in a deep pine forest, six tracks located in farmland fields during the beautiful 
 autumn harvesting season, six arena style tracks featuring figure of eights, ovals and bowls, three 
 tracks located in the desert amongst deserted oil fields and airplane graveyards, three tracks 
 located in a Nascar influenced environment, six destruction derby tracks and another six spread 
 across some old racing tracks still under repair - complete with whatever hazards non fully repaired 
 tracks might have to offer. As previously mentioned, all these tracks are very well designed just 
 as they are sprawling with destructable objects and scenery - complete with tractors, parked cars, 
 shopping carts and much much more. While a very few number of scenery vehicles do show damage after 
 being hit by the player, most of them will just either explode upon impact, not move at all, or 
 fly away only to show no damage what-so-ever. The new added explosion effect upon wrecking a opponent, 
 crashing into a gas station pump or hitting another special explodable object, really is a nice 
 and 
  very well made addition to the games already explosive gameplay style. It really cought many by 
 surprise that the original contained no explosions at all and although many argued that explosions 
 upon impact would have been unlogical and unrealistic in the original, the sequal really benefits 
 from this added effect.
  
  This time around the developer decided to give your computer rag doll oppoents 7 different and 
 unique personalities, complete with their own distinctive driving styles and behaviour while confronting 
 you in a race. While i have noticed a significant difference between some of the drivers when it 
 comes to passivity, aggressiveness and so forth, i really havent seen as much of a variaty as 
 proclaimed. Not that it matters all that much, but its a observation none the less. What i really 
 like though, is the way some of the drivers seem to be very nervous while facing the player head-on 
 and bumping into some of them from behind migh very well result in them immediately steering off-course 
 and crashing into a roadside obstacle. Like before mentioned, this only occurs with some of the 
 drivers and always the same ones. A nice detail if you ask me. During my completion of the game, 
 i found rag doll drivers Sofia Martinez and Jack Benton to be the toughest ones to beat. They were 
 always breathing down my neck and after having Miss Martinez ruin a perfect finish more then once, 
 i took up a personal vendetta against her - finding myself with the goal of knocking her out of 
 the race the same way she did me, as my only driving force during some races. Now that is a aspect 
 of the goofy rag doll personality-thing i really didnt expect to get in to! I can only begin to 
 tell you about all the photo-finishes ive experienced with Martinez chasing me only inches behind 
 my rear bumper, having me wildly steering from side to side all the while trying to block her takeover 
 manuevers. You will break a sweat and you will love the wild car chases in FlatOut 2. 
  
  The crazy rag doll mini games have increased in numbers as well and are now if possible even crazier. 
 The most noticeable difference compared to the mini games in the original, is that youre now restricted 
 to the useage of only one out of 6 cars - specially designed for the mini-games. These cars are 
 distinguished from the others by having huge rocket thrusters mounted on the back, allowing them 
 to hit high speeds while launching that rag doll guy or girl to its destination. Not being able 
 to use your car of preference other then the ones you are restricted to (unlike the original where 
 you could use any car in the games roster) when it comes to FlatOut 2s mini games, did bug me 
 at first. It still does to be honest, but youll learn to enjoy the change as you go along and 
 that due to the sheer coolness of those rocket thrusters mounted at the back of those special mini 
 game cars. The rag doll mini games have also increased in numbers - there are now 12 of them and 
 as usual, theyre based on games from the world of sports. The mini games are as follows - Baseball, 
 Basketball, Bowling, Curling, Darts, Field Goal, High Jump, Ring of Fire, Royal Flush Ski Jump, 
 Soccer and Stone Skipping. The difficulty of the mini games have been ramped up quite a bit in 
 my opinion, and i really have had trouble to get even a 3rd position in some of them.
  
  Other differences in the mini games this time around include night time events and a big-screen 
 monitor mounted near your start ramp that displays a somewhat smaller view not unlike the one you 
 have on your computer monitor yourself.
  
  How would you like it sir - all rusted up or shinyer then mommies china?
  
  Lets get back 
 to the car roster in FlatOut 2 shall we. As i mentioned a few segments up there are now 34 choosable 
 cars in FlatOut 2 and obviously the makes and models of the cars are all made up - most likely 
 due to legal reasons, but that isnt to say the developers didnt once again want to get the chance 
 to design some pretty cool looking cars for us to total. Ive never quite understood why it is 
 that car manufacturers are so reluctant to let virtual copies of their cars get mangled to pieces 
 in games. In any case, they sure would be pissed having their cars represented in FlatOut 2 - because 
 the cars get mangled alright, and thats an understatement.
  
  Well back to the matter at hand - the cars.
  
  We have everything ranging from our typical 
 60s and 70s-looking cars from the musclecar era represented, in both spotless factory condition 
 and rusted to pieces ones. One of the nicest additions visually, has to be the fact that most of 
 the cars now features white-wall tires (white striped tires) . We have our 4X4s, our Japanese-looking 
 newer sportcars and our little European-looking smaller cars as well as the mini-car (that would 
 be the Chili, replacing the Pepper from the original FlatOut) . In some cases theres several 
 identical cars in several of the car classes in FlatOut 2 - one version all rusted up and another 
 one of the very same car in factory condition. This is something that obviously brings the total 
 number of perfectly unique cars down a bit, but it really doesnt harm the game in any way. Infact, 
 id go as far as to say its a pretty neat aspect of the game that actually helps to define and 
 differentiate the different classes from one another.
  
  The handling do differ in between cars but as i see it, the cars handling characteristics end up 
 in either one out of roughly three different catagories - we have one category of really bak-heavy 
 cars that easily spins out but are really sturdy , corners kind of slow and can take alot of damage, 
 one category that has a nearly perfectly balanced body weight and corners really easy but is a 
 tad bit to sensitive to hitting debris spread around the track and one last category that is ends 
 up in the middle of the other two categories. What this all comes down to is a car roster that 
 ends up having its cars devided into roughly three categories of handling types and with atleast 
 3-4 cars per category that handles in almost exactly the same way. This may sound like bad news 
 to some, but since this isnt a car racing simlulator weve got on out hands here, id say it all 
 adds up just fine. My favourite car in the game when it comes to the handling? The Sunray without 
 a doubt. It takes the corners like a charm, it has a high top speed and great acceleration - only 
 downside is that it lands in the category that is just a tad to sensitive to hitting debris and 
 gets thrown of course way to easily. 
  
  When it comes to the additions amongs the car types that i like the most - the pick-up trucks. 
 They are definitely amongst my favourites in FlatOut 2. They just look so cool, especially the 
 Canyon and the Lentus. The first being a more modern pick-up and the later a more late 80s/early 
 90s type of truck. Theyre just gorgeous!
  
  How is the damage model in FlatOut 2 compared to the original?
  
  Although i wouldnt say 
 there has been a really obvious improvement over the already awesome damage model system in the 
 original, there certainly have been enhancements. The first thing youll notice is the way the 
 cars exterior now, for the most part show damage where actually hit. It definitely isnt alwasy 
 dead on the spot, but an enhancement over the original. Another thing youll notice is the enhanced 
 effect that follows shortly after your car has taken a bit to much damage and flames start to comes 
 out of the engine. The fire and smoke effects are enhanced, making it look more realistic. The 
 biggest addition on the other hand, is the ability to loose your wheels. You can now loose (or 
 make opponents loose theirs) your wheel and with that being forced to finish the race with only 
 as many wheels youve got left. The very same goes for all the events and modes in the game as 
 far as i know. You can loose wheels Online as well. Although i have never lost more then one wheel, 
 i am almost certain that there is the chance of you loosing up to all four of them. Anything else 
 wouldnt make any sense. As for last words on the damage model system in FlatOut 2 - it looks phenomenal. 
 There isnt a game on the market to date, that can rival it. The replays in Flatout 2 are incredibly 
 fun to watch in all their beautiful carnage and that largely due to FlatOut 2s well made damage 
 modeling. Great work Bugbear, great work indeed.
  
  How are the graphics in FlatOut 2 compared to the original?
  
  Theres a huge difference in 
 lighting this time around. Truth be told, at first i really didnt care much for the somewhat overused 
 bloom effects and saturated colors plenty found in FlatOut 2 - it made the environments look like 
 sprung from a fairytale in the sense of everything being quite fuzzy. After playing a bit though, 
 i started to appreciate the added graphical features and it grew on me. The warm lighting from 
 the afternoon sun in the farmlands during autumn, is really quite beautifully done and the replays 
 look like a million bucks with all those cars dancing in the sunlight. Other then the new addition 
 of more advanced lighting, the textures look to be about the same as in the original. A few subtle 
 new enhancements include enhanced reflections on the cars, thicker and more realistic looking smoke 
 appearing when braking or just generally burning tire rubber and the explosion effect whenever 
 hitting an explodable object. Graphics are very nice overall.
  
  Vroom vroom vroom, crash bang! - The sounds of led feet and twisted metal.
  
  The sounds of 
 car engines does to me what a nice Prada bag might do to your girldfriend - it sends chlls down 
 my spine. Frankly - it turns me on. With that out of the way, the sounds in flatOut 2 are very 
 nicely done. Atleast the crash noises and the sounds reflecting your advancement through the tracks 
 - paint being scraped off the side of the car, gravel as well as small stones being launched up 
 and hitting the cars undercarriage as you slide across that tricky corner, windshields shattering, 
 tires shrieking, metall hitting metall, objects exploding violently and rag doll drivers screaming 
 at the top of their lungs whilst being thrown out through the front windshields of their cars at 
 120mp/h. All very enjoyable sounds indeed. The engine sounds on the other hand, isnt nearly as 
 enjoyable. Theyre alright and sometimes even great, but mostly they just dont stand out in the 
 way they should considering it is a racing game after all.
  
  On to the soundtrack in FlatOut 2. Ill begin by stating that its a soundtrack that youll love 
 if you cared for the originals and that youll hate if you didnt. Its roughly the same type of 
 garage punk/pop mix that we heard in the original, but with some added well recognized tunes and 
 bands this time around. Bands range from Alkaline Trio, The Chelsea Smiles, Nine Black Alps to 
 Audioslave, Nickelback, Rob Zombie and Megadeath. The full list of bands featured in FlatOut 2 
 can be found here.
  
  What about Multi-Player?
  
  The MP aspect of FlatOut 2 is of a rather simple structure, and thats a good thing. You dont 
 want to spend half an hour on setting up your preferences and settings before being able to head 
 out to war in a game like FlatOut 2 - you want to get in on the action right away and with FlatOut 
 2s MP-system, you can. Choose between Party Mode, Online, or LAN. (NOTE - You DON NOT need a 
 GameSpy account to be able to play FlatOut 2 Online through the games in- game menu)
  
  Party Mode;
  Now, in Party Mode, you can take turns competing in FlatOut 2s many mini-games 
 (stunts) against up to 8 players via Hot seat on one computer.
  
  Online;
  The Online functionality will have you battling up to 7 other human oppenents in either Race, Destruction 
 Derby or Ragdoll Game Modes (stunts) .
  
  The options available to you before taking part of a online event, are as follows - Quick Race 
 (where no preferences are taken into account and where you will automatically join the first available 
 game) - Find Games (allows you to search for event-specific available sessions, using the on-screen 
 options. Can be filtered by Race, Destruction Derby or Ragdoll mini-games) - Create Game (allows 
 you to host your own race event, complete with your own event preferences and rules) .
  
  LAN;
  Playing FlatOut 2 via LAN lets you compete against 7 other local players in Race,
  Destruction 
 Derby or Rag Doll Game modes. The options available when setting up a LAN game, are the same as 
 duing Online play, except that there is no Quick Race option.
  
  Ive played maybe 4 to 5 hours worth Online and although there isnt all that much activity yet 
 (due to the fact that the game was just recently released in most of Europe but has not yet been 
 released in North America) - theres still alot of fun to be had causing mayhem Online in FlatOut 
 2. For you people wanting to know whether or not to buy this game solely based on its Online MP 
 capabilities - id say its a tad bit early to evaluate that part of the game at this point, but 
 based on the MP thrills ive had so far - its definitely a solid LAN title - thats for sure. 
 Im fully confident that the Online part will power up as soon as more people get a hold of the 
 game.
  
  The FlatOut 2 vs Burnout thing.
  
  The new added content to FlatOut 2s roster, is clearly something that has had most people comparing 
 FlatOuts sequal to Criterions Burnout-series. Despite the resemblences, FlatOut 2 offers a different 
 enough racing experience to distinguish itself from the Burnout franchise, to warrant a purchase 
 even if you already own the latest Burnout game. FlatOut 2 offers a very different physics engine 
 that has a really big impact on the way you drive and compete in FlatOut 2 - and that to such an 
 extent that it puts FlatOut 2 on a whole different shelf space then the Burnout series so to speak. 
 On top of that theres the destruction derby type modes and more variaty to the types of cars 
 you have at your disposal. Well, what about the similarieties? They are both enjoyable franchises, 
 both games have you crashing a multitude of cars, both games offer you nitrous boost as reward 
 when driving wrecklessly and both games have you driving at high speeds. Is that enough for you 
 to call FlatOut 2 a Burnout rip-off? Then you better prepare yourself to call a whole lot of other 
 racing games Burnout rip-offs as well my friend.
  
  Is FlatOut 2 a better racing game then the original?
  
  Yes... and No. Yes in the sense that 
 it offers more added content such as more cars, more tracks and thus a better longlivity - No in 
 the sense that it indeed offers not just cosmetic changes and more content, it also has a slightly 
 different feel to it - something that i do not consider to be all good. It feels more streamlined 
 and more generic then before. But why is that when most of the content that was to be found in 
 the charming original, is there in the sequel as well? The answer to that might lie in the new 
 addition of bloom, making the game look significantly different. Or it may lie in the fact that 
 the game now features sleek newly waxed Japanese-style sportcars with paint and body surfaces as 
 smooth and reflective as nothing youve ever seen and those cars is something that weve seen one 
 to many times in the Race N Crash genre lately, making the sequal to FlatOut distinguish itself 
 from the very thing that made the original FlatOut so special - a game exclusively devoted to Folkracing, 
 totalling rusted-up muscle cars that just asked to be mangled further.
  
  So let me ask the question again: Is FlatOut 2 a better racing game then the original?
  
  
 Does it matter?
  
  No. It doesnt. FlatOut 2 is a great game, with enough awesome moments and thrills to warrant the 
 change in the franchises roster. The fact that its longlivety now suceed the originals by far 
 isnt bad either.
  
  Closing comments:
  
  Ive really enjoyed FlatOut 2 so far and though it, for some reason somewhat doesnt have the charm 
 of the original, it really delivers an even bigger plate of that crazy car smashing action we all 
 love. Its a must buy if all the new content appeal to you. If it doesnt on the other hand and 
 youre for some reason hesitating - the original is still a very strong title. Furthermore, you 
 owe it to yourself to try out a demo of FlatOut 2 when it hopefully hits later this summer/beginning 
 of autumn just in time for the north American release. It is an addictive game and a great source 
 of entertaintment for anyone that loves the combination of cars, high speeds and crushed metal.
 
  
  FlatOut 2 mini Q&A:
  
  Q - Does FlatOut 2 use Star-Force protection software?
  A - Yes.
  
  Q - How will it run on my computer compared to the original?
  A - FlatOut 2 is 
 even better optimized then the original and strangely enough runs even smoother despite some of 
 the new graphical features, so do not worry. If you could run FlatOut, chances are you will be 
 able to run its sequel even more smoothly.
  
  Q - Is there a split screen option/mode in FlatOut 2?
  A - Not that i can see, no. I have received 
 notion that the console versions do include a split screen option on the other hand. Like mentioned, 
 no option that has anything to do with split screen, is visible in the multiplayer menu of the 
 PC version though. Despite my non existent findings, the developer states -Offline Multiplayer 
 modes on all formats via split screen for up to four players. A PC version split screen mode will 
 most likely be modded in, so check www. flatoutjoint. com for updates on mods for FlatOut 2.
  
  Q - What online modes are there and how do they work?
  A - See review.
  
  Q - Does the 
 static vehicles spread throughout the courses, take any damage when hit?
  A - Yes and No. There are three types of scenery vehicles (as i call them) - One that does not 
 budge or take damage, no matter how hard you hit it (usually big trucks) - one that will explode 
 instantly upon impact (this is a new addition to the franchise) and one that will move when hit 
 and show minimal damage afterwards (parked cars for instance) .
  
  Q - Will the game allow you to save your replays in any way?
  A - No. 
  
  Q - Can HDR be 
 turned OFF via an in-game menu or other?
  A - There is no HDR in FlatOut 2. What youre seeing is something called Bloom and it does certain 
 things that look alot like HDR, but with minimal to no performance penalties. Bloom can supposedly 
 be turned off by un-checking the box next to Post processing in the games external Set-up section.
 
  
  Q - How many destroy-able objects are there in FlatOut 2 compared to the original?
  A - Theres plenty to go around, ill tell you that! Just watch one of the videos i have created 
 and uploaded here to Gamespot and youll see for yourself. The replays are awesome and Bugbear 
 really have added alot more scenery for us to turn into debris!
  
  By: Richard A.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Flatout is reknowned for it's great looking environments, cars, enjoyable single/multiplayer and 
 reckless driving stunts. The sequal doesn't disappoint. With a large variety of new features, it 
 caters to new and old players of the series. 
  
  The addition of a more intense, worthwhile single-player mode has made Flatout 2 somewhat more 
 desirable to those who have limited multiplayer access. It features 3 different types of racing: 
 Derby, Race and Street.
  Each offers it's own unique cars that can be upgraded, although with a disappointingly limited 
 number of upgrades. 
  
  The graphics are still as sharp, colourful and breathtaking as ever. It's a pleasure to look at 
 the environments and the lighting is really fantastic. It's tough to make it look any better than 
 the original flatout but the textures look clearer and overall the presentation is much nicer.
 
  
  The game offers an interesting selection of music that plays randomnly throughout the menu and 
 game. Although it's nice to have such a variety, it does get a little annoying after a while.
 
  
  Gameplay, as i mentioned, is extended with the addition of two new racing modes, race and street. 
 In these, race priorities change, although the ultimate aim is to 'waste' other drivers' cars, 
 it's race focused and less destructive than that of 'derby'.
  
  Multiplayer remains the same but with added cars and tracks, it adds more playability. I encountered 
 no bugs and it all runs very smoothly. Flatout 2 in my opinion is primarily an online/lan game 
 as it's great fun to race your mates and watch each other attempt stunts.
  
  6 new stunt events have been added, ontop of the original 6, creating additional environments for 
 you to completely mess up. The careful timing needed to pull off succesful stunts is slightly more 
 difficult as often you have to navigate your car between objects before a stunt, as opposed to 
 just driving at the target in the original. Such new events include water skipping, jumping through 
 flames and modified original events.
  
  Replay value is added as you can attempt the singleplayer with different styles of cars but still 
 the races get a little repetitive after a while. I found that you should just try and get enough 
 points to win the tournament, and focus mainly on having fun and recking your opponents' 'wheels'.
 
  
  Flatout 2's AI is fun and unpredictable, they do crash without interference from you, which is 
 nice, and with 7 other drivers in a very tight area going 160mph is very exhilirating.
  
  Overall, Flatout 2 is a healthy addition to the series that offers impressive new features and 
 just as much fun as ever. I really recommend this game to veterans of the series and to newbies 
 alike. 
  
  9/ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
