-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Flight Simulator 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/flightsimulator2002/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 682 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Flight Simulation
Date:     Oct 19, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whether you're a nervous tenderfoot or hardened devotee of desktop flying, this is the Flight Simulator 
 you've been waiting for. 

 Merging newfound accessibility with revolutionary graphics and stupefying depth, Microsoft's Flight 
 Simulator 2002 is a program of monolithic proportions. Like its immediate predecessor, 1999's daunting 
 Flight Simulator 2000, FS 2002 invites its guests to experience virtually every conceivable parameter 
 of civilian piloting while exploring virtually every conceivable corner of this planet. Yet any 
 further comparison between the two is not unlike comparing a typical fastball with a Randy Johnson 
 fastball. Microsoft has simply blown the top off the civilian flight simulation genre with its 
 latest iteration and, in so doing, proven that dearly departed competitors like Flight Unlimited 
 III never really stood a chance. Whether you're a nervous tenderfoot or hardened devotee of desktop 
 flying, this is the Flight Simulator you've been waiting for.           Flight Simulator 2002 is 
 a major improvement on its predecessors.    

  The statistics alone are staggering. For FS 2002, Microsoft has added more than 1,000 operative 
 airports to FS 2000's already astounding 20,000 -- for a mind-numbing grand total of more than 21,000. 
 It has upped the number of flyable aircraft from 10 to 12, including series newcomers such as the 
 humungous Boeing 747-400, the Cessna 172S Skyhawk SP, and the largest single-engine floatplane 
 currently available, Cessna's $1.5 million amphibious Caravan. Returning from past editions are 
 the Boeing 777-300 and 737-400, Cessna 182S Skylane and Skylane RG, Bell 206B JetRanger III chopper, 
 Learjet 45 business jet, Extra 300S stunt plane, Schweizer 2-32 glider, and the ancient Sopwith 
 Camel. Users may also import aircraft from previous and current versions of Flight Simulator and 
 Combat Flight Simulator, although substantial tweaking is required before said aircraft are fully 
 recognized and operational. Even the game's system requirements are colossal, ranging from a 650MB 
 minimum to a full install of 1.5GB.   

  But it's unquestionably FS 2002's surprisingly glorious and massively modified visual presentation 
 that makes this the finest civilian flight simulation ever to appear. Critics and customers alike 
 have long heaped scorn upon the Microsoft franchise -- and rightly so -- for its painfully sluggish 
 frame rate and often bland incidental scenery, particularly when judging it against the smaller 
 yet markedly more attractive and smoother world of competitors like the aforementioned Flight Unlimited. 
 Suffice it to say that such disapproval is no longer warranted.   

  Not only does FS 2002 paint as pretty a picture as did Flight Unlimited III, but it also does so 
 on a quasi-global scale. Of its 21,000-plus airstrips, more than 60 are paired with partially and 
 fully realized cityscapes that put to shame the detailed cities of prior editions. In fact, the 
 structural scenery in prime centers such as Chicago, Los Angeles, and Hong Kong is so dense, so 
 authentic, and so smartly blended into the landscape that you'll swear you're flying over the real 
 thing. Less-populous locations like Las Vegas are no longer a sparse assemblage of area-specific 
 buildings plopped in the midst of a vast wasteland. Now, a quick tour over the strip reveals more 
 than a dozen finely crafted casinos and such detail as the Luxor skylight, the Mirage volcano, 
 numerous legible billboards, and a Bellagio fountain that actually gushes water as you approach. 
 That the entire gambling district is surrounded by what looks like a real city is indicative of 
 what's in store throughout the game.   

  Depending on their location and importance, even small urban zones bear resemblance to their real-world 
 counterparts. Midsize towns such as Bullhead City, Arizona, and Redding, California, have been 
 upgraded from generic blotches and one or two haphazardly positioned structures to the thriving 
 communities they really are. Bullhead City is noticeably larger and bordered on the west by the 
 Colorado River, which bends and curves almost precisely where it should. The downtown Redding core 
 is a bit underdeveloped, yet its buildings are faithfully low-level and the surrounding countryside 
 authentically treed. Interstate 5 bisects the town, and alternate byways sprawl in all directions 
 to nearby Whiskeytown and Shasta Lakes and further northward to majestic, snow-capped Mount Shasta. 
           The amphibious Cessna 208 Caravan is one of FS2002's newest aircraft.    

  The visual disparity between this product and its predecessor is just as evident in unsettled areas, 
 where the developers have clearly taken great pains to ensure the environment isn't just an endless 
 sea of featureless land. In most locations, the game automatically generates terrain, vegetation, 
 shading, and textures to match that of the real world. Water features are particularly convincing, 
 moving and reflecting and often forming waves that break against the shoreline. Major geographical 
 elements like the Swiss Alps or Grand Canyon and landmarks like Mount Rushmore are nothing less 
 than awesome. Some elements, like the Great Pyramids of Egypt, are far less memorable than one 
 might think, and certain isolated locations like Tanquary Fiord in Canada's arctic display strange 
 anomalies like floating trees, but the overall impression is stunning.   

  Spectacular weather visuals, such as multishaded translucent clouds and bleeding rain droplets, 
 only add to the dynamics, as do incidental special effects, such as touchdown wheel smoke and jet 
 contrails. Some aircraft provide smooth-scrolling virtual 3D cockpits -- a feature sadly absent in 
 FS 2000 -- complete with operational gauges and zoom/unzoom capability. Pilots are offered a generous 
 allotment of environmental variables, including cloud elevation and type, precipitation strength 
 and form, and a wonderfully authentic portrayal of real-time weather as provided through Jeppesen 
 flight information services. Parameters such as aircraft type, time of day, and weather may be 
 adjusted on the fly from within the cockpit, although the latter doesn't always turn out as expected. 
    

 Environmental conditions aside, series veterans will absolutely love what Microsoft has done with 
 the Flight Simulator frame rate. This time around, the game flows effortlessly on mid- to high-end 
 systems and thus renders obsolete the crawling slide show of prior editions. With most graphic 
 options cranked wide open, screen resolution set to 1024x768x32, and visibility toggled to 150 
 miles, the test machine's 1000MHz Athlon processor and GeForce 2 video card seemed at ease throughout. 
 Even traditional system killers, like snap cockpit side views, were fluid and uninterrupted. There 
 are, however, several minor caveats. The graphics engine does tend to jump momentarily when initially 
 drawing an approaching urban area or high-density chunk of scenery. Flight load-up times are substantially 
 longer than ever before, and computers barely meeting the minimum 300MHz processor and 8MB video 
 card requirements will in all likelihood continue to experience slowdowns and delayed rendering. 
 Yet these are small trade-offs considering the game's otherwise high level of performance.     
       Cities are densely populated and weather effects are strikingly real.    

  As has always been the case for this series, the act of operating a Flight Simulator aircraft may 
 be as ridiculously easy or as challenging as you wish. Fans of quick action will undoubtedly reduce 
 some or all of the realism options to their minimums and skip any groundwork altogether by slewing 
 their plane from the outset to 5,000 feet. They may conduct a flight entirely of their own creation 
 or avail themselves of the game's 50-plus prearranged flights, half of which require advanced skills. 
 Alternately, they can log onto Microsoft's Gaming Zone for airborne antics that can theoretically 
 support up to 300 of their best friends.   

  Ultra-hard-core enthusiasts can just as easily file and follow complex flight plans, introduce 
 the potential of equipment failures, fly at night or with low visibility via their instruments, 
 and, for the very first time in the history of the game, interact with Flight Simulator's optional 
 air traffic control (ATC) system. ATC communication adds a whole new dimension to the Flight Simulator 
 environment, filling the previously quiet skies with chatter and forcing you to adhere to the rules 
 of the aerial road. Fortunately, Microsoft's translation of ATC seems to behave intelligently, 
 recognizing your presence, position, and behavior and attempting to deal with it in a reasonable 
 manner. Be prepared to join the back of the queue before you take off or land and otherwise tackle 
 many of the stresses and delays facing real pilots as they hop to and from busy airports. Certainly 
 the quality of the game's ATC justifies the many hours you'll spend learning all about its functions 
 and unique lingo.   

  FS 2002 is also the first installment to offer truly enjoyable tutorials. Granted, Microsoft has 
 traditionally furnished each version of the game with oodles of reading material, but it has never 
 offered this level of user-friendliness. New pilots will want to begin with the "getting started" 
 videos, wherein licensed pilots and obvious John Boy Walton fans John and Martha King take their 
 pupils on a golly-gee preparatory tour of the absolute basics. Once indoctrinated, players will 
 then turn to any of the massive online guidebooks, gain hands-on experience through a series of 
 27 beautifully composed and fully narrated interactive training sessions, or jump back and forth 
 from one to another. Experienced pros will want to continue the interactive sessions as they make 
 their way from private pilot to instrument-rated veteran through to commercial and airline transport 
 captain. Flight instructor/motivational speaker Ron Machado returns to once again lead the instructional 
 segments, and his breezy style tends to take some of the sting from what is clearly a ton of information. 
   

  In keeping with the game's new ATC verbiage, FS 2002's in-flight audio is dang near perfect. Each 
 aircraft packs distinctive engine, electronic, and mechanical sounds, all of which vary in accordance 
 to the current camera and viewing perspective. The wind howls around smaller craft, severe rainstorms 
 pound on the fuselage, and ominous thunder growls in the distance. The whir and clunk of landing 
 gear and flaps sound far different in a 747 than they do in a Skylane, and most equipment failures 
 are accompanied by their own unique effect.           Even looking out from a virtual cockpit, 
 frame rates tend to stay smooth.    

  Potential players with an extra $20 burning a hole in their pockets may want to opt for the additional 
 goodies found in the Flight Simulator 2002 Professional Edition. Here, they may fly four additional 
 aircraft, including two that are completely new to the franchise (the Cessna 208 Grand Caravan 
 and Raytheon BE58) and a pair of veteran performers (the Raytheon/Beech King 350 and Mooney Bravo) . 
 They're also permitted to take on the role of teacher or student in the multiplayer "instructor's 
 station," wherein they'll partner with another player to either issue or attempt a sequence of 
 fully customizable assignment parameters. The Pro Edition includes several other perks that only 
 a true fanatic could love, including the high-end, highly detailed 3D modeling tool gMax, through 
 which aspiring world builders can design, construct, and assign dynamic attributes to virtually 
 any Flight Simulator-supported object. And certainly anyone who wishes to import Combat Flight 
 Sim and earlier Flight Sim airplanes should give the Pro Edition some deliberation, as it seriously 
 simplifies what is otherwise a difficult process. We had an A6M5 Zero imported and flying over 
 Paris within five minutes.   

  With Flight Simulator 2002, Microsoft has not opted for the easy road. Instead of taking advantage 
 of a suddenly inactive genre by rehashing old programming, it has delivered the most complete civilian 
 flying experience that the PC world has yet to see. Considering its immense scale and wholesale 
 upgrades, it is a bargain at $54.95.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Microsoft flight simulator 2002
  
  This is a good game if you love flying aircraft and flying them around and to destinations e. g. 
 London to New York, 
  
  Flight simulator gives you the opportunity to fly in the pilots seat and see what they see in front 
 of the plane, you can fly what ever plane helicopter you want from the main menu and if you are 
 flying and you want to change you aircraft you can do this in mid air by pressing the alt key and 
 going to the menu next to the file menu I can remember what that second menu is and then you go 
 down to select aircraft and you can choose another aircraft. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphic are very good and when you have the whether to rain you can see the rain drops on the 
 windshields and you can also choose if you want thunder and lightning, 
  
  Also you get a glare of the class when you fly in to the sun. 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound 
 quality is very good you can hear your engines starting up and when you have them up at full throttle 
 you can hear them powering up and getting ready to fly and keep the plane or helicopter in the 
 air. 
  
  So I say if you really love to fly aircraft you should buy this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capjoel2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The good
  
  Realistic, as much depth as you want, you can fly at any skill level but there is lots of potential 
 to be amazing (meaning more hours of play)
  
  The bad
  No action, not so fun without a joystick
  
  
  To begin with I want to tell a story. I first 
 played this game I did training in a Cessna air craft and then a few days later on TV I saw somebody 
 flying a plane, and I understood what the controls did. Now don't get me wrong this game is good 
 if you want to learn about planes but if you just want to fly (acrobatically or passenger airline 
 style) this is a good game. One of the best things is the depth you can just take off and mess 
 about, or radio air control and have permission to taxi, mix the fuel and set up a engine failure 
 and try to land without engines. 
  There is so much to do you may be slightly overwhelmed but don't worry there is a very useful training 
 section (if a bit restrictive) or you can go it alone making your own flight or flying a preset 
 route testing your skill.
  However this game lacks any real danger it might seem to fans of action games a bit well, boring 
 when my friend played this game he just tried to crash the plane and do barrel rolls and got bored 
 in about 10 minutes so if you like action games I suggest you get a combat flight sim.
  To sum up this game can be played with any amount of realism if you want to learn to fly it claims 
 that it is used by top test pilots if you just want to relax it may be the game for you but if 
 you want action I would not get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pongley
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  FS 2002 isn't much of an improvement from 2000 and takes away some of the features that many of 
 us loved but it is still a very good game which has very many good addons and user made planes 
 from hundreds of fan sites. Sadly won't last long with FSX as only people who already are quite 
 into 2002 or can't afford FSX (it is still &pound;50 for a simulation after all) will still be 
 playing this. Even I'm tempted to sneak off to X land. Now if only I could find an IP to connect 
 to for multiplayer. Anyone got one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Flight Simulator 2002 is the next flight simulator game after FS2000. This game has a few new installments 
 like, more planes, better scenery and you can now use the ATC in a better way. You can use it to 
 change automatically to the settings you want in the ATC. Also its really easy to use. You can 
 fly your planes anywhere you want and even takeoff or land at your hometown. The graphics are not 
 really real but it feels real and flying these planes are a lot of fun.
  If you are going to be a pilot, then flight simulator games are the right tools for you because 
 its good practice and it feels like the real thing.
  One thing, you should get a joystick or a flight yoke to play these games better because playing 
 with the keyboard is so hard and really annoying, so I best recommend you get a joystick or a flight 
 yoke. FS2002 is a another great flight simulator game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Flight Simulator 2002 has plenty of value, due to the fact that there are over 1,000 airports, 
 scenery for every location in the globe, and of course, you can download more aircraft, etc. on 
 the internet (www. avsim. com) . With a great mod community, FS2002 can perhaps never grow old. You 
 can also join virtual airlines, which fly actual routes from real life. In my opinion, FS2002 is 
 one of the few games I've played that has great value. 
  Flight Simulator 2002 has plenty of value, due to the fact that there are over 1,000 airports, 
 scenery for every location in the globe, and of course, you can download more aircraft, etc. on 
 the internet (www. avsim. com) . With a great mod community, FS2002 can perhaps never grow old. You 
 can also join virtual airlines, which fly actual routes from real life. In my opinion, FS2002 is 
 one of the few games I've played that has great value. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  If you are out looking for a simulator of any kind, flight in particular, this is the way to go. 
 However, I would recommend the newer games in the series because of obvious improvements as the 
 years go on.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Hard to control at times, but overall, very good.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Great graphics, great visuals of the land and the best airport graphics I have 
 seen, you can recognize each airport.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Sound isn't that important in this game, but overall I'd have to say its pretty good.
  
  Value: 
 9.0
  This is an older game, its cheap, so it is worth it for the price.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10.0
  Terrific game, go for the newer ones in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  If you are out looking for a simulator of any kind, flight in particular, this is the way to go. 
 However, I would recommend the newer games in the series because of obvious improvements as the 
 years go on.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Hard to control at times, but overall, very good.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Great graphics, great visuals of the land and the best airport graphics I have 
 seen, you can recognize each airport.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Sound isn't that important in this game, but overall I'd have to say its pretty good.
  
  Value: 
 9.0
  This is an older game, its cheap, so it is worth it for the price.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10.0
  Terrific game, go for the newer ones in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austin321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  I don't have this game but my school has it and in 6th grade i had to do this game. It is part 
 of a class where you learn all weird stuff. When i played it in class we used the real pedals and 
 steering wheels. It was very hard to learn. But after a while i got used to it and felt like i 
 was flighting like a pro. But since i was in school it can't be all fun :- ( . We had to get go 
 at it because we had to take a test. I did very go because i enjoyed the game. My partener on the 
 other hand did not like it and he failed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volodnikov9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  When you first take a look at this game now, you won't realize it's four years old until you read 
 the title of this simulator, "Flight Simulator 2002". Four years later, this game still delivers 
 the realism of flying an actual airplane, and the fun of soaring into the wild blue yonder.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The gameplay can greatly vary depending on the many settings offered to you. 
 Adjust realism, weather, time, etc. all down to the smallest scale. Want to see if you can fly 
 through hurricane conditions? Just set the wind to the greatest setting and precipitation to heavy 
 rain, and you've got your hurricane. Flight Simulator 2002 easily attends from those novice pilots 
 to the hardcore flight fanatics. If you can't identify all of those buttons in the internal views, 
 such as myself, don't worry, you'll still be able to get the plane off the ground, just keep a 
 joystick handy. Additionally, each plane handles as it should, and plenty of ATC options during 
 flight makes your experience with this sim "as real as it gets". You'll think you're flying a real 
 aircraft. With the professional edition, you get the bonus of float planes, which allow you to 
 land in water as well. It's a neat feature unseen in previous installments of Microsoft's flight 
 sims.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  For a flight sim made in 2001, the graphics are pretty good, even for today's standards. If you 
 have a high-end computer, each building on the ground can cast a shadow, planes reflect sunlight, 
 and you are able to turn on a plethora of graphical options. Low-end users, do not worry at all, 
 as the game still looks good without many of the options turned on. The low point though, are the 
 2D internal views, which seem outdated.
  
  Sound: 
  
  Overall, the sound is good enough to immerse you into the flying experience. The game comes with 
 8 different voices you can use for ATC purposes, and each plane has its distinctive engine sound. 
 Put the Air Traffic up and you'll have constant radio chatter as other aircraft make their way 
 to and from their destinations. When you land, you defintitely know you have hit the runway. Although 
 the sound is good, it can be polished in some areas, peticulary the engines of prop planes.
  
  Value:
  
  Flight Simulator 2002 has plenty of value, due to the fact that there are over 
 1,000 airports, scenery for every location in the globe, and of course, you can download more aircraft, 
 etc. on the internet (www. avsim. com) . With a great mod community, FS2002 can perhaps never grow 
 old. You can also join virtual airlines, which fly actual routes from real life. In my opinion, 
 FS2002 is one of the few games I've played that has great value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
