-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Flight Simulator X: Acceleration
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/flightsimulatorxadrenaline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three new planes with cool capabilities.
 Over 30 new single-player missions.
 New multiplayer racing modes.
 Carrier ops including superb white-knuckle landings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 May not be compatible with your current third-party add-ons.
 SP2 doesn't appear to produce significant frame rate improvements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 376 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Oct 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
New aircraft, new missions, and new multiplayer racing modes make Acceleration a worthy addition 
 for any Flight Simulation X fanatic. 

  While you can compile a laundry list of features that make Flight Simulator X a jaw-dropping piece 
 of software, it's the wide variety of aircraft and goal-oriented missions that create such a compelling 
 experience for even the casual flight-sim fan. Microsoft's new add-on, Flight Simulator X: Acceleration, 
 adds more of what makes the sim great, offering three new aircraft, more than 30 new single-player 
 missions, and 19 multiplayer missions/races. If you're a Flight Simulator X aficionado, this expansion 
 pack is a must-have.  

           This is not going to be a good landing.      

  The three new aircraft are very different from one another and provide fascinating new capabilities, 
 introduced via the new missions. The Boeing F/A-18A Hornet is a fighter/attack jet with a breathtaking 
 amount of power. While there are, alas, no useable weapons on this simulated jet, it is fully capable 
 of carrier operations, and most of the included missions involving the Hornet require both a takeoff 
 and landing on a carrier. Taking off is a blast, literally: Gently taxi up to the catapult, lower 
 and attach the launch bar, throttle up, and then fire the catapult and hang on as you're launched 
 off the edge of the carrier. Easy enough, but as any naval flight sim fan can tell you, landing 
 on the deck of a moving carrier is a nerve-racking experience in the best of conditions; throw 
 in bad weather and/or darkness and you'll be wiping the sweat off the keyboard. Acceleration provides 
 a superb re-creation of carrier landings, complete with "calling the ball" and an on-deck flight 
 officer talking you in. For a palpable thrill, set the weather to dark and stormy and clench your 
 teeth as you come in out of the dark clouds in a storm, trying to find your carrier, find the twinkle 
 of the lights emerging as you close in, line up with the carrier, bang your plane onto the moving 
 deck, and then start breathing again as the wires catch and stop your plane.  

  In most sims, the focus of missions involving an F/A-18 would involve finding bad guys and shooting 
 them down. Since Flight Simulator X doesn't support combat operations, the missions here are more 
 varied and, in some cases, unusual. A couple of the missions are well-done tutorials on carrier 
 takeoffs and landings. The others include everything from flying cover to protect a rocket launch 
 from Cape Canaveral to investigating and tracking an unusual flying vehicle over Area 51. Be sure 
 to experiment with the knobs in your cockpit; we were surprised to find the radar and other electronics 
 (other than weapon systems) were fully functional. Once you've played through the missions, you 
 are, of course, able to set up your own free flights with the Hornet, and if you explore the oceans 
 you'll find other operational carriers. All in all, the power and capabilities of the F/A-18 make 
 it a joy to fly and a superb addition to the simulation.  

  The next aircraft introduced in Acceleration is as different from the F/A-18 as a Ford pickup truck 
 is from a Ferrari: the AugustaWestland EH101 medium-lift helicopter. This is a tough workhorse 
 of a chopper with sling-load and hoist systems, specializing in picking up people and "things." 
 After the sleek, sexy Hornet, the EH101 may come across as pretty mundane and boring, but it is 
 the focus of some of the most interesting new missions in Acceleration. Missions such as tracking 
 down smugglers in the Florida Keys, trying to rescue geologists stranded at Mt. St. Helens before 
 it erupts, and transporting avalanche-prevention crews provide a very different type of tension 
 and drama than those provided in a supersonic jet. Of course, in the tradition of Flight Simulator 
 X missions, what can start out as a fairly routine assignment may suddenly take a dramatic turn 
 due to unexpected events or as a result of your decisions (for example, do you follow the smugglers 
 in the transport that may contain a large contraband shipment, or the small plane that may be carrying 
 someone important in the criminal world?)  

           There's a reason they call this zero-gravity test flight the Vomit Comet.      

  The 
 chopper itself, like most sim helicopters, can be a bear to control if you're a novice to virtual 
 rotary aircraft, but it will also provide a challenge to sim-chopper veterans. Lining up the helicopter 
 so that you are directly above the cargo or personnel that needs to be retrieved or lowered, ensuring 
 that you're not too high or too low, and maintaining a stable hover during the operation requires 
 a light and steady touch. Even when you have retrieved an item to be transported, the swinging 
 motion of that cargo beneath the chopper can overwhelm your control of the aircraft (especially 
 in bad weather) . While helicopters have been present in the Flight Simulator series for some time, 
 this hoisting/retrieval capability adds a new, challenging dimension to missions.  

  The P-51D Mustang offered here is a race-customized version, with double the horsepower of the 
 original and other modifications focused on tailoring the aircraft for the Reno-style air races. 
 The result is an aircraft that flies like a bat out of hell. Take this Mustang out on the Reno 
 racecourses, crank the boost up, and judiciously apply doses of the ADI system to prevent engine 
 lockups, and you can demonstrate why the comparisons of Reno air racing to NASCAR are about 300mph 
 too slow and one directional dimension too low. When you fly the tutorial missions or simply fly 
 in freestyle around the race courses in order to familiarize yourself with the track, it may seem 
 a bit boring -- after all, you fly fast and turn left, fly fast and turn left, and so on. But when 
 you try doing that at 500mph with a cloud of competitive aircraft above, below, and beside you, 
 wingtip to wingtip, "boring" is not the adjective that comes to mind. The P-51D here is quick and 
 agile, and it's a lot of fun just to buzz through the buildings and bridges of your favorite city. 
 However, the Mustang is limited when it comes to missions in Acceleration, with only racing missions 
 available.  

  Not all of the new missions involve the new aircraft. For example, one fairly simple mission (with 
 a twist) involves flying the Secretary of Defense on a tour of Edwards AFB in a Beechcraft King 
 Air 350. Unfortunately, he is a demanding and vocal SOB, and he can either make or break your career 
 depending upon how the tour goes. Another mission places you in the pilot's seat of the "Vomit 
 Comet," a Boeing 737-800 in which you will be taking a crew through a series of zero-gravity parabolas 
 in order to provide them with weightlessness for about 20 seconds per maneuver. There's a variety 
 of such interesting missions, some dramatic, some just fun. But the wildest new mission type is 
 the Red Bull Racing series.  

  Red Bull racing is, in a word, insane. In Acceleration you're provided with three Red Bull racing 
 venues: Istanbul, Longleat in the UK, and Tempelhof AFB in Berlin. Flying an extremely nimble Extra 
 300S, you are required to fly through a series of very closely spaced pylons, extremely low to 
 the ground, with some requiring a wings-level pass, some requiring a knife-edge pass, and some 
 allowing either. At certain points during the race you'll also be required to perform specific 
 aerobatic maneuvers. Fly too high through a gate: penalty. Go through the gate in the wrong position: 
 penalty. Touch a pylon: big penalty. Flying at more than 200mph, a few measly feet above the ground 
 while making tight turns and aerobatic moves in a competitive atmosphere, makes you admire the 
 courage and skill of the pilots who compete in this real-world air-racing series and question their 
 sanity and will to live.  

  The single-player racing missions in Acceleration (both Reno and Red Bull) are intended as practice 
 for the multiplayer mode. Multiplayer offers 19 racing "missions," including the aforementioned 
 Reno and Red Bull formats, cross-country races in both small prop planes and gliders, and an exhilarating 
 race through a deep canyon in F/A-18s.  

           The EH101 can do everything from hauling cargo to chasing dope smugglers in the Keys. 

  In addition to the added missions and aircraft, Acceleration applies the latest SP2 upgrade to 
 Flight Simulator X. Our tests showed a relatively small frame rate increase on a midrange system, 
 and reports in the forums seem to indicate that SP2 isn't magic; it won't allow you to significantly 
 raise the graphics level at which you can effectively run the sim, but you may gain a few frame 
 rates here and there. One caveat: If you have a lot of third-party add-ons for Flight Simulator 
 X, SP2 and some SDK changes may result in a few odd quirks, with some reporting the need to do 
 a fresh install of Flight Simulator X, followed by an install of Acceleration, to smooth out the 
 issues. As always in today's world of infinite configurations, your mileage may vary. In our case, 
 the install over a current Flight Simulation X installation, with a few third-party add-ons, was 
 trouble-free.  

  There are a lot of third-party add-ons for Flight Sim X, and you can make an argument that, for 
 example, the detailing is higher in one of these add-on F/A-18s. But the added capabilities that 
 Acceleration brings to the sim, such as the hoist and retrieval capability with the new helicopter, 
 the carrier operations, and the new multiplayer racing missions, make this a very attractive and 
 recommended expansion for any Flight Simulator X fan.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Flight simulator X acceleration
  
  Flight simulator X acceleration is a very good add-on for Flight simulator X 
  
  The game play 
 I really can't say much about this because it is an add-on for flight simulator x but I can say 
 WOW to the new aircraft, the new jets are really powerful and you can do missions which involve 
 you taking off an aircraft carrier.
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are amazing and they have improved flight simulator X's graphics and the planes are 
 more real and the handling of the jet planes are very good and the graphics also show the air flow 
 over the wings on take off, like a real jet would have. 
  
  The sounds are amazing and keep in time with the planes engines and when you land you can hear 
 the tires hit the tarmac and the engines thrusting down from full thrust. 
  
  What more can I really say about this add-on it is amazing ,
  
  When you are flying a jet and 
 you move the joystick to on side the plane will keep on doing a spin and will only stop when you 
 put the joystick back to the center. The jets are more responsive than a passenger air craft. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Acceleration is a heart pumping ride for any FSX fan. With the right CPU there is no way it will 
 let you down.
  With that note here is a deeper look on the game. Of course you need FSX but I could see anyone 
 picking up this game and wanting it. Just looking at the cover you will see the excitement in it. 
 I have found that the most exciting thing for me is the carrier landings. You align the plane perfectly 
 but that doesn't mean success. Watching your airspeed and altitude you made little adjustments 
 until all of a sudden your right next to the carrier. Then you land and get this feeling of accomplishment. 
 Then it is time to taxi over to the catapult and do it all over again. It brings the right challenge 
 to the difficult landings. Although the P-51 Mustang doesn't bring a lot to the table it will still 
 be fun racing in. This is a great game for anyone looking to enhance there FSX experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgray34
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Well after dreaming of having the best hardware for finanlly playing this game I was excited not!!!!!!!!!! 
 The new update Sp? forget it. Ive searched high and low for help or advise from others on forums 
 about graphical coruption. I cant even use the DX10 preview ? come what gives. Someone at aces 
 or microsoft better stop dancing around and get to work. Oh I forgot they cant even get their OS 
 right. Morons!!!!!!!! Hey Mr Bill G why dont you come up with your own Ideas and stop still others 
 beside you probally wouldnt screw things up so much. As for know im at a loss feeling resentment 
 towards microsoft for idocy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  From the first announcement this has been a highly pushed item. After trying it however this just 
 does not pan out. The add on aircraft are completely devoid of 2d panels, forcing users that want 
 to use these aircraft and have decent frame rates with high graphics to find 3rd party panels to 
 make use of them. A majority of the pack is slanted to racing along with new scenery for this. 
 For those more interested in flying rather than air racing this only serves to cause graphics problems 
 and take up drive space with no gain. The inclusion of functioning carriers is great and would 
 nearly make the pack worth it by itself. However even in the SDK that comes with it there is no 
 clue on how to add a launch bar to 3rd party aircraft, causing only the included F18 to truly be 
 carrier usable and have to wait for others to come out, throwing away all the current ones users 
 might have. [EDIT] There has been publised a way to modify exhisting 3rd party aircraft for launchbar 
 support so they will work with the carrier operations features now. Apart from the possibly SP2 
 related changes to the game engine, a great deal of this is a mission pack. Which, while fun to 
 play them, limits the scope of playability with this pack. Overall, you can get nearly everything 
 in this pack for free downloads and often even more capabilities than in this pack. For example, 
 not only having functional carriers, but cat and trap with any aircraft you want. Also the ability 
 to have full moving ships anywhere with basic control over their movement (right, left, stop, forward) 
 and what direction to go to find them. There are some very good features in this, but not really 
 worthy of an expansion pack for the price but rather should have been released as part of SP2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackB835
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The base game ran fine on my computer, I could have all the graphical settings on high (not ultra 
 high) and still get respectable frame rates at around 20.
  Since this expansion Im lucky to get 10, trees warp constantly, float above the ground, the controls 
 are clunky and the brakes dont seem to work on the baron 58.
  The aircraft that were added are nice, however with the problems Ive been encountering, its made 
 even the base game almost unplayable. These problems are especially noticeable while flying around 
 Hawaii, but in general everywhere else as too, especially hilly areas. Once a patch is made (heres 
 hoping) this should be a fine expansion, otherwise Im going to be forced to either uninstall it 
 and wait till i can upgrade my system. If you have a super high end system then you shouldnt have 
 any problems, midrange systems you might wanna watch it. Atleast when buying this expansion I got 
 it on sale and only spent 15 bucks so its not really the end of the world, just a disappointment.
 
  
  P4 3.06 GHZ
  ATI X850XT with latest drivers
  SB Audigy 2
  1.5 gigs of ram
  750 gig hard drive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I believe it was around March or April Microsoft announced this expansion pack, and I was pretty 
 determined to buy it then as I was a couple days ago.
  
  Pros: Adds 3 new aircraft, all of which (especially the FA-18D Hornet w/ a good carrier) are top 
 notch in quality and fun, Adds around 30 SP missions and 20 MP missions (multilayer races) , Multilayer 
 races add allot more depth and fun into MP, DX10 and a partial SP2 improve framerates ALOT ALOT 
 ALOT especially in citys, The intermediate SP missions are so difficult (when you use all realistic 
 settings) compared to the original FSX missions. Dont even get me started on the adv expert onces...
 
  
  Cons: Some weard glitch is making runways flash sometimes, not enough FA-18 missions, No cockpit 
 hints in the FA18, Carrier can make your aircraft jerk a little, This doesn't affect the score, 
 but I cant seem to find a working carrier in free flight, Another Naval jet such as a F-35C, F-14 
 or something would have been nice.
  
  Well this thing is adds alot of fun and improvements for $30... including a boat load of extremely 
 difficult challenges. If you like FSX just a little bit, and you like going fast, then you really 
 need to pick this expansion pack up, consider it a must buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
