-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fly! II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/fly2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.6, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 29 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Flight Simulation
Date:     Apr 26, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's very disappointing that a simulation with so much potential is marred by so many problems, 
 because Fly II is fundamentally a good game. 

 A couple of years ago, fans of civilian flight sims had several high-quality products to choose 
 from. The challengers to Microsoft's flagship Flight Simulator series included Looking Glass Studios' 
 excellent Flight Unlimited III, as well as a newcomer from Terminal Reality called -- romantically 
 enough -- Fly. Unfortunately, Looking Glass Studios is now defunct, leaving Fly as the only real 
 challenger to the throne Microsoft has held for so many years. The original Fly was a very good 
 game that did some things extremely well -- particularly cockpits and instrumentation -- though it 
 fell short in some other areas. After last year's interim release, Fly 2K, many hoped that these 
 shortcomings would be addressed in the real sequel, the newly available Fly II. And to some extent, 
 they are -- but unfortunately, Fly II has a host of other problems that make it impossible to recommend 
 to anyone but the most experienced of flight simulation enthusiasts.           Despite its problems, 
 Fly II features a good selection of aircraft...    

  Specifically, the problem with Fly II is that what's available on store shelves is not a complete 
 game. This is immediately evident when you first open the box to find only a small pamphlet detailing 
 how to take off. Considering the complexities of a typical civilian flight simulator and the usual 
 size of its manual, at this point you'd probably assume that the manual is provided in electronic 
 form on the CD-ROM. Actually, it isn't. Because it wasn't done. For the first three weeks of the 
 game's release, a complete manual was not available to purchasers of the game. So while the game 
 bills itself as "perfect for beginners and experts," beginners will be dead in the water with the 
 boxed product. Even the manual that was finally released is a bit light on information -- it weighs 
 in at a mere 53 pages and lacks an index, as well as the comprehensive instrument-by-instrument 
 detail found in the documentation for Microsoft Flight Simulator.   

  Another problem in Fly II is the scenery, or rather the lack of it. One of the real pleasures of 
 playing a civilian flight sim is the ability to pilot your aircraft around familiar landmarks, 
 such as the Statue of Liberty or the Transamerica building in San Francisco. The original Fly was 
 somewhat lacking in this regard, and thus far, Fly II has detailed scenery for San Francisco, New 
 York, and Paris -- but once again, you can't get it out of the box. Rather, to find these urban high-resolution 
 scenery files, users will have to download them. At 157MB for the New York scenery alone, this 
 essentially precludes users without a broadband connection from accessing part of the sim that 
 should have been included in the retail game.           ... and highly detailed instrumentation 
 for each of these.    

  The scenery itself is superior to that of the original Fly. However, the downside to this is that 
 the game runs sluggishly even on high-end machines, much like the latest Microsoft Flight Simulator. 
 As a result, those without a good video card (with at least 16MB RAM) should stay away from this 
 game. Even with a 32MB GeForce card and a decent processor, the frame rate wasn't sufficient to 
 provide the illusion of smooth flight. The current patch (there are two presently) relieves this 
 problem a little, but not enough, and the game suffers from severe stuttering at times, especially 
 when loading new textures. Because of this, it's best to install the entire game on the hard drive, 
 which requires 1.7GB of space.    

 There are some other strange problems in the game, such as the need to type in your take-off and 
 destination airport names rather than simply selecting them from a list. There's also no force 
 feedback support in the game. All these problems further suggest that Fly II was released well 
 before work and testing had been completed.           The scenery throughout the game is lacking. 
    

  It's very disappointing that a simulation with so much potential is marred by so many problems, 
 because Fly II is fundamentally a good game. In two of the three areas that matter most for a civilian 
 flight sim -- flight models and cockpit instrumentation -- Fly II is as good or better than its competition. 
 Microsoft Flight Simulator still provides superior scenery graphics. But the instrument panels 
 in Fly II are fully clickable and really put the panels in other sims to shame in their detail 
 and functionality. Also, the excellent weather effects (including the ability to import METAR data 
 into the sim to re-create actual weather conditions) and the intuitive yet powerful flight planner 
 feature make Fly II a serious civilian flight sim. The flight models seem less forgiving (and thus 
 probably more realistic) than in Microsoft Flight Simulator. There is a good selection of small 
 planes to choose from, including (but not limited to) the Barracuda, Kodiak, and Pilatus, as well 
 as the Peregrine passenger jet. The Bell 407 helicopter is also available, if you prefer rotary 
 aircraft. There is even a downloadable float helicopter for water landings. One nice feature is 
 the ability to simulate damage to various parts of the aircraft, meaning that you can try to land 
 the aircraft without landing gear or with one engine dead. Fly II has a lot to offer the serious 
 flight sim enthusiast, and the improvements on Fly 2K (which was essentially a dressed-up version 
 of the original with some extras added) mean that owners of the first game would be well advised 
 to upgrade to Fly II. When it's done, that is.   

  While experienced sim pilots may be able to puzzle their way through the operation of the various 
 aircraft and will be at less of a disadvantage without a manual than beginners will, the lack of 
 detailed scenery will turn off almost everyone. To its credit, Terminal Reality is releasing various 
 downloadable aircraft for free and doing a good job of supporting users by way of Web forums. Still, 
 for those who simply want a functional out-of-the-box game and don't have the time or ability to 
 work through the technical details, Fly II will be a real disappointment.           The flight 
 planner feature is intuitive -- unfortunately, much of Fly II is not.    

  The Internet seems to have emboldened publishers to release games regardless of their state of 
 completion, in the knowledge that they can simply release downloadable files later to complete 
 the product. Fly II is not a game -- it's an unfinished product in a cardboard box. Assigning blame 
 is unproductive, but making people aware of what they are buying is not. To that end, unless you 
 have a broadband connection and are willing to print out a large manual on your own, as well as 
 apply several patches, then under no circumstances should you purchase Fly II. Perhaps GodGames 
 will release another print run with the missing scenery, manual, and patched game files already 
 on the CD. If not, prepare to download several hundred megabytes of files before you even get started. 
 The Fly series has a lot of things going for it, and the improvements made for Fly II are on the 
 right track, but the latest iteration needs some serious work before it can live up to the standard 
 set by its predecessor.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SqCdrVindicator
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  This simulator isn't for shooter-like players, who don't know how to start the engine, and, certainly, 
 how to fly the REAL aircraft! It is for aviation enthusiasts (as well as Flight Simulator 2002, 
 for virtual flying) , real pilots (for training) , and for people, who are interesed, how the aircraft 
 flies.
  First thing, what anybody who want to feel the real aviation beauty must have, is the MINIMUM 4-axis 
 flight controller (flight stick, throttle and, if it's possible, rudder pedals) . Without this, 
 noone shall can pilot the virtual aircraft (maybe from keyboard?! No! Not much, that it's very 
 hard and not real, it makes bad habits!) Looking at physics, it's quite real and every pilots say, 
 that forces what acts on the aircraft are as true as they appears on real plane. Let everyone who 
 thinks, that piloting (also virtual) aircraft is as simple as "get in the plane and fly", excluding 
 physical phenomenons, ask any pilot at any airport for test flight, let the pilot give (certainly, 
 trimmed) for this nothing-know-about-aviation computer player and he see, WHAT he said about flight 
 simulators like Fly! II!!! Planes and helicopters are matching their real properties, scenery is 
 not as much and detailed as in Flight Simulator 2002, but terrain and water is very good. Included 
 scenery editor is simple, allows to place buildings at airport, improve existing and create the 
 cities. Air traffic control is good, options better than in FS 2002. And saying quick and much, 
 it's good simulator for unrequiring virtual pilots.
  The ratings is my own, rated from serious pilots' point of view, and I think that time to learn 
 is about 2-5 weeks for unexperienced aviators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasha123456789
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2004 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Make sure you do not play this game, it sucks and is extremely hard, DO NOT GET THIS GAME. The 
 graphics really, really, suck. The onstruments in the cockpit are done very nicely and you can 
 clikc most of them but this just makes the game evenb harder. If you want a game with which you 
 can perform crazy stunts sure pick it up for 1$ but remeber to have a trash can next to yuor computer. 
 Like i said the game is so difficult that i am pretty sre that REAL LIFE PILOTS would have toruble 
 playing this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
