-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Flying Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/flyingheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 6.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 26 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Pterodon
Genre: Action
Date:     Apr 30, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Flying Heroes looks superb, but it's definitely not just another first-person shooter. 

 Illusion Softworks' Flying Heroes is a good-looking action game with an interesting premise - it's 
 a fantasy-themed shooter in which hotshot pilots and apprentice wizards mount gigantic birds, propeller-driven 
 zeppelins, and flying lizards then compete against each other in huge arenas. Its pacing, decor, 
 and a great deal of its gameplay are reminiscent of Bullfrog's classic Magic Carpet, but its colorful 
 graphics, variety of weapons, and emphasis on competitive play seem more akin to more recent games 
 such as Descent 3 or Unreal Tournament. Though it's got a few problems and a few stability issues, 
 Flying Heroes is otherwise an extremely enjoyable game.   

  The game takes place in a fictitious land called Hesperia, where magic and technology are equally 
 common. The game has four playable factions: the Sky Knights, the Lizard Riders, the Hammercraft, 
 and the Magion. Each faction has its own distinctive style of aircraft, its own weapons, and its 
 own abilities. Each faction also has a hierarchy of several different aircraft - each is incrementally 
 more powerful, and each looks great.   

  In fact, just about everything in Flying Heroes looks great. The game's many flying mounts are 
 expertly modeled and very detailed, and each is more over-the-top than the last. Each of the game's 
 four playable factions has its own distinctive aircraft, and some, like the swift and powerful 
 Sky Knight zephyr, look appropriately menacing, while others, like the Magion winged barrel, look 
 perfectly absurd, but in a way that seems to fit with the game's generally over-the-top theme. 
 During the course of a typical game, you might see a two-headed dragon engaged in a vicious dogfight 
 with a gigantic floating teapot, or any number of other bizarre matchups.   

  But no matter which aircraft happen to be fighting each other, nearly all of Flying Heroes' firefights 
 look spectacular because of the game's excellent special effects. Though all of Flying Heroes' 
 aircraft and several of its weapons leave simple white smoke trails, many of the game's weapons, 
 magic spells, and explosions use colored lighting to great effect. Unfortunately, these excellent 
 graphics come at a price - if you've got a lower-end video card, you may experience stuttering 
 and even an occasional desktop crash. In addition, not all of Flying Heroes' twelve maps look good. 
 Though some, like the sand caves, are enormous and adorned with impressive-looking landmarks, others, 
 like the lake and arctic levels, are rather bare and don't look particularly interesting.   

  Likewise, Flying Heroes' sound is inconsistent. Though the game's weapons and explosions sound 
 appropriate enough, the background music consists entirely of ambient techno that's in many cases 
 barely audible. In addition, Flying Heroes has a great deal of English speech, and though some 
 of it is quite good (like the voice of the enthusiastic announcer who declares victory) , some of 
 it is heavily accented and poorly disguised as such.   

  Despite all this, Flying Heroes plays quite well. If you're used to playing run-and-gun first-person 
 shooters, you may find Flying Heroes' pace to be extremely slow, and you will likely find the yaw 
 and pitch of the ships to be maddeningly sluggish compared with a traditional first-person shooter's 
 strafing and mouselooking. But once you've gotten over the initial learning curve - or if you've 
 played either of the Magic Carpet games - you'll find that Flying Heroes' pacing actually works 
 quite well. Many of Flying Heroes' weapons have an extremely long range, so anticipating your enemy's 
 next move then firing well-aimed shots at him while he's in view will often save you the trouble 
 of having to turn around and chase him down. And as you play, you can not only use one of six standard 
 weapons, but you can also use one of several special abilities or magic spells (you'll earn these 
 in the single-player campaigns or have them readily available in instant-action mode and multiplayer) 
 that can help you accelerate quickly, throw your aircraft into reverse, or render you invisible 
 so that you can turn and pitch safely.   

  Flying Heroes features a single-player campaign, a single-player instant-action mode, and multiplayer 
 play. The single-player campaign resembles the single-player game of many recent driving games: 
 You must start with a low-level, poorly equipped vehicle then earn money in each level so you can 
 add to or upgrade your weapons, upgrade your current vehicle, or buy a brand-new vehicle. As you 
 play through single-player games, you'll unlock each of the game's twelve maps as well as gain 
 the ability to play through the campaign as either the Hammercraft or Sky Knights. In addition, 
 you'll be able to play Flying Heroes' different modes. Unfortunately, there aren't that many modes 
 in Flying Heroes; there's standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, a few item-collecting games, and 
 timed tag - a standard game of tag (in which one pilot is "it" and must tag another pilot before 
 his timer runs out) that's far less interesting than it could have been.   

  Flying Heroes looks superb, but it's definitely not just another first-person shooter; its slower 
 pace and somewhat steep learning curve may make the game seem boring and frustrating at first, 
 but once you familiarize yourself with the game's controls and with the extra movement and magic-spell 
 options, you may begin to enjoy what the game has to offer: the gameplay of a shooter but with 
 less emphasis on twitch reflexes and more emphasis on marksmanship and anticipation.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: matenmoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  If youv'e gotten tired of dogfights in an F-14, Messerschmidt, Bi-plane even an X-Wing Fighter, 
 If you've ever started to nod off while you Flight Sim, but still can't give up on flying altogether, 
 then it couldn't hurt to try Flying Heroes, by Take 2. The premise of this game is pretty simple, 
 but the alternative it offers to any who have tired of the above scenarios I found to be refreshing. Flying 
 Heroes is a first person shooter, air combat style. It is more of an arcade game, but has a storyline 
 that connects you to ONE specific Air Warrior, who can gain experience and move on to harder challenges.
 
  The game takes place in a fantasy/legend age, when humans could ride on lizards into combat, great 
 feathered birds, mechanical zepplins, and even teapots and baby carriages. Each of these flight 
 modes are specific to one of four combat clans. The clans, and your character withn his clan, meet 
 a selected number of times in different settings to see who is the best of the clans in (non-fatal) combat 
 matches. You try to win the League Matches in an effort to elevate your Clan. The Lizard Riders, 
 Magion, Sky Kights and Hammercraft Clans all vie for control of the skies in various combat leagues. The 
 Sky Knights (Bird fliers) and Hammercraft (Zepplins) clans only become available to your character 
 to join AFTER you have mastered flying in the easier to maneouver Lizard Rider and Magion (magic 
 carpet and teapots) Clans. You must win 1st place in the ranks of these before moving up to the 
 Hammercraft (High Power weapons!) and SkyKnights (Blazing speed-BIG fun to fly) . The Leagues are 
 Iron League-only 4 opponents, very easy challenge, but pitiful $$ rewards, at least the first level 
 of upgrades is cheaper too. You have 4 Combat Matches here. Silver league-this has 6 opponents 
 in each Combat match, and you must survive 6 Combat sessions and earn 1st place at the end of the 
 season, to move onto the final League. Gold League. The money rewards are HUGE here, but so is 
 the price tag for upgrades! AND you are given a 'wingman'- a newbie partner from your clan to help 
 you out-Gold League is hardest! I found the wingman part to be a little unecessary, you are not 
 in control of his flying, but you can 'program' him during the combat match to help you with gaining 
 the upperhand-the other opponents ALSO have wingman here. Worst part- YOU have to use YOUR winnings 
 to upgrade this fellow... Gold League has 10 Combat Matches to get through.
  There are many smaller challenges or missions within each of the Leagues, occuring between Combat 
 Matches, each are optional, but to get experience and $$ you almsot Have to participate in them. These 
 sub-missions offer more $$$ to upgrade your weapons or flying machines and also gain you level 
 experience to utilize magic spells, or tricks as a professional pilot, as you go into the next combat 
 session.
  Controls are a fairly simple-compared to flight sims-combination of Mouse and Keypad Arrow buttons. 
 The various weapon triggers, and flight tricks or spells are keyboard driven, and fully customizable 
 by the user. This also applies to Internet Play. I found the game to move quite nicely during play, 
 with an uninterupted sensation of flight throughout-except for times that my ride got shot down 
 in flames, that is. Oh well, just reappear, with all weapons though no ammo!-that you have to collect 
 and other temporary power ups within the combat sessions. There is an abundance of combat arena 
 backgrounds you can fight inside, and each has obstacles, cover, and many hve 'secret' areas inside 
 them. I find all these backgrounds very nice in their rendering, and lend themselves well to the 
 whole flying aspect of the game. It is an old game, so there
  is no Gore (but your transport will catch on fire) and no poor language-it is a family friendly 
 game- how many of those are really out today? Another good thing for me,-it is one of hose terrific 
 games that can be installed completely on your hard drive, so you need never have the CD to run 
 it!
  Overall Flying Heroes has become one of those Old Favorites in my game collection. It is one that 
 I frequently replay even years after the world has forgotten it. There is lots of action, nice scenery 
 and it never plays exactly the same every time, giving me a new challenge. Even though I thought 
 I had mastered it before, there is always some new way to run the game, or a different clan to 
 champion. Definitely a high rating for replayability on this. You will find Flying Heroes in the 
 bargain bin more often than not, but don't let that fool you about this game- Snatch this puppy 
 up if you chance to see it somewhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikkii
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Summary:
  you fly on an epic creature in a fantasy like world and try to shoot other guys from there creatures.....
 
  
  I know i'm a bit out dated when i wright this revieuw and i must say my pc is a bit to fast fo 
 rthis game but.
  
  my sister has a slower pc and she and i stil like to play this game. I must say it's one of the 
 first games i was really hooked on. So now i bet you can easily download it from an ftp or kazaa 
 like programma and it's worth trying....
  
  and if you see it in the budget corner you should take it.....
  
  it's worth the money i can 
 guaranty....
  
  Game On 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
