-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Football Manager Live
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/footballmanagerlive/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling action.
 Extensive player database.
 Strong sense of community.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Old 2D match engine.
 Reliant on other players.
 No sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  9, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 55 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega Europe
Developer: Sports Interactive
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Jan 23, 2009 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
After years of solitude, the world's most addictive management game goes multiplayer with great 
 results. 

  Not content with eating into your leisure time with annual updates of the heinously addictive Football 
 Manager, the online counterpart to developer Sports Interactive's management game has finally gone 
 live. After a lengthy beta, the servers are gradually filling up with virtual managers attempting 
 to pit their wits against each other for about 6 ($8.50) a month. However, it should be stated 
 that this is not simply Football Manager online. Although there is inevitably some crossover with 
 its parent game, FML is a very different beast, comprising elements of fantasy football, online 
 auctions, and social networking in a markedly different package that manages to be just as compelling 
 as its offline forebear.  

           Choosing your team and formation is only the beginning.      

  Content-wise, FML may 
 be a world away from smiting goblins, but you still begin the game by creating a character in the 
 form of your club. No longer do you have the choice of picking from a real-world team, but instead 
 have to begin from scratch, including an inevitably zany name for your outfit. Say goodbye to Barcelona, 
 Barnet, Chelsea, or Chester, and prepare to do battle with the likes of Romford Rejects, Jay-Z 
 FC, Hobo United, or Kings of the Hill.  

  It's an approach that may well irk the purists, but it's a necessary one; a world with a thousand 
 Manchester Uniteds would be an unbearable place. Yet though the clubs are fictional, the players 
 are real, given that Sports Interactive has wisely elected to employ its staggering global database 
 of more than 330,000 footballers. Honed during more than a decade of development, it's not only 
 the definitive work in gaming terms but also arguably in football terms. As such, you're given 
 the opportunity to choose individual players, or you can simply autoselect a balanced squad. Given 
 the vast database, you inevitably end up with a bunch of players that you've never heard of, unless 
 you have an encyclopaedic knowledge of world football. Whereas in Football Manager you might initially 
 favour players based on their real-life reputations, here you actually have to do some work and 
 manage your choices more scientifically.  

  You get ample opportunity to do this by playing friendlies, with a week of preparation available 
 before the season proper begins. In addition to one-off games, user-created tournaments are rife, 
 often with entry fees and prizes. It's a model vaguely comparable to online poker, so you might 
 enter a 32-team cup competition, with weighted in-game prize money being paid out to the quarterfinalists 
 and beyond. As for the official competitions, you have to join a football association (effectively 
 a guild) , because if you don't you're largely missing out on the game. A variety of associations 
 are available, depending on how frequently and at which times you wish to play, be it early evenings, 
 weekday afternoons, or for the committed, all day every day. One stumbling block of previous online 
 commercial football-management games has been the quandary of getting opponents online at the same 
 time, and though the association system goes some way towards easing this, each fixture has an 
 expiry date after which the AI will take over, with various forfeits in place to punish your nonattendance. 
 The money that you win in these tournaments can be spent on upgrades to your stadium, letting you 
 make more money in the long run (assuming that your team's performances pull in the crowds) , as 
 well as on players as the seasons go on.  

           Watching matches is much more compelling than this screenshot might lead you to believe. 

  As for the matches themselves, the 3D engine recently unveiled in Football Manager 2009 is not 
 used; the matches play out via the old-school overhead 2D view. If you've never played a Football 
 Manager game, imagine watching a match from a position about half a mile above the pitch, with 
 the action played out by 22 dots chasing an even smaller dot (the ball) , and text commentary keeping 
 you up to date with the crucial interchanges. Other than a generic alert sound that lets you know 
 when you receive messages there's no audio in Football Manager Live, which is disappointing given 
 that previous games in the series have featured atmospheric crowd chants, referee whistles, and 
 the like. Although some may consider it a backward step, watching a game of football played out 
 by numbered dots with accompanying text is still a weirdly compelling experience, with individual 
 players displaying their various skills, and the action being clearly relayed enough that you still 
 feel connected to your virtual charges. Despite the rudimentary interface, there are still some 
 nail-biting moments as the respective goals are threatened.  

  There are three different speeds you can view the games at, so each manager votes for one before 
 kickoff and the lowest choice is selected. Once you send your charges over that white line, you 
 can't do much but hope that your painstaking preparation will see your team through, something 
 that can be scuppered immediately by unforeseen injuries or dismissals. As for substitutions and 
 tactical tweaks, a vast array of formations is available, or of course you can design your own 
 to implement at that crucial moment. It is also possible to control how far up the pitch your team 
 plays at any given moment, how aggressive its play style is, or, if you have selected the appropriate 
 coaching skills, options such as zonal marking and using playmakers. To avoid inconveniencing your 
 opponent, changes can be made on the fly without disrupting the game, or you can request a two-minute 
 time-out -- but you have only a limited number per match, so they must be used wisely. And throughout 
 each match, a chat box is available to taunt or commend your opponent, although conversation rarely 
 stretches beyond the bounds of "gg" (good game) or "wp" (well played) .  

  Elsewhere, probably the most contentious issue thus far is that of the in-game manager skills, 
 essentially a crude way of levelling up. Depending on which area you wish to specialize in, you 
 simply drag the relevant skill into a box and wait for it to level up, be it minutes or days. It's 
 mildly frustrating because, for instance, you're not able to assign a target man to your team until 
 you have the correct qualification, which can be earned only through the nebulous currency of time. 
 As part of your initial setup, you can choose a set of skills that can be levelled faster than 
 others. An example would be the club doctor speciality, which makes physio-related skills easier 
 to obtain. On the subject of time, transfers operate very much like eBay auctions, complete with 
 a version of the Buy It Now feature, which may tempt impatient managers who don't wish to wait 
 24 hours to find out if their bids have been successful.  

           If you can sign Rooney, you're doing something right.      

  It's still early, but 
 in its current state Football Manager Live is little more than a competent interface attached to 
 a series of imponderable algorithms that somehow add up into a very compelling title. What will 
 make it a success is the community; without other people, there is no game here. Early signs are 
 promising, with some fairly robust, egalitarian systems in place, despite some early rumours of 
 cheating. Practically everyone is civil, and moderators are quick to intervene if the chat gets 
 heated.  

  For long-time players of Football Manager, having to work out what to do next is one of the larger 
 culture shocks. Despite FM's addictive reputation, a large part of the gameplay experience consists 
 of simply pressing the "continue" button and advancing the virtual calendar. With FML taking place 
 in real time, there is no such luxury. Nevertheless, it soon has you under its spell, and any game 
 that has you bellowing at your monitor in disgust when your overpaid striker balloons the ball 
 over the bar from 10 yards comes with a degree of emotional attachment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  During the Beta testing i was very unsure weather it would make the grade! but they fixed all the 
 bugs that i was aware of and it runs really smooth! im using mobile broadband and it runs very 
 fast with no lag! very addictive you create a team and use real players who can be brought and 
 sold. It also uses seperate Football Assosiations eg. Extreme Assosiation for people who will play 
 all the time and "all evening assosiation" for players that will play in the evening, so when there 
 season starts the fixtures will be placed to suit you!
  Games are very entertaining and even better v a mate! And you very easily get into it!
  FML also 
 uses skills in which you train a differant area that takes couple of hours to do. 
  Price i think is ok 22 for 3 months.
  The negative is it can be repetitive.
  
  All in all 
 very good game and must buy for FML fans or fans of football. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
