-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Force 21
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/force21/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Red Storm Entertainment
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Force 21 isn't a realistic wargame depicted in lifelike 3D, but rather just a game about war.

 Unless you're seriously into modern conventional warfare and are hungry for a 3D strategy game depicting 
 it, you may not immediately warm up to Red Storm's Force 21. The game doesn't make the best first 
 impression, thanks to its horrendous unit pathfinding and formation AI, confusing missions, and 
 generally frustrating gameplay. However, if you stick with it long enough and learn to live with 
 its quirks, Force 21 can grow on you. If nothing else, it's a decent real-time strategy game that 
 doesn't force you to build a barracks.  

 The game begins in 2015 when the Chinese, having grown bold and restless after decades of economic 
 growth, invade Kazakhstan. The United States and Russia move in to help the Kazakhs, and a computer 
 game ensues, complete with a dramatic intro movie explaining how everything came to pass. You can 
 attempt the single-player campaign as either a United States or Chinese commander, and although 
 each side gets a slightly different campaign to play, all the missions are 100-percent scripted 
 and linear, which proves extremely disappointing. Unit losses have no impact on the game beyond 
 that particular mission, and if you lose a mission, you have to keep trying it until you win. Similarly, 
 if you win a mission, but lose almost every unit in the process, that's OK: You'll get a fresh 
 supply for the next mission.  

 In case you haven't guessed by now, Force 21 isn't a realistic wargame depicted in lifelike 3D, 
 but rather just a game about war. It's action-oriented real-time strategy involving realistic units, 
 like Bungie's Myth with T-72 tanks and Apache attack choppers. You don't build any bases, and there 
 is no resource management - you simply take command of a fresh group of units for each mission 
 and do your best to accomplish the objectives. What's more, your mission objectives tend to boil 
 down to just having to kill everything. The only way to win most scenarios is to eliminate every 
 single enemy unit on the map. No capturing key installations or choke points or anything of the 
 sort.  

 As you fight, you'll find that your platoon leaders are the sole incentive for minding the health 
 of your troops. If a platoon is wiped out, you lose that platoon's leader, which can affect your 
 chances for success down the road. These leaders, who recall the operatives in Rainbow Six, each 
 have a specialty and are individually rated for movement speed, combat skill, and enemy detection. 
 The better the leader, the more effective a platoon will be. So just as you don't ever want to 
 lose Chavez in Rainbow Six, you need to keep your best leaders alive in Force 21 in order to succeed. 
 The game can be won using the no-name default platoon leaders, but it's easier when you have better 
 guys in those roles. Interestingly, there are no female platoon leaders in the game; you'd think 
 the battlefield of 2015 would be more progressive than that, especially since several of the operatives 
 in Rainbow Six were women.  

 Although Force 21's gameplay is essentially similar to Myth's, the overall quality of the game is 
 not. For each mission, you typically command a group of five or six platoons. For the United States, 
 these can include groups of Bradley fighting vehicles, M1A3 tanks, and even Apaches and bridge-laying 
 units. Chinese and Russian forces (the latter being routinely attached to the United States commander's 
 group) offer equivalent hardware. You move and direct the fire of your platoons by selecting them 
 and clicking on a destination or target. You can order waypoint movement on the game's strategic 
 map, but your unit begins moving before you assign all the waypoints, and that's a problem when 
 you're trying to coordinate the movement of numerous platoons. It would have been better if you 
 could assign a complete set of waypoints and then issue the move command.  

 Movement and unit formations (there are four: line, wedge, reverse wedge, column) are hampered by 
 the game's inadequate pathfinding and self-defense AI. Not only do platoons routinely spin in circles 
 when you issue a movement command that takes them near an obstacle, but they also line up in their 
 formations in a slipshod, unrealistic fashion. For example, if you order a platoon of tanks to 
 face a new direction, they will typically turn only their turrets, oftentimes leaving their rear 
 and sides exposed to direct enemy fire. This flies directly in the face of real-world doctrine, 
 as main battle tanks tend to be very heavily armored in the front and not very heavily armored 
 elsewhere. Also, even though the game's 3D engine depicts nicely rendered scenery complete with 
 small forests, you can't move through or even near these trees, since your units tend to stay as 
 far away from obstacles as possible. If you try to move in a line formation too close to a copse 
 of trees, your formation will crumble into a messy column. And no, it will not reform once the 
 obstacle is left behind.  

 Another problem: Unlike Myth, which plops those helpful little yellow and red destination markers 
 on the map when you order units to move, Force 21 gives no visual cue for where your units are 
 headed. This makes it difficult to move units efficiently, especially when they tend to stop 50 
 to 100 feet from the spot you thought you had clicked. Fine-tuning a defensive position is a nightmare 
 in this game, as there is no simple move-forward/move-back command (which any fan of the original 
 M1 Tank Platoon learned to love) .  

 And even when you think you have the movement system mastered, you had better pray that your platoons 
 don't move near or past any enemy units. Though your units will return fire when attacked, they 
 will also continue moving to their destination. Again, this leads to disastrous results, as they 
 will move past an enemy, exposing themselves to attack from the rear without the ability to return 
 fire. You'd expect a real-world platoon would stop or at least maneuver itself into some sort of 
 defensive footing if it runs smack into an enemy. Expecting the game to at least turn the platoon 
 to face the enemy until one side or the other is dispatched seems reasonable enough. After all, 
 what good are those platoon leaders if you have to micromanage every single engagement?  

 Of course, such surprise encounters would not occur so frequently if the game provided decent mission 
 briefings. Not only are the briefings generally inaccurate, but they also lack any useful intelligence 
 data whatsoever. At the beginning of the game, this is masked by the fact that both sides have 
 limited intelligence on the enemy's movements and unit strengths. But later, when you're told in 
 a briefing that satellite photos indicate a large group of Chinese armor to the south, I bet you'd 
 like to know where those damn photos were taken and where you can expect to meet this imposing 
 force.  

 Instead, you can expect vague and even confusing directions pretty much every time. For example, 
 on one mission you are instructed to escort a personnel carrier to the southern highway. You then 
 begin the mission in the southeast corner of the map, and your goal, as you'll discover after much 
 wandering, is in fact to move west. Even worse, the second United States mission in the campaign 
 is introduced as a defensive stand in which you must seek out good defensive positions and repel 
 the Chinese onslaught, but only a single Chinese vehicle comes toward you. As for the rest, they 
 are all stationary and scattered all over the map, so instead of a defensive scenario you must 
 undertake a blind search-and-destroy effort in order to win. Yet another mission challenges you 
 to reach and defend the northernmost sector of the map and prevent Chinese forces from moving into 
 and through it. Why, then, do the Chinese begin this mission with two heavy tank platoons in that 
 very sector? It's not as though the game is horribly difficult, it's just that it's tougher than 
 it should be because you are not given adequate or even accurate information to work with.  

 Incidentally, the game offers no difficulty setting, which is surprising since Rainbow Six had 
 three difficulty levels (a fact that certainly contributed to its broad appeal both to casual and 
 hard-core gamers) . Force 21 does include a mission editor, however, and it is pretty powerful. 
 The editor is unsupported and isn't easy to use, but you can do an awful lot with it. The game 
 also includes a decent multiplayer component for up to four players over LAN and Internet. You 
 can also play the game over MSN Gaming Zone and Mplayer.  

 Force 21 is not a bad game, but it can be extremely frustrating. Other problems, such as the highly 
 unintuitive unit-facing control, are apparent, but the poor mission briefings and the mindless 
 pathfinding AI are the two biggest flaws in a game that could have been much, much better.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Controlling the large number of platoons in later end is a real problem, especially with the AI 
 pathfinding is a major headache. One will often find vehicle being stuck in a mess at a junction. 
 In fact it maybe even easier for a player to control his forces on the straegtic view rather than 
 from the tactical view which could be very disorientating to an unfamliar player. The array of 
 vehicle is interesting, the vulnerability of the vehicle often shock me, most of the vehicle in 
 the game will easily be destroy within a hit or two by an opposing force. Therefore, the trick 
 is hardly to attack your enemy from an angle, preferable for the side or back, where there is a 
 relative lack of returning firepower from your enemy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
