-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ford Racing 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/fordracingevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 10, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 114 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Razorworks Studios
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Dec 11, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Empire's latest racer unfortunately does not offer enough excitement for the arcade crowd or nearly 
 enough complexity for simulation hounds. 

  Ford: First On Race Day or Found On Road Dead? Whatever your acronymic take on the American automotive 
 giant, its products are the only vehicles you'll find in Empire Interactive's long-overdue sequel 
 to its 2001 arcade racing game Ford Racing. Sadly, Ford Racing 2 is most definitely not first on 
 PC race day. Although it delivers a number of unique challenges that go beyond the basic racing 
 routine  and  more Ford cars and trucks are offered than you can shake a Fiesta at, the game is 
 plagued by dated physics and a sense that you've already seen the same thing -- only better. If it 
 were released a few years prior, just as Electronic Arts' Need for Speed was finding its footing, 
 Ford Racing 2 would have fared a lot better. As it is, Empire's latest racer unfortunately does 
 not offer enough excitement for the arcade crowd or nearly enough complexity for simulation hounds. 

          Ford Racing 2 showcases a seriously diverse assortment of past, present, and future Ford 
 vehicles in a wide range of settings.     

  Ford Racing 2 veers somewhat from the path taken by its forgotten predecessor. Whereas the original 
 featured a barely adequate dozen drivable Ford automobiles, the new game sports more than 30 vintage, 
 current, and concept models. Whereas the original zeroed in almost exclusively on a "career," the 
 new game steers clear of such intricacies in favor of a wide variety of "challenges" that range 
 from traditional head-to-head racing to solo slalom and time-limited affairs.  

  Aside from these key distinctions, both games share similar key design traits. For starters, Ford 
 Racing 2 is once again an exclusive Ford club, so you won't find any Lamborghinis or BMWs in here. 
 This exclusivity wouldn't matter so much if each of the 30-plus vehicles delivered a unique and 
 plausible ride, but designer Razorworks simply hasn't implemented this. Granted, a circa-1940s 
 pickup truck does behave slightly differently from a Ford Focus rally car and a  Jetsons -inspired 
 Ford concept car, but none of these three are truly believable or truly distinct.  

  The problem would seem to lie in the game's basic, underlying physics modeling, which unfortunately 
 hasn't evolved sufficiently in the three years since Ford Racing first hit the retail market. It 
 remains an apparently simple bit of programming, bereft of the deep, complex actions and reactions 
 found in many competing titles. In essence, you'll generally feel like you're floating over the 
 track rather than driving upon it. Wheelspin is perceptible but not accurately so. Acceleration 
 and braking scarcely take into account the four contact points of each vehicle or the dynamics 
 of rubber meeting ground. And certainly there will be times when you'll forget whether you're driving 
 a big truck or a supposedly nimble compact. Can 30-plus impressively unique driving experiences 
 be created when the fundamental physics model is so vague and arcade-thin? The answer is no.  

 
  Razorworks attempts to mask the simplicity and the similarities of its vehicular behavior by instilling 
 a range of variables. Because of these variables, the game is more tolerable than it would be without 
 them. For instance, Ford Racing 2 doesn't restrict you to mere pavement. In fact, the game allows 
 you to experience virtually any driving surface that exists in the real world, including pavement, 
 concrete, hard-packed dirt, and sand. It even lets you blast through hot flowing lava at one point, 
 though the effects and impact of said lava is negligible. Otherwise, you'll find your chosen vehicles 
 spinning their tires impressively and overdriving turns in the sand, gripping occasionally in the 
 dirt, and occasionally grabbing a little air time. In this way, the game does keep moderately fresh. 

          Some of the only real thrills of Ford Racing 2's early rounds are the many instances of 
 energetic contact.     

  Furthermore, Ford Racing 2 doesn't stick to common "pack" racing. Variants include time trials, 
 slalom time trials (through a series of cones) , elimination events (where the two trailing cars 
 magically evaporate at the end of each lap) , and timed solo events where you are either rewarded 
 with floating time bonus power-ups or penalized for not properly adhering to an overlaid image 
 of the ideal driving line. Other possibilities include "duel," where you are presented with a new 
 opponent at the opening of each lap, and the intriguing "drafting," which asks you to eliminate 
 each of your opponents by following closely in their slipstream for a given number of seconds. 
 This particular event is more interesting than most if only because you must predict when the car 
 in front of you will make a move to the right or left. Then you must react accordingly and shadow 
 the car as best you can.  

  Ford Racing 2 is divided into two general elements -- the Ford Challenge and the Ford Collection. 
 The former consists of approximately 30 preset challenges comprising the events listed above and 
 is considered the game's central feature. The latter allows you to create and customize your own 
 events. To advance in the Challenge and add more items and locations to the Collection, you must 
 unlock vehicles, tracks, and much more by winning the game's few unlocked races.     

  This is pretty fundamental stuff for an arcade racer, yet it isn't as enjoyable as it could be. 
 The truth is that no matter how many variables Razorworks has thrown in, nothing changes the fact 
 that the proceedings only rarely rise to a fever pitch. One of the problems is the relative quality 
 of the AI competition in the first two difficulty levels. Without mincing words, easy mode competition 
 sucks, and medium mode isn't much better. Indeed, any halfway-decent PC driver will immediately 
 win most every race or time trial in easy mode and will only have to resort to the "race again" 
 command a few times in medium. Likewise, early solo events feature such liberal time constraints 
 that they pose no threat at all for even average drivers.  

          Ford Racing 2 never portrays its vehicles in less than perfect condition.     

  However, 
 the game's highest level of difficulty is a different story. Here, the opponents and the time factor 
 is much more taxing -- and often virtually impossible -- though the physics model remains as one-dimensional 
 as ever. The Ford Collection also delivers the luxury of customization, thus allowing you to modify 
 the number of laps from its standard three; it further allows you to vary the locale and number 
 of vehicles. Sadly, the game won't support more than a half-dozen cars simultaneously. It does, 
 however, support multiplayer racing but only via split-screen on a single computer. Nevertheless, 
 Ford Racing 2 definitely becomes more absorbing when duking it out mano a mano with a friend (or 
 an enemy) .  

  On the track, anything goes. Bashing your peers is not only permitted, but it's also sometimes 
 necessary, particularly when you make it to the game's most demanding mode. Plunk them into a momentum-killing 
 guardrail or abutment. Bounce two into each other. Or hit them just in the right spot to send them 
 into an amusing little donut. You needn't worry about damaging your own car, because the game unfortunately 
 does not model damage. Furthermore, your car's tires, engine, and transmission do not deteriorate 
 as you race. It goes to follow then that Ford Racing 2 does not feature a garage or repair shop, 
 nor does it allow you to purchase upgraded parts. If it's a true career mode that you want, you've 
 definitely come to the wrong place.  

  Visually, Ford Racing 2 is pretty but not spectacular. Vehicles are believably rendered with racing 
 color schemes, rotating tires, reflective surfaces, semitransparent windows, exhaust detonation 
 flames, and real time shadows. Headlamps and taillamps are both functional and convincing. Yet 
 much of the bodywork is often unnaturally squared, angular, and somewhat primitive when pitted 
 against the best of the genre. Vehicles do not feature a working suspension system, and their bodies 
 do not roll through turns or dip during heavy braking. Certainly they are not so deeply detailed 
 that they seem like the collection of parts they are.  

  One of the game's most annoying miscues is its lack of an onboard cockpit camera. You can view 
 Ford Racing 2 two ways -- either from a rear chase camera or a front bumper-mounted perspective. 
 The latter is not recommended for optimum drivability, but the bumper cam does deliver both good 
 control and a good sense of speed. Yet you can never, ever, sit in the cockpit.  

  Razorworks hasn't constructed an abundance of environments, but it has made the most of the few 
 it has built. From realistic ovals to purpose-built road courses to fantasy jungle and desert tracks 
 that only exist in the fertile imaginations of its programmers, the game sports a wide variety 
 of track locations. Generally, the surrounding world appears pleasantly alive, with airplane and 
 bird animations scattered throughout and natural elements, such as volcanoes and waterfalls, doing 
 their things. It, unfortunately, does not rain in the Ford Racing world, nor does the sun create 
 lens flare effects or real-time track shadowing.  

          Though developer Razorworks fills Ford Racing with pleasing images, it does not render 
 the cockpit of your car.     

  Ford Racing 2 sound effects are more than tolerable. Engine notes are divergent, and tire squeal 
 is abundant and credible. The game also portrays competitor engine and tire sounds and extraneous 
 effects, such as the roar of overhead jet planes or trackside heavy machinery equipment. Accompanying 
 music ranges from house to hip-hop to standard nu-metal hard rock selections, each of which may 
 be selected or eliminated beforehand.  

  Far from "Best of Class," Ford Racing 2 is clearly a budget game that lacks much of the sophistication 
 and depth of many of its closest rivals. Yes, it is relatively pretty and momentarily thrilling, 
 yet it just doesn't have long-term appeal. Best suited as a pleasing diversion for first-time PC 
 drivers or arcade racers needing a quick fix, it is much less attractive for the diehards among 
 us.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamer_hell94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  [This will be a short review as i aint got much time]
  Ok so i brought this from my local zavvi store - the peeps who now own virgin megastores - for 
 a quid. I got home and tried it out. I seriously think its not bad for a quid - but for sum reason 
 my version has a seriously annoying glitch..... in the ford collection mode [ if i can remember] 
 when you select an unlocked car the screen goes in to a spaz attack. It shakes all over the place. 
 Another thing that is slightly annoying is that when im driving fast the game jumps sometimes - 
 and no its not the speed of my cd drive!!!
  Other wise a pretty solid game for a quid.... even though that woman on the game is sooooooooooo 
 annoying. Im going thru the system files at the moment and i found the voice ones. Some seriously 
 disturbing sounds????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizsharp
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 18, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  I am not to fussy about games probibly less for this one as it was only a quid, however it was 
 a sound game and resionably fun although it is not by far the best. I will be playing it again 
 and again for some while. I think its because its just intresting to drive on and also the cars 
 are more interesting because they are of the same make there are a lot of them that wouldent ussally 
 be on racing games.
  By the way to the reveiwer complaining about the cars being just ford, what do you expect coming 
 from a game called FORD racing 2? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rajind3
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  This game SUCKS! It's Just Ford! So is that good? No! I got this game in 2004. I started playing 
 it, It's like, It looks classic, stupid person talking and not all good cars , except the GT90 
 and Indigo. This must have better graphics and better sound. The Music Urrgh it SUUUUCCKSSS! Other 
 Racing games are good but not this. And you can't change the colour of some cars! The person who 
 is talking is trying to entertain us! Raceworks, Your Ford Racing 2 game suck! Make a better game 
 than this! Throw this away in the Dust bin man!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iowastate
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The game has some great cars if you're a Ford fan. The graphics are good, at least on the track. 
 The further away from the track you get the less attention to detail there is. Most of the missions 
 are o. k., they are just way too short for the most part and while the tracks are pretty good there 
 aren't enough of them to keep you interested for very long. There should be more tracks and also 
 some longer missions and races. The biggest problem with this game is that the easy mode is way 
 too easy and the hard is way so hard as to be almost impossible. That would be fine if the game 
 was as long or complicated as Gran Turismo but there is no comparison. Except for the hard setting 
 the only thing that makes the game difficult are the clunky controls. It is my belief that this 
 game was rushed out earlier than it should have been in order to compete with the popular Corvette 
 game that was sponsored by GMC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 29, 2004 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Some people could say that the problem in Ford Racing 2 is the low quantity of vehicles, since 
 the game is confined to only one brand. Others might say that the problem is the game old engine.
 
  
  In my opinion, the real problem is the line between arcade and simulation racing games. This line 
 doesnt exist for Ford Racing 2, because the game isnt so exciting and visual challenging to be 
 an arcade, and its not acurate and precising to be a simulation. The physics during the races 
 is pathetic, with no sense of real driving behavior, despite the good graphics of tracks and cars.
 
  
  The game is worse than its predecessor, but if there is a good thing about it is the price: Its 
 released under an economic line budget. 
  
  So, if you want a good simulation game, buy gran turismo 1 for PC, and if you need a good arcade 
 game, try need for speed hot pursuit 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffareid
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2004 3:46 am PT
Review:  Ford Racing 2 was a pleasant surprise for me. It is a budget arcade game, but the game proved to 
 be a lot of fun. The graphics and physics are good. Theres a large variety of cars, and tracks. 
 The difficulty level settings are more extreme than most, easy is really easy, medium isnt too 
 difficult for an experienced game racer, and hard is very difficult but still beatable (I managed 
 to complete all career (challenge) events on the hard level, so it is possible) .
  
  The physics of this game is somewhat settable. The game includes assists in the form of a game 
 mode setting that defaults to standard, which translates into increased grip, traction control, 
 abs braking, and automatic shift. Change this mode to advanced, turn off traction control, turn 
 off the abs, switch to manual shift, and the physics gets a lot more realistic, especially in the 
 higher powered cars. The most realistic car (assuming all assists are off) is the top of the line 
 stock racing car (Taurus class A) . Hit the throttle on this car while in a corner and youre quickly 
 facing backwards. Body roll isnt visible from the bumper view (the only other view is from behind 
 a car) , but it shows itself in how long it takes for a car to take a set and respond to steering 
 inputs, especially on transitions. One of the things I liked about the game physics is power induced 
 oversteer, some of the looser cars (like the Mustangs) drift really nice. Although a bit exaggerated, 
 the game really gives a sense of whats going on with the suspension, in the way the cars react 
 to (get upset by) going over rises or bumps on the track, sometimes causing a car to go up onto 
 2 wheels, or going airborne. The response just feels right.
  
  The graphics are nice as well. There are some simplified moving objects in the background, but 
 the cars, track, and most of the more noticeable objects are just fine. One interesting graphics 
 feature that you toggle from the game configuration application is depth of field, which blurs 
 objects that arent near your car.
  
  One of the nits I have about this game is not being able to save the post race replays (other than 
 video capture) , especially since the replays are very good. It appears that all the physics that 
 are at work when doing a race, are also present within the replays, (as opposed to some telemetry 
 data that just moves the cars along a fixed path) . You can see the cars drift, slide, roll, and 
 leave some rubber on the tracks when pushed to the limit. Replay views are limited to 3 options, 
 with the automatic one being the best, showing the car from various points near or above the track, 
 the other two replay view options are the same as the driver views (bumper and follow) .
  
  Another nit is no ****pit view with a dashboard. There are only 2 driver views, bumper cam, and 
 follow cam (from behind the vehicle) . This seems to be a trend in a lot of racing games these days. 
 I use the bumper cam, and its a bit disconcerting to be staring at the wheels and bumpers of trucks 
 all over you in the off-road events.
  
  My last nit is no online play, but its not that big a deal to me. There are enough venues for 
 online play already, and I dont need every game I own to have an online play feature. 
  
  There isnt a huge number of tracks in this game, but there are enough to make it fun. 6 road courses, 
 3 desert tracks, 3 dirt tracks, 2 race tracks, and 2 ovals. One of the ovals is a night time track, 
 with some good graphic effects.
  
  There are quite a few vehicles in this game. The off road vehicles include trucks, a dune buggy, 
 and a rally car. The road cars include an old 1949 Coupe, a new Thunderbird and variations on the 
 Mustang. The race cars include 2 GTs, the bizarre looking Indigo, and the stock (think Nascar) 
 cars. My favorite is the top stock car, as its the fastest and also most realistic, but unfortunately 
 it can only be driven on the race tracks and the ovals. I wanted to try it out on the road courses 
 as well.
  
  The career mode is called challenge. You drive various cars through different type of events. There 
 are 3 variations on a follow the path type of events, two require that you go between posts or 
 drive through hourglass icons to increase the time you have to complete a lap. The other one penalizes 
 you for not following a racing line that appears on a track. Once you learn that its best to hit 
 virtually every time marker in these events, its not that difficult, even at the hard level (unlike 
 the other events at hard level) . One new type of event is the drafting event, where once youre 
 in the draft of a car ahead, a time bar quickly shrinks, and the car disappears, and you go onto 
 catch up to another car to continue this process, drafting 4 cars within a designated time period. 
 Another twist is duel mode where you have to catch up and complete a lap ahead a series of cars 
 that each appear ahead of you at the start of each lap. The remaining modes are a straight up race 
 with 5 other cars, and a hot lap event, where its just you versus the clock on a hot lap run (with 
 a flying start, and 3 laps to beat the time, then again theres always the retry feature) .
  
  The challenge mode includes an expert score level. Beat all the events at the hard difficulty 
 level, and you get a 100% expert rating, plus a trophy. Except for the time marker or racing line 
 events, the hard level is indeed just that. It will take quite a few laps to master these events 
 at the hard level. The most difficult is the hot lap events, as you really need to get all you 
 can out of the car and track to beat these times.
  
  Theres also another series of races called collection, but you pick the car, track, number of 
 laps, and level of difficulty. You get trophies for winning at all tracks with each event type, 
 but since the number of laps and difficulty dont matter in this case, its not difficult.
  
  Ive also captured some good videos of the post race replays, but the policy here does not 
 allow me to post any links to these videos. I would suggest you check out forums for Ford Racing 
 2 to find links to these videos.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
