-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ford Bold Moves Street Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/fordstreetracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Team concept is a good one.
 car models look fine.
 Ford is way better than Chevy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Stupid artificial intelligence.
 damage and collision models underwhelming.
 even toughest races are easy to win.
 little variety to tracks.
 little sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.7
Critic Score: 5.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 84 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Razorworks Studios
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Sep 25, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the title, there's nothing bold about this boring, vanilla racing game. 

  Stuck in a racing game rut? Tired of the mindless repetition of running endless laps in a series 
 of consistently uninteresting cars? Sick of boring physics engines, minimal damage models, and 
 brain-dead artificial intelligence? Then don't even think about picking up Ford Bold Moves Street 
 Racing, which, despite its stabs at novel racing mechanics, is a subpar racing game that packages 
 all of the above problems into a tidy, second-rate, officially licensed package.  

          Ford Bold Moves Street Racing is neither bold, nor street, and it's just barely racing. 
 We'll give it the Ford thing, though.     

  Let's start with the good news. Devout followers of the Ford brand will likely enjoy the sizable 
 lineup of models that feature the blue oval logo. Older models, such as the 1973 Escort RS 2000 
 and the 1968 Mustang GT are available, and the lineup continues all the way up through the present 
 day and beyond, with standouts that include the 2004 Mustang GT-R Concept, the 1995 GT90 Concept, 
 and the extremely cool-looking 2007 Shelby Cobra GT500. Cars are arranged in three different performance 
 classes, and some race events in the game will have class requirements that you will have to meet 
 before beginning the race (such as a minimum number of high-performance vehicles) . Though there 
 is zero in the way of customization and you can only choose from a handful of team-specific paint 
 jobs, the cars themselves are accurately modeled and look good, both in the showroom screens and 
 on the road.  

  Beyond the obligatory quick-race and split-screen multiplayer modes (the game does not include 
 online racing on any platform) , the main single-player game modes are solo racing and team racing. 
 Solo racing lets you either tackle individual race events or enter one of six championship series 
 (based on car class) . When running these solo-mode championship races, you get a real feel for 
 just how boring street racing can be. Unlike in the team-racing mode, where you have to purchase 
 and repair the cars you run in the race events, in solo-mode races, you have access to every car 
 in a particular class. As a result, there's nothing to stop you from choosing the hottest car in 
 the class and simply outmuscling your opponents. Don't feel bad in doing so, however, because the 
 AI in Bold Moves isn't above its own cheap tactics. For example, your opponents will ram into you 
 mercilessly, and the game's physics are poor enough to ensure that you are the one who is going 
 to usually draw the short straw in any collision.  

  It won't take you long to quickly tire of the solo-racing events in Bold Moves. To keep things 
 fresh, then, the developers have added a team-racing mode that, in theory, is actually pretty cool. 
 In the team-racing mode, you and up to two other AI-controlled cars are part of a team, taking 
 on rival teams in a series of class-based races. Individual positions at the end of a race earn 
 a car points (10 points for first place, eight for second, and so on) . The team with the most total 
 points at the end of the race wins, and the team with the most points at the end of the series 
 is the champion. Here, then, it's not necessarily your job to make sure your car comes in first; 
 just that each car on your team is high enough in the running order to earn the most points of 
 any other team in the race.  

          The team-based concept is OK, but the dumb AI weighs it down.     

  The twist here 
 is that, at any point in the race, you can take control of any car on your team by pressing the 
 directional pad either up or down. The camera will then shift to the next car in the order, and 
 you'll be able to drive that car and hopefully move it up in the racing order. Then, you can switch 
 to the third car and do the same thing. Team races in Bold Moves are designed to be a series of 
 small events that you micromanage, and you'll quickly figure out how best to exploit the system 
 to win races. One final addition to the team-racing formula here is the ability to issue orders 
 to any teammate you aren't currently controlling. Orders include "block" (which will cause your 
 teammate to get in the way and slow down opposing cars) and "draft" (by cutting in front of you, 
 your teammate will give you a boost of drafting speed, which you can use to overtake opponent cars) . 
 With some planning and careful positioning, you can pull off more-advanced maneuvers, such as double 
 or triple drafts and more-complicated blocks.  

  Still, the system is far from perfect. Its biggest flaw is the brain-dead AI of every car on the 
 road that you are not controlling, which also includes your teammates. Cars will routinely ram 
 you into corners or into obstacles -- be they friend or foe. It's especially frustrating when trying 
 to pull off double draft maneuvers. You first pass your teammate and then expect him to pass you 
 up in return, thus completing the move. Instead, your teammate will barrel into the back of your 
 car 80 percent of the time, making little if any attempt to get out of your way. Beyond these more 
 obvious gaffes, there's just no subtlety to the game's level of challenge. While keeping track 
 of three cars at first seems tough, it isn't long before you figure out the key to almost any team 
 race in the game. Step 1: Get your fastest car into the lead position; if your car is hot enough, 
 it'll have no trouble staying there. Step 2: Get your second fastest car into the second-place 
 position, where it'll likely fit just fine. Step 3: You see where this is going, right? Beyond 
 some simple jockeying for position here and there, if the cars you enter into the race are fast 
 enough, you'll have little, if any, trouble dominating the entire game.  

  As you go through team races, you'll earn cars and unlock new cars that you can purchase in the 
 showroom, as well as a series of challenge events. These challenges are a good way to earn extra 
 cash so you can afford the high-performance class vehicles later in the game, but the challenges 
 themselves are a pretty sorry bunch. You can race in time-trial, individual-team, and solo races, 
 as well as overtake challenges, but beyond earning money, there's not much reason to spend an extended 
 amount of time on these challenges.  

  Because rubbing bumpers occurs so frequently in Bold Moves, your cars go from pristine to banged 
 up pretty quickly, especially in some of the longer championships. And while the cars do suffer 
 a good deal of cosmetic damage, including cracked windshields, scratched and scuffed paint jobs, 
 and bumpers hanging on by a thread, there's barely anything in the way of performance degradation, 
 even after crashing many, many times at top speed. Where damage takes its toll is in the repair 
 costs, which are required to get the car back to tip-top shape. But, then again, if car performance 
 isn't really affected, there's not much of a need to repair it, is there?  

          In the end, this is a garden-variety racing game. And that garden is full of boredom.  
    

  The presentation in Bold Moves is straightforward and unglamorous. The cars themselves look fine, 
 and there are no frame rate issues to complain about. The race environments -- mostly urban reproductions 
 of Los Angeles and surrounding areas -- are dull, lifeless, and an absolute bore to look at (which, 
 come to think of it, is a pretty apt description of downtown LA) . Even the more rural tracks are 
 repetitive and devoid of any kind of background movement that would help keep this game visually 
 interesting. Worse yet, it's a racing game with no visible sense of speed. Even the most powerful 
 cars in the game offer little, if any, thrill and are characterized more by their slippery handling 
 than by their sheer power. The sound of the car engines, which to the game's credit is probably 
 accurate on a car-by-car basis, makes about as little impact as the game's vanilla musical soundtrack. 
 The controls in the console versions of Bold Moves are simple, and the cars are actually nice and 
 responsive. Unfortunately, in the PC version of the game you must drive using the keyboard, and 
 while it's possible to play the game this way, it's about the furthest imaginable thing from "fun." 

  When people complain about racing games because they are boring, Ford Bold Moves is exactly the 
 kind of game they are talking about. The team-centric racing concept here is a good one, but it's 
 weighed down by dumb AI, boring environments, and a generally uninteresting racing engine. Ford 
 fans might appreciate an all-in-one place to drive their favorite cars, but there's not much else 
 to offer virtual racers who are looking to mix things up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Ford Street Racing is one of the numerous games that represents a big motor company: Ford. The 
 game is pretty good with great and cool cars (Mustang '68, Gran Torino, Boss 429, RS 200, GT and 
 Shelby 500) , nice team racing and tracks that persist all over L. A.
  How ever there are some problems: the handling it's just wrong. The producers should have spend 
 some more time with the physics. Also the AI is just dumb. They will slam into you without making 
 a manouver to overtake you.
  Multyplayer is disappointing. You can't race other people or friends on LAN or online. The only 
 way is on split screen.
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Fun: 8
  Multyplayer: 7
  Ford Street Racing: If you like very much racing games, the game will be fun. 
 For those who aren't that much into racing, the game could be a wreck and if you are a Ford fan... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhilash_123
Rating: 1.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  If anyone is thinking of buying this game forget it. This game is the worst game ever. If anyone 
 gets this game after reading this don't say i didnt tell you .If anyone who played NFS dont even 
 consider this a game .Leave it even if it comes for free. Dudes this game is not worth a cent. I 
 waited a long time to get this game. I've read many user reviews on this game. I've been grossly 
 mis-directed. After palying this game I can all but curse the waste of time. So my honest opinion 
 is dont play this. If anyone is thinking of buying this game forget it. This game is the worst game 
 ever. .If anyone who played NFS dont even consider this a game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Hello.
  
  Ford Street Racing .
  
  Its a pretty good game but the handling needs some work.
  The game company could have done a 
 little more work to make it better.
  Its not the best game its not the worst game.
  If you are into racing games its good.
  Im very into racing games Like PAPYRUS NASCAR 2003 and 
 Toca race driver 3 and stuff like that. But this game dosent handle like them at all very tight 
 steering with a steering wheel.
  
  I would rate it about a B- so it aint bad but its not the best for sure.
  
  Hope this review 
 helped you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokern80
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I didn't thought that it was new.... i thought that it was from 2004-05 or something, its not that 
 good quality.... but its okay... its nice cars but i think that they could have put some more ours 
 to make it more nice with the graphics.... i have played it for a vile and i like the game. 
  But if you want to have a great game, you will not by this game...
  if you like car games and 
 like to play on the streets....? play it. 
  
  its not need for speed underground 1 or 2 or most wanted but its okey for the time being 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scricky
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Ford Street Racing introduces a whole new level of excitement to team racing. Take control of three 
 Ford cars and negotiating the sun bleached streets of LA race your team to ultimate victory. Throughout 
 you are firmly in the drivers seat for your whole team. Concentrate your skills on one car, switch 
 between cars or simply issue commands to the other AI cars in your team. 
  
  With the unique ability to switch between vehicles you can use the characteristics of the cars 
 under your command, whether it be their speed, strength or agility to gain maximum team points 
 by bringing home your team in 1st, 2nd and 3rd place. 
  Ford Street Racing features eighteen officially licensed high-performance Ford vehicles & features 
 twenty four tracks set in twelve diverse locales of Los Angeles 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
