-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Forgotten Realms: Demon Stone
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/forgottenrealmsdemonstone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Accessible gameplay.
 Relentless pacing.
 Great use of the D&D license.
 Awesome set pieces.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No co-op mode.
 Cinematic camera occasionally distracting.
 Not much different from earlier console versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.8, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 635 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Stormfront Studios
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Dec 9, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those who appreciate brute-force, hack-and-slash gameplay should find in Demon Stone a great-looking 
 and enjoyable, if somewhat familiar, experience. 

  Within the dominion of high fantasy, there are two staples upon which you can always rely. Running 
 parallel are J. R. R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings and the Dungeons &amp; Dragons universes -- the 
 former of which stays grounded thanks to a Victorian travelogue-level of mundane detail, and the 
 latter of which benefits from a voluminous world and detailed mythos. A couple of years ago, Northern 
 California-based developer Stormfront Studios established an accessible, enjoyable formula for 
 melding the high-fantasy feel with visceral action in The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, and 
 now it brings the same to the Dungeons &amp; Dragons world. Forgotten Realms: Demon Stone is a 
 small evolutionary step above what Stormfront did with The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, and 
 players who appreciate that brand of brute-force, hack-and-slash gameplay should find in it a great-looking 
 and enjoyable, if somewhat familiar, experience.  

          Having already brought Tolkien to the game-playing masses, Stormfront has given D&amp; D 
 the action treatment.     

  A party of heroic characters that goes out on grand quests is the very bedrock of the Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons experience -- and, really, of all its high-fantasy ilk -- and Demon Stone delivers this 
 staple on multiple levels. The story begins years ago, when Slaad Lord Ygorl and the Githyanki 
 General Sereka, the malevolent leaders of two powerful, destructive armies that have been fighting 
 over the right to pillage the world of Faern, find themselves imprisoned in a mystical Demon 
 Stone by a clever wizard named Blackstaff. Now jump to the present, where three individual adventurers -- Rannek 
 the fighter, Illius the sorcerer, and Zhai the rogue -- find themselves allied on a battlefield rife 
 with orcs. Each is there with his or her own agenda, though upon entering the secret chamber that 
 houses the Demon Stone and accidentally freeing the evil antagonists, the three find that their 
 fates are intertwined. Consequently, they embark on a quest to re-imprison Ygorl and Sereka. The 
 story is pretty archetypal, though the inclusion of two antagonists who are also at each other's 
 throat is a nice one, and overall, the story's delivered quite well. The game uses nice, quick 
 cutscenes to keep the story moving, and it usually manages to do so without disrupting the flow 
 of the action too much.  

  D&amp; D aficionados will be especially interested to know that Demon Stone was scripted by R. A. 
 Salvatore, who has authored a vast number of novels based on the D&amp; D world of Forgotten Realms. 
 His familiarity with the subject matter is apparent, because he employs a great many characters 
 and locales that those familiar with the Forgotten Realms universe will recognize.  

  Within this nicely established Dungeons &amp; Dragons scenario, Demon Stone proceeds to hurl seemingly 
 insurmountable numbers of foes at your party of three. Though the numbers can seem overwhelming, 
 your party is more than capable of handling the workload. Melee combat is the primary means of 
 taking out the bad guys, which mostly consists of a few three-button combos. However, as you play, 
 you'll learn the nuances of the system, such as riposte and recovery moves, charged attacks, and 
 the all-important coup de grce move, which is great for finishing an enemy who has been knocked 
 down but is threatening to get back on his or her feet. On top of the core combat, each character 
 also has a ranged attack, a unique supermove, a team-up move that lets you call upon your teammates 
 for a quick assist, and a screen-clearing team supermove. All of these actions are quite useful 
 when the odds are heavily stacked against you. Once you get the hang of one character, the other 
 two are pretty easy to adapt to, since all three share a lot of the same basic moves.  

  Of course, each has his or her own specific strengths too. Rannek's core melee moves are particularly 
 brutal, and players will likely find him the easiest to use overall, because he doesn't require 
 an incredible amount of finesse to use well. Illius the sorcerer possesses strength that resides 
 in his ranged spells, which are more powerful than the other characters' ranged attacks, making 
 them more useful for dispensing out-of-reach enemies. Zhai's stealth moves make her the most unique 
 of the three, simply because her mechanics are unlike anything that either Rannek or Illius has. 
 When playing as Zhai, you'll notice that shadowy areas are highlighted with a distinct speckled 
 glow. If you move into a shadowed area for a second, you essentially become invisible for a short 
 period of time. Save for a few specific instances, the game doesn't really demand that you sneak 
 around your enemies a lot. However, when you're stealthed, you can creep up on unsuspecting enemies 
 to execute them with single moves, which can be quite satisfying. The PC version of Demon Stone 
 uses a slightly modified take on the standard first-person shooter keyboard-and-mouse controls 
 by default, which works fairly well, though if you have a gamepad with an analog stick and an adequate 
 number of buttons, the experience will feel a bit more streamlined.  

          Demon Stone eschews  gameplay for relentless hack-and-slash 
 action.     

  While the game seems fairly friendly to basic button-mashing tactics in the beginning, it's quite 
 necessary to understand the strengths and abilities of your party, which becomes apparent after 
 the first few levels. Fortunately, Demon Stone does a pretty good job of introducing the basic 
 combat tactics over the course of the first two levels. But even on the default difficulty, the 
 game offers a respectable challenge, so know that if you have three or four trolls surrounding 
 you, it won't take long for them to empty your health bar. The boss battles can also be particularly 
 tough, as they tend to require some specific tactics that aren't always obvious, and they don't 
 leave a lot of room for slop. Though the only hard save points in the game exist at the end of 
 each level, Demon Stone breaks the levels up into nicely sized chunks. So in spite of the occasional 
 tough fight, we rarely found ourselves having to replay more than five minutes of action after 
 one of our characters expired.     

  As you vanquish enemies, your characters pick up gold and earn experience that can be used to both 
 purchase new armor and learn new abilities. The character building isn't nearly as deep as in a 
 full-fledged D&amp; D role-playing game, but your characters do become noticeably more powerful 
 as you advance through the game, and new equipment purchases are actually reflected in the characters' 
 appearances, which is a really nice touch. Admiring the wicked new armor or weapon upgrade you 
 just purchased for your character is one of those small pleasures that helps bring the whole experience 
 together.  

          You don't need to be a D&amp; D buff to appreciate this kind of action... but it helps!  
    

  You'll only have direct control over one party member at a time, while the computer handles the 
 off characters, and you can switch between them on the fly at any time. The friendly artificial 
 intelligence can be a little inconsistent at times, and though it doesn't really require too much 
 babysitting and is rarely a liability, there are times that it could be a little more proactive. 
 This issue aside, the gameplay remains relentless throughout, and the ability to switch characters 
 at any time, along with the gradual introduction of new, more powerful moves, helps keep the action 
 interesting. Stormfront makes sure the game doesn't overstay its welcome, though, and by the time 
 you finish the roughly 10-hour campaign, you'll probably have had your fill of the game's patented 
 gameplay style. It's too bad that there isn't a co-op mode, though, which is something that EA 
 introduced in The Return of the King, the follow-up to Stormfront's The Two Towers. Such a feature 
 might have provided a good reason to revisit the game beyond playing it at a harder difficulty 
 level.  

  Demon Stone's intense gameplay is nicely complemented by some solid visuals. Though the actual 
 areas in which you'll be fighting are usually relatively confined, the game lends many of the battles 
 a grander sense of scale by surrounding them with astonishing set pieces and massive battles -- and 
 by presenting them with decidedly dramatic camera angles. This can be great for atmosphere, but 
 the game will occasionally choose form over function by obscuring the action in favor of showing 
 off, which can be a little frustrating. But the stylistic flare isn't confined to cool camera movement, 
 and the main characters themselves are, top to bottom, rather impressive. Each member of your party 
 has a unique set of animations, even for the most basic moves, which really helps give each a unique 
 feel. Rannek's sword blows have a real weight to them, there's a peculiar otherworldliness to Illius' 
 magical gestures, and Zhai's nimble acrobatic maneuvers are downright graceful.  

  Originally a PlayStation 2 game, the PC port of Demon Stone has the advantage of running at much 
 higher resolutions, which makes the game look notably better by comparison. The drawback is that 
 the somewhat muddy textures that tend to dominate the game are that much more apparent. It's still 
 a sharp-looking game, but the textures could certainly be a bit cleaner, and some of the rough 
 edges seem like they could have been smoothed a bit more. Its cohesive visual style and panache 
 go a long way in keeping the game looking great, but it's hard not to feel like Demon Stone could 
 have taken better advantage of the hardware.  

          Demon Stone is a good hack-and-slash romp while it lasts.     

  The cinematic-style 
 score is well suited to the frenzied pacing of the game, and like with the visuals, the sounds 
 of the battlefield use layers upon layers to give a grander sense of bedlam. The voice acting is 
 appropriate and well delivered -- with the gruff fighter, the contemplative sorcerer, and the smart-alecky 
 drow rogue all putting in convincing performances. Demon Stone also features some celebrity voice 
 acting, with sci-fi/fantasy arch duke Patrick Stewart playing the high wizard Blackstaff, as well 
 as the game's narrator, and Michael Clarke Duncan voicing the Slaad Lord. Patrick Stewart is a 
 bit more convincing and natural than Michael Clarke Duncan; in fact, Demon Stone is a good case 
 study for the pitfalls of using highly recognizable voice talent in video games. It can be difficult 
 to believe that Michael Clarke Duncan is a coldhearted, demonic wizard and not the enigmatically 
 kind death row inmate from  The Green Mile .  

  To say that Stormfront Studios has just remade The Two Towers with D&amp; D trappings wouldn't be 
 entirely inaccurate, but it wouldn't be completely fair to Demon Stone either. Stormfront has obviously 
 honed its craft over the past two years, and the overall experience feels richer and more robust. 
 On its own terms, Forgotten Realms: Demon Stone is a satisfying adventure, and in the bigger picture, 
 it stands to introduce the fantastical world of Dungeons &amp; Dragons to a broader audience. Regardless 
 of that, it's a good game that's well worth playing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CPatrick
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  I like the idea of developing a characters combat skills, and being fully responsible for the use 
 of those skills. The concept of allowing a player to take full control of their character, during 
 combat, is one that is missing from most RPGs. Although you'll be fully responsible for executing 
 your attack moves and multi-hit combos, the game fails to recognize them as anything but a single 
 strike. The few cool finishing moves that you'll have at your disposal, are not lethal. Rannek, 
 the fighter character , has a combo finishing move where he impails an opponent through their back, 
 with his sword. You would think that this would pretty much finish that opponent off, or at least 
 slow them down a bit. Nope! Opponents will then face you, and continue their scripted 3 or 4 hit 
 combos, until they run out of hit points. Also, you're usually surrounded by many opponents, so 
 thoughtfull multi-hit combos are useless. When constantly under the barrage of strikes from 4 to 
 6 attackers, it's best to just mash the two primary attack buttons, until you see your character 
 emerge from the chaos.
  
  I played the LOTR games for the Xbox, and often laughed out loud after successfully pulling of 
 a lethal combo of attacks. This game borrows many of the same concepts and situations, but is in 
 no way a step forward in the genre.
  
  I should have spent my $6.00 US on the PC version of LOTR: ROTK.
  
  cp out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TemplarsArise
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Demon Stone is clearly an action game in which you can upgrade each character in an rpg fashion, 
 but you will probably get all the available upgrades, or at least most of them, for each character 
 till the end of the game. You will fight tons of monsters throughout the game's chapters, using 
 each characters abilities, by continuously pressing your left mouse button... In most of the game 
 you will be surrounded by dozens of monsters, abusing your finger and your LMB waiting for them 
 to get hurt... It becomes a little more fun when playing as the rogue, as you can disappear in 
 the shadows and use sneak attacks on an enemy or two afterwards. Some combos do exist but they 
 are actually useless and silly looking. They take too much time to accomplish and you will probably 
 be interrupted by an enemy before you complete them or you will end up hitting the air, since the 
 enemy will have probably moved from the place you were aiming. There is no lock on enemy feature 
 and the controls are bad. There is also no gore. You will know when you have killed the enemy only 
 when he disappears after he falls down... I played the game in normal difficulty and it was quite 
 difficult, annoyingly difficult most of the times. The levels are really small in size and you 
 are actually stuck in two or three places in each chapter fighting monsters or the chapter boss. 
 The graphics are good given the age of the game and you can see the character upgrades on your 
 character (armour, weapon upgrades etc) . But the environments are quite uninspired and restricting. 
 Also you will not be able to "admire the view" since you have no control over the camera.
  Voice acting is nice. But other than that the game doesn't sound good. The music is tiring and 
 repetitive and sound is very limited through the game. Weapons make no noise during the fights.
 
  Well what is good about this game, apart from the voice acting, is mostly the characters which 
 seem quite alive and interesting during their dialogues and interactions and the nicely presented 
 story (although it lacks any originality...) . 
  My first game review is already too long, so I should better end it here...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Coming out on the pc on December 9th of 2004, Demon Stone gives players a story created by R. A. 
 Salvatore, one of the Forgotten Realms best writers. Putting together a great story, with decent 
 action gameplay, Demon Stone will provide a good experience from start to finish for fans of the 
 action genre, even though that time may be quite short.
  
  The story sets up where two terribly evil beings, Slaad Lord Ygorl and the Githyanki General Sereka, 
 are released from a Demon Stone to wreck havoc on the world. The story is simple enough, if one 
 of the beings kills the other, than the world will be shrouded in chaos as the other one takes 
 over destroying everything. A major character from the Forgotten Realms setting, Khelben Blackstaff, 
 who originally sealed the two monsters into the stone, wants to do the same again, so he enlists 
 the help of Rannek the fighter, Illius the sorcerer, and Zhai the rogue. Throughout the games 
 levels, youll be able to play as all three of these characters whenever you choose because theyre 
 all on the screen at the same time and all you have to do is push a button to switch between the 
 characters at any time. As you progress through the levels, because of Demon Stone being a Dungeons 
 and Dragons game, youll gain levels for each of your characters and with the new levels, youll 
 gain new spells, abilities, and new equipment to buff up your characters. Although Demon Stone 
 sticks to some of the rules of Dungeons and Dragons, this game really doesnt give you a role-playing 
 experience. These extra abilities and spells feel like any other action game the way theyre implemented. 
 As you get farther into the game, your characters become stronger.
  
  As you cover ground across Faerun, youll run across some memorable Salvatore characters such as 
 Bruenor of Mithrall Halland Drizzt do Urden and in one particular level, youll actually be able 
 to play as Drizzt himself, the dual scimitar wielding dark elf. And at some moments and levels 
 during the game, youll take on the role of one of your three main characters and use one of their 
 special skills to complete a task in the game. The three different characters are different from 
 each other enough to keep the gameplay interesting till the end. Each one can be fun in their own 
 right and youll find yourself never sticking to one. With the unique abilities of each character, 
 youll be using the special abilities of each character to take out each of your enemies in different 
 ways. 
  
  Graphics are pretty decent. The levels are different and unique from each other as you explore 
 different parts of Faerun. The pacing in the game flows from one level to the next and the games 
 action never really slows down. The graphics engine used in Demon Stone is the same engine used 
 in The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, with a few updates to the engine that does a decent enough 
 job of presenting the story. The character designs are nice, and as you gain new equipment and 
 skills between the levels, your characters look will change also. One thing must be said, that 
 Demon Stone is a port from the PS2 and in some respects, this can easily be noticed. Especially 
 with the intro music and screens because if you put your resolution on anything more than 800 X 
 600, words and illustrations will be blurred.
  
  Sound in the game is nice enough; the musical score helps keep the flow of the game going. As the 
 action keeps going, so does the music. Patrick Stewart lends his voice acting to Khelben Blackstaff 
 which does give the dialogue some depth and he does it extremely well as he has done with other 
 games like recently released Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
  
  Because of Demon Stone being a port from a game console such as the PS2, this game plays a lot 
 easier with a gamepad controller rather than a mouse and keyboard. I myself played the first level 
 with the mouse and keyboard, then the next few on a gamepad controller and never went back to the 
 keyboard. Action games like this usually tend to play not only better, but easier on a gamepad 
 controller. So, if you do intend to play this game, make sure you grab a controller with it or 
 just pick it up on the PS2.
  
  In the end, this game can provide anyone with a decent action oriented experience that has a little 
 bit of Dungeons and Dragons with it. Although its a really short game, and theres not a lot of 
 replay value, the game is still pretty good for the time you spent with it. With a good story by 
 none other than R. A. Salvatore himself, Forgotten Realms: Demon Stone can be a fun game for any 
 fan of the action genre. If youre a fan of the Forgotten Realms setting, this can be a fun game, 
 but if you're looking for a good Dungeons and Dragons game, you might want to look elsewhere.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CandabraxisAU
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Mash
  
  Mash
  
  Mash
  
  Not the military drama set in the Korean War. No it's button mashing time.
  
  That's right, 
 mash, mash mash.
  
  The only redeeming feature is you are able to play Drizzt Do Urden for a while and mash his buttons 
 for dual sword action. Apart from that I would rather save myself the repeated finger strain.
 
  
  Fans of D&D will receive some satisfaction, they can cross this one off their list, but the lame 
 interaction between the characters is enough to make your skin crawl. Just when you think they 
 are going to engage on some party love triangle the game ends, and there are no more buttons to 
 mash.
  
  For some reason this requires 100 words, I am finding it hard to fill this up
  
  Mash
  
  Mash
  
  Monster Mash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bexarath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  This D&D hack and slash game offers up some fun gameplay, likeable characters with good voice actors 
 (the narrator is none other than Patrick Stewart) , decent graphics, and good music. Also, the D&D 
 feel is tangible, with monsters and characters that any fan would recognize. Switching between 
 the three characters offers some nice variation, and the level-up system with buying new abilities 
 and items between chapters is satisfactory.
  
  That being said, this game has a few flaws. The first is its shortness. On Normal difficulty, it's 
 a simple task to complete this game in 10 hours. You can play on a higher difficulty, but the replay 
 value is still not very large. 
  
  The second problem is the controls. They can be adjusted, but always feel generally awkward. It 
 sometimes has you feeling that it was designed for someone with three hands. Still, the only time 
 I had real problems was when using the Rogue character, who is needed to jump to various otherwise 
 unreachable areas. Luckily, these areas are rather few.
  
  I had a lot of fun in this game, especially while controlling the Sorcerer Illius, whose array 
 of spells certainly makes the game easier. Still, part of the game's charm is switching between 
 the three distinct characters. There's a lot of satisfaction in sneaking up on a baddie and cutting 
 his throat, or just mowing down enemies with the Fighter's sword. Though it's basically just a 
 kill-all-enemies game, it's well put together with impressive battle animations and challenging 
 bosses.
  
  All-in-all, a fun game for the short while it lasts. Buy it, but don't spend too much on it (I 
 got mine new on sale for about $10) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Demon stone for a 7.4 rating by gamespot. com. I don't know why it deserved that kind of rating 
 for the kind of game it was. maybe someone didn't like the camera like movement of the characters. 
 comparing to fable, this game have a better story. something that fable really lack. tho fable 
 was slightly longer, demon stone was more in depth in the story line. there was more of a challenge 
 as well. it took me 10 times to finish up the main boss in demon stone, and I was playing it on 
 easy setting.
  
  this was a pretty good game, tho it was kind of short. the story line and the fun factor makes 
 this game underrated. It should have gotten at least an 8.0 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Forgotten Realms Demon Stone is a game with great graphics and sound and loads of hack and slash 
 action.
  
  The story begins years ago, when Slaad Lord Ygorl and the Githyanki General Sereka, the malevolent 
 leaders of two powerful, destructive armies that have been fighting over the right to pillage the 
 world of Faern, find themselves imprisoned in a mystical Demon Stone by a clever wizard named 
 Blackstaff. Now jump to the present, where three individual adventurers -- Rannek the fighter, Illius 
 the sorcerer, and Zhai the rogue -- find themselves allied on a battlefield rife with orcs. Each 
 is there with his or her own agenda, though upon entering the secret chamber that houses the Demon 
 Stone and accidentally freeing the evil antagonists, the three find that their fates are intertwined. 
 Consequently, they embark on a quest to re-imprison Ygorl and Sereka.
  
  The cinematic-style score is well suited to the frenzied pacing of the game, and like with the 
 visuals, the sounds of the battlefield use layers upon layers to give a grander sense of bedlam. 
 The voice acting is appropriate and well delivered -- with the gruff fighter, the contemplative sorcerer, 
 and the smart-alecky drow rogue all putting in convincing performances
  
  In the end Demon Stone is fun to play. The story is quite good, the gameplay is also enjoyable 
 but the camera is a complete letdown. 
  With such impressive environments you'd expect that at some point in the game you can look around 
 and admire the view for a while before you go back to killing foes and continuing with the story. 
 
  
  Now letting he camera issues aside, there are loads of things to try in Demon Stone.
  As you kill foes you gain experience and gold that you can use to upgrade your abilities, weapons 
 and learn some new moves.
  All i can say is that the game is fun to play and it will hypnotize you in believing that you are 
 one of three main  don't worry..................... the bad 
 positioning of the camera will bring you back to reality.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:20 am PT
Review:  The PC doesnt have much of an RPG selection nowadays, but if youre in the mood for a good mindless 
 action game, then Demon Stone is a good budget choice. It has ten great levels, each of which are 
 unique and memorable in their own way. It also has three unique, well polished and balanced characters 
 that you will use as you go through the game. Then, after about eight hours, its over, and theres 
 not a whole lot of reason to play the game again. So, if youre looking for a weekend diversion, 
 then you should pick up this game.
  
  Dont be deceived by the Forgotten Realms or Dungeons and Dragons on the box. Thats only on 
 there to attract fans of D&D who are desperately waiting for another Baldurs Gate or Neverwinter 
 Nights. Theres very little character development or role-playing here. You basically enter an 
 area, bash your way through fifty opponents, maybe defend something or smash a door, and then move 
 on and repeat. The formula is pretty simple, but it works very well. The game manages to never 
 get boring or overly repetitive by putting enough variety in the challenges and bosses to always 
 keep you on your toes. The action is always exciting and some of the boss battles are marathons 
 where you slowly wear him down while fighting dozens of his minions at a time. Combat has a very 
 visceral feel. It involves mostly slamming the same two or three buttons over and over, but theres 
 enough variety in the attacks that you have available to keep it from getting too monotonous.
 
  
  One of the best parts of the gameplay is how it weaves the three unique characters into the gameplay. 
 Theres a melee character, a stealth character, and a magic-user, which is essentially a ranged 
 combat character. You will spend a lot of time on the melee guy, but the stealth character comes 
 in handy when there are shadows around. If you hide in shadows, you can one-hit stealth kill enemies 
 easily. This is an excellent tactic for thinning out a large herd. The magic-user comes in handy 
 when you have to take out foes from a distance, but it can be hard to use him, since he cant fight 
 in close combat very well. You will switch between characters very easily and you will do it often, 
 using them for their own strengths when you need them.
  
  Demon Stone is a decent looking game, but the blocky and low-res environments truly betray their 
 Playstation 2 origins. The bosses and main characters of the game though, look very good and are 
 nicely animated. The large amount of enemies that can appear on screen is pretty impressive too. 
 The audio for the game is excellent. It gives you the feeling of really being in a war. Theres 
 never a shortage of explosions, blades hitting flesh, or screams of pain in any area. The voice 
 work is very good, although Patrick Stewart sort of sticks out, because he is so familiar as Jean 
 Luc Picard. The music is fairly generic, but its also high quality.
  
  The game only lasts eight hours at the most, maybe even less if youre experienced with this type 
 of game. That isnt all bad, since each of the games ten levels is unique and the game avoids 
 repeating challenges too much. Some of the missions where you have to defend an area or a person 
 will require a few reloads, and that can be frustrating, given the games checkpoint save system. 
 A short game like this isnt worth forty or fifty bucks, but if you find it in the bargain bin, 
 its worth paying ten or fifteen for a weekends enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocolypse2006
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  bought this game out of boredom with the ones i have been playing for the last 2 months. intially 
 i was exicted to get to play this game, i played the lord of the rings movie games and didnt mind 
 them was a few days of fun. but in this game the camera view totally kills the game, not just slighlty 
 but completely and ther are also areas in the game that u walk into then the sky appears and your 
 screwed from then on in, so also very poorly made probably rushed. 
  
  As for cinematics ther great and game looks ok, wouldnt say it is great by any means what so ever, 
 this game reminded me of aggression and intolerance lol i am really serious that this game is horrible 
 to the bone, if you still buy it and install it, and then play it within the first 1-2 mins youll 
 agree that this is a horrible game and that these morons making games should realize that with 
 todays technology we expect nothing less that the freedom to view and move the game world especially 
 in games like this., 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oppong
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a RPG 3d game the graphics for this game is amazing ,Now this game is a kind of game 
 that i don't want to sell it. In this game it got some good special moves and some pretty good characters. For 
 me any rpg game that come out it is the best for me, but this game got some nice graphics that i 
 say that it is part of my favorite rpg game that i have played in my favorite lists. i loved so 
 much, they got some pretty good dragons in this game that i say that now here is a real rpg dragons, when 
 i played this game it reminded me of baldur gate cause in baldur gate you can earn money to buy 
 a sword and in this game you can spend your money and build up your three members and get them 
 ahead with their adventure, with the dragons in this game that make me love this game so much, and 
 the music this game is game is awesome ,with my music and the game going on it made the game and 
 me got to a different level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 23, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  It's disappointing that a game with good graphics and cinematics, a great story writer in R. A. 
 Salvatore (a well known fantasy writer) , and great voice overs featuring stars like Patrick Stewart 
 is at it's core a bad arcade game. Why is it bad? Because of the horrible controls, the convuluted 
 combat and combat combinations, and the annoying tendency of the cameras to pan all over the place 
 as you move around making it hard to move, fight, or control you characters effectively. It's too 
 bad, because if this game had good controls and better camera logic or the ability to change the 
 camera view to suit your preference it could be a classic in the 8.0-10.0 range. As it stands today, 
 it gets a well-deserved 4.4.
  
  If you're a PS2 or Xbox twitch junkie, you may be less bothered by the poor interface and controls 
 and camera panning as it's probably much more common in twitch games on those platforms. That's 
 not to say I don't like twitch games, but I need some reasonable level of control when moving and 
 fighting and better camera angles. This game fails miserably in all those areas in my opinion. 
 Examples of FPS twitch games I've enjoyed: Halflife, System Shock I & II, Unreal 2003, Morrowind, 
 Vampires Bloodlines.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 14, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  Whenever an RPG fan hears about a new D&D title coming out, the automatically think it's going 
 to be a role playing game. This is for good reason, because D&D title are, most of the time, solid 
 role playing titles. Not to mention that Dungeons and Dragons is synonymous with table-top RPG's. 
 Once every now and again, however, a company gets it into their heads to make an action hack and 
 slash D&D title. This isn't a bad thing or a good thing, it just... is.
  
  Demon Stone uses the source material from the popular Forgotten Realms setting. Baulder's Gate, 
 Icewind Dale, and Neverwinter Nights are some games that have used the same setting, so it goes 
 without saying that the background story is solid. However, the three characters that star in this 
 story leave much to be desired. I didn't find them all that interesting. What can you expect in 
 the way of character development in a hack and slash? One thing that I liked about in-game character 
 development ( that is, non-story related development ) was the XP point system. It, at least, gives 
 you a chance to customize your party. Between levels, you spend money and XP to build up your three 
 party members to help them in the adventure ahead. You will find that the game is generous with 
 gold and XP. In most cases, it's pretty obvious what you should buy your characters. I like the 
 system a little, because it shows some sort of effort in keeping with he D&D feel.
  
  The graphics are very good. On a decent machine, the character animations and background action 
 will be flowing and smooth. In the opening level of the game, the background action is cool enough 
 to make you stop for a second and check it out. This happens in a few other areas and it really 
 adds a lot to the feel of the game. The music in Demon Stone is fantastic. Along with the graphic 
 style, it completes the fantasy feel.
  
  I would have to say that hardcore RPG fans will have to play Demon Stone for a bit to get into 
 it. However, hack and slash fans will feel right at home. The worst part about this game is after 
 playing for a few hours, you feel like you have pretty much seen all the game has to offer. Something 
 that I think is worth mentioning is that the game is on DVD, so it's no a CD swap-fest to install. 
 All in all, it might be a good idea to just wait for the price to drop instead of spending full 
 price on a game you won't play for long.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  This is a weird game to explain becasue while I enjoy the hack and slash, the RPG elelments, and 
 the ability to jump from one character to another, there are level endings that become a battle 
 of repetition. The level bosses I've faced so far aren't impossible to kill, it just takes forever. 
 For example, I had to kill a Queen spider, which involved my wizard blasting it with lightening 
 over and over and over until my fingers got numb and it finally died. I actually had to change 
 from normal difficulty to easy to try to shorten these end level duels. The graphics are cool (great 
 dragon) , the voices are fine (Patrick Stewart is one) and the action is plentiful. There has been 
 a lot of talk on the forums about bugs, but (fingers crossed) , I've not had any and the game has 
 been very smooth. I do have the DVD version, if that matters. Anyway, if you like RPG's, fantasy, 
 and hack amd slash with minor puzzels, this is a good one to get while we wait for Dungeon Siege 
 II and Dungeon Lords. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
