-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Frank Herbert's Dune
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/frankherbertsdune/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.3
Critic Score: 5.1, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 4.4, 98 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Cryo Interactive
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 14, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a poorly designed 3D action-adventure game that actually has precious little to do with the 
 source material and equally little to recommend it. 

 Frank Herbert's  Dune  is one of the towering monuments of imaginative fiction. This massive novel 
 brings feudalism to the far future, creating an unforgettable story of a messianic hero, political 
 intrigue and betrayal, mysticism, and more. Not surprisingly, Dune has spawned a number of games 
 and films. On the gaming side, Westwood's Dune II helped create the real-time strategy genre on 
 the PC back in 1992, and it was followed by a number of sequels, like the recent Emperor: Battle 
 for Dune. With movies, Dune fans were first treated (or subjected as the case may be) to David 
 Lynch's controversial 1984 adaptation, which was visually unforgettable but infamously incoherent. 
 More recently, SCI FI Channel ran a six-hour miniseries called  Frank Herbert's Dune . Directed 
 by John Harrison, this Emmy-winning adaptation unquestionably stuck closer to the spirit, if not 
 the letter, of the source material than Lynch's version did. It also featured some fine acting 
 and high production values. Now Dune films and games meet in Frank Herbert's Dune, a tie-in for 
 the miniseries. Unfortunately, it's a poorly designed 3D action-adventure game that actually has 
 precious little to do with the miniseries and equally little to recommend it.           Dune is 
 specifically based on the Sci-Fi channel's miniseries.    

  In the game, you'll assume the role of young Paul Atreides, scion of a noble house that's been 
 sent to administer the desert planet, Arrakis, also known as Dune. Dune is the source of the invaluable 
 spice that lies at the core of civilization, commerce, and space travel. With the aid of the Emperor, 
 the evil House Harkonnen plots against the Atreides family, resulting in the death of Paul's father 
 the Duke, as well as most of the royal house. Paul and his mother, Jessica, survive by escaping 
 to the desert. The game plays out during the time that Paul and Jessica spend among the fierce 
 desert warriors known as the Fremen, as they bide their time for revenge against the Harkonnen. 
 You'll lead Paul from a third-person viewpoint as he carries out raids on Harkonnen and spice smuggler 
 bases.   

  You'll quickly learn that just trying to move Paul during these missions can be a real chore. Throughout 
 the game, he constantly gets caught on objects and other characters, even when he's only in their 
 general vicinity, and the camera is often blocked by walls, rocks, and other objects. In the horribly 
 ill-conceived second mission, you're forced to avoid a giant sandworm by actually running toward 
 the camera, into its blind spot. That wouldn't necessarily be so bad -- as awkward as it is -- if it 
 weren't for the fact the ground is littered with hard-to-spot patches of quicksand.           The 
 missions can be frustrating and awkward to play.    

  That sort of poor design carries over to the majority of the game. To view detailed information 
 about your inventory items, you need to cycle through a slow-moving, clumsily animated menu system. 
 Just trying to start a new game can be a hassle because of the awkward interface for naming your 
 game session. You have to scroll through letters like you do in a console game interface instead 
 of just typing them in. The game is also beset with lengthy load times, a lack of difficulty levels, 
 and the inability to save the game during the overly lengthy missions.   

  The structure of the actual missions isn't handled well either. These story-based tasks contain 
 a mixture of stealth, action, and light puzzle solving, and the tension from sneaking around can 
 be genuinely enjoyable in brief spurts. However, instead of mainly having to use your head or your 
 reflexes, you'll often need to resort to blind trial and error. You'll also find that the missions 
 play almost identically every time: The utterly moronic guards will be standing in the same places 
 and will appear out of thin air every time you activate a hidden trigger. The missions would play 
 a lot better if the guards you needed to kill patrolled more, letting you gauge their movements 
 so that you could sneak past them or eliminate them from behind. Many just stand there, though, 
 forcing head-on confrontations.    

 Once a guard starts firing at you, you inexplicably can't attack with your knife anymore, even if 
 you're literally right next to him. When you're then forced to use a gun instead, get ready for 
 one of the game's many letdowns. Ranged combat is so simplistic and unrealistic as to be comical, 
 with two characters basically standing in place and repeatedly shooting at each other until one 
 falls. The game also offers precious few opportunities to restock your ammo.           Dune's graphics 
 bear little likeness to the source material.    

  During your missions, you'll need to watch Paul's life level, refilling it with a stock of water 
 from his stillsuit, which is inexplicably called a "distiller." (New names and spellings for Dune 
 terms are common in the game.) By sneaking up on a guard and eliminating him with one quick knife 
 blow, Paul can reclaim the guard's water. It's a clever twist on the usual med kit or health pack 
 clich, and one that nicely ties into the Dune mythology, where water is the second most-precious 
 thing on Dune after the spice.   

  Between and during the missions, you'll watch lengthy, poorly directed, in-engine cutscenes that 
 do a hit-and-miss job of explaining the situation and your goals. The dialogue is utterly boring 
 or just plain silly, and the game takes major liberties with both the miniseries and novel. When 
 you restart a mission, as you'll likely have to, you'll be subjected to all the cutscenes again 
 with no way to skip them.   

  Between missions, you're also forced to saunter around the Fremen hideouts, seeking new inventory 
 items from other characters. The fact that you don't know what these characters look like or where 
 to find them initially means you'll have to waste your time wandering in circles for no reason 
 at all. You can also talk -- using the term very loosely -- to just about any Fremen, yet most of them 
 will offer inane or even incoherent non sequiturs. Some of the characters' statements are so bizarre 
 that they at least provide unintentional comedic relief. Characters will also mention events not 
 shown or properly explained in the game. If you haven't read the novel, you'll likely have no clue 
 what's being referred to part of the time. This all feels like some perverse way of stretching 
 out a short game.   

  As shown in both its film adaptations, Dune has enormous visual potential, though the game's graphics 
 are merely average, often looking rather dull and dated. On the one hand, you'll see a few nice 
 details like extremely realistic smoke effects, yet other effects, like weapons fire, look very 
 bland. The environments don't adhere to the miniseries and are mostly forgettable both in look 
 and layout, though they feature a few nicely painted textures, particularly the striated desert 
 rocks.   

  Dune's character designs and animations suffer from a bunch of problems. Characters move extremely 
 stiffly and slowly. Paul runs as if he were utterly exhausted from a week of trudging across the 
 desert, and dead guards casually crumble to the ground in slow motion. Up close, the characters' 
 faces often look downright ugly, and lip-synching animations are poorly done too. You'll also notice 
 right off that the characters bear no resemblance to those in the miniseries. With his black, jagged 
 locks, the Paul of the game looks a lot more like a generic anime character than he does actor 
 Alec Newman from the miniseries.           It's a short, disappointing game.    

  Like its visuals, Dune's sparse sound effects have little going for them. Weapons, for instance, 
 sound underpowered and tinny. The voice-overs aren't handled by the actors from the miniseries, 
 nor are they handled particularly well at all, for that matter. They're competent at best. For 
 its music, the game wisely sticks with portions of Graeme Revell's evocative, elegiac orchestral 
 score from the miniseries. It's sad that the music should be the high point of the game, though. 
   

  Despite a couple of moderately nice touches, Frank Herbert's Dune is a dud of a game. Any strengths 
 are marred by a long string of poor design decisions and equally poor execution. The game utterly 
 fails to capture the majesty and mystery of the Dune universe, turning it into an interactive Saturday 
 morning cartoon -- and a bad one at that. Toss this one to the worms.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Now then wot do we have here??? It seems to be really georgeous on the front and back cover... the 
 screenshots seem pretty good.... there are some good bullet points praising the status of the game..... ITS 
 SUCH A BLOODY SHAME THAT THE GAME ITSELF IS A LOADA COBBLERS!!!!
  
  True the graphics are quite good, but they do not "push the PS2 graphics engine to its limits.... Soul 
 Reaver 2 was released in the same year, yet look at that piece of art, and look at this dump of 
 cow dung.....
  
  I was thinking I would give it a fair try (you know, the same thing I done for Soul Reaver 2, which 
 made me fall in love with it eventually) .... but it just didnt click with me...... the worst thing 
 (that almost drove me to nausea) was every characters facial movements.... at first I thought it 
 was the lead characters mum who had had a face uplift and couldnt move it properly.... but it seemed 
 that all characters from the dozy dune bandwagon have been chewing on a wasp....... or a cactus, 
 for that matter.... it seems as if the nose and lip muscles are out of sync..... no wonder people 
 dont get wot they are on about..... AND THE BACK COVER SAID THE GAME WAS BEAUTIFUL TO PLAY..... Lord 
 help us......
  
  Now then.... there are some really woerd characters to come across.... they were so bloody daft and 
 boring that I can only recall a few.... there is that dozy super hero who is only 17 years old (who 
 is skiving off college, when he should be sitting his A levels) ..... theres mommy dear who is a 
 fast runner that her pathectic son.... and then theres the sons 2 year old sister.... who looks like 
 she has been doped or is on a high after sniffing glue, but can actually walk like an adult (i 
 dunno uif she could speak, coz I never got to that part, thankfully) ....
  
  also... you cant shoot properly.... when u r out of ammo thats it, u r dead meat.... but u cant even 
 hit the oncoming enemy properly.... so wots the bloody point eh??? The apparent kung-fu like knife 
 stabs do do the trick, but only for a short while, until a acutley verbose foot soldier comes along 
 and shoots some photons throughou your sweat-retaining tank top ( I know.... disgusting..... and 
 I thought binge-drinking vagabonds were smelly) ...
  
  I should have read the reviews before buying this waful pecie of trash... what a way to make your 
 head go dizzy... and your money for that matter..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytehtiger
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  There is so much wrong with this game I don't know where to start. The menu sucks, the puzzles 
 suck, and there is no save feature, just save points. Or perhaps there weren't save points. I don't 
 remember anymore, but it was really frustrating.
  
  Gameplay: It's supposedly supposed to be an assassin type game, but really that's not what you 
 actually do for most of the time. There are very few instances where you actually manage an assassin 
 maneuver; most of the time you have to shoot them or run up, stun them and knife them. The water 
 you get keeps you barely alive to pull off another one of these run stun kill maneuvers. From what 
 I remember there is NO way to replenish you ammo. NONE. You start with 20 shots for the level, 
 and thats it. Then you get a lasgun. This one is even weaker than your initial gun, and same limited 
 ammo. Then you get a cool cyanide gun with 3 shots. The good part is that its an insta kill. The 
 bad part is that there are a lot more than 3 enemies in the game.
  
  Oh and as said in the gamespot review, the running from the sandworm part really sucks. You don't 
 see the sand that slows you down. have fun replaying this several times until you get it right. 
 Graphics: The characters look terrible. Hell Paul looks like a chinese mutant of some sort, his 
 face is so messed up. The environment isn't that bad, in fact I'd say its the only part of the 
 entire game that doesn't totally suck.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is uninspired and flat, weapons sound dull, music is just there, sounds 
 are boring.
  
  Tips: You'll be relying on the low health shout ability A LOT. You have very little ammo and a 
 lot of enemies. Oh and for some reason sardaukar can detect you behind walls. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
