-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FreeSpace 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/freespace2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 15, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.4
Critic Score: 9.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 1,877 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Sep 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FreeSpace 2 is one of the best space sims ever made and is a solid candidate for game of the year. 
 

 Since the early 1990s, Totally Games' X-Wing series and Origin Systems' Wing Commander series have 
 maintained a stranglehold on the space-sim genre. Until last year, the space sims released by other 
 companies were derivative of those two series yet generally had less impressive graphics, substandard 
 gameplay, and dull plots. But some worthy challengers finally appeared in 1998 when Particle Systems 
 unveiled Independence War and Volition released Descent: Freespace.  

 Of those two contenders, Independence War was more original, as it featured a complex physics-modeling 
 system and put you in charge of a large capital ship. Descent: Freespace was more of a traditional 
 space sim, as it effectively cannibalized the best elements of the genre's classics in addition 
 to providing an outstanding interface and several other refreshing innovations. But while Particle 
 Systems' follow-up game, Independence War Deluxe, was a mild disappointment, Volition's FreeSpace 
 2 is an outstanding sequel that significantly improves upon its enjoyable predecessor. Even if 
 Totally Games had not effectively abandoned its X-Wing franchise earlier this year, and Origin 
 had not decided to focus solely on multiplayer games, there's no doubt there's a new king in town. 
 FreeSpace 2 is one of the best space sims ever made and is a solid candidate for game of the year. 

 FreeSpace 2 picks up 32 years after the events of the original game. In Descent: Freespace, a 14-year 
 war between Terrans and Vasudans was rudely interrupted by the appearance of an ominous and technologically 
 superior race, dubbed the Shivans. To avoid extinction, the Terrans and Vasudans were forced to 
 set aside their differences and forge a desperate alliance. Even though Descent: Freespace concentrated 
 most of its plot developments into the first third of the game, the story ended effectively, granting 
 the isolated remnants of the Terran and Vasudan civilizations a Pyrrhic victory.  

 The plot of FreeSpace 2 ties deeply into the events of the original game, but new players can quickly 
 learn what they missed through the game's comprehensive and interesting database. The Terrans and 
 Vasudans remain allied and have rebuilt their societies, but their harmony is disrupted when a 
 rogue group of Terrans secedes from the alliance because of its apparent distrust of the Vasudans. 
 When the Shivans burst back into alliance space, the Terrans and Vasudans are suddenly faced with 
 war on two fronts. But the alliance has had a generation to prepare for the reappearance of the 
 Shivans and has spent that time developing formidable weaponry. Has the alliance now surpassed 
 the mysterious Shivans? What are the real motivations of the xenophobic, secessionist Terrans? 
 Will the alliance discover a way to reestablish contact with Earth, which was lost after the events 
 of the original game? The complex plot of FreeSpace 2 is often surprising and consistently captivating. 

 There have been great stories in space sims before - some gamers prefer the plots in the Wing Commander 
 games to the actual gameplay, and TIE Fighter's story kept Star Wars fans enthralled for its duration 
 - but FreeSpace 2's plot feels both deeper and darker. Some gamers may be disappointed that the 
 game ultimately doesn't wrap up all the story's loose ends, but I felt that FreeSpace 2's ending 
 worked exceptionally well. To Volition's credit, both Descent: Freespace and FreeSpace 2 effectively 
 establish seemingly invincible foes and yet find plausible ways to permit you to seize victory 
 from apparent defeat without diminishing the stature of those enemies. Far too often in games, 
 a previously deadly antagonist is quickly dispatched with the assistance of a conveniently, and 
 improbably, discovered weapon/weakness/bauble. Volition has now avoided that trap for two successive 
 games, and, in spite of the lack of closure, the ending to FreeSpace 2 is as intriguing as the 
 events that transpired before it.  

 As in the original, the story unfolds in FreeSpace 2 through a combination of mission and command 
 briefings, sporadic cutscenes, and, most effectively, through events depicted within actual missions. 
 Gameplay in FreeSpace 2 will be very familiar to Freespace veterans, but there are several significant 
 improvements. You'll still pilot fighters and bombers, but the capital ships in the game have been 
 made considerably more dangerous. The cruisers and destroyers weren't exactly puny in the first 
 game, but they're positively gigantic in FreeSpace 2, and unlike in many space sims, the capital 
 ships are as deadly as their ominous size suggests. Almost all the capital ships in the game are 
 now equipped with powerful beam weapons similar to those that were on the Shivan dreadnought, the 
 Lucifer, in the original game. The main beam weapons are primarily used in battles between capital 
 ships, but most of the larger ships are also stocked with smaller, anti-fighter beam weapons. Capital 
 ships have been decked out in flak cannons as well, which let them make quick work of bombers and 
 fighters foolish enough to wander in range. They are also still equipped with laser turrets and 
 missile silos as in the original game, collectively making capital ships flying fortresses you'll 
 learn to fear.  

 But best of all, the capital ships in FreeSpace 2 aren't relegated to being exotic targets for your 
 bombing runs. Too often in space sims there's very little contact between opposing capital ships. 
 However, in almost every FreeSpace 2 mission capital ships will end up clashing with each other, 
 adding an epic feel to the overall conflict and the individual battles. It's highly entertaining 
 just to sit back and watch these titans pound away at each other, ripping through each other with 
 their tremendous beam weapons. FreeSpace 2 is the first space sim to depict epic capital-ship battles 
 in a manner that both plausibly reflects their importance and demonstrates their raw power in an 
 entertaining fashion.  

 Space-sim sequels will often either just rehash the same ships that were used in previous games 
 (the X-Wing series is obligated to do so because of the Star Wars license) or completely abandon 
 previous models in favor of original designs (as in several of the Wing Commander games) . Neither 
 approach is entirely satisfying. Replaying battles against the same ships you've seen dozens of 
 times before isn't an entertaining prospect, but it also seems difficult to believe that an entire 
 fleet would be redesigned and replaced during the supposedly brief span of time that passes between 
 any two games in a series. After all, our modern navies and air forces are still using craft more 
 than a generation old. FreeSpace 2 takes a credible approach by adding dozens of newer craft without 
 completely abandoning older designs. Older capital ships are still in service, and although they've 
 been retrofitted with modern weaponry, such as beam weapons, they're understandably less effective 
 than newer capital ships that have been designed from the outset to accommodate the latest technology. 
 Fighter and bomber designs have realistically proven to have less longevity, but several of the 
 better ships from the first Freespace do return, at least in some capacity.  

 It would be even less plausible if the Shivans, a race that has effectively stalked through galaxies 
 for thousands of years, redesigned its forces every few years. Accordingly, almost all the Shivan 
 ships encountered in the original game return in FreeSpace 2. But there's no shortage of new Shivan 
 ships either, and their existence is easily justified on the basis that the Terrans and Vasudans 
 only encountered a small portion of the Shivan forces in the original game. Ship design is just 
 another example of how Volition has carefully crafted a believable and constantly engaging gameworld. Another 
 notable addition is the nebula in which you initially encounter the Shivans. The nebula is beautifully 
 depicted and envelops the entire screen, limiting your line of sight and making navigation difficult. 
 Certain areas of the nebula are subject to entertaining but harmless energy flashes, and other 
 areas are prone to EMP pulses that completely disrupt your HUD. The graphics in Descent: Freespace 
 garnered plenty of well-deserved accolades even though they were limited to 640x480 resolution 
 and were consistently quite dark, but FreeSpace 2's graphics are fantastic. A new high-resolution 
 1024x768 option has been added, and 32-bit color depth is supported if you have a capable video 
 card. The game requires 3D acceleration, but it's used to good effect to depict the nebula, beam 
 weapons, flak bursts, and the most impressive explosions yet seen in a space sim.   

 I was concerned that the beam-weapon effects would look incongruous with the other graphics (in 
 the same way that many of the 1970s Star Wars movie rip-offs featured laser-blast effects that 
 looked like they'd been scratched onto finished film prints) , but they look great and blend perfectly 
 with the 3D ship models. Battlefields are reminiscent of some of the more impressive Babylon 5 
 conflicts or scenes from Japanese anime space battles; huge goliaths blast away at each other and 
 hammer at the fighters and bombers that are scrambling in between. Fighters and bombers explode 
 in different ways depending on the instrument that caused their destruction - shattering into small 
 fragments as a result of a direct hit from a flak cannon, being incinerated by a beam weapon, or 
 just colorfully exploding from a hail of missiles. There's plenty of attention to detail in FreeSpace 
 2.  

 Mission design is varied and almost uniformly excellent throughout the game. Objectives change in 
 response to scripted events, and there's plenty of wingmen chatter to further develop the plot 
 and give context to mission events. There are very few missions in the game that are as simple 
 as the "kill all the enemies you encounter" type commonly encountered in space sims. There's almost 
 always a twist or two in each mission, but the missions are beatable and almost never feel puzzle-like 
 as they do in some other games with heavily scripted missions, such as Independence War. FreeSpace 
 2's campaign is linear, but rather than having to play each mission until you succeed, you can 
 skip the ones you've failed five times or more, which should appease gamers who are easily frustrated. 

 The game's interface is virtually unchanged from Descent: Freespace, but if there was ever an appropriate 
 use for the clich&amp; eacute; "if it ain't broke, don't fix it," it's to describe Freespace's outstanding 
 interface. Valuable information that is rarely displayed in space sims, such as the status of craft 
 being escorted, is accessible at a glance. The HUD lets you instantly identify craft that are targeting 
 your ship, the heading of missiles homing in on your ship, and your current target's relative orientation 
 to your ship. The interface used by the Freespace games was clearly designed by experienced space-sim 
 players, and as a result, it's just about perfect. As in the original game, the interface is also 
 completely customizable, and you can even useyour own pilot picture for multiplayer opponents to 
 grow to detest. And force-feedback joystick support gives afterburner thrusts a tangible feel and 
 physically rebukes you for colliding with other craft.  

 While Descent: Freespace promised a plethora of multiplayer features, its multiplayer aspects didn't 
 work well, at least not in the game's initial release. Online lag was a real problem, and Volition 
 was exceedingly optimistic in contemplating 12-player conflicts. But lag is now handled much more 
 effectively, making multiplayer battles a lot more fun, especially if you're fortunate enough to 
 have a high-speed Internet connection. You can find plenty of games to join on the free Parallax 
 Online servers, which also maintain comprehensive pilot statistics records. (Volition actually 
 threw a couple of the pilots who had racked up the most impressive records with Descent: Freespace 
 into one FreeSpace 2 campaign mission.) Even more interesting is the addition of Squad War, another 
 free multiplayer service that lets squads of pilots conquer other squads' territories, ultimately 
 giving you the opportunity to dynamically change the gameworld in a way that massively multiplayer 
 games have yet to permit. Finally, in addition to a lengthy campaign and the multiplayer options, 
 FreeSpace 2 is also packaged with the latest edition of Volition's mission editor, which lets you 
 craft and trade your own missions and campaigns. Very few games offer as much inherent value as 
 FreeSpace 2.  

 All my complaints with the game are relatively minor. Wingmen and enemy AI have improved since Descent: 
 Freespace, but they're still occasionally disappointing, as ships tend to collide with each other 
 too frequently and then seem to become unable to accomplish their objectives. Capital-ship explosions 
 aren't just eye candy and can be deadly to nearby fighters and bombers, but wingmen and enemies 
 seem incapable of effectively dodging such effects. There's also no 800x600 resolution option, 
 which will disappoint Voodoo2 owners in particular. If you don't have a powerful system and a capable 
 video card, you'll have to play at 640x480 resolution, but even that resolution boasts graphics 
 more impressive than those in Wing Commander: Prophecy or Descent: Freespace. The music and sound 
 effects in FreeSpace 2 are both excellent, and 3D sound is well supported, although the game shipped 
 with a bug in the A3D support. Fortunately, DirectSound can be chosen as a viable alternative. 
 FreeSpace 2 is an outstanding game. It retains the outstanding customizability and interface of 
 the original game and presents a more involving story and the best graphics seen in the genre to 
 date. FreeSpace 2 also retains all the gameplay features that worked well in the original game 
 and adds formidable new weapons, 32-bit color effects, and improved mission design. The inclusion 
 of a variety of multiplayer options and a mission editor should also ensure that the game has plenty 
 of longevity. Descent: Freespace was a solid game with the potential to be even greater, and that 
 potential has been fully realized with FreeSpace 2. FreeSpace 2 is a true classic of the genre 
 and one of the best games to be released this year.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CloudZ1116
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, the space sim genre is dead. Freespace 2, originally released back in 1999, could 
 in a way be viewed as the swan song of the genre, with pretty much everything one could ask for 
 in a game. The controls are complicated, as is expected for a space sim, but the game more than 
 makes up for that through a series of tutorials that are very useful for beginning players. Difficulty 
 is adjustable, ranging from the utterly pathetic "very easy" to "insane", which IMO should only 
 be attempted in online coop where your wingmates are actual people. Gameplay is varied, as there 
 is no "standard" mission format. Sometimes it is not possible to complete the mission as originally 
 intended, simply because it fits in the storyline, which is amazing in its own right.
  Any fans of the this game should definitely install the Freespace 2_Open patch, which is freely 
 available from a variety of sources. This open source patch adds souped up graphics that will make 
 full use of your latest GeForce GTX 200 series graphics card, and includes several extremely well 
 made user campaigns, some of which are fully voice acted. Online and LAN multiplayer is also fully 
 supported, with many servers available for play.
  Granted, this game is rather hard to find these days, but if you ever have a chance, get it, because 
 only then can you experience gaming perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I am not new to the Descent world, in fact, I originally owned both Descent and Descent 2, but, 
 unfortunately, I missed out on the Freespace portion of the series. This game was recently released 
 on gog. com and it's worth the $6 price tag. The story is pretty simple, but that can be overlooked 
 by the great customizable control scheme and hud display; although, I would recommend leaving the 
 majority of the control scheme as given; it's as if the developers had most of the right controls 
 in mind.
  
  There are only a few flukes in this game. Obviously, since this game is old, it's not the best 
 looking game out on the market, but it has withstood the test of time in my eyes. The single player 
 portion of the game is pretty short; I beat it within a week, off and on between 30 to 40 minutes 
 at a time. The last major fluke in this game is the lack of multiplayer; if you only download the 
 game and nothing else, then the multiplayer will not work. There are some patches to get it to 
 work, but you may have to dig around on the internet to find them.
  
  This game is still a classic after all of these years and old-school gamers will get a kick out 
 Freespace 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  
  
  The game was incredible when it came out, you play the role of a pilot of a fighter ship and humanity 
 is at war with a race of aliens called the Shivans, and there is a lot of story to unfold before 
 you and the gameplay is terrific. Besides the shoot all enemies type missions, sometimes you have 
 to destroy HUGE battle cruisers and dodge their powerful energy beams which destroy your fighter 
 ship very quickly and the maneuverability of your fighter ship works so well and makes dogfights 
 against enemy ships so exciting.
  
  There is also escort missions, and missions you have to make it through long journeys through space 
 with a group of allies and survive constant attacks from the Shivans.
  
  You use a boost to make your fighter go faster when you want to catch up to enemies or out maneuver 
 them but you need to be careful as if you collide with another ship it does a lot of damageto your 
 shields, and you can automatically set up your fighter speed to match the speed of another fighter, adjust 
 shield strength to different parts of the fighter and the fact your also out there with allies 
 makes missions feel more fun and realistic (they communicate with you for more realism)
  
  The story is about humanity (terrans) were originally fighting an alien race called the Vasudans 
 but another more advanced race called the Shivans showed up who had been conquering entire galaxies 
 for thousands of years and the terrans and Vasudans had to team up to defeat the Shivans.
  
  The terran/Vasudan alliance began to fall apart but the Shivans returned once again so they 
 have to re establish their alliance and and once again fight off the Shivan threat. But there is 
 more to it then that, as you can select optional missions which change how some parts of the story 
 turn out, and there is twists in the story.
  
  The graphics were incredible, the allies ships looked detailed, and the Shivan ships were colorful 
 and highly advanced. The energy weapons you fired looked like they came from a highly advanced energy 
 source, the enemy battle cruisers were absolutely huge and as you flew through space there was beautiful 
 colorful regions of gas clouds too.
  
  The voice acting gave the game a lot of atmosphere, the other pilots communicated with you so you 
 felt like you were on a real mission and during mission briefings you heard a superior speaking 
 to you in a real military tone.
  
  Some of the weapon sounds from the Shivans sounded terrifying but incredible as if you're fighting 
 a race with highly developed, but different technology and the weapon fire sound from your own fighter 
 was clear and explosions and voices of your allies were so loud you felt like you were there.
 
  
  The only thing I didn't like about the game was it's a bit hard sometimes, and very easy for your 
 fighter ship to get destroyed by big battle cruisers and you have to re do the mission and do a 
 lot of work all over again.
  
  But still, if you want to feel what it's like to be a fighter pilot in space here is the game to 
 do it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkybob123
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Well well well......
  
  After finally getting bored with GTA4 (ill plays it again soon) I decided to go thru my cupboard 
 for some old games and what do I find.... FS2.
  
  After praying that it will work on vista... which it does, perfectly, I booted it up for the first 
 time in 4 years.
  
  This game is amazing, once you past the first training missions. Battles are EPIC, action is always 
 fast paced and you don't have to wait for 20 mins travelling to waypoints or hyperspace for a battle.
 
  
  Ships are fun to use and look awesome, and the ability to call in support makes for some good moments 
 when you waiting for those last few missiles to load and there are 20 enemies coming towards you.
 
  
  Capital ships are sufficiently scary to fight but there not impossible to kill, and the way the 
 story unfolds is great.
  
  Graphics wise FS2 still looks great and if you look hard enough there are some mods on the net 
 to give it higher rez textures.
  
  All in all this game is perfect and if you have not played it before, or in a long time, install 
 it and relive some of the greatest moments in game history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpiggy17
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This is, without a doubt, the best space sim ever made. i haven't even finished the game yet, and 
 i already know that. Its predecessor, (The Great War) was a phenomenal game, and kept my interest 
 for 10 years. It wasnt until a few months ago that i even found out a sequel had been made. I wanted 
 it, but it goes for up to $160 bucks for a brand new copy on ebay or amazon. Luckily, i found a 
 guy that apparently didnt know that and bought it for $20. Anyways, i put it in, started it up, 
 and it was awesome. It reminds me a lot of the first game, but there are plenty of improvements. 
 For example, the ability to shoot 2 secondary weapons at once really adds to the gameplay. Especially 
 during bombing runs when you launch 2 ginormous bombs at a destroyer and it makes this unbelievably 
 satisfying explosion. The graphics are updated, and though the game is nearly 9 years old at this 
 point, they are still pretty impressive. I love pretty much every part of this game. The only thing 
 i dont really like is how you change divisions every few missions. I cant keep track of whether 
 im a suicide king or a hammerhead or what. Oh well. I'm definitely looking forward to going through 
 the rest of this game this summer. If you can get your hands on a copy, do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: No_256
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The score for FreeSpace 2 alone is no more than 9.5, but any one who played FreeSpace 1 prion to 
 FS2, will give nothing less than 10.
  
  That extra +0.5 comes from a long, detailed, and very exiting story line. You begin in FS1 as a 
 brand new fighter pilot, you get to fly real junk fighters on partol missions with barely any action.
 
  In fact the beginning of the game is kinda like US Shuttle vs Russian Sozuj. No shelds, barely 
 any armor, primitive weapons. Slow and quiet missions. And only when you discover the aliens, the 
 game starts progressing in panic mode.
  All in all, FS1 is about two fighting interstellar civilizations uniting in the face of total anihilation 
 by an alien fleet consisting of a single destroyer and its escort.
  
  FS2 picks up decades later after FS1's happy end. You begin your carier in a fight agains human 
 dicidents that are condemed by the alliance for their hateful actions agains the Vasudan people 
 (ally alien race from FS1) .
  As the civil war progresses, so does the entangaling story line. In fact the story is so deep and 
 complex, that you feel that you understand what is happening right now, but have no clue of what 
 is about to happen. It's games like this that keep people playing for 16 hours every day.
  
  The technological advances in space ship building are now at par what a Space sim player would 
 expect from a game like that.
  
  In FS1 for example, capital ships served merely as massive defenceless targets that would serve 
 as fighter carriers. Naturally, most missions were about deffending them. 
  In FS2 capital ships are so mean and powerfull that a lot of missions are designed in such a way 
 that when you are done with your objectives you can sit back, relax, and enjoy the scenery as capital 
 ships rip each other appart with super heavy guns.
  
  As you progress the game, you begin to apreciate the realism of the story. As you gain ranks and 
 clearance levels you find out that the alliance spent every day since the end of FS1 in preparation 
 for the return of the aliens. On and on and on. When you though that the mission you just finished 
 was freking awesome, the next mission turns out even more awesome.
  
  Havent played the game in years, but after writing the review, I think Im gona reinstal that bad 
 boy. Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The game is just an The tutorial is just great, where all the basic controls are taught, with both 
 text and audio, then you get a hands-on approach. The tutorials last ---say 10 minutes. 
  The first missions are pretty basic. Escort refugees against small numbers of enemy fighters, but 
 after a few missions, you'll encounter Shivans, and their ships will just make you think "What 
 the hell?" (Certainly that was what a pilot thought during a cutscene, and by the way, the cutscenes 
 are beautiful) . 
  Combat in the game is great. The controls are quick to learn, and layed out extremely well (e. g 
 to increase rear shield ---press down! To 'command' press C!) Dogfights are quick, and later in 
 the game you will participate in huge battles involving nimble fighters, slower bombers and BEHEMOTH 
 sized Cruisers and Flagships. The latter are just huge, and when two approach eachother, prepare 
 yourself for some eye-candy. Flak pour from their guns... hundreds of flak fragments fying everywhere, 
 huge more damaging beams cut through the chips, whilst small beams fire off at fighters. It is 
 just all so amazing. There is little to no battle scripting, so anything can happen. The enemy 
 may destroy one of your ships, and you may have to destroy the cruiser by yourself.
  The graphics are excellent, and a huge modding community can improve visual and gameplay. THe sound 
 is great, and realistic (the aliens speak in their own language, and a robotic translator decifers 
 their message, so you can hear both at the same time. 
  But I still need to mention negative things... all I can mention is the fact that sometimes ships 
 collide very often, even when they are allies and nothing is going on, but that is very minimal. 
 
  Overrall, the game is the best space combat sim I have ever played, and I am sure you will think 
 that too, even if you don't like space sims. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Freespace 2 
  
  Freespace 2 is a very addictive game 
  
  Free space is a very good game and I really enjoy this game a lot I have completed it 4 times and 
 I never get bored of it. 
  
  The game play you are a fighter pilot and you have to destroy the enemy craft that jumps in to 
 the system you are in and destroy them until further orders form command. 
  
  There are very good parts e. g. if you get too close to one of the cruse ship and get to close to 
 the engines it will say engine wash and you ship will shake around and the hull will decrease in 
 strength and you will blow up if you don't get out of the engine wash. 
  
  
  The graphics are very good but if they went back to this game they would improve the graphics even 
 more but I think they are good for the age of this game, the ships are realistic, the weapons systems 
 are very good and you can see the rockets being fired at the enemy. 
  
  The sound quality is very good but you can not hear your engines until you use the high boost button 
 that will get you to your target faster and the only other time you can hear them is when you power 
 up and shut down the engines, 
  
  The weapons sounds are very good and I am happy with this game. 
  
  This game is very addictive 
 and if you don't believe me get this game it is very good 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I've never been a die-hard fan of space combat sims. My previous gaming experience 
 in the genre can be narrowed down to 'Freelancer' and a few Star Wars games. 'Freespace 2' is the 
 game that 'turned me'...
  
  You start out as a rookie pilot, joining the combat fleet of the GTVA - Galactic Terran-Vasudan 
 Alliance, and your initial goal is to defeat the rebel forces of the NTF, the Neo Terran Front, 
 a faction that refuses to accept the so called Beta Aquilae convention, a series of directives 
 that formed the main pillar of the alliance between the Humans and the Vasudans.
  
  Every aspect of space combat is there - shields, beam weapons, laser cannons, mass drive weapons... 
 All ship aspects are yours to command. You will handle energy distribution, shield equalizing, 
 rate of fire, targeting friendly or hostile units, targeting different SUBSYSTEMS of such units. 
 All that, in all fairness, can overwhelm the casual gamer. Don't get me wrong, they'll become natural 
 to you as you progress (you'll instinctively divert energy to your rear shields after a bombing 
 run, for example) , but the different button asignments are, at first, just plain confusing. Thankfully, 
 you'll get plenty of time to get used to them, as the first true difficulties you'll face are from 
 the Shivan campaign forward.
  
  The graphics are pretty convincing, from the beautiful colorful clouds of a supernova, to the blinding 
 light of a nearby sun; from the small explosions of a dumb fire missile, to the huge cataclysm 
 of a Sathanas Juggernaut; all is done in a way that the player trully feels as a pawn in this massive 
 interstellar war. The ship designs are absolutely amazing, especially the massive flagships. Words 
 cannot describe the terror (yes, terror) you feel upon facing the Shivan Sathanas for the first 
 time, and you can almost hear yourself saying "Ha-ha, you're spacetrash now!" upon seeing the Terran-Vasudan 
 Colossus for the first time.
  
  The plot does pretty damned well to immerse you in an 'eternal war' feeling. At first, there's 
 a strange blandness to each mission, as the rebel menace isn't that much of a, well, menace. But 
 later, as the Shivans advance and more and more you get the feeling that the fate of the war is 
 in the wings of your squadron, the game goes into a 'rush-desperation' pace, so much that at times 
 you'll feel absolutely exhausted after a mission, if not frustrated.
  
  ( ***SPOILERS HERE***)
  
  I punched my desk at the outcome of the Knossos portal destruction. 
 There you are, breathing hard after a tiresome mission, thinking the human race is finally safe, 
 only to witness in absolute desperation a Sathanas Juggernaut jumping into the system, not 1000m 
 from your position. Your only hope of surviving this thing is hitting your afterburners and getting 
 the hell out of the way, running back to your base with your tail between your legs. All your work, 
 for nothing... It hits you pretty hard that one.
  
  
  (***END OF SPOILERS***)
  
  My only let down is that there isn't a single character you can relate to. Not a single war buddy 
 that you will miss in case of death, not a single romantic involvement, no human relation to make 
 you feel anything other than a killing machine. Though perhaps that is what the developers wanted 
 it.
  
  The audio is near perfect. Each laser shot sounds unique, each missile sounds unique... There are 
 hundreds of blips, clicks and screeches that further immerse you into a state of 'electronic slavery', 
 in a way. Your get the feeling your life depends on all those bleeps and screeches, and if you 
 ever find yourself without a sound: get smart, something's wrong.
  
  'Freespace 2' is unique in a certain way... It is one of the few games of the genre that makes 
 you forget you're sitting at your home staring at a computer screen. It immerses you in a plot 
 that, despite lacking a bit of substance, does well enough to keep you at the edge of your seat 
 until the final movie.
  
  So go get yourself a copy, put a pillow at your seat, leave a bottle of water next to your monitor 
 and don't stop playing until you've saved all of man-kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Get a joystick and play this game, its great to fight between two massive ships shooting huge lasers 
 against each other, weaving in and out of the laser fire while fighting your own battles against 
 enemy ships!
  Then you get hit by a small anti-fighter laser and your ship spins out of control, you've seen 
 this happen to other ships and they normally blow up soon after! Sometimes you get hit by another 
 one, then another and your died, but if your lucky you might dodge them and live to fight on, heavily 
 damaged.
  
  As a bomber you'll head to your target, flank shacking your ship with lasers skiming by, you get 
 close and release your bombs, pull up and scrape along the ship, the flak is close now and you 
 need to burn thruster yourself away to surive, only to turn around and head back into the fray.
 
  
  I really loved playing this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlindLookout86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Freespace 2 is not just a space sim. It is not just about blasting ships out of space. Actually 
 it is but so much more.
  
  Fisrt thing that strikes you are the complicated controls. The controls literally use almost the 
 entire keyboard.
  
  This is a game with incredible depth. You can match target speed, accelerate, use afterburners, 
 bank, adjust shields, guns and engine power, switch weapon fire rate etc.
  
  Freespace 2 also allows you to issue commands to not just 1 wing (4 pilots) but up to 4 wings of 
 pilots (I think) .
  
  You can order them to attack targets, disable it, rearm your weapons, guard an important target 
 etc.
  
  Each ship has specific subsystems (nav, comm, engine etc.) while larger ships such as Destroyers 
 have mutiple turrets as well. Disabling subsystems/turrets will weaken the ship realistically. 
 E. g. Disabling the engines would mean that ship becomes a sitting duck.
  
  This may all sound a little overwhelming and it did frustrate me a few times but this is a game 
 you need to practice to master. This is definatey not a brainless turkeyshoot.
  
  I recommend remapping the keys to suit you best.
  
  The graphics look dated, obviously compared 
 to newer, shiner games. However, with the open source project comstantly upgrading the FS2 source 
 code, the graphics have improved radically.
  
  Storywise it is the most engaging I have ever experienced. The exposition is relatively light, 
 but the minimal dialouge actually enhances the sense of urgency as in a real battle.
  
  The main plot is not complex but what stands out are the surprises that occur during missions. 
 I will not spoil anything but expect the unexpected in FS2.
  
  Freespace 2 is a masterpiece from IMO the golden age of gaming (Late 90s) . Refreshing to play, 
 it reminds us of how games used to be fun yet challenging instead of the loads of crap we are spoon 
 fed now (by the media i. e. HYPE) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venek
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Without question, this game is the absolute best when it comes to the sci-fi sim genre, and also 
 it's final crowning achievement (sadly) . Everything about this game, the graphics, the atmosphere, 
 moody music, gameplay, and the story all combines to make for one truly enjoyable gaming experience.
 
  
  Let's start with the graphics. To this day, Freespace 2's graphics are still pretty to look at, 
 despite its datedness. The massive capital ships are a sight to behold, and when they shoot their 
 beam weapons, well gee, you just squeal in delight like a little girl. Oh and the explosions! What 
 colors and how satisfying it is. Even better is when a capital ship blows and you can see the shimmering 
 shockwave expanding outwards, and towards you. You do NOT want to be caught in one of those.
  
  Controls: As I have a force feedback joystick, I get to feel the thrill of blasting away at 
 the baddies, feel the knock of a missile slamming into my tail, and the juddering afterburner. 
 The controls are very smooth and intuitive, at least on a joystick that's already has a Freespace 
 2 scheme built in. The keyboard controls can be a bit daunting at first, as there's much to learn. 
 After time, however, it becomes second nature.
  
  Sound &amp; Music: Voice acting is top-notch as is the music which fits the atmosphere of the game 
 perfectly. It really helps to have a sound system with a subwoofer to bring out the explosions 
 and various weapons sounds. You can tell they put a lot of work into this due to the massive amounts 
 of diverse sounds in this game.
  
  Gameplay: The best thing about this game, period. Sure you got the usual search and destroy missions 
 along with protect this escort and other standard missions, but it's HOW these missions are carried 
 out that this game sets itself apart from the others. There are unexpected twists and environments 
 (the famous nebula missions come to mind) that always keep you on your toes. One of my favorite 
 moments is when, at the beginning of the mission, upon exiting subspace (method of long-distance 
 travel in this game) , I am immediately nose-to-nose with a capital ship coming right at me and 
 my squad leader screaming at me to dive. THAT was just so cool. Another great and fun aspect of 
 this game is fighting amongst the capital ships. These guys have teeth, and they use it well. If 
 you're going to bring down one of these boys, you better be packing a lot of firepower, shields, 
 and armor, otherwise you're toast in their flak cannons, anti-ship beam weapons (deadly accurate 
 too) and too many cannon and missile banks for you to keep track of. In general, this game will 
 not bore you, it will frustrate you at times, but most of all, it will entertain you.
  
  In short, there's just not enough good things I can say about this game. Just to give you some 
 idea, I still own the game (and I was extremely lucky to find it in a bargain bin for just $5 before 
 it went out of print) and I'm playing it again now for the umpteenth time.
  
  There's a dedicated group of people out there who have been using the Freespace 2 source code to 
 create their own improvements to the game as well as creating whole new ones. I haven't really 
 looked into it too much as programming and modding is a bit beyond me. This is their website: http://www. hard-light. net/
 
  
  If you're lucky, you might be able to find a legit copy at the Amazon Marketplace or on eBay, but 
 beware of scam artists on eBay. Not sure? Just look at the item location, if it seems bogus... it 
 IS bogus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkingfire
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Freespace 2 is, in a word, awesome.
  
  Even now. Ill admit, I didnt play the game when it first came out, but downloaded it now that 
 the source code has been released to the community (you can download the entire game for free) . 
 Not only that, there is a mod community backing it that is really overhauling all the graphics 
 and campaigns, which is refreshing. The game is incredibly enjoyable, from the first encounter 
 with the shivans to the first time you play a bonus mission that involves you penetrating alien 
 space. You wont forget the DIVE! DIVE! Hit your afterburners, pilot!
  
  There are a wide range of difficulties, from easy, in which you brush off flak without even damaging 
 your shields, to hard, where anti-fighter beams are a real danger. The graphics are enjoyable, 
 though I recommend changing the HUD color in the nebulae missions (its in the options) .
  
  The gameplay is great, its free, and theres a mod community making it even better. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyym
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I have tried to find another game like it. No other game can match how much I enjoyed playing Free 
 Space 2. The controls are great. I can play it with the worst space craft in the game and take 
 1 or 2 hits on very hard difficulty. Free Space was easy once I got the hang of it. If I needed 
 I would replayed the training missions. Most of Free space I didnt have time to think about what 
 I was doing. The main thing was not to panic when I was getting swarmed. I keep on playing it over 
 and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazychazman
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 13, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  First off this game is the best game i've seen in years. It has the right amount of difficulty 
 and is like the first keyboard friendly. This may be a sequel but it beats the first game. The 
 gamesplay is much improved from the first. The HUD has been revamped and is sleeker than the HUD 
 in the first. The wingmen are more intelligent and so are the enemies. The weapons in this game 
 are amazing especially the beam cannons. The ships number to 60 which gives this game diversity. 
 The capital ships are more deadly to fighters and the sheild effects are amazing. The music in 
 this game are better than in the first. The story is easy to get into and the missions are amazingly 
 fun to play. Overall this a great game and the developers should pat themselves on the back for 
 making a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I recently grabbed the Open Freespace game since its free now and it is hard to explain just how 
 much work went into this. Fully redone graphics including AA and new textures along with improved 
 resolution .
  
  You can get a good idea on how much of a great game this is by gamespots review but it still is 
 the best space sim of all time. My score is based on games of today so I can only give it a 8 for 
 graphics but they are still great because of the mod improvements.
  
  The game play is the same as before which is perfect because honestly it was perfect. Sounds have 
 been improved and are still some of the best. This includes everything. Weapons, explosions and 
 even the voice acting is done very well.
  
  The story is one of the best in a game of this type. Its intriguing and would be great for a tv 
 series. And for value well its free and its like 5 games rolled into one so its value is unmatched.
 
  
  This is one of the best games of all time and to have it remade like this is a dream come true. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtj87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  In order to really appreciate this game you should probably play the first Freespace. Otherwise, 
 some things just wont make any sense. The graphics have definitely improved and the skill required 
 to play is way higher than in the first one. You are a human fighting against the alien race that 
 nearly destroyed your planet 30 years ago, but this time you have a weapon thats strong enough 
 to help hold them off and counter their advance, but this time there's more than one major vessel 
 to destroy. Eventually it comes down to these major battles and the chaos is evident with them. 
 One of the downsides to this game is that many of the missions are similar to the ones in the first 
 one, but they go a little more in depth and require you to do a bit more. Other than that this 
 game is great, and definitely the best space fighting sim that you'll be able to find anywhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This is unquestionably the best space flight sim I have ever played. If you can find a copy in 
 the used bin, but it. This is to the space flight sim genre what Final Fantasy is to RPGs. There's 
 just no money to be made in space sims. The game has everything necessary for a great space sim: 
 different alient vessels, customizable weapons, immersing story, difficult missions, in-mission 
 objective changes and plot-twists, excellent acting, great graphics (at the time) , massive (REALLY 
 massive) capital ships, and intuitive controls. I felt like I actually accomplished something after 
 and during each mission, which is tough to do in a video game. Buy it if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sythex
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The first Freespace was bundled with my PC when I bought it an (extremely) long time ago. I found 
 Freespace 2 and I was nothing short of thrilled with the gripping gameplay and the all-around playability. 
 Even in the midst of the next-gen era, this game is simply the most fun game anyone could imagine. 
 I was truly impressed by campaign and it ran along quite a while. I get bored with games very easily 
 and quite often, but I played this game into the late hours of night. It's an obsessive game and 
 even though it is a little dated, you will have the greatest experience with it. It's free now, 
 so give it a try! You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsaito
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then a great title is released that really stands apart from the crowd. Freespace 
 cannot be praised for reinventing the space sim genre, but definetely brings it to perfection.
 
  
  I've reached my 30s and still remember the old days of Wing Commander, which I played from I to 
 V with all special missions. I had never until now found anything close to the WC series when it 
 comes to creating a rich and involving plot with perfect gameplay. Freespace overcomes WC by inhering 
 all the good elements while getting rid of the annoyances.
  
  When Descent Freespace launched in 1998 I didn't pay attention to the launch because I though it 
 was a sequel to the original Descent, which is not my kind of game. Only recently, 8 years afterwards, 
 I've come to realize that Descent Freespace was actually a highly praised space sim.
  
  I then played Freespace 1 (The Great War) , which is great by itself, but I really played it in 
 order to follow the plot that leads into Freespace 2. Freespace 1 is very nice and still highly 
 recommended but Freespace 2 is the one that really shines. Whereas 1 looks rather outdated by today's 
 graphics standards, 2 looks reasonably updated even today. The game shines in all relevant aspects 
 of the genre, including a rich, deep and consistent storyline with a great plot, fantastic voice 
 acting, great ship and weapon designs, near scientific ship and weapon descriptions, articulate 
 dialogs, and of course, excellent graphics, sound effects, physics and overall gameplay. Missions 
 are particularly well conceived and perfectly adeheres to the main plot.
  
  Of special remark are the capital ships action throughout the missions, which makes simply standing 
 by and watching the scene evolve a particular enjoyment in its own.
  
  Highly recommended for anyone that appreciates the genre or anyone that appreciates a game built 
 to perfection with excellency in every detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treelor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  (It's been a while since I've played through the whole game so bear with me, but I'm still playing 
 custom missions so it shouldn't be a problem) .
  
  When I was younger, I remember my dad getting a demo disc with the first Freespace game on it. 
 He was so impressed with it, later that day he picked up the full game. That's what got me into 
 this series. Descent Freespace 2, the sequel to the ground breaking Descent Freespace: The Great 
 War, was even better than the first, even though it has absolutely nothing to do with the original 
 Descent games. With the addition of beam cannons for terran warships, improved graphics and weapon 
 choice, as well as firepower, I have to say the only thing I'm truely disappointed in this game 
 is that Volition didn't bring in a new species, only reintroduced our old foe. Then again, even 
 the Shivians are fun to fight twice in a row.
  
  The graphics for this game were great for it's time, and still are fairly good today, seven or 
 so years later. With the addition of the Source Code Project, by the guys over at Indie Games, 
 the graphics are improved again, with higher poly ships, improved engine effects, lighting, and 
 in the Inferno mod, new beam cannon effects. You can even choose to use cell-shading if you so 
 wish. The weapon effects are great, and you really couldn't tell that the missile poly count is 
 a lot lower than you'd expect untill you see them in 3D on the weapon select screen (3D view only 
 availble in FSOpen as an option) , and even without FSOpen the game is still fairly pretty to look 
 at.
  
  The story of this game is one that once you've played it, you'll remember it forever, especially 
 if you've played the first game. I don't want to give away too much, but all I can say is that 
 you're going to go "Oh crap, we're done. We're done, guys, we're dead." once you get word the Shivians 
 are back, provided you know who they are. The ending is especially brilliant, with a race to the 
 node with the only prize being your life. Even if you don't make it, you've "beaten" the game, 
 with a nice ending cutscene. Speaking of which, if you hate cutscenes in most games, you'll love 
 them after you've played this game.
  
  They even included a mission editor, named FReespace mission EDitor (affectionately dubbed FRED2) , 
 with high functionality, but also a high learning curve, so I recomend only intermediate to advanced 
 users take a look at it, but you've seen great user-made fun such as the Just Another Day 2 campaign, 
 in which you literally battle FRED. Look it up on ModDB. FRED is located in the root FS2 directory.
 
  
  The multiplayer is also very nice, even though it's impossible to play it anymore. Still, relatively 
 no lag. Not much to say anymore though.
  
  As with every review, I feel obligated to find something bad about the game. If you don't like 
 space-sims, steer clear of this one. It takes space games to a whole new level. Also, if you're 
 an original Descent lover, and try to think of Freespace as one of those games, good luck loving 
 this one. Apart from that.. I really can't think of anything wrong with this game. Highly reccomended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Freespace 2 surpasses its predecessor and is simply amazing. My only complaint about the game is 
 that my wingmen were too good sometimes, and took out some targets I was looking forward to eliminating. 
 This is my only complaint about the entire game. Otherwise the single player experience was simply 
 amazing. 
  
  Great sound, immersive flight, playing this thing at night with headphones on was a huge waste 
 of of my sleeping hours. Even more impressive is that this game was released in 1999. 
  
  I sadly have not tried multiplayer so I can't comment as of yet. 
  
  Buy it if you see it!!! 
 Although if you most likely already own it. This game still surppasses many of the newer games, 
 the few that have been released. We need more space sim games!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltank
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  I have played this game through several times and still love it. It has a perfect balance of gameplay, 
 visuals (still good even now) , enveloping sound and a very epic and memorable storyline.
  
  Any fan would want the sequel but as it stands now, sometimes you just can't make a sequel to something 
 you've made to perfection. An update to the series would be a dream for many people and hopefully 
 the people that will work on it will not botch it up, a lot of people would depend on them and 
 the results they bring.
  
  Freespace 2 is probably my favourite game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Zealot
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Freespace 2 is in a nutshell, a Freespace 1 with all its faults fixed. If you dont like flight 
 sims, you wont like Freespace. But, if youve ever enjoyed X-wing, Ace Combat, Wing Commander, 
 or anything to do with fighter planes, this is for you.
  
  Freespace 2 starts off several years after Descent Freespace. Over the years, technology has improved, 
 and Volition accurately shows that. The GTVA fleet is made up of new fighters, though the best 
 of the last gen fighters are still being used. (Though they too, are being phased out)
  
  Volition does a great job of showing the traits of the different factions. The NTF uses older fighter 
 designs, and generally does massed attacks. NTF pilots seem to be more aggressive than GTVA counterparts. 
 Terran fighters continue to be more all-purpose, and their mission styles reflect that. The Vasudans 
 however, have more single purpose ships, normally having lighter armor and increased speed over 
 Terran ships. 
  
  One other enhancement is the beam canons and flack guns on Capital Ships. No longer are they just 
 gunboats with a tendency to miss. The huge, Lucifer like Beam Canons look and feel powerful and 
 great. Its fun to just sit and watch a duel of destroyers. Flack canons are also a welcome addition. 
 Theyre pretty much anti fighter canons, and theyre deadly in this aspect. They can take down 
 flights of bombers with ease, and they also shoot down incoming bombs. These make destroyers rightfully 
 feared of, and the huge battles look majestic overall. It reminds of Star Wars battles, and it 
 never disappoints.
  
  The campaign itself is wonderful, with branching missions and a great plot, which leaves you wondering 
 about the end of the conflict until the conclusion. There are now some new optional missions too, 
 and these grant you elite materials for use later in the game. There is also a more difficult extra 
 campaign, called Templar, which shows the destruction of the Hammer of Light.
  
  Whats also included is an enhanced FRED editor, so you now truly have a great mission editor. 
 The instructions are fairly easy to understand, so its possible to make great single player (or 
 multi player) missions or even campaigns.
  
  One other enhancement is the beam canons and flack guns on Capital Ships. No longer are they just 
 gunboats with a tendency to miss. The huge, Lucifer like Beam Canons look and feel powerful and 
 great. Its fun to just sit and watch a duel of destroyers. Flack canons are also a welcome addition. 
 Theyre pretty much anti fighter canons, and theyre deadly in this aspect. They can take down 
 flights of bombers with ease, and they also shoot down incoming bombs. These make destroyers rightfully 
 feared of, and the huge battles look majestic overall. It reminds of Star Wars battles, and it 
 never disappoints
  
  This is my favorite flight sims of all time, and it rightfully deserves its flight sim of the year.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  I had this game with my Joystick software bundle. It was only Freespace 2 Colossus. What a great 
 game. The best space sim ever made and that's very the truth. I had the change to purchase this 
 game via a friend and I'm so excited to have in my collection. I will play it on my old system 
 too because the specs for the system are way below of the new gen. games. 
  I like the sounds, the graphics and above the game-play. Love it!!!
  Why will there not be a 
 game like this on the market? A shame, Freelancer is good but in no way so good like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardLau
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Once I entered the main menu, I thought "Woah, now that is an animated menu". Men used elevators, 
 fighters flew outside, and when I hover my mouse over a section, it would animate e. g operator 
 turns around.
  
  OK, enough with the menu. The game is just an The tutorial is just great, where all the basic controls 
 are taught, with both text and audio, then you get a hands-on approach. The tutorials last ---say 
 10 minutes. 
  The first missions are pretty basic. Escort refugees against small numbers of enemy fighters, but 
 after a few missions, you'll encounter Shivans, and their ships will just make you think "What 
 the hell?" (Certainly that was what a pilot thought during a cutscene, and by the way, the cutscenes 
 are beautiful) . 
  Combat in the game is great. The controls are quick to learn, and layed out extremely well (e. g 
 to increase rear shield ---press down! To 'command' press C!) Dogfights are quick, and later in 
 the game you will participate in huge battles involving nimble fighters, slower bombers and BEHEMOTH 
 sized Cruisers and Flagships. The latter are just huge, and when two approach eachother, prepare 
 yourself for some eye-candy. Flak pour from their guns... hundreds of flak fragments fying everywhere, 
 huge more damaging beams cut through the chips, whilst small beams fire off at fighters. It is 
 just all so amazing. There is little to no battle scripting, so anything can happen. The enemy 
 may destroy one of your ships, and you may have to destroy the cruiser by yourself.
  The graphics are excellent, and a huge modding community can improve visual and gameplay. THe sound 
 is great, and realistic (the aliens speak in their own language, and a robotic translator decifers 
 their message, so you can hear both at the same time. 
  But I still need to mention negative things... all I can mention is the fact that sometimes ships 
 collide very often, even when they are allies and nothing is going on, but that is very minimal. 
 
  Overrall, the game is the best space combat sim I have ever played, and I am sure you will think 
 that too, even if you don't like space sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phazon78
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece
  Pronunciation: 'mas-t&r-"pEs
  Function: noun
  Definition: A work done with extraordinary skill.
  
  Webster has basically summed up what I 
 had trouble with. Freespace 2 is the followup to Descent Freespace. It is also a primary example 
 of the correct way to make a game.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Freespace to has everything to immerse you in its story and more. This is the kind of game you 
 stay up until the God-awful hours of the morning playing. The controls, though difficult to learn, 
 are smooth as butter once you get used to them and customize them for yourself.
  
  Graphics:10
  Incredible. Though dated, Freespace 2 put out the kind of graphical quality that 
 keeps people coming back for more. With capital ships the size of city blocks with the graphical 
 quality to see each individual window, it amazes me that this game is older than 7 years.
  
  Sound: 10
  Volition took the time to custom create sound FX for Freespace. I'd say it paid 
 off pretty well. Each engine of each ship has a custom sound to it. From the high scream of an 
 interceptor, to the faint hum of a recon, to the bass growl of a heavy bomber. Simply amazing.
 
  
  Value: 10
  I've had this game for 6 years. I still play it don't I?
  
  Freespace is a tremendous game that deserves respect and recognition. Unfortunately, it just couldn't 
 muster up any of those things. That is why it will go down as a forgotten gem of a game. And that's 
 a damn shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indigo_Blues
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  There are so many things that I could say about Freespace 2, but I'll try to make it short. 
  
  Freespace 2 is just great. Set three decades after the first Freespace, this took it to the 
 next and last level of the series. 
  
  Gameplay was absoluetly awesome. Starting out as a rookie like pilot, doing your training, and 
 going all the way up to destroying capital ships, and taking on huge squadrons of Shivan fighters. 
 You had a arsenal of fighter/bombers to choose from, and handfuls of weapons to load them out with. 
 
  
  The storyline was in-depth and epic. It was presented very professionally and clean. Always a briefing 
 before most of the missions, never leaving you in the dark on what is going on in the game.
  
  Graphics and sounds were top-notch for it's time, and still is. Awesomely detailed ships. From 
 fighters to capital ships with individual turrets, missile launchers, lights and whatever else 
 you could throw in. Backgrounds with nebulae, stars and planets made it that much better. Great 
 sound effects from ship engines, capital ship beam cannons, explosions and others wer all great.
 
  
  I have to say there were some flaws. Campaign was a bit straight line and long, only being a couple 
 places to take special missions or off storyline missions. AI wingmen collisions would get irritating 
 when commanding them. Logging in to the PXO lobbies to play online was a bit tedius, sometimes 
 taking a while to get in.
  
  All in all this game was great. My all time favorite over any game I have played so far, and none 
 so far have come close to it. If you like Sci-FI or space sims that are straight action with great 
 stories, this is for you. It is a game that has aged greatly since it's release. And with the Open-Source 
 revamp that has made everything look/sound even better, it is great to play again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkyforce
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  with the "SCP" mod the game keep being in the groove, and the "battlestar galactica" mod that its 
 meant to be even better that the official game of the TV series.
  
  I've played since volition released Descent Freespace. First I was impressed by the amazing graphics 
 and surrounding atmosphere, it was a very playable game too. The storyline made it one of the best 
 games I ever played. The Sequel was even better: another outstanding storyline and a smart planning 
 of the campaign made this game worth of playing all the hours that it takes to complete, beyond 
 the great graphics, sounds and go on...
  
  The fact it's that some of those players couldn't help to rescue this masterpiece from the past, 
 and make one of the most worked mods ever made, SCP. 
  
  Freespace 2, it's not a classic it's almost a release!!
  
  
  Simply Flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  I have played many space simulators before but this game takes the cake and eats it right in front 
 of their faces.
  
  Freespace 2 (FS2) , even after these many years, still plays as good as it looks. In this game, 
 you'll find some of the most coolest and most functional looking fighter craft you will ever see. 
 Freespace 2 also has brought back the friendly training grounds from Freespace 1 (FS1) . Freespace 
 2 also expands on the your typical training and the interface and HUD returns from Freespace 1. 
 Everything comes together in a nice package for you armchair pilots. Also new are the fighter weapons 
 and missles for the nice new shiny ships. In FS1, the missles were nice to look at but in FS2 the 
 new ships takes multiple swarming missles to the next level. Same goes for the lasers and other 
 weapons. FS2 also upgraded their capital ships - big time. So far, I haven't seen any game that 
 has had larger capital ships than FS2. However, we all know that bigger sometimes isn't necessarily 
 better so this time around, FS2 brings in the big guns with the capitol ships in the form of flak 
 cannons.
  
  Whoever developed FS2 has been watching alot of Robotech and Macross. There are many other games 
 of this type that try to convey what it is like to attack a real capitol ship but FS2 redefines 
 this meaning. It makes you feel the adrenaline rush of attacking a ship that is not only enormous 
 in size but enormous in firepower making Star Destroyers look like toys in comparison. When your 
 fighter goes head-to-head with a capitol ship, you'll realize how much harder and scarier it is 
 trying to drop your torpedos in a thick cloud of flak and never seems to run out of patrol fighters 
 from its bay. And it doesn't stop there. The real beauty comes out when more than one capitol ship 
 goes head-to-head and you first realize some of the most craziest firepower you will witness happens 
 between two super-class ships by releasing grand cannon beams thicker than a squad of ships. It 
 is frightening yet thrilling to see these fatal beams obliterate waves of ships just a few yards 
 next to you. After playing for only an hour, I thought Freespace 1 should no longer be called the 
 "Great War". Freespace 2 outdoes its predecessor in every way possible and making other games of 
 this type look stupid in comparison especially when comparing the dogfighting experiences. FS2 
 also has missions that branch into other missions at some limited level but the missions themselves 
 are very well designed and flow well with the game. Some of the missions are nerve racking but 
 thrilling. There is even a mission (if played right) where you are undercover and your wingmen 
 discover your background and they actually become enemies. The story is well written and the cutscenes 
 are a joy to behold... but not as much as observing and closing in on swarms of ships and destroyers 
 going at it from afar.
  
  Wait. There's more.
  
  FS2 has the ability to create your own missions. This time the mission tools are much easier to 
 use. The triggers are also much easier to create especially when using scripted sequences in a 
 mission. FS2 also has a very stable multiplayer that is even more fun when playing with 2 or more 
 players. You can try your hand at creating a mission and have your friends try to challenge it. 
 FS2 has great replayability and because the graphics and art direction seem timeless, the game 
 doesn't seem like a game that was created back in '99.
  
  If you're into Wing Commander, X-Wing, or anything slightly related to space sims. You owe to yourself 
 to buy this game and add it to your collection. For those who've bought Thrustmasters, Flight Sticks, 
 and other joysticks that have 500 buttons on them, it makes use off all the geeky stuff and thensome. 
 If you're a real PC gamer that likes games like X2 and X3. Buy this game. 
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Ice
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  It is very rare that a sequel arrives at the same level of its predecessor... but Freespace 2 is 
 something that almost never ever happens: its better than the first game!
  It has higher resolution, better graphics, more intense fighting, greater variation of ships, excellent 
 plot twists, very good voice acting, different endings, excellent sound effects - even though technically 
 in space there is no sound...
  I have the gold edition, which has a few extras, nothing really ground shaterring but is nice to 
 have it all in one package.
  Loved the open ending, because the story isn't over yet. We still don't know if the shivans are 
 sentient beings or just tools in a greater design.
  I hope there will be a Freespace 3 at some point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  One awesome game I have ever played. Haven't played many outer space games like this and there 
 isn't many also. But this is one is absolutely superb. Once again I love the story of this game 
 the first one was good as well the graphics remain the same in both the games. The weapons and 
 ships are also well designed and they all are related thats the best part about this game. Volition 
 release Red Faction and some other games after releasing this but this is the best comparing to 
 all of those. I really don't know why did they stopped developing the third game of this since 
 they can continue the story easily and this time with more graphics. Best games Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Freespace has been one of the best series in creating scripted events. Easily comparable to those 
 from Call of Duty or Brothers in Arms, this game redfines the genre. Offering many different crafts 
 and weapons, players can easily find this game enjoyable.
  
  Many elements from Freespace 1 have been left unchanged, but many have been changed as well. While 
 many ships from the first game have survived, there area plethora of new capital ships and fighters, 
 giving players a fresh new look to see. Capital ships are even deadlier now, carrying beam weapons, 
 flak guns, and a variety of other weapons that make them flying fortresses that are not so easily 
 destroyed any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Dated? I don't think so... Just played it again (Feb 2006) on a top notch gaming rig and it still 
 looks great and plays great. Top Notch voice acting, story, and game play. It's like a Hollywood 
 production instead of a game. Makes me want to play the Wing Commander series all over again. 
 
  
  Absolutely a first class game that makes me which a developer would the title up and continue the 
 tale. I want to see them make it back to Earth... they found the gate stabilizing technology to 
 re-open a portal in FS2... There really needs to be a FS3 to finish this story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian1480
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Descent Freespace 2 does what most games never successfully do. Follow up a brilliant game with 
 an even more brilliant sophomore offering.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -Everything. And I mean that. Everything that Descent: Freespace - The Great War did well, it does 
 it even better. The controls are tight, the sounds are just as good, the graphics are sharper, 
 cleaner and crisper, the fighting is more intense, the situation even more perilous. 
  
  THE BAD:
  -No multiplayer. Other than that, i can find no fault with this game.
  
  This game 
 is the standard to which I measure all future flying games. It is that good. It's a shame the breed 
 is dying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: God-Dragon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  too bad that freespace 2 is the only one left they should try to make a freespace 3 that way people 
 could get back into the game. i miss not being able to play the game with out having a older computer 
 but this is so a worth wild game to play. becasue i need a game like this to play. this game is 
 too much to explain and i did find a demo to play so far i am still downloading it but i am so 
 hoping to get it up and running. people should band to gether and get the company to make another 
 freespace get the shevens back or even another bigger threat.
  
  over all they so need another FREESPACE game and i vote that the rateing of 9.4 be changed to a 
 perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyReNiUsX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  Literally. If you haven't played it, your life is worth considerably less. Greatest game ever? 
 Possibly. Greatest space sim? Bring it on.
  
  Now... to fulfil the 100 word minimum rule, I will further elucidate the extent to which this game 
 owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  
 Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  
 Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  
 Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  Freespace owns.
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:12 am PT
Review:  Wow... just wow. I managed to find a place to download Freespace 2. I loved this game when I played 
 it several years ago and I was so overwhelmed when I found out that a bunch of modders have updated 
 the graphics in what is called the Freespace 2 "Source Code Project".
  This game would have to be the most exhilerating combat sim to ever be released (and i'm talking 
 about up to the present day here) . After a quick briefing on your mission objectives, you are immediately 
 sent into the fray. Now imagine yourself warping into the emptiness of space with beautiful nebulas 
 and planets surrounding you. A missile-lock sensor starts blaring and you snap out of your daze 
 and back into reality. You blast your engines at full throttle, swing your ship hard right, and 
 eject a few countermeasures to distract the oncoming warheads. This maneuvre succeeds and you line 
 yourself up with the enemy and unleash the wrath of your cannons on his hull. As you weave through 
 the shards and flaming wreckage of his ship you encounter a truly amazing sight. Two five-kilometre 
 long capital ships are ploughing full-speed towards each other with plasma and flak cannons streaming 
 from their hardpoints. As soon as they are in range you see energy gathering at several points 
 on each ship. All of a sudden, gigantic beams tear through space and into the hulls of the opposing 
 ships, inflicting massive damage on each other. Initially it would appear that these two behemoths 
 were playing chicken with each other if it was not for the sudden evasive maneuvres they take. 
 They glide elegantly alongside each other and begin to unleash even more 'law and order' on each 
 others hulls.
  Meanwhile, you are just sitting there thinking "****!!! why aren't I getting some of this action!" 
 and you ignite your afterburners and join the orgy of the fragging and the dying and the kung-fu-fighting 
 mGRAAVen!!
  Don't be fooled however, this is not some spoiler for the eclectic finale to the game, this is 
 only the BEGINNING of ONE mission and there are around thirty more which goes to show how much 
 pure pwnage this game dishes out.
  
  The game is playable with a mouse but is so much more with a joystick in hand. While this game 
 is a sim and, consequently, has an innumerable amount of button commands, this adds to the overall 
 depth and detail of the game. You can do anything from control the power levels of your shield, 
 engine and weapons systems to managing the tactics of your fellow wingmen.
  
  The plot of Freespace 2 does follow military-style campaigns, but don't let that scare you. The 
 brilliant voice acting and the general 'flow' of the missions is enough to keep you enticed for 
 "just a little bit longer" (a mental phrase familiar to many gamers... Civ 4 anyone?) . On a side 
 note, some of the voices are from well known actors such as Ronny Cox (Stargate SG1) , Robert Loggia 
 (Independence Day, Scarface) and Kurtwood Smith (Deep Impact) .
  
  The original graphics of this game were never anything revolutionary, and rightly so because this 
 game, compared to many games of the present era, does not rely on  
 graphics to give you an extra thrill. Thanks to the Source Code Project, this game has had a refreshing 
 makeover which includes hi-res textures for all ships so now there is no excuse to scoff at ancient, 
 pixelated graphics.
  
  The sounds of Freespace 2 are nothing short of spectacular and, when combined with the huge scale 
 of the space battles and the frenetic action that just keeps going and going, you know you're playing 
 a game that was designed with quality as the highest priority (instead of money) . It's such a pity 
 that this game was not given more advertising promotion because it is easily one of the greatest 
 classics that have graced the 1's and 0's of PC hard drives around the world.
  Now, enough of my emphatic fanboyisms. GET THIS GAME NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  OVERALL: This is the game, I wanted it from its mention and I still enjoy it playing. Completely 
 different from other similar games and very innovative in many ways.
  
  GAME PLAY: One of the reasons, why is this game so good, is in fact that psychics are quite real 
 here. For example: in other games, where you are near the huge ship, that was about to explode, 
 nothing happened to you; but in this game, when ship explodes, you better stay clear of it - because 
 there will be shock wave and blast wave, that will damage your ship, which is quite logical (nuclear 
 reactor + weapons fire = huge nuclear reaction; it depends on the size of ship) ; it will also shake 
 your ship: but that can also occur, if the enemy ship fires on you. Next thing is, that when you 
 will be in nebula, there will be EMP storms, which are particularly annoying.
  
  The story itself is again the war between humans, Shivans (bad guys) and Vasudans, that are allies 
 of the humans (Terrans) . Of course, there will be an    internal war   boost you with courage  
  sticky situation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saKhan_McInn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Freespace 2 is one a great game of any standard and is the elite in the space simulator world. 
 Even the best in the X-Wing series ever came close to making such a great game. The great variety 
 of ships and armaments offers a vast array of different battles to keep any player satisfied.
 
  
  The graphics are spectacular for its era and even today it could stand up to the latest games in 
 stores. Freespace 2 does a great job in making you, the pilot in your fighter a small, insignificant 
 whelp compared to the massive destroyers seen in the game. Some are as long as 6km (3.73 miles) . 
 The lighting and detail quality on the ships is also the best of the best for its era that is only 
 matched by the detail on the many lasers and missiles available. One of the highlights of this 
 game is when two or more large ships battle it out. Theres laser and missiles being thrown back 
 and forth but what packs a punch are turbolaser like turrets that shoots a giant constant beam 
 to rip through an enemy ship. The destruction of a giant ship feels nearly cinematic as debris 
 flies everywhere not to mention the giant explosion that cause everything near it to go critical. 
 Sound quality is top notch with great voice acting, engaging fight sounds (lasers pewing, missiles 
 exploding) .
  
  Freespace 2 has one of the most original and in-depth stories any game has or could offer. 
  
 The story is so good that at times you just want to finish a mission just to see what happens next. 
 There are many twists and surprises along the way to keep you on the edge of your seat and help 
 make the game more enjoyable.
  
  There is much variety of combat in this great game. Whether youre flying through a nebula or an 
 asteroid field, conducting a raid or assaulting a huge destroyer you always feel that youre doing 
 something new each mission. The main thing I enjoy of this game is that there is always a bigger 
 ship to protect or destroy you and your wingman. Theres always the sense of being part of a bigger 
 objective. This is help achieved by the in depth briefing prior to every mission that informs the 
 player of the importance and the damage it will do to your vile enemies as well as your objectives.
 
  
  Freespace 2 deserves its place in Gamespots Greatest Games of All Time. This is the game that 
 you buy a joystick for. If youre a space sim fan who hasnt bought Freespace 2 yet what are you 
 waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camcanr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is the best game i've ever played in my life. When ever my computer breaks its the 
 only reason i wana fix it. I'm quite suprised It was made in 1999. The graphics and the sound f-x 
 are so stunning. And once you think about the engine, like how each and every fighter knows what 
 to do and the game never has to take a pause during game play to load and catch up, I'm givin it 
 a total 10.0 on graphics. And one thing I hate in some games, wich game doesent have, is missions 
 that take an hour and a half and those little in game (or somtimes not to little) movies. And the 
 real, not in game movies, Are fantastic!!! 
  The best are the Intro, The Bastions Sacrifice and End Game, The Cappella Catastrthy. And another 
 good thing is time it takes to play. It takes 23 hours in total but it is intresing because the 
 story keeps unravling. I can't wait till #3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richard_price47
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  First thing i must say is that this game would have got 10/10 from me, but because i love Final 
 Fantasy 7 so much i couldn't EVER give a game the same score as that perfect piece of RPG gaming. 
 
  
  If there is but one thing to say about this game it's that it is unique and absolutely brilliant 
 compared to everything else in its genre. Every aspect of the game just fits so well with the others 
 that it's hard to believe that it's a sequel. Even if you owned the original you will not be disappointed. 
 The combat is spot on, striking just the right balance between arcade fun and realism (in a sense, 
 it IS in space after all) . The graphics are astounding. Watching two capital ships going at it 
 with the immensely powerful beam cannons is simply awe-inspiring and also terrifying to watch. 
 You really do get a sense of scale in this game, as the capital ships are absolutely massive compared 
 to your miniscule fighter. Not only is the gameplay perfect, Freespace 2 does something few in 
 its genre manage. It actually has a credible story to back up all the shooting. A space sim with 
 no back story just becomes a series of inconsequential and repetitive dogfights. However, not so 
 in this game. The immersive and thrilling tale of the struggle of the Terrans and Vasudans aginst 
 the seemingly unstoppable Shivans is so brilliantly told, that every battle becomes significant, 
 every comrade lost a terrible tradgedy. This twisting and compelling story will have you gripped 
 right until its thrilling, and somewhat surprising (yet brilliantly realised) ending. It is this 
 more than anything else that propels Freespace 2 beyond the realms of a decent space sim into the 
 masterpiece of gaming that it surely should be recognised as. It may be old now, but in my opinion 
 it is the best PC game money can buy. If nothing else, this game revolutionised its genre and set 
 the bar about a million miles higher than anything foolish enough to follow in its perfectly blasted 
 footsteps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandallFlagg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I used to build models of Star Wars spacecraft in my youth. And every now and then, I'd come across 
 someone looking at what I'd built and say, "THAT doesn't look like the real thing."
  I'd just back away slowly, smiling.
  
  Freespace 2 is a space combat simulator in the best 
 sense of the genre. The physics aren't exact like they are on the Independence War series -although 
 that was a really good game as well. But this oversight will be rendered moot when you begin this 
 adventure. 
  
  The storyline has been covered in the GS review and subsequent ravings about the game. The most 
 recent is by Matthew Rorie in his, "Greatest Games of All Time," editorial. However, let me add 
 that the timing of the missions combined with outstanding voice acting by veteran actors Robert 
 Loggia (Independence Day (1996) .... General William Grey) , Ronny Cox (Total Recall (1990) .... 
 Vilos Cohaagen) , Kurtwood Smith ("That '70s Show" (1998) TV Series .... Reginald "Red" Forman) , 
 Stephen Baldwin, and others make it an even more dramatic game that I originally thought. There's 
 also the fact that if you do some things different in certain missions, the future missions will 
 change. Dynamic plot direction is another addition to the already fun game.
  
  The visuals are top of the line for the era that this game was released. That said, they still 
 look pretty darn sharp. The one thing that the creators did was use the concept of the vastness 
 of space to their advantage. The capital ships are big. Really big. Almost the size of a small 
 moon in comparison to your little fighter as you're running from multiple enemy ships. These big 
 ships have bite as well. The addition of enormous beam and flak cannons makes you well aware of 
 how deadly they are -and compel you to hit your boosters to get out of Dodge! Also, the ship's 
 architecture differences when compared to the races that built them shows the mighty separation 
 of the cultures. The human ships look blocky and functional, but not very showy. The Vasudan vessels 
 look sleek and serene as they travel across the stars. The Shivan ships look sharp, dark and menacing; 
 almost hungry for combat.
  
  The audio also is a wonder to behold. When a flak cannon opens up on you, you hear the flak eject 
 from the guns, then you hear a thunderous booming as the projectiles slam into your shields. When 
 a capital ship exits from a hyperjump near your ship, it sounds like an enormous windstorm just 
 arrived on your shoulders. And when you gain upgrades to your weaponry, your guns and missiles 
 sound eager to wipe out every object in their way. 
  
  The control setups are easy to learn and the AI isn't too shabby, either. However, my personal 
 preference is with a flight stick (Saitek Cyborg) . Targeting friendlies, enemies, primary and secondary 
 objectives are done with ease.
  
  Then, there's FRED. A mission creator that is so easy to use. As easy as MS Paint. Almost.
  Then, 
 there's the cutscenes. The nebula battles. The covert missions in captured enemy ships.
  I could go on, but I'm going to play this again. Get this game. They don't make them like this 
 anymore.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolieWool
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 27, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  It's only very rarely that a game like FreeSpace 2 comes out -- a game so where everything clicks 
 so well that it's hard to imagine a better game. This 3-disc behemoth (more than 1.2 gigs all up) 
 is the best space sim game ever, the zenith of a sadly dying breed. FreeSpace 2 is, simply put, 
 a truly awesome game that is still the game to beat in the space sim genre six years later. It 
 is also a sad illustration of how lack of publicity can doom not only an otherwise great game, 
 but an entire genre of games.
  
  FreeSpace 2 is the sequel to the 1998 space sim Descent: FreeSpace: The Great War, and is set more 
 than thirty years later, in the year 2367. You are a fighter pilot with the Galactic Terran-Vasudan 
 Alliance. The Terrans (humans) and Vasudans have solidified the tentative alliance they formed 
 in the first game to fight the xenocidal Shivans, and are slowly picking up the pieces from the 
 loss of both the loss of both races' homeworlds to the Shivans. In the game, you will fight the 
 Neo-Terran Front, a Terran-supremacist separatist group, and the Shivans, who have returned to 
 finish the GTVA off. The plot is deep and complex, and a pseudo-alliance between the NTF and the 
 Shivans is slowly revealed as the game progresses, culminating in the Shivans abducting NTF leader 
 Admiral Aken Bosch and taking him away as a GTVA strike force attempts to arrest Bosch and capture 
 his ship.
  
  FreeSpace 2's gameplay is brilliant. The framerates are smooth, the physics are refined if completely 
 unrealistic, and the balance spot-on. The Shivans, while technologically superior to the other 
 forces and difficult to defeat, never have an unfair advantage, and the allied forces likewise 
 never have it too easy for them, except in the ridiculously easy first mission (protect the heavily 
 armed Vasudan freighters against outdated NTF rustbucket fighters) .
  
  The game has more than 90 ships and a dazzling array of weapons, and every ship or weapons has 
 its own strengths, weaknesses, and uses. You'll invariably develop a preference for a certain ship, 
 be it the nimble GVF Serapis or the gun-heavy GTF Erinyes. The game's missions present a huge variety 
 of scenarios, so you'll have to get the hang of almost all the tools at your disposal -- using the 
 same loadout every time is a recipe for death.
  
  The missions are all fun, except for a couple of "proving grounds" missions where you test a largely 
 useless stealth fighter and a "TAG missile" that makes nearby capships shoot at the whatever it 
 hits. Particularly memorable are the second set of SOC spy missions, a pair of missions that put 
 you behind Shivan lines. The SOC missions are difficult, harrowing, and sometimes terrifying. If 
 you're not man enough to play them, you can always decline the missions and continue with the main 
 story.
  
  Multiplayer is now only available on LAN, as the Parallax Online network that supported the internet 
 play is dead. The FreeSpace 2 Source Code project (www.3dap. com/hlp/fsscp) has created a new network 
 for its FS2_Open freshening of FreeSpace 2, available free from their website. Be warned that the 
 engine and redone content are a hefty download.
  
  The graphics were top-notch in 1999 and still look good. Your tiny fighter is dwarfed by monstrous 
 capital ships that can be several miles long. Unlike capships in other sims, FS2's caps have a 
 bite to match their bark, packing monstrous beam cannons that can instantly disintegrate your ship. 
 If you don't take advantage of your fighter escort during a bombing run on a capship, you WILL 
 die. The weapon effects are beautiful, especially the huge beams thrown around by the capital ships. 
 The scenes of capital ships shredding each other with their main beams are so dramatic that you'll 
 gape in awe of the ships' terrible power.
  
  The sounds are uniformly excellent, especially the sounds of the beam cannons, which sound every 
 bit as destructive as they are. The voice acting is of high quality, using some actors you may 
 recognize from movies and TV. Especially good are Admiral Bosch's monologues, which paint him as 
 a believable, very human nemesis who really believes what he's doing is right. The music is also 
 great, especially the tracks with choir vocals in them. The music sets the mood of each mission 
 well and never grows stale.
  
  Alas, FreeSpace 2 is not easy to find nowadays. The game had virtually zero publicity, and didn't 
 sell well because hardly anyone heard about it. FreeSpace 2 barely broke even, and probably doomed 
 the space sim genre to obscurity. In recent years, it has developed a thriving fanbase and a project 
 to revamp the game's source code to current-day standards. The "Collector's Edition" rerelease 
 costs about 30 dollars, but original copies of the game are highly sought after and sell for upwards 
 of $150, three times the game's original price.
  
  FreeSpace 2 remains the pinnacle of the space sim genre. Although it never received the publicity 
 and success it deserved, it has belatedly become a classic. If you like the idea of flying a starfighter 
 like in Star Wars, you must get this game. FreeSpace 2 just plain rocks.
  
  What's Hot: Brilliant graphics, gameplay, sounds everything
  What's Not: Multiplayer system is 
 now dead, can be hard to find
  Also Try: Descent: FreeSpace, Wing Commander Prophecy, Freelancer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amalgamation
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2005 6:02 am PT
Review:  When you look at the entire Descent series, each game is legitimately great on many different levels. 
 Descent was practically the first true-3D game to hit the market and was a milestone in gaming 
 history; Descent 2 took the concept with more enemies, items, options, and better audio/video; 
 Descent 3 was like a Doom 3 for its series, overhauled graphics, more intense action, basic overkill 
 on everything; Descent FreeSpace took the series into wide open space, introducing space combat 
 that never ceases to please the average person, along with some great graphic and sound effects; 
 and now, the latest evolution of the Descent series, FreeSpace 2. Expanding upon the original in 
 almost every way, FreeSpace 2 continues the story about the Terrans, Vasudans, and Shivans in an 
 epic story rife with space gunplay and a good variety of ships and weapons. Graphics are amazing, 
 with capital ships here and there, smaller ships fighting against each other, it all too great 
 to watch. The sounds are perfect too, nice and loud depending on the situation. This is just an 
 astounding game, a definite keeper. And possibly the greatest thing? For poor people like us, we 
 can run it on the maximum graphic detail setting on our crap computers and it'll still run quite 
 perfectly. Bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2004 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best space sim ever made, even though the plot is pretty thin but it's enough 
 to push the game forward, plus with the excellent voiceovers and breifings in between it gives 
 you a real almost movie-esque feeling to the game.
  
  But what matters is the gameplay. Is the game well designed and fun to play? Do you get thrills 
 from flying the space ships, firing your missles and hunting down the enemy and is it well designed 
 and balanced? The answer of course is: Yes. Everything in this game truly reeks of professionalism 
 in the design of the game mechanics and rules of the game. Freespace doesn't really pretend to 
 be overlty a "Space sim", many space sims take the simulation aspects of the game much too far 
 and leave out the important parts: The action. If you like action in your games, and to be constantly 
 engaged with the enemy, then you will enjoy freespace. 
  
  What sets Freespace apart is the way the missions are delivered, you're always given interesting 
 missions by the "good guys", the GTVA and thrown into interesting situations. The voice acting 
 in this game is pretty good, you'll recognize some of the voices in the briefings as one of the 
 generals / army personel from Independence day. I forget his real name, but you'll know right away 
 when you hear his voice.
  
  Also some of the missions can get a little boring while you are on patrol and waiting for a set 
 period of time for things to occur, but the game accounted for this and the game has an option 
 to accelerate time from twice as fast up to 8x or 16 times as fast! So that if you're replaying 
 a mission you can skip the uneventful parts of it in an instant. This is a feature you *should* 
 acquaint yourself with.
  
  I wont ruin the game for you, but if you've played Descent or Rogue Squadron line of games for 
 the gamecube and liked the flying the snow speeder then you should definitely check out Freespace 
 2. 
  
  It's an old game but it's still one of the best ever made. It's too bad the genre is all but dead 
 on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  FreeSpace 2 has yet to be matched for its impressive battle scenes, where you fight around hhhhuuuuuge 
 capital ships that are fighting other capital ships. It is compelling stuff. The battle sounds 
 are excellent, movie-quality sounds. The feeling of immersion while in battle is impressive. When 
 a capital ship cuts through another, you are glad you are in your fighter.
  
  The only issue I have is the same issue I have with all space combat games: success in combat is 
 often dependent upon being able to get on the "6" of the enemy so that you can blast him without 
 him blasting you. This strategy, for me at least, got old.
  
  But there is no denying that this is a great game for those who like 3D space combat. The graphics 
 and sound continue to hold up 5 years after its release, which is really saying something.
  
  so what's with the 7 people not liking this review? Weird.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybrid17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2004 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I think Freespace 2 is definetely one of the best spacesims I've ever played. This game has almost 
 everything what a real spacesim require: huge dreadnoughts and very lethal weapons ( like infamous 
 bean cannons and flak turrets) , very impressive graphics & sound and ofcourse a great plot!!! Though 
 Freespace: The Great War was more concentrated on the gameplay than on story, Freespace 2 has it 
 both!! You play as a pilot, who is only know as Alpha 1, fighting for The Galactic Terran-Vasudan 
 Alliance against a rasict faction The Neo-Terran Front, when suddenly your greatest nemesis, The 
 Shivans return! Is this a coincidense???? You will find the answers through a number of very challenging 
 missions!!
  My only small complain about this game is your wingmen! In each mission you get the same wingmen, 
 which like you, don't have a name or a callsign! I'm sure the guys from Interplay could have done 
 better!! But it's a great game and I certainly recommend it too all fans of Wing Commander and 
 Starlancer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equals42
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 1, 2004 1:31 am PT
Review:  Maybe its just me. Maybe I have become jaded and maybe I expect too much for my entertainment 
 dollar. When I purchased Interplay Productions Freespace I was filled with anticipation. The trade 
 press was raving about this game. They were raving about its beauty, its artistry. They marveled 
 at the game engine technology and the ingenious simulation of space physics. All important considerations 
 to be sure, but now I realize that there was one important aspect missing from their praise  the 
 story. What about the story?
  
  The story that accompanies any space simulation is what gives that simulation its soul. When I 
 play a space simulation without a compelling story, a soul, I feel oddly empty. Its the same feeling 
 I get when I hear Michael Bolton or Celine Dion sing. All the notes are in the right key, so technically 
 its good singing, but its hollow and empty. Freespace 2 fulfills its technical promise admirably, 
 but the game lacks heart. It is hollow and very disappointing.
  Stop Me If Youve Heard This One
  The premise of Freespace 2 is your basic fighter-pilot-goes-to-war 
 plot. You are a nameless fresh recruit sent to the front lines to combat an unknown enemy of unknown 
 capability. As a rookie pilot, you are presumably (predictably) cocky, and you have to learn the 
 ropes of flying and fighting in the frontier of space. As you complete the usual missions of escort 
 that, reconnaissance there, destroy this, you are well aware that eventually you will have to watch 
 your new friend die and you further know you will ultimately have to save the universe from destruction. 
 The standard, win one for the Gipper plot. The plot methodically moves in its predictable methodical 
 way to the open-ended conclusion that leads to a third installment of the series.
  All is not lost
  In contrast, the game play in Freespace 2 is truly a technical marvel. The game 
 universe is exquisitely manifested in a tapestry of color and light. I found myself wishing there 
 was no enemy breathing down my neck and no mission to complete so I could just fly around and sight-see. 
 The huge capital ships are painstakingly detailed and project a looming, ominous presence to every 
 frenetic battle that takes place around them.
  
  Sound is very important in this game, especially if you have a 3D sound card. The pilot chatter, 
 the sound of energy weapons depleting your ships shields, and the nerve-racking missile-lock warnings 
 that trumpet your eminent destruction are very engrossing, especially with the enhancement of 3D 
 positioning audio.
  
  The game interface is fairly typical space simulation fare, but it is nonetheless well executed. 
 Keyboard, mouse and joystick commands can all be programmed to meet your particular needs and game-playing 
 style. The campaign can be played at several levels of difficulty, giving the game the flexibility 
 to be enjoyed by players at many levels of expertise. These settings are well balanced, which means 
 that the very easy setting makes Freespace 2 accessible to first time neophytes, while hard core 
 space simulation buffs will be have all the action they can handle at the highest difficulty level.
 
  Bottom Line
  Like I said, maybe it is just me and my jaded, hard-core gamer attitudes, but Freespace 2 just 
 left me wanting. In terms of technical excellence, Freespace 2 is unsurpassed. If that is all you 
 require of your space simulation games, then Freespace 2 is worth the money. If you prefer a more 
 meaningful and engrossing story, then one of the Wing Commander games may be more to your liking. 
 As for me, when I finished Freespace 2, I deleted it off my hard drive and loaded Wing Commander 
 IV.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2004 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Space flight sims have a bad rap in the history of gaming. In the "Best Games of All Time" list, 
 you see a score of RTS, FPS, and RPG games. Very few flight sims have entered the lineup or been 
 given the nod they deserve. Freespace 2 deserves such a nod.
  
  This review is done in 2004, yet the game came out in 1999. I STILL play this game. The single 
 player missions are fun, yet confusing at times. I find that the multiplayer is where this game 
 shines the most. I keep trying to convert my LAN friends into FS2 players, but have yet to succeed. 
 They are missing out on several modes of play, including dogfight deathmatches, team dogfights, 
 last man standing (limit respawns) , co-op play (work together to take down dreadnoughts or waves 
 of fighters) , and player-created missions (FS2 comes with FRED2, the mission creator) . This gameplay 
 had a solid following, but I suppose not large enough to draw the online crowd away from the other 
 ever-popular genres.
  
  This game Freespace 2 builds upon the original game, finally realizing the potential where Freespace 
 1 left off. New weapon types, beam cannons mounted on capital starships (think Death Star laser 
 on a smaller scale) , and fully customizeable ship control make this a fast-paced game for any level 
 of user.
  
  I purchased a Saitek x45 flight stick set, and mapped EVERY button to a DIFFERENT control within 
 the game (not counting Saitek's mode switching) . At the same time, a beginner can still play and 
 do well with basic controls. I'd still pwn you with my x45, though. ; ) The full joystick support 
 allows some amazing tactics and maneuvers that makes dogfighting in space even more fun than most 
 atmosphere-based games.
  
  The graphics engine is dated, of course (DirectX 6, I believe) , yet looks gorgeous when played 
 on my ATI 9600 Pro. THIS GAME HAS NEVER CRASHED ON ME. I have never been kicked to the desktop, 
 BSOD'd, locked up, or glitched. I've run it in EVERY Microsoft OS, 95 and later. It simply looks 
 great with simple polygon models combined with unique weapon and shield effects. The space backdrop 
 is great eye-candy, with beautiful nebulas and planets. Just throw the detail settings up to their 
 highest, try out antialiasing, and enjoy the ride. This one works great for a LAN, since the reqirements 
 work on just about anybody's PC nowadays.
  
  The sound is the one area that I think could have been improved upon, but still holds good worth. 
 The sounds DO match with the devices they originate from. I most enjoyed the sound of flak cannons 
 decimating my ship. The in-game music is fair, yet I played with my own music player running in 
 the background.
  
  I will play this game until it no longer works on the PC, or until someone takes the lead and tops 
 this game. I have yet to see it. The closest I have ever seen a game score is Microsoft's abandoned 
 project Allegiance. Microsoft released the code for the game, and it is apparenlty freeware on 
 the web now, with persistent gaming content.
  
  It is hard to find this game anymore, and ever since the Digital Millenium Copyright Act had a 
 ruling passed over it by the Library of Congress stating that software no longer available from 
 the manufacturer is open for certain forms of duplication and free distribution, game makers have 
 revisted former money makers to protect their assets. Interplay followed suit and offered a re-release 
 of the the game (at original release price of about 50 bucks) , but their web site has since gone 
 down. Check out this Gamespot article regarding their possible demise: http://www. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/fallout3/news_6099678. html 
 .
  
  If you can locate the game and also enjoy space flight sims, try to pick it up. Some value packs 
 have surfaced, giving you FS1 and 2 for $10. If your LAN is suffering for a solid new game to play, 
 this is a great competitive choice. Check out the-underdogs. org for more detailed information and 
 a link to a FS2 demo. Depending on the state of the company, FS2 may even be available for free 
 download there. Don't quote me on that one. : )
  
  In the lost list of great games forgotten, I give Frespace 2 a 9.4 as king of the space shooters.
 
  
  Swamination 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha__13
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2004 9:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Even better than the first, better story, faster, and more twists than ever. The game 
 once again puts you in the seat of a space fighter but this time you're not battling Vasudans, 
 you're battling the Neo-Terran Front, led by Admiral Bosch. The main difference in this game from 
 it's previous is the capitol ships, they don't just have laser turrets, now they have flak guns 
 that will rip you to shreds and beam cannons you definently don't want to be in front of.
  
  Graphics: This game was made in 1999, but the graphics are still incredible even by today's 
 standards.
  
  Sound: Better voice acting, better music, better weapons sounds. It feels like you're actually 
 there. The voices I have to say more about, the way you hear them really makes you want to do what 
 they're saying, and when you see hysterical pilots they'll actually make you scared "COMMAND, GET 
 THE AQUATAINE OUT OF THE NEBULA NOW!! WE CAN'T STOP THEM THIS TIME!!".
  
  Value: you'll play this game for a long time, the campain is very long, and the multiplayer action 
 takes even longer to get bored of.
  
  Overall: This is the best Space Flight Simulator... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acepace
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2003 10:17 am PT
Review:  I cannot say this enough, FS2 is one of those great games, this game is the jewel among the space 
 genre, and the release of the source code, with the acompanying community project is amazing.
 
  
  the graphics hold up to today, and the explosions eclipse some of freelancers, sound however is 
 its ideal companion, with everything fitting together.
  
  storywise could be better, but the game play is still first class, with no par. the controls are 
 simple enough, but don't need extra keys, and work enough for blasting things out of the sky, while 
 jumping out of your skin at some of the HUGE ships in the sky, litterly some ships take MINUTES 
 to cross, being over 6KM in leght.
  
  well the game is about combat, and that is where the game shines, simply put, why cant every space 
 sim, just copy this! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
