-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Freedom Force vs. The 3rd Reich
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/freedomforce3rdreich/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent story and characters.
 Simple, entertaining gameplay.
 Great presentation really captures the comic book feel.
 Skirmish, multiplayer, and superhero building features add replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasionally brain-dead enemy AI.
 Many elements lifted directly from the first game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.6, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 968 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Irrational Games
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 8, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A great story and a wonderful cast of characters are the highlights of this game, which anyone with 
 an appreciation for comic books would probably love. 

  The original Freedom Force succeeded against all odds when it was released three years ago. For 
 years prior, the possibility of a superhero-themed computer role-playing game was nothing more 
 than a popular pipe dream. But Freedom Force made good on the promising concept. It delivered great 
 tactical combat to rival most any other RPG available of the time, and it captured the style and 
 spirit of classic silver-age comic books remarkably well. A surprisingly endearing cast of characters 
 and an altogether excellent story rounded out a memorable, satisfying game. And now, at long last, 
 Freedom Force has a follow-up in the amazingly titled Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich. The new 
 game is a direct continuation of its predecessor and really isn't much different in terms of the 
 presentation or the nuts and bolts of the action. So it serves as a testament to the quality of 
 the original that the new Freedom Force, despite being so similar to a three-year-old game, is 
 just about as fresh and as fun as the first. A great story and a wonderful cast of characters are 
 once again the highlights of this game, which anyone with an appreciation for comic books would 
 probably love.  

          Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich is a great encore to one of the most memorable games 
 of 2002.     

  Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich features a good-sized story-driven campaign consisting of a linear 
 series of missions, and this single-player experience is definitely the highlight. It opens with 
 a brief animated summary of what happened in the original storyline, which serves as a good reminder 
 for returning fans and a suitable primer for new Freedom Force players (who'd ideally be better 
 off playing through the first game before going into this one) . The whole campaign is structured 
 like a comic book series, complete with authentic-looking comic book covers for each "issue" of 
 the story. The game never breaks tone, which is an important accomplishment. From the opening cutscene 
 to the final roll of the credits, you'll be immersed in the game's playfully mind-boggling storyline, 
 which features the cast of the original Freedom Force in addition to some likable new heroes and 
 villains. On top of that, the large cast of characters to choose from, the open-ended combat system, 
 and multiple difficulty settings give the campaign solid replay value. It's not very difficult 
 to fight through at the default setting, though this is partly because of how well Freedom Force 
 pulls off the superhero thing. These characters are and should be powerful and difficult to knock 
 out.  

  Besides the campaign, there's a single-player skirmish mode in which you can take on waves of different 
 foes in a variety of different environments. There's also a four-player multiplayer mode (playable 
 both on a LAN and online) , featuring several different game types, each allowing you to pit your 
 small squads of superheroes against those of opposing players. It's possible to play relatively 
 balanced matches to test your skills, or you can have at it in a complete free-for-all. Either 
 way, the skirmish and multiplayer portions of Freedom Force help add some lasting value, though 
 the context given by the story in the game's campaign makes the action there inherently more appealing. 
 Still, the possibility to fielding your own superhero creations against live opponents can be pretty 
 appealing as well.  

  One of the most touted features of the original Freedom Force was the ability to create your own 
 superheroes (and their various superpowers) , and of course this is present in the new game. But 
 since there are so many great premade heroes already available to choose from, there's no need 
 to pad their ranks with your own creations unless you're compelled to for some reason. The possibility 
 of bringing your own custom-made superheroes into the campaign is a theoretically exciting idea 
 here much like it was in the original. However, you'd be hard pressed to come up with characters 
 better than what developer Irrational Games has already provided for you.  

          Freedom Force fans can look forward to seeing all their old favorite characters plus some 
 interesting new ones.     

  The incredible thing about Freedom Force is that this cast of characters is so good that it in 
 some ways rivals the classics to which the game pays homage. Though the game superficially resembles 
 a parody of old comic books, it exhibits the same fun-loving, anything-goes spirit and sincere, 
 serious storytelling that was the hallmark of the classics. Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich's 
 new story and characters tie in nicely with what's already been established, and the new golden 
 age-style characters (more human than superhuman) make for a nice, subtle contrast both in terms 
 of story and gameplay. Ultimately, the new campaign provides an experience that's similar to the 
 first, above and beyond superficial resemblances. Fans will once again probably wish that the game 
 could have spent even more time elaborating on some of the relationships between the different 
 characters or going into a lot more detail about the many characters that make only brief appearances 
 in the story.     

  The gameplay of Freedom Force is simple and fun. The first few missions explain all the basics 
 of what's going on and give you plenty of practice with the controls and using your characters' 
 different powers. Since you'll control no more than four superheroes per mission, the action never 
 gets overwhelming; instead you're able to focus on micromanaging your mighty squad's abilities. 
 Some enhancements to the mouse-driven interface and friendly artificial intelligence help make 
 this sequel somewhat more intuitive to play than its predecessor, but there was already a very 
 strong interface and combat system in place. It's still as exciting as ever to do such things as 
 pick up and throw cars at your foes, knock down entire buildings as you fight, and smack thugs 
 around far and wide. The game lets you pause the action (or slow it down, alternatively) whenever 
 you want. But you'll definitely spend more time executing different attacks and watching as they 
 pan out instead of just sitting there staring at a static screen and wondering how to proceed. 
 Overall, the combat system is easy to get into, but it's quite deep, meaning that characters can 
 have dramatically different abilities, strengths, and weaknesses.  

          The tactical combat at the heart of the game is easy to get into and a lot of fun.     
 

  You'll face a variety of different, new enemies. Goose-stepping, semi-incompetent Nazi stormtroopers, 
 floating brain things, and killer gorilla experiments are just some of the fodder you can look 
 forward to beating up on. These aren't necessarily intended to be the shrewdest of foes, but their 
 AI is still noticeably lacking in some cases, as you'll sometimes be able to mosey right on up 
 to your enemies without them so much as noticing. Nevertheless, once triggered, your foes will 
 use a variety of different attacks to try to stop you. Managing your forces' powers and positioning 
 while keeping a sharp eye out for health power-ups tends to be the order of the day.  

  Apart from the action RPG-style gameplay, the only real role-playing elements come in the form 
 of the character-customization system. Characters gain experience points between missions and you 
 can buy new abilities or upgrade existing ones with these points. It's a good system that lets 
 you make meaningful decisions without miring you down in too much minutia. You can also slightly 
 influence the story depending on which characters you bring into a mission. But, in the spirit 
 of telling you a good story, the game doesn't ever prompt you to make decisions or otherwise take 
 part in an open-ended gaming experience like you'd get from a more-traditional computer RPG.  

 
  Though Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich recycles a lot of the same graphics from the first game, 
 it includes a whole bunch of new environments for you to explore, fight in, and accidentally (accidentally!) 
 destroy. From communist-controlled Cuba to the heart of the German war machine in World War II, 
 you'll get to see plenty of larger-than-life locations that can be torn down piece by piece if 
 you so choose. A number of the game's missions are races against time or other such endurance tests, 
 which help break up the action while adding some suspense. The game doesn't get frustrating, though, 
 thanks partly to the ability to quickly save your progress at any time.  

  Freedom Force's visuals have held up surprisingly well for this installment, thanks largely to 
 the game's cohesive art style and a variety of new bells and whistles. It's too bad that the close-ups 
 of the characters talking aren't lip-synched during the game's numerous dialogue sequences, though. 
 It also would have been nice if the 3D characters you'll see during missions better resembled the 
 hand-drawn counterparts you'll see during the game's entertaining storyboard-style cutscenes. However, 
 the animation, realistic physics, and colorful look still shine through, making for a great-looking 
 game overall. The cutscenes and other little presentational frills enrich the entire experience. 

          A great presentation helps draw you into the game's unique world.     

  The audio contributes even more heavily to establishing the game's mood and tone. The same talented 
 voice actors who gave their characters so much personality in the first Freedom Force reprise their 
 roles here, and they once again deliver their lines with the sort of unfaltering conviction you'd 
 hope for. As well, the dialogue itself is sharply written, packing in plenty of amusing one-liners 
 and witty banter, while almost never stooping to using irony to poke fun at what's going on. Meanwhile, 
 a rousing musical score blares during many of the missions, and the sound effects, which are unchanged, 
 still complement the action and fit perfectly. Some of the characters' speech repeats a bit too 
 often during gameplay, but overall, it's difficult to fault Freedom Force's audio on any level 
 since it's so key to what makes the game as likable as it is.  

  Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich is absolutely worth playing if only for the story. Fortunately, 
 the action itself is plenty entertaining, too, and there's lots of it. And while the game's technical 
 aspects haven't been radically revised since the original, they've aged almost as gracefully as 
 the comic books that inspired it. This is all great news for Freedom Force fans, whose ranks probably 
 consist of the vast majority of people who played that game. Yet, possibly the best news of all 
 is that the satisfying conclusion of this second Freedom Force installment suggests that there 
 will still be more where this came from.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: VideoGameNerd77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Irrational Games, creators of the first Freedom Force, brings the heroes back, and teams them up 
 with WW2 heroes and pits them against the Axis forces.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The enemy AI is pretty good, so is the friendly AI. Also, now, your heroes have a counterattack 
 feature. When they or their allies are attacked, they attack back. The game design is genius, and 
 the plot is very creative. The combat system is also exceptional.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Comic book-style 3d graphics make this game far more comic book-like than the previous game. The 
 game's implementation of better effects, better graphical designs, even signs of physics implementation, 
 make this game look even better than the gameplay.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The game features high-quality voice acting and good sound effects. The music is also excellent.
 
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  This game is near-flawless in every way. If you're a fan of comic books, the original game, or 
 just want to beat the crap out of enemies, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Force vs The Third Reich is another awesome Computer RPG, sequel to the original Freedom 
 Force by VU Games. 
  
  These drawn -to-life comic book characters you control have their own tastes and dislikes, weaknesses 
 and resistances, mannerisms and accents and many more.
  
  You have the freedom, prior to the game title, to choose the superheroes you wish to control in 
 missions. Because of this, you can freely choose your all time favorite characters or by simply 
 doing some free its-up-to-you strategy for the upcoming hot battle. You have a lot of options. 
 For instance, you can try an all-out powerhouse team, enlisting only those muscular guys in your 
 squad or choosing whom to bring with you wisely, combining their powers, attributes, and other 
 complex strategic stuffs.
  
  Environments can also be tampered with. You can go around fountains and make some killer gorillas 
 chase you till noon, fly to high places to avoid showers of bullets, and many more. Sometime your 
 opponent does the same to you!!! And what do we do to mimicking joes like 'em?? Kill 'em of course!! 
 Throw them a garbage can or smack them with a traffic light!! It's all up to you. 
  
  This game is a combination of humor, action, and strategy. But if you ask me, it's just PURE FUN!!! 
 So go out there and buy this title cause its not that expensive and definitely worth the bucks 
 you spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAgmoore
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I did not have a problem with the longevity of the game but that's because I played it the first 
 time around on "hard" and the second time on "impossible".
  
  For those who played the original, the first few levels are by-the-numbers and a little boring; 
 more of a tutorial to ease you into the game.
  
  The game really gets interesting as the story and characters evolve and the difficulty increases 
 to where you have to combine superhero attacks, as a team, in order to take down enemies.
  
  The opera-singing, arch villain named Fortissimo is hillarious.
  
  It's a real treat to 
 play a game that had so much work put into it. The graphics, music, sound, voice acting, storyline 
 and characters are incredible.
  
  I experienced frequent crashes to desktop and although it is annoying to experience, I probably 
 would not have gone to sleep if the game had not crashed. The game is so absorbing, that you want 
 to see what will happen next and time just flys by.
  
  It's a shame that you still tend to end up playing with the same powerful, core characters from 
 the first Freedom Force. It would have been braver if the development team ditched the original 
 game's characters as well as the US vs USSR theme ( which gets a little old ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenarkallaptar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  I recently acquired a gift card to a game store and I was wondering what I should get. I finally 
 settled on Freedom Force vs. 3rd Reich. My friend had said that the first Freedom Force was pretty 
 cool, and the game was only $10 bucks. So I decided to give it a try. I was amazed. The gameplay 
 was fun and sometimes intense. The dialog was a tad bit weak at times, but there were plenty of 
 well though out jokes and puns. The Character selection is pretty amazing, and the backstorys for 
 the characters are interesting and fun to watch. The graphics are a little bit cartoonish but this 
 just brings the game to life. Don't hesitate to pick up this game if you see it at a store. The 
 value is amazing. Gameplay goes on for over 5 hours and afterwards you will want to try it again 
 with different characters. After you beat the game there is a rumble room where you can battle 
 it out with the computer, or if you want go online with others and fight. Multiplay also allows 
 you to play a campaign with up to 3 other players at a time. Very cool indeed. All this makes Freedom 
 Force vs. 3rd Reich a fresh well thought out game with excellent gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammy777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  The game is like the first part right click this and left click that, upgrade this and upgrade 
 that and stuff and also another fun thing about it is the new characters both heroes and villains, 
 a new multiplayer, a new mod system, and new story with a great score, the only con is that sometimes 
 lack of rumble mode arena, create a character and other stuff but still worth a buy and very fun 
 with a conclusion and the truth behind freedom force and ENERGY X and also more origins and what 
 really happend to the man-bot? find out here in this game. A neat and Just Plain Fun Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaloko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Its even better than the first game, it has many improvements from the first episode and the graphics 
 is slightly better.
  
  As the first one, you can do wathever you wan, break walls, buildings, cars and all stuffs... Can 
 grab walls, rocks, phone cabins, garbage bin, cars and all stuffs...
  
  The story continues just where it stopped from the first game. Its VERY amazing how the game ends 
 and you wont expect what happens.
  
  Great gameplay, great sound, great graphics and great value.
  
  The only thing bad is that 
 when the story end you will still want to play more, many more... This is a high addictive game..
 
  
  Thanks to the mods, I recommend you to download as many mods as possible because you will want 
 to play more and more...
  
  I recommend!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I never got around to playing more than the demo of the first Freedom Force game, so when the sequel 
 came out I made sure that I got to it this time around. I like all types of RPG's, and if you like 
 more action to your character building, you'll like this game. The story was great, and the gameplay 
 was great too. Quite a bit of your time will be spent in paused mode, as your superheroes don't 
 do much on their own and need quite a bit of instruction. I didn't mind this, as it gave me plenty 
 of time to plan my attacks and survey the field of my foes, which are greatly varied, from nazi 
 thugs to scientific experiments gone wrong and the enigmatic "Red Sun" as well as the many bosses 
 your team of good-doers must dispatch.
  
  The graphics aren't anything to write home about, and the superhero gamestyle isn't really new, 
 but overall it was a great game and I had a lot of fun playing through it. There were many heroes 
 to choose from, and you can make your own character and recruit him/her to your team, giving you 
 a lot of combinations when you play through the game. Even with this, I don't really feel like 
 there was much replayability to the game. All those issues aside, Freedom Force vs. the Thrid Riech 
 was a really fun game that provided a great superhero roleplaying experience. As I mentioned before, 
 if you like Action-RPG's, this game is for you, and you should look for it in your local bargain 
 bin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The original Freedom Force was an excellent game, and I still considerate one of the best super 
 hero games of all time. Thankfully the game was able to get a much deserved sequel. 
  
  For those of you who dont know Freedom Force Vs. The Third Reich 
  developed by Irrational Games 
 is an RPG where you control up to four 
  heroes and perform various super hero missions. The game is very simple and you can probably learn 
 the controls of the game quickly if youve ever played an RPG. The controls are basically selecting 
 your hero and clicking where you want him or her to move or attack. You can also opposite click 
 to bring up a menu allowing for a few more options, such as if youre hero can fly you can choose 
 the fly to option from the menu. As you complete missions you can level up your heroes like any 
 other RPG.
  
  Freedom Force had a great story and this game is no different. In this game youre forced to recover 
 Time Master, a powerful being who can control time itself who you defeated at the end of the last 
 game, who has been taken from stasis. Once you recover Time Master you soon find that hes been 
 taken again only to be used to help the Nazis of World War Two win the war. This means that you 
 have to travel back into time to stop the fiend who stole Time Master. Its a pretty ridiculous 
 story, but its load of fun and can be quite funny. Part of the reason why the game is so funny 
 is because of the hilarious voice acting. Its meant to be that campy 50s comic style and many 
 of the characters had me laughing.
  
  A really cool thing about the game is that as you complete missions you gain prestige, and with 
 this prestige you can use it to buy heroes while playing through the campaign. The game offers 
 a number of pre-made heroes you can purchase, some from the previous game and some brand new, but 
 the best use of this prestige is to create your own hero and recruit him to your team. Theres 
 a great mod community out there with hundreds of skins ranging from the Marvel and DC universes, 
 to custom created heroes. This really allows you to create any kind of hero you want. 
  
  Unfortunately, Freedom Force VS. The Third Reich features some problems. The first problem is that 
 the A. I. of your team mates and your enemies can be often quite stupid. Sometimes Id be attacking 
 an enemy from an enemy and they would just pace back and forth, or sometimes my heroes would be 
 taking damage and they would just stand there and not fight back. Another problem I have with the 
 game is that the games graphics really havent changed since the first game which came out three 
 years ago. It would have been nice if they at least tried to put new textures in or something but 
 it seems that they used the exact same textures from the first game. Although the game does add 
 some lighting effects it still seems to look the same as the original. My biggest problem with 
 the game is that it doesnt do anything different from the first game. It plays, looks, and feels 
 the exact same way as the first game. Theres nothing added outside of a few powers and heroes. 
 
  
  Freedom Force VS. The Third Reich is a pretty good game. It provides the same feel as the first 
 game, which is a good thing and a bad thing. If you were a fan of the original game Id say its 
 worth picking up, but for those who havent had a chance to play the first one Id suggest picking 
 that one up first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles01
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 1, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Irrational Games has done a great job on Freedom Force Vs the Third Reich, the sequel to the original 
 smash hit. This game has a blend of strategy and role playing with a great presentation and story 
 that wraps up the package. This is a must buy for comic book lovers.
  
  Graphics
  The original FF had a comic book sort of styling that was really appealing. They have brought back 
 the same engine for FFVTTR and spruced it up a bit with new lighting and shadow effects. Though 
 the engine is getting a bit dated, the game still looks pretty. Another plus to this is the system 
 requirements are very low, so you don't need a gaming computer to run this. One of the major graphical 
 bugs I found was with the first level cut scene when I was playing on my laptop. There is a wavy 
 effect that many computers cannot handle and the end result is a blank screen with the some of 
 the control animations. They have yet to release a patch for this.
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay has not changed much since the original FF. You still have the same basic and enjoyable 
 combat system from the last game. There are a whole bunch of new playable characters and a quirky, 
 enjoyable story that comic lovers will appreciate the most. I won't spoil it, but I will say this 
 game has you fighting characters from the previous games and travelling back in time to WWII. This 
 game shows a great sense of humour, with its quirky characters and their sayings, showing roots 
 back to the golden age of comics. In truth, many don't play this game for the graphics, but for 
 the great story and cast of characters. But thats why this game caters to a very small market, 
 and hasn't gotten much recognition throughout the years. This is one of the many videogame gems 
 out there.
  
  Multiplayer
  FFVTTR does not bring much to the table in multiplayer. It has your standard modes (deathmatch) 
 and can be entertaining. But don't expect to find a plethora of people to be playing this game. 
 I was lucky if I found 2 or 3 people to play with. But like I said, this game caters to a very 
 small market.
  
  Bottom Line
  FFVTTR lives up to its predecessor and surpasses it in many ways. It has a great story and a cast 
 of characters like no other game i've seen. The graphics aren't that great, but HEY! who cares!! 
 I really enjoyed this game and if your a comic book lover, you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  The Freedom Force return in this very good sequal, 2005's Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich. The 
 new game improves pretty much every aspect of the original, adding new heroes, a new storyline, 
 new multiplayer modes and better graphics. The exicution is at least as goof as the last game, 
 but the gameplay really doesn't feel much different from the last game. Now, you can finally form 
 a group of multiple players to take down opponents and there is even a multiplayer stroyline different 
 from the single player one. The fact is, if you liked the first one, you'll love this one. Let's 
 just hope that a new Freedom Force from 2K will come out soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  If you played Freedom Force then youve seen practically all about this game in the matters of 
 graphics, sounds, and gameplay... however, FF 2 has some improvements that combined with its great 
 (but very short) story, makes it a enjoyable game.
  
  The graphics are still the same of before, a lot of polygons practically everywhere and the characters 
 dont look as smooth i thinked they will be in the second game, but they maintained the great 3d 
 all around and total view environment and maps of the first, so, in my opinion, its balanced...
 
  
  The sound fx are pratically the same, they are great in which refers to the powers and the voices, 
 very stereotypical voices that fit perfect to the stereotypical comic book characters of the Golden 
 Age. The music are great, it helps you to get in the game, helping the environments from epic battles 
 with super-powered villains to the invasions in the heart of the 3rd Reich!
  
  The gameplay its very easy to handle, its has been modified some aspect that i particulary didnt 
 feel comfortable in the first game in the character selection, and the game preserves an excellent 
 continuity with the story and characters that conforms the Freedom Force with some new and great 
 members. The only thing its that the game is TOO short, i finished it in an afternoon.
  
  Overall: Its great game the preserves an excellent continuity in technique and history and will 
 be the love (a very short love) of the comics fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanm75
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The best part of the original FF were the user-created scenarios. The original game was highly 
 customizable with custom skins, powers, scripts, etc. The new FFV3R does not work well with the 
 old skins, and no new user-created content was to be found even months after its release. If you 
 can find this on discount cheap enough to justify its out-of-the-box 5 hour game, by all means 
 buy it. Personally, I felt like the developers created the first level and were hoping users would 
 build the rest of the game. They did not.
  
  The few hours of the game are very fun, and the characters are colorful. The new additionas have 
 lots of personality and are fun additions to the series. This should have been a $9.99 add-on for 
 the original game, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  What a refreshing game. Seriously i couldnt feel such emotions since Mega-Drive (Genesis) System.. 
 This reminds you what games should be really here for. To have some relaxed and fun time.
  
  I dont know the comics, honestly, but i like the humor presented in this game very much.. It 
 puts your superhero-troops in an absolutely moronic light. And thats what we, deep inside of us, 
 all want to be.. stupid!
  
  Contrasting to stupidity the controls are pretty intelligent. I've had fun flying to rooftops.. 
 throwing cars around.. or slapping my enemies in the face with some previously unmounted semaphore.
 
  
  The Skills, Damagetypes and Defenses are quite numerous ranging from Radioactivity over Electricity, 
 Energy, Fire, Mental, Mystic to Piercing and Physical. Together with the number of unique heroes 
 this gives the game lasting gametime.
  
  A pitty you cant play this game in Coop-Multiplayer though, which would turn the Oldschool-Feeling 
 just perfect!
  
  At least you have some kind of snack-style brawling mode with many many maps. And even more Enemies/Friends 
 to choose from. (Apparently this Mode is not included from version 1.0) With optional Online Multiplayer 
 possibilities.
  
  "You must be courageous!!! If not we will fail to rescue the wooooohoooooooorld!" 
  
  enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Long before Christian Bale suited up in black body armor to play Batman, before Frank Miller brought 
 the brooding dark Knight to the pages of comics, Adam West was the Batman. I always loved this 
 series as a kid, it was so sill and fun and totally whimsical. But alas things got very serious 
 for almost all comics starting sometime around 1980. At any rate Freedom Force versus the 3rd Reich 
 is a game which pays homage to golden age comic book super Heroes. The story, and presentation 
 are straight out of a comic book from those days, and the gameplay is a solid RTS-RPG hybrid thats 
 highly entertaining to rumble through. Irrational games have really outdone themselves with this 
 title thats well worth picking up. 
  
  We meet our heroes not long after we met them; with the majority of Patriot Citys Freedom Force 
 enjoying some time away from the Freedom Fortress. As such you start out with a pretty limited 
 selection of heroes from the prior game like Minuteman, Alchemiss and El Diablo. You start off 
 battling some of your old foes from the originalmainly Soviet Communist bad guys but things will 
 get more complicated in no time and youll soon find yourself fighting foes from Nazi Germany. 
 In addition to the games main plot each of the Superheroes has a Secret origin much in the spirit 
 of old comic books. The character starts off a normal guy but through some fantastical mix of science 
 and the super natural the character will gain super powers. Blasted by cosmic rays, imbued with 
 a divine power, you know the regular comic book stuff. These side stories provide a nice bit of 
 information about your whole team. 
  The gameplay is of course one of the games real strong points as it mixes conventions from both 
 role-playing games and real-time strategy genres. The game takes place as a series of missions 
 with cut scenes framing them at the beginning and end. Youll start off by choosing a team of heroes 
 from a rather large group and the name of the game is balance having strength speed, flight etc 
 is all necessary as no hero can possibly do everything. Strength comes at the expense of speed 
 and direct attacks at the expense of more tactical moves. One of the more compelling things that 
 Freedom Force adds to the mix is a very interactive environment that helps the game feel like a 
 comic book. If you want to fly from rooftop to rooftop you can. If you want to pick up cars and 
 streetlights and toss them at the enemy or swing them you can do that too. Most objectives have 
 a multitude of solutions depending on how you want to approach it. For instance in one mission 
 I was faced with a tank, so I polymorphed it into a vase of flowers and placed it in between some 
 buildings where I could ignite the buildings with my pyrotechnics hero and do a load of damage 
 to it without taking much damage. I could have done other things but this seemed like the best 
 option. 
  
  But as I said this isnt strictly speaking just an RTS. There are lots of RPG elements to be had 
 here. For instance characters need be leveled up. The trick here is to buy a new power for your 
 super hero you need to level up a previous power to past level 3 typically. So it becomes a balancing 
 act between purchasing new skills and upgrading what you have. Further party management is really 
 key. If you dont get out on a mission with a well balanced party of a similar level youre going 
 to have characters that are liabilities. A lot of you may be thinking this sounds a lot like the 
 original and thats a fair point. But then again the original was one of the hidden gems of 2002 
 so more of the same only bigger and better isnt so bad. 
  
  Graphically speaking this game does a very good job of making the comic book world it takes place 
 in come to life. The key to this is a nice use of vibrant colors and a cell shaded look to the 
 game. Everything really looks like a comic book come to life where the good guys are brightly colored 
 and look like good guys whereas the villains are starkly colored with lots of contrast to give 
 them that evil look. This is one of the best tricks of art used here. It may not win any awards 
 for technical excellence as its not much better looking than the original. 
  
  The Audio comes much along the same lines. The soundtrack fits right in with something like the 
 score from the original Superman soundtrack. Its well edited so that it peaks when it should and 
 shuts up when it should. Furthermore the Sound effects have all the subtlety of the POW screen 
 from an episode of a old episode of Batman. Probably the best aspect of the games sound is the 
 wonderful voice acting which is really a top rate set of performances. None of the voice actors 
 names grabbed me for special celebrity but they were all very nicely stylized in a way which made 
 me really identify with the voices. Everybody has a voice that fits really nicely with their comic 
 book personality. The Green Genie sounds especially playful, Minuteman and mentor sound especially 
 serious, and Diablo sounds like a joker and so on and so forwards. The villains all have evil sounding 
 voices, the communists sound like they could be dead wringers for Boris and Natasha, the Nazis 
 have the screeching sound to their voice that Colonel Clink had on Hogans Heroes. All these very 
 surreal touches lend to the whimsical setting very nicely. 
  
  Multiplayer wise this game is a lot of fun if you can get a game going. Its lan or internet playable 
 for a few players but good luck trying to find anyone actively playing it. Sadly this game didnt 
 do so hot at the sales desk so its really LAN only in most cases as it can be nearly impossible 
 to get a game together of people to play. That said the brawl mode is a lot of fun as who hasnt 
 wanted to toss a car at their friends. Even if you discount the multiplayer its no slouch when 
 it comes to bang for your buck. With a long campaign with around 25 missions and a huge number 
 of permutations of heroes possible there is plenty of content here to keep you even if you never 
 touch the games single player. Even after finishing the game I hadnt even used all the available 
 super heroes. Further still you can create your own if youre so inclined to create a character. 
 Last but not least there are almost no serious bugs to speak of which is an accomplishment in and 
 of itself in this release and it runs smoothly on a reasonable PC. 
  
  All in all this was a really exceptional game and it makes me mad as heck that it failed as badly 
 as it did. Id easily recommend this game for 50 bucks; but unless you just hated the original 
 there are not many good reasons I can see not to pay the few bucks that this excellent game will 
 run you. It is stylistically awesome, highly entertaining to play, there is also a lot to do and 
 its technically polished till it shines. All things considered one of the best sequels of 2005. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Well I finally got around to playing and beating Freedom Force Vs. The Third Reich. What people 
 say about the game is true. It does feel a lot like an expansion pack, but still it was good enough 
 to stand on it's own. 
  
  The story reminded me a lot of the Dark Phoenix Saga or the Demon Queen one from the X-Men comic 
 books and as such the game was a joy to play. The ending was a cliff hanger, and while I usually 
 despise cliff hangers, I know that they're at least thinking of making a Freedom Force 3.
  
  The graphics were a little better than the previous game's. All I can say is that they were 
 much crisper. The addition of more particle effects and more realistic looking fire was also a 
 plus. It's not the most visually stunning game, but I think the developers weren't aiming for that, 
 instead we are given a graphics engine that perfectly adequate for this game.
  
  Sound wise this game is campy, REAL campy. Some of the voices just register far off the cheese 
 meter. It was probably the developer's intention but some of the voices become annoying after awhile, 
 especially that used car commercial imitator, Mentor. Most of the effect sound like they were reused 
 from the first game, just made to be a little tweaked to sounds clearer.
  
  The gameplay didn't change a bit. There were new powers that weren't previously seen before, but 
 that's nothing to rant and rave about. I guess if it's not broke, don't fix it. However, I would 
 have liked to see more innovation and creativity put into this game.
  
  Freedom Force is just a guilty pleasure. Nothing more, nothing less. It's a fun game to dabble 
 with, unfortunately after the single player is done, there's really no reason to go back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdragon69688
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  What a great game. Its even better then the first Freedon Force and thats not an easy feat by any 
 means. Great charactors and the voice acting is superb, ya its a little corny at times but then 
 again so are comic books and the graphics are clean and the anamation is smooth. I spent hours 
 playing this game and I am still not sick of playing it, great replay value. One of the best features 
 is being able to create your own custom made Hero not that its lacking heroes because its not lol 
 but this game has a lot of everything you could ask for in a game and then some. So what are ya 
 waiting for? Go buy the game: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicknfeet
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich is a type of game I was definitely not accustom to. I suppose 
 the best way to explain it to those that haven't played it yet is rpg/action/strategy. It's RPG 
 in a way because you have powers you have to build up and people you have to unlock. It's Action 
 because it really is like the comics where there is a lot of fighting and destruction. It's Strategy 
 only because you have to be smart when positioning your characters on the screen and when you give 
 them a fighting command, most of the time they execute a move until a particular enemy has died. 
 I really can't think of any other way to explain this game. It was a good game, somewhat challenging 
 at times but nothing too hard that you couldn't plan your way through. The gameplay was good for 
 what it was: a 1950 comic book game. The story ran pretty smooth and most of the time, it was easy 
 to manage your team. There were some points in the game where I wished my teammates AI level could 
 have been a little better, but those were points in the game where I suffered through without much 
 problems. The controls were pretty well explained in the beginning and the story was solid. Graphics 
 were as good as could be expected for the PC. I have always set high standards for PC games since 
 they usually have the most resources to work with, and FF did not disappoint me. The sound was 
 also a high point of the game. The music was appropriate for the time setting in the game, and 
 the obviously cheesy voice acting accurately portrayed the typical action packed adventures of 
 the '50s. Overall, the game was solid. It definitely was not phenomenal, but on the flip side, 
 it really wasn't bad at all. I don't think I would recommend everybody should go out and buy this 
 game. If you know you are a tried & true fan of the series or genre, by all means go for it. If 
 you're a little skeptical, ask around or if you can, find someone else that has this game and play 
 their copy. If you know you don't really get into this type of game, then hell, why are you reading 
 this review? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 6, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  How do you follow up the greatest superhero game ever released for the PC? Well you kick it up 
 several notches and make the sequel even better with an ending that leaves you waiting for more.
 
  
  Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich is the follow up to the very successful Freedom Foce game from 
 2003. The game picks up shortly where the first one left off, but does not leave new players in 
 the cold. The credits give everyone a short recap of the previous storyline and how it leads up 
 to the new game. This time, our heroes are trying to figure out who is trying to steal Timemaster 
 from the protective custody of the government. When those forces are successful, the alteration 
 of reality causes Freedom Force to have to go back in time to stop the Nazis from taking over the 
 world. 
  
  The story allows us to meet new heroes from the 1940's that do not have powers from Energy X, but 
 from tools and gizmos that they make to fight the evil Third Reich. It also makes for a very engaging 
 story that will take you from the present to the past and into a very weird altered current reality. 
 The story also has a stellar ending that all will enjoy and sets up a third game quite nicely.
 
  
  Gameplay is easy for anyone to figure out and after an hour of play anyone will get the hang of 
 it. The game comprises 14 major missions with several parts to each mission. You pick up to a squad 
 of four available members that will go on the mission. You also gain prestige points for completing 
 each task in the game which allows you to recruit new members to your squad. The game then plays 
 like a real time strategy game, but has a nifty pause button that lets you plan and submit orders 
 for your heroes. Anyone familiar with the previous game will know that the environments are interactive 
 and fully destructable. The penalty for destryoing too much of the city is reduced thankfully as 
 that destroyed my prestige rating in the last game. And you can now rotate the map, a feature that 
 was missed in the last game, and is put to great use here.
  
  Graphics are great in this game. The hero and villian models are well done and are full of color 
 and expression. Environments are also great and always feel right. The fact that they can be destroyed 
 is a thing of beauty. When you bring down a building, the shaking of the screen followed by the 
 cloud of debris is an amazing thing to watch. The power effects were also fun to watch. And they 
 seem a bit more polished this time around as well. There were no noticable glitches or clipping 
 that got in the way of playing the game.
  
  Sound is fantastic and all the voices seem to have returned to pick up their voice overs. The voice 
 overs truely add to the gaming experience and the story itself. You can feel the overwrung drama 
 and the emotion that the voice actors put into the parts. The sound effects also sound great and 
 again add to the experience.
  
  Now the only real problem I had with the game is that it feels a bit short. Mind you, it is a great 
 game even at its 12-15 hour length now, but I played for about 20+ hours on the first game and 
 it felt to be the perfect length. However, if length were to kill the quality of the game, then 
 leave it where it is.
  
  Overall, the game is a masterpiece in gaming. The story, graphics, sound all mix to make a classic 
 of a game. The ending leaves you wanting more and hopefully another sequel is soon to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banjo_Jake112
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2005 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game lives up to its name. Second in the series, Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich, lets you 
 play through the newest version of the game. Minuteman and the team of returning superheroes (El 
 Diablo, Alchemiss, Mentor, The Ant, Man-O-War are among them) return for more. The game starts 
 out very routinely as some of the arch-enemies return. However, in a huge plot twist the characters 
 are sent back to World War II, where they meet up with new superheroes who quickly join the cause.
 
  
  The game uses the a new graphics engine, yet the graphics look unchanged, the physics on the other 
 hand are must better than in the first game. For the current generation, they are lackluster. The 
 colors are very vibrant. The sound is nice, the voice-overs may be cheesy but fit the theme well. 
 In this game sequel, the new multiplayer mode is very well designed and also let's you play through 
 the single player missions. 
  
  All in all, this game is well designed and the weaknesses can be easily overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Like its predecessor, it has a highly entertaining story that both mocks and revels in the 
 golden age of comic book heroes and villains.
  
  Lows: Freedom Force vs. the Third Reich achieves one of the greatest goals in all of gaming; there 
 simply is not enough of it. It may only be the feeling left by a really great game, but at the 
 end, you will more than likely be wanting more. There are some game elements that seem obvious, 
 and yet are not there in the package, such as some form of co-op. The closest thing to co-op is 
 team-based multiplayer, which, is not the same. It feels like there is more art carried over from 
 Freedom Force than there is content developed specifically for this game.
  
  RPG Fans: For a game with so many RPG elements, this is not an RPG by a long shot. It is, more 
 fairly, a turn based strategy game. You might like it. You will more than likely love it. Just 
 do not expect an RPG. Other than that, it does have lots of elements that you will more than appreciate.
 
  
  Strategy Fans: This is squad-based strategy, with heavy role-playing elements. If you enjoyed Warcraft 
 III, then you should enjoy this. Fun and fast paced, and if you have skills in RTS gaming, youll 
 have an edge in multiplayer where there is no pausing.
  
  Everyone Else: This is a good game, and it is worth every penny of what could now be considered 
 the low price of 40. If you are not particularly fond of RPG or Strategy, then keep it in mind 
 in case you see it floating in a bargain bin. It is easily worthy of giving a look as it has the 
 quality of production that allows it to transcend genre appreciation.
  
  
  
  Freedom Force vs. the Third Reich is a mouthful of a name, and a handful of a game. It begins shortly 
 after the end of the original Freedom Force, re-living the bittersweet ending of the last mission 
 before the adventure begins with foreshadowing of a twist to come. The overdramatic moments, and 
 old style comic-bookish animation of the cut-scenes is a signature of what is now the Freedom Force 
 series as opposed to a singular Freedom Force game. What makes it feel so great is that there is 
 a feeling that glows from every cheesy moment that makes this idea that everything in Freedom Force 
 is a true homage to childhood heroes, and dreams and comic book fantasies. Poking fun has never 
 been done with so much love.
  
  The plot is driven by all the same characters that you know and love from the original Freedom 
 Force, if you have played it before, but you certainly do not need to in order to appreciate the 
 story of this one. Most of the characters are completely reverted to their starting Freedom Force 
 statistics, though some of them come with a few upgrades that make them a little easier to play 
 with in the single player game. In addition to this, a great many of the characters will need to 
 be earned back and recruited using prestige which is earned during the missions. Thankfully, prestige 
 is much easier to come by, making it very possible to recruit, at the very least, your favorite 
 squad members from last game.
  
  All the characters that drive the plot, plus all of the new characters that are built into the 
 game are available, for the most part, and along with all of the original Secret Origin scenes 
 from the original game, every new character that is part of the plot has a Secret Origin cut scene, 
 building upon the base content rather than just filling out totally new content. This is not a 
 bad thing, because there is still an awful lot of new content, it is arguably a very good thing 
 as far as user mod development goes, allowing for much more pre-made content from which to build 
 custom comic books.
  
  Character creation is very deep, allowing for massive customization of each attack, a host of super 
 powers and flaws to choose from, as well as a list of stats that should be carefully balanced before 
 use. When working with a prestige limit tweaking becomes compulsive, and you will find yourself 
 building teams in order to round out the powers for multiplayer. The rumble room is another nice 
 addition to FFvtTR. It lets you arrange battles of varying sizes and difficulties with which to 
 experiment and often simply kick loads of butt.
  
  Multiplayer is solidly filled out with plenty of modes for various competitive games. These include 
 arena, and deathmatch modes along with their team based counterparts as well several others and 
 story based mode. Story modes are ultimately a list of the exact same game types, but you get to 
 type in a description to the match that gives it a purpose. Story mode also lets the host preset 
 the players teams to add a unifying orientation to them, such as all bad characters and all good 
 characters.
  
  With all the testing we did of the multiplayer, which was intensely fun, we found story mode to 
 be the least useful. Multiplayer was especially deep in combination with the character creation 
 process, and the rumble room, where we were able to test the metal of the characters we made and 
 temper them over time even between matches of clashing in deathmatch. What would have been much 
 more appreciated over story mode gaming would have been something as simple as a co-op rumble room.
 
  
  The levels are wonderfully destructible. Everything is waiting for you to rip it out of the ground 
 and throw it, when it comes to a car or swing it like a massive steel baseball bad when ripping 
 lampposts out of the ground is involved. The environments are far more detailed due to the improved 
 graphics engine, buildings have interiors, and the textures feel much nicer this time around. Sadly, 
 there were no locations with twists that just grabbed for attention this time; almost everything 
 took place in fairly urban locations. It is hard to push this as a negative for the game, but after 
 Freedom Force it is a very real lack of a positive point, especially given how much more beautiful 
 they would have been given the new lighting and higher resolution models and textures available.
 
  
  Freedom Force vs. the Third Reich is more of a very good thing, and it leaves you wanting even 
 more when it ends. It is full of twists, rich story, laughs, and enjoyable characters that let 
 you feel the glory of being a real part of a comic book. If it sounds like a game youll like, 
 it is of a high enough quality that you will love it. For some people, the Freedom Force series 
 is a dream come true. Irrational has produced a wonderful offering, and with luck will produce 
 more to come. As you read this, mod tools are already being made to the community, and there will 
 be plenty to look forward to from till another installment is on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  This title should have had a much better engine.... this game is completely like it's predecessor..... which 
 is a good thing if you loved freedom force..."I did". "DID"
  
  I still don't like the camera angle... and now it doesnt zoom as close as the original.... it would 
 be nice to see at eye level.... not the ground by your feet..... I feel like I'm literally looking 
 over the game..... again, which can be cool.... but it's not.
  
  The story and gameplay is fun and boring, the graphics are mediocre, the cartoon clips are nice 
 still, sound is ok.... actors are still funny.
  
  I feel bad cause I loved this game when it came out.... and I still own almost every Marvel mesh 
 and skin that was made..... but it's just too "no pun intended" DE-JA-VU for a game that came out 
 some time ago.
  
  I still recommend this to freedom fanz, and strategy fans....... for FREEDOM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2005 6:36 pm PT
Review:  My review is based on the following conditions : release version 1.0 + no campaigning + a lot of 
 hero design + a lot of "rumbles" (= single-player skirmishes against the computer) . System specs 
 are : 2.8 GHz P4 + 1024 MB DDR RAM + GeForce FX 5200 with 128 MB VRAM + WinXP Home/SP2. 
  
  Installation : No problem.
  Stability : No problem.
  Bugs : No problem (no crashes & no obvious 
 bugs) .
  Framerate : No problem.
  
  Graphics (outside of actual gameplay) : B+ (pretty & crisp cartoon look : not outstanding, but 
 far from cheap)
  Graphics (inside the gameplay arena) : A+ (vivid & clean 3D look : outstanding !)
  
  Hero design 
 : A+ (a lot of customization options = a lot of replay value !)
  Hero control : A- (once you learn how to move the heroes and the camera)
  Hero action : A+ (but 
 beware of play-balance issues during hero design & selection)
  
  Sound : C- to C+ (the persistent & repetitive martial march pounded in the ears during pre-game 
 selections & customizations rapidly gets very tiresome : turn the volume off until you get into 
 the action) .
  
  Recommendation : A+ (buy it, without reservations !)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  A 'lack of innovation' is a very common complaint amongst gamers. In an industry where sequels 
 and expansion packs are the most safe business practice, sometimes novel ideas never see the light 
 of day. Thankfully, Freedom Force vs. The Third Reich (hereafter referred to as FF2) is helping 
 buck the trend. It may be a sequel, and though it is largely unchanged from the first installment, 
 it has a unique style and feel that you won't find in any Tolkien-inspired RPG .
  
  It seems that, at times, games are mistakenly labeled as 'great' when they are just different. 
 FF2 is not one of those games... it has it all: An expertly crafted story, a huge cast of unique 
 super-heroes complete with their own 'origin of' movie, suitably hammy dialog and voice acting, 
 and a quality soundtrack that will have you chuckling in spots. I think the best example of the 
 style FF2 goes for is the classic Batman TV show starring Adam West. Consequently, many younger 
 gamers just won't get the homage to classic comics, but that only slightly lessens the game's appeal.
 
  
  The game takes place mostly from a top-down perspective, and there is no real need for an interface. 
 Your only instrument for manipulating the game world is a few hotkeys and your trusty mouse. Using 
 it you will access all of your character's abilities, as well as issue commands to your team of 
 heroes. Advanced functions like a journal, spellbook, inventory, etc. are none of them present. 
 Simply put: you don't need them.
  
  Don't mistake FF2 for some open-ended RPG romp like Fable or Baldur's Gate. It is a very linear, 
 mission-based game. You won't have dialogue options, and you won't be reading them either. Everything 
 is voice-acted, and arranged in a start-to-finish style. Since when did 'open ended' become most 
 advantageous to storytelling anyhow? The deliberate pacing of the missions makes sense, and while 
 you can't choose your own adventure, you can choose your own hero.
  
  For anyone that has an RPG itch that just can't be scratched by killing orcs, Freedom Force vs. 
 The Third Reich is a refreshing and exhilarating change of pace. It's probably one of the most 
 unique games in the genre since the classic Planescape: Torment. Truly, it is an excellent game.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagoto
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 11, 2005 12:44 am PT
Review:  Hey Y'all.... f'n comic books. I love 'em... I love the ol' ones especially. Stan Lee, Fantastic 
 Four, Jack Kirby... oh yeah... gives me a woody.
  Well this game sucks. It is boring and contrite and stupid and silly and uncharming and dumb and 
 silly and it's just a rip off of Jack Kirby art... did I say it sucks? Yeah, it sucks. Who wants 
 to click around and make stupid characters "zap" commies? Boring. The sound and gameplay is horrible 
 and it sucks... maybe I already said that... but I am only saying it to prove a point through repition. 
 My goodness. I want my hour back.... because that's all I gave it... get a better game. What do 
 you have a ton of money that you want to waste? Perkins doesn't pay you enough money to get every 
 single highly rated game out there does it? Thought so. So save your credit card payments and get 
 a good comic book instead of this trite s#it. Don't waste your time. Get out there and get a better 
 job, see a movie, go sledding with your kids... anything is better than wasting a few evenings 
 on this garbage. The video game companies aren't your friends. They're making you fat (like me) 
 and lonely (like me) and bored enough to tell you that there are better games out there that you 
 need to be buying.... how about Half Life 2? Halo 2? Even Zelda the Four Swords is better... or 
 even flippin' listening to your old cassette tapes and crying about your lost high school love. 
 Game s&cks. Don't waste your green. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 10, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  If you played the original Freedom Force you know what this game is about. For those of you who 
 don't, here is a recap: 60's comic inspired superhero RPG (with quasi-turnbased strategy a la KOTOR) 
 -- with cheesy predictable story and characters.
  
  
  The Good
  - Very stylish, captures that comic feel very well.
  - Rugged graphics engine. (I can play max 
 detail @ 1600x1200 on a radeon 9700pro)
  - Good sound, music, and cheesy voice acting to suit the atmosphere
  - Solid game play, which 
 character development
  
  
  The bad
  - Unbalanced game play. The game is too easy at the normal setting.
  - Controls. Unlike KOTOR, 
 this game does not let you issue a queue of commands when paused, making it annoying to keep pausing 
 the game.
  - Linear levels
  - Story and characters gets a plus for holding true to the retro theme but like those retro comics 
 loose their charm and become boring.
  
  
  The Ugly
  - Nothing. While the game has its good and bad points it has not major flaws.
  
  
  
  Bottom 
 Line:
  The game itself feels like a retro comic which seems dull in comparison to the newer flashier comics 
 with better story and illustrations. Especially in terms of game play so much is lacking: no branching, 
 no optional quests, and very simple level objectives. I really hate to call this an RPG because 
 its not.
  
  Nevertheless it is a fun game that will appeal to the fans of the original.
  
  
  ----
  Usually I think Greg is fair in his ratings, and sometimes even a little harsh 
 but this time I think he is too generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavyn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2005 2:52 am PT
Review:  I am impressed. It has exactly the same feel as the Freedom Force 1. The graphics are like candy! 
 Neon signs in the city look amazing. Superpowers look great. They really took it to the next level. 
 One thing that is BITTERLY dissappointing, however, is the lack of co-operative multiplay. As far 
 as I can tell, it is still only player vs. player. They improved that aspect greatly. But why did 
 they stop there? Hopefully the mod-making tools will allow for some co-op multi-play modules from 
 the communtiy. In that aspect alone they didn't take the game where I was really hoping to see 
 it go. If you are happy adventuring solo, you will love this game.
  
  UPDATE: Okay, it only took me app. 15 hours to complete. This game was much shorter than I expected. 
 I guess they are expecting the mod community to take over now...
  One small complaint -- there are a lot of different accents in the spoken dialogue, seeing that 
 this takes place in Europe. The voice actors clearly don't speak the languages they are imitating. 
 The French girl's mispronunciations made me wince with embarrasment. And El Diablo is supposed 
 to be latino... but his spanish is inexcusably atrocious. Is there a shortage of Spanish speaking 
 voice actors or something?
  
  Long story short, still a fun game. I lowered my score slightly, but I would still recommend it. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
