-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Freedom Fighters
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/freedomthebattleforli/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,048 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 1, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Anyone looking for thrilling action with refined control and a great premise need look no further 
 than Freedom Fighters. 

  It must take a lot of work to make a squad-based action game. On top of having to deliver all the 
 core aspects that any shooter should have -- things like responsive gameplay and great graphics and 
 sound -- a game designer working with squad-style gameplay also has to worry a lot about artificial 
 intelligence. All it takes is a smattering of instances where a player's AI squadmates get stuck 
 on a wall or take an inefficient path around a few obstacles to really shatter the illusion of 
 working with a team and turn the game into a drone-babysitting simulation. Freedom Fighters, the 
 new game from the developers of last year's great Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, deftly avoids the 
 many pitfalls of AI squad tactics, and this, combined with great control, mission design, and presentation, 
 makes for a truly fantastic game.  

          Most of the game's plot is advanced by a series of humorous Soviet-run newscasts, which 
 cover your actions as terrorist activities.     

  Freedom Fighters takes place in an alternate reality that never saw the dissolution of the Soviet 
 Union. Instead, the Red threat has continued to grow since the end of World War II, taking hold 
 in countries as close to home as Cuba and Mexico. The game opens with the plumbing team of Chris 
 and Troy Stone paying a visit to the clogged sink of Isabella Angelina, who also happens to be 
 a vocal member of a watchdog organization devoted to informing the American public about the evils 
 of the Soviet Union. The duo enters her apartment to find that it has been hastily evacuated, and 
 soon after, Soviet troops bust in to try to find her, only to capture Troy instead. The Soviet 
 invasion of the US has begun.  

  After that brief setup, you're thrust into the role of Chris Stone, and you hook up with Isabella's 
 resistance movement almost immediately. Operating from the sewers beneath New York City, the movement 
 aims to overthrow the invaders and drive the communists out of the country. You'll start as a lowly 
 member of the team, but you grow in popularity and influence as the game goes on, and Chris will 
 slowly transform from an average 32-year-old plumber into a battle-hardened leader.  

  The game isn't terribly long-winded in its storytelling. Most of the game's plot is advanced by 
 a series of humorous Soviet-run newscasts, which cover your actions as terrorist activities. Your 
 missions are laid out in the rebel base, and the briefings are great at explaining the strategic 
 significance of, say, reclaiming a high school building for the red, white, and blue. Though the 
 story is told well and works great in the context of the game, it's pretty short on substance. 
 Aside from a foreshadowed plot twist that you can see coming from a mile away, not a whole lot 
 happens in the game. It must also be said that the game doesn't provide much closure at the end, 
 simultaneously setting up for a sequel while not really leaving you with a tremendous feeling of 
 accomplishment. A more climactic final mission would have gone a long way. These things hardly 
 affect the incredible quality of the game's action, though.  

  At the outset, Freedom Fighters plays like a rock-solid third-person shooter, with smooth and responsive 
 controls. You can shoot from the hip or raise your weapon for precision firing, which causes the 
 camera to zoom in slightly for a cool over-the-shoulder view. You have an inventory of items and 
 the ability to carry a pistol and one primary weapon, such as a shotgun, an assault rifle, a sniper 
 rifle, a machine gun, a rocket launcher, or a submachine gun. You'll also be able to carry grenades, 
 Molotov cocktails, high explosives, binoculars, and health packs that restore your health when 
 used, though they can also be used to heal wounded civilians or other freedom fighters.  

  Once you've operated on your own for a little while and have gotten used to the control, thanks 
 to some well-placed training messages, the game gives you the ability to command up to two other 
 squad mates. By increasing your charisma rating -- which goes up as you complete missions and can 
 also be given optional boosts if you rescue prisoners or heal civilians -- you can eventually control 
 up to 12 soldiers simultaneously. Running with a crowd definitely makes Freedom Fighters feel like 
 a much larger game, and the late-game firefights that erupt when you have a larger squad are extremely 
 impressive and, more importantly, a lot of fun.  

  Squad control is both simple and effective in Freedom Fighters. You need only three buttons to 
 command your troops on the battlefield. The recall button forces troops to fall in behind you. 
 The attack button can be used to send troops after a specific soldier, or you can target a general 
 area to get troops to cover specific locations. Finally, the defend button is used to get troops 
 to hold their position. Tapping the buttons will assign commands to one member of your squad, but 
 holding the button down for a split-second longer assigns the command to your entire squad, which 
 is usually more effective.  

  The squad AI isn't perfect -- we saw our troops get hung up when attempting to climb down onto some 
 train tracks, and we saw one instance of a squad member not taking the most efficient path to its 
 destination -- but its rare problems are easily overlooked because the rest of the time they work 
 very well, and using your team effectively is really satisfying. Squadmates support each other 
 and naturally use the urban terrain for cover. You can effectively lead their charge, or you can 
 let them do a lot of the work themselves and support them with covering fire. The squad dynamic 
 lends the action a great deal of variety, ensuring that no two skirmishes will play out in quite 
 the same fashion.  

          Players looking for thrilling action with refined control and an excellent premise need 
 look no further than Freedom Fighters.     

  Each mission in the game has one main goal, but that goal is usually impossible to attain without 
 performing a collection of secondary tasks. For example, you'll never be able to blow up a supply 
 bridge while attack choppers are covering it, so you'll have to acquire some C4 and take out a 
 nearby helipad to remove all choppers from the area. And you can't make your way into the police 
 station while snipers are covering it from the roof of a nearby gas station. So you'll have to 
 get behind the station and blow it up. Each mission usually has multiple locations, and you can 
 move freely from one area to another via manholes found throughout the city.  

  Manholes also serve as the game's save system. The game is saved automatically whenever you move 
 from one location to another, and you can also make quick saves there. There are enough save points 
 to keep things fair, but not so many that you can remove the game's challenge by saving every few 
 seconds. It's a good balance.     

  While the enemy AI doesn't seem to be quite as smart as your team, the Soviet troops are good at 
 taking cover and using nearby gun turrets to ensure that your advance is a difficult one. They'll 
 also use cover and will take advantage of their superior numbers, making them a consistently challenging 
 foe. In all, Freedom Fighters' friendly and enemy artificial intelligence is easily some of the 
 best to date in a shooter. The game has four difficulty levels, and the increase in challenge from 
 one level to the next is noticeable. You'll definitely be taking more damaging fire as you slide 
 up the difficulty scale. Additionally, the game is good at getting more difficult as you move through 
 the missions. Near the beginning, you'll be facing basic troops with pistols and other light weapons. 
 But you'll start to see larger troops with flak jackets and shotguns and heavily armored machine 
 gunners, and later in the game you'll even face off against a tank.  

          The only problem with Freedom Fighters is that there simply isn't enough of it.     

 
  The only real problem with Freedom Fighters is that there simply isn't enough of it. While the 
 game does a good job of making you think you're nearly finished, only to toss another set of missions 
 at you, veteran action gamers should be able to get through the game on the second or third difficulty 
 setting in eight to 12 hours. However, unlike other action games of similar length -- Max Payne, 
 for example -- the game doesn't really give you much reason to go back through and play a second 
 time. Rather than giving you access to special features or alternate modes, completing the game 
 simply gives you the ability to go back and play any mission at will, though with the entire squad 
 you've amassed.  

  Freedom Fighters is simultaneously appearing on the PC and all three major consoles. While each 
 version of the game is about as equally impressive on its respective platform, there are definitely 
 some differences in control. The PC version of the game makes great use of the same mouse-and-keyboard 
 control you'd expect from most first- or third-person action games. It also offers more-precise 
 aiming control. The console versions understandably rely on auto-aim to make up for a gamepad's 
 relative lack of precision, though you can still aim manually in the console versions of the game, 
 which is required for doing things like blowing up explosive barrels to take out a cluster of troops 
 at once.  

  The console versions of the game all contain a four-player multiplayer mode. Though it isn't really 
 a main focus of the game, the multiplayer mode is basically a version of king of the hill, where 
 one team must hoist their flag and hold the position until a time limit has been reached. The PC 
 version doesn't have this mode, but it isn't strong enough to really be missed. The ability to 
 play the game's outstanding single-player campaign cooperatively, online or off, would have been 
 a much more meaningful multiplayer addition.  

  Graphics is another area that varies from platform to platform, but again, each version looks pretty 
 fantastic when compared to other similar titles on each system. The models look and move well, 
 the game keeps a pretty solid frame rate throughout, and the environments are realistically urban, 
 giving the game a nice New York City feel. Weapon fire, lighting, and most other effects look appropriately 
 dramatic. As you'd expect, the PC version offers the greatest graphical performance, especially 
 when running at 1600x1200 or higher with the draw distance set as far as it will go. By comparison, 
 the console versions aren't quite as sharp, though the Xbox version's visuals outpace the GameCube 
 and PS2 equivalents. The GameCube version also occasionally shows seams between its polygons, which 
 makes it look slightly worse than the others, though still great in its own right. The graphics 
 do have a bit of an impact on gameplay -- it's more difficult to see troops at a distance on the 
 console versions than it is on the PC. When you're trying to gun down an entire squad from a machine 
 gun turret, you can't do any zooming in, so it's easier to miss a target or two.  

          The Russian soldiers sound appropriately menacing and speak in their native language.  
    

  The sound in Freedom Fighters is really terrific. With only a couple of exceptions, the voice work 
 is well done. The Russian soldiers sound appropriately menacing and communicate with each other 
 in their native language. The sounds of combat, especially when you're working with a large squad, 
 are of particular note, as they really make you feel like you're on a battlefield. The game's music, 
 filled with choral vocals reminiscent of the Soviet national anthem, is also a stellar high point, 
 and it adds a perfect level of drama to the proceedings.  

  While the game could have been lengthier, Freedom Fighters is still just an outstanding blend of 
 pure action and tactical squad combat. The squad control works incredibly well, making it easy 
 even if you haven't had much experience with squad-based games in the past. Anyone looking for 
 thrilling action with refined control and a great premise need look no further than Freedom Fighters. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (128 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  This story takes place at an imaginary world, where the Soviets invaded and captured New York. You, Christopher 
 Stone managed to escape their wrath, and managed to rescue some New Yorkers and Isabella, a beautiful 
 and efficient woman. Together you people form a rebel base in the sewers of New York, from where 
 you plan to take back NY.
  As a plumber, it's a wonder how you can shoot so well, but no complains here ! Your first mission 
 would be to rescue your brother, Troy Stone, from one of the Soviet bases. After that, you'll realise 
 that you have a charisma meter, which gets filled up when you successfully complete a mission. As 
 it fills up, you'll be able to recruit more Freedom Fighters, fighting for the common cause. At the 
 end of the game, you'll find yourself commanding 20-22 soldiers. You can give them 3 simple commands-to 
 regroup, to attack and to defend an area.
  Slowly, you'll begin to capture many Soviet bases, your primary objective to cut off their supplies, un-arm 
 them and attack them by surprise. There are quite a number of weapons in the game-The Assault Rifle, The 
 Shot-gun, The SMG, The Sniper, The Pistol, The Rifle, The Rocket-launcher and of course your trusty 
 old wrench ,to be used as a melee weapon.
  One fine day, the Soviets will again capture your brother and kill him. They will find the location 
 of your base and attack you there. You will flee, but they will get Isabella. Once escaped to Manhattan, your 
 job will be to assassinate General Tartarin, who killed your brother. Thus begins the final and best 
 chapter of the game.
  You will kill Tartarin, and will plan a final attack on the Soviets in their Governors Island. The 
 attack will take place in chapters, where your objective will be different in each of the chapters 
 like to steal C4 charge, destroy their Heli-pad, take out the Mortar positions and finally conquer 
 Fort Jay. Once completed these objectives, you will announce your victory over the Soviets, who will 
 mostly die, and the rest will flee.
  The graphics are quite good, but the textures are excellent ! The sounds are amazing as well, with 
 each of the weapons sounding different and realistic.
  It's a game worth playing, and if you happen to like squad-based tactical shooters, this is one title 
 you cannot miss ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Music: N/A
  I played this game a while ago and i can't remember if there is any music at all!
  
  Sound: 
 9.5
  Great voice acting, and some other stuff.
  
  Gameplay: 8.8
  Great concept, and story. Russia has taken over new york and you have to help, so you recruit soldiers 
 and order them around to kill stuff. Problem is, the enemy's have WAYYYYYY too much health, it 
 takes like 10sec to shoot someone down with a machine gun and there are like 15607456018734605 
 of them in one level WTF!
  
  Graphics: N/A
  I got the worst computer of all time so i can't see the graphics at full potential.
  
  Replay 
 Value: 8.0
  
  Value: N/A
  Got it for free... from a friend...
  
  PROS:
  Voice Acting
  Story
  
  CONS:
  Enemies Health
  
  Ignore:
  no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_6600
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  squad-based third-person shooter, from the makers of the Hitman series. with fierce conflict unfold-ing 
 in the street of America, it's your patriotic duty to fight back. take on the role of Christopher 
 Stone, and evolve from an average New Yorker into a fearless patriot who recruits and leads an 
 aemy of freedom fighters in the street of New York City. Freedom Fighters combines the depth of 
 a group-based games with the intensity of an action-packed war game, all of which unfolds in the 
 streets, subways, and buildings of the ultimate urban battleground. Gain points for rescuing prisoners 
 of capturing key installations. The more charisma you have, the more fighters you can recruit. 
 so, maybe this is the best game of year .Present by lo-interective and EA games. The Freedom Fighters 
 is the game that gives you a new action. Like war games in a city of modern world .
  Many will die for the cause
  RECRUIT ACCORDINGLY
  FREDOM FIGHTERS
  Back to America
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  
  First, I'd like to say that the gameplay is TOTALLY AWESOME ! 
  Second, the visuals are ABSOLUTELY STUNNING, when in league with the game's super realistic physics 
 engine.
  Third, the sound effects are SO COOL it really puts you behind an AK-47 Assault Rifle when you're 
 firing at somebody.
  Fourth, squad based action games have never been this fun.
  Fifth, Desert Storm and Global Terror are poorly incompetent when compared to Freedom Fighters.
 
  Sixth, requirements are not too high.
  
  THE BAD
  
  EA could have added a few more weapons in the game to make it a bit more destructive.
  The game 
 could have had a few vehicles to drive (tanks, armoured cars etc.)
  There could have been a few more controllable characters in the game.
  The campaign would have 
 been better if it had been a little long.
  
  THE UGLY
  
  Well...... there isn't anything that can be called ugly.
  
  RATING
  
  Gameplay 11/10
 
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  Value 7/10
  Tilt 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt8653
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Fight for your country, its the right thing to do! The game is based around the soviet union, mostly 
 re fared to as the reds, attacking and taking over America, rather easily but still. You take control 
 of a man named Chris stone who is your everyday plumber until the city around him comes tumbling 
 down around him. Soon he becomes a well know freedom fighter, and known to the reds as 'the freedom 
 phantom'.
  
  The game play is very good in this game, there are a few glitches along the way, but doesn't every 
 game have a glitch. This aside the game play helps you get lost in the story line and gives the 
 player a nice experience of emotions and actions that may be taken in this situation. Also the 
 squad based system is set up very well, although it can sometimes be difficult and frustrated, 
 but either way a fun experience.
  
  The graphics are not to great, but don't get me wrong they do a good enough job in the field and 
 in cut-scenes. I gave this a 9 for the sheer fact that those type of graphics are characteristic 
 to this companies other games e. g. hit man etc. Also in the cut-scenes there are use of some nice 
 facial expressions which add to the experience.
  
  The sound on this game really helped me to get lost in the whole experience. The gun and explosive 
 noises are very good, although can become very repetitive during later play throughs, this aside 
 the voice acting is fairly good and funny comments from your team mates and enemies alike make 
 it more the enjoyable experience. The main reason for the 10 is the fact on one level Chris makes 
 a heartwarming speech to all of his fellow citizens to get them to raise up against the red invasion, 
 very good moment in the game.
  
  Overall this is a must own game, many things that could have been improved but do not let that 
 put you off, a very enjoyable experience which you will undoubtedly be coming back to often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dzyun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my first reviews. This game has a great plot line, but it is rushed in the beginning. 
 It seemed they just had to say everything up front. Also Freedom Fighters was WAY to short. On 
 the positive note it had squad controls. Also I liked the huge squad. This gave you a mini army. 
 Also when I did use cheat codes they were so easy to remember. One example is "ioirockets", all 
 you had to do was type in fast. This game had an easy learning curve if you have ever played Call 
 Of Duty, or Medal Of Honor. Thats all I have to say. =-) =-) =-) =-P =-b =-) random smile  =- ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniperwolf_SN
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a great war game, the main reason here is to ambush the enemy on important 
 places, first you will work alone to release Freedom Fighters boss, she is a cool women. And then 
 you will start with two soldiers like a body guard for you, and you can increase the number of 
 your men by get a higher rank.
  
  The Greatest thing here, your friends have intelligence, they will follow you and they will attack 
 and defend places as you want, you are the leader.
  Also In Freedom Fighters you will do an additional missions to get high rank, In additions it will 
 help you in the main missions. for example you will explode some bridges to stop enemies support 
 in another places.
  
  sounds, music, and colors are imagical, you will feel that you are really on the battle field.
 
  Russian will talk about your missions in news, and they will say that those actions is a terrorists 
 activities! but finally you will attack TV tower and recover it.
  
  alot of great missions and events In this game, its really great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a modern action game about a fictive war between Soviet invaders and U. S guerrillas 
 who try to overthrough the enemy and retrieve occupied territory in New York city. You will play 
 Chris Stone who 
  will also lead a squad of 4, 5 after the first few levels. You have to fight enemy in NY and the 
 aim is to overthrow the Soviets and get back on the power. The story may not sound very original, 
 but this game is certainly one of the best made games I have ever played. The gameplay in Freedom 
 Fighters is up to the knocker, impeccable. I can hardly imagine a better one. The controls works 
 so smooth and without any problem and is quite easy. You can easily move, run, jump, climb and 
 shoot. You can re-start a level many times, and try a different plan of attack each time so it 
 never gets monotonous and boring. There are no real quicksaves in game, but you have an in-game 
 quicksaves in more difficult levels. However, you will loose them when you quite the game. The 
 enemies artificial intelligence is satisfactory. They can hear you and see you, then they mostly 
 follow you. You have a limited assortment of the weaponry, but they all work well. You can even 
 aim and shoot with a single pistol and it works quit well. I have played this game on normal difficulty, 
 but it is advisable for experienced gamer to choose the hard mode for more challenge as the game 
 is rather short.
  The graphics/lighting effects maybe not comparable with nex gen, but are quite good for a game 
 made in 2003. You get the feel of the occupied and damaged NY quit well. And the levels although 
 all taken place in the same city are not repetitive, and varied enough to give the feel you are 
 in a different area of the city and on a different mission. Another plus point of this game is 
 the music and also the background sound. Some scores are really good and gives the game more excitement 
 and thrill.
  The difficulty is just right. Some levels are easier and some harder but not that hard which make 
 you loose interest after a few tries. As I mentioned, you can start the levels with a completely 
 new approach which 
  makes it interesting every single time.
  All together, even though it has been made a couple of years ago, Freedom Fighters is an amazing 
 entertaining action game which makes it a satisfactory gaming experience for modern action gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a well-paced, challenging yet easy to pickup team-based shooter from the creators 
 of the Hitman franchise. The premise is typical video game ridiculousness but still welcoming and 
 different; the soviets have invaded the U. S. A and begun taking over major cities. You are a small 
 time plumber who, no surprises, begins to lead resistance groups on missions through out the neighbourhoods 
 your home city of New York. Against this far-fetched backdrop, the game is executed very effectively 
 and succeeds on all its offerings. The main element that immediately impressed was the easy to 
 use interface. You command a group of rebel fighters (who increase in numbers as the game progresses) 
 with 'aim and click' 1-key orders for individuals or hold the command key to order all your fighters. 
 This system works swiftly and doesn't obstruct the action-packed gameplay. 
  
  The graphics feel highly reminiscent of Hitman 2 and although may not have the "wow" factor of 
 current next-gen shooters, Freedom Fighter's visuals are effective enough to immerse you in the 
 game world: its graphics hold fairly strong even today. The game world includes firefights, assaults, 
 hit & run missions, cover and destroy objectives in streets, parks, across railways, over rooftops 
 and inside buildings in hallways & corridors. The levels are challenging enough to try your own 
 minor strategies: you don't need to finish one particular level but, for example, acquire resources 
 from one level, travel through sewer networks to another local level and use those resources to 
 your advantage. The gameplay is non-linear and allows for many possibilities. It provides you with 
 two/ three levels to work through or play through them individually - an option that hasn't been 
 done well, or much at all, in many other games. The audio is sharp but not outstanding. The music 
 is feels original with contemporary as well as cinematic overtones by superb game musician Jesper 
 Kyd, who also produced excellent music for the Hitman games.
  
  Gameplay is highly exciting as you really feel like a ragtag freedom fighter scratching at the 
 apparently impregnable soviet forces. Many details such as great voice-acting, plot-twists and 
 entertaining characters reinforce this alternative history game world. The enemy A. I is challenging 
 but the squad commanding is what truly shines in Freedom Fighters: use your fighters well as they 
 can provide you cover, distraction whilst you complete the main mission or defend key areas in 
 a level. The sheer amount of Russian enemies you kill is reminiscient of "run & gun" shooters, 
 but there is no excessive blood or gore and the action is kept focused rather than mindlessly annihilating 
 everything in sight. I played PC version and the controls worked like typical FPS games but I don't 
 know of how the console versions perform. The only minor negative point are that the game is fairly 
 short but its great fun while it lasts and one you may play more than once but using different 
 strategies. There are no patches required for the game and I didn't experience any crashes or lockups. 
 Overall, I'd recommend Freedom Fighters to all shooter fans looking for a distinctly different 
 flavour of gameplay as well as new gamers who are put off or bored by the myriad of fantasy/ sci-fi/ 
 WW2 based games out there. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Freedom Fighters is an amazing, but short, game. You start off as a regular person who makes a 
 living for himself as a plumber. But Christopher Stone's life changes as the Soviets invade New 
 York. Now you have to live under ground in a sewer so you can not be caught. You are sent out to 
 many parts of NY to take down the flag of the Soviets and raise the flag of the United States. 
 Moreover, the more Charisma you gain, you will be able to recruit more and more freedom fighters. 
 You can order your fighters to follow, defend, or eliminate the enemies. Also, there are tons of 
 guns, such as, a Assault Rifle, Submachine Gun, Machine gun, Shotgun, Rocket Launcher, Sniper Rifle, 
 and much more. After every mission you complete, your under ground base will gain more weapons, 
 so you can fill up anytime. Overall, Freedom Fighters is an incredible game with a very well designed 
 story and gameplay. The music is perfect for the scenario you are in and the graphics are superb. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodflow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  I stumbled upon Freedom Fighters by accident. I was just buying a game, to have a pass-time activity. 
 Little did I know that it would become my favourite game on PC and my most played. 
  
  What makes this game stand out is the gameplay. You easily jump around, run, and take cover; controlling 
 your character is really enjoyable. You also control the rest of the squad which grows in numbers 
 as you become more popular (complete tasks) . You give them directions to charge in, defend a position 
 or to follow you. It all works fantastically well, it is very fluid. However, problems may occur. 
 A slight miscalculation may send your soldiers way too far, and I have experienced problems sending 
 them to some locations, like up and down stairs. However, this happens very rarely in my opinion, 
 the system is in fact quite flawless. I must mention how great it is to be able to handle your 
 squad that easily. You decide how the battles are going to proceed: send your teammates slowly 
 forwards while you snipe, or charge in with two teammates while three others are covering? It is 
 just great.
  
  In each mission you are supposed to take out one or several targets (buildings) by hoisting the 
 flag on top of that building. Many factors affect the difficulty of the mission, and the smartest 
 is always to take out smaller targets first, like helipads, bridges, communication centres, release 
 prisoners, and so on to weaken the enemy's numbers or defence and attack power. So you'll have 
 to travel between areas. This opens for many different approaches.
  
  One other thing that Freedom Fighters scores extremely high on is the music. It is fantastic, composed 
 by Jesper Kyd. It is the only video game soundtrack I have ever gotten myself. Although most of 
 it consists of "military marching songs" with Russian chorus, it just raises your fighting spirit 
 as you rush through the snow or other great areas like towns with tall buildings, bridges, cars. 
 The sound effects are very good also.
  
  The replay value is, any my eyes, great (obviously) . Completing the game on normal or below is 
 just pure fun, enemies doesn't offer much resistance. On the hardest difficulty however some few 
 selected spots are extremely hard, which leads me to something I disliked about the game. The game 
 saves each time you proceed to enter the sewers to change area. So when playing on the hardest 
 difficulty, in some areas, you can be killing of hundreds of enemies just to die in an instant 
 and have to do it all over. I guess I should bear it, being the hardest difficulty, however I really 
 think the saving should have occurred more often. Also when taking the sewers to another location, 
 most of the enemies revives, adding to the annoyance.
  
  The graphics are satisfying; sometimes the surroundings are pretty amazing. I love it when it snows. 
 In a whole, most of the characters look like toys, a plastic kind of look. Don't get me wrong, 
 it works very well.
  
  The story is interesting: Russia invades the United States and you become a member of a rebel terrorist 
 organization. Some say it is inspired by the movie Red Dawn, I haven't seen it, so I don't know. 
 Also worthy of mention is the movie flicks between missions, most often a news report by Russians 
 telling Americans how they are working for a peaceful future, and that the so-called terrorists 
 (you) are a threat.
  
  The reason the game didn't reach a 10 is the minor problem with squad-controlling and the time 
 distance between saving-moments in hardest difficulty. In addition to that: the lack of things 
 to blow up and the impossibility to take out transport vehicles even with bazookas and grenades; 
 you must take out the bridges. That is quite annoying. These four (really quite insignificant) 
 factors together subtract a half point from an otherwise clear 10 out of 10.
  
  In conclusion: this is my favourite game on PC and also the game I have played the most. The reason 
 for that, is the fantastic gameplay, movement is so easy and enjoyable. This combined whit fantastic 
 sound and music, great replay value and graphics, and a cool story. The feeling you get when taking 
 over the television broadcast building, and later the fort, are worth buying the game to experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Licazinha
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Game is great. My favorite PC game so far. Great storyline, great voice acting, AWESOME gameplay. 
 Perfect.
  
  I can`t wait for the sequel. Hope it won`t disappoint me, cuz the bar is high. 
  It`s so rare 
 to find a game where you fall in love with the characters, the story and the gameplay. No matter 
 how many times you play it, it won`t get old. What you call Perfect! 
  
  Games like Halo do get old at some point. I do love Halo as well, but Freedom fighters has a much 
 more captivating story and characters. It felt like a movie a couple of times... and usually I 
 skip cutscenes :P
  
  The difficulty is just right. Challenging but not frustrating. 
  
  It doesn`t get repetitive. Each level has a different type of gameplay, and many ways to get it 
 right, or wrong. 
  
  It isn`t short, it isn`t long... I honestly can`t find anything wrong with it. 
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Freedom fighters is a 3rd person squad based game. you play as a plumber in new york city who joins 
 the resistance movement to destory the russian invaders. Gameplay is simple. Move from place to 
 place kill the russians and raise a flag over the target building to win. everytime you capture 
 a building there is a news report about it. After 3 buildings are caped then the seasons change 
 as well as your uniforms. The guns are all soviet era weapons are are modled accuratley. The soviet 
 uniforms look realistic. While the graphics are not the best they still get by. Some of the enviroments 
 are detailed. Voice acting is great except some of the really cheesy russian accents ( espically 
 from general tatarin) ambient noises bring a great feal to the game. The game is pretty short and 
 only takes around 4 hours to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  When I got this game from a friend, I knew nothing about it. I didn't even like the name because 
 I thought it would be just another American propaganda (s) cr@p. 
  
  Well, the storyline did turn out to be a bit strange but then again it was innovative - a great 
 idea, I just hope nobody really believed that could happen in reality.
  
  So, the game is very fun and worth playing. I can't actually remember the details as I played it 
 a few years ago but I do remember the exilarating feeling of playing it. 
  
  I am only struggling whether I should give it 9 or 9.5 . 9 and above are in my view legendary games 
 and only rare ones deserve 10. This is not a 10 definetely as there are things missing to push 
 that bit further. It is nevertheless a legendary game and I am only thinking whether I should mark 
 it as 9, which would be the start of a legendary game or 9.5 which would be a more of legendary 
 game. Not a great difference, but still... I like to be accurate.
  
  Well, I guess I'll give it 9.5 since considering that Doom 3 got good marks and Alpha prime got 
 fairly good marks and I didn; t like them too much - they were OK, Alpha Primer disappointing and 
 DOOm 3 was good but nothing to make it stand out. 
  
  Freedom Fithers definetely stands out and so 9.5 should be my score and you will definetely enjoy 
 this game.
  
  If some of you have read more than 1 of my reviews, you may think I give games too high marks. 
 Well, you have to bear in mind that I don't mark anything I find deserves below 5 and most of the 
 games that start of badly, I finish them early (in other words I stop playing them and don't finish 
 them, or I use cheats just to get over with it) . Those poorly assembled games don't stay in my 
 memory and even if I do remember them I don't think they are even worth a review. If I do decide 
 to write reviews which deserve a mark below 6, I will only write a couple of words about them.
 
  
  The games that I review are mostly absolutely exeptional games (anything from 8-10 and sometimes 
 including 7. I give 6 to those that I think are playable but disappoitning) . 
  
  So the games that get between 8-10 and sometimes 7 and wholeheatedly recommended to everyone by 
 myself.
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  (reincarnation) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  One thing great about the game is its gameplay. Controlling a squad in the game is easy and fun. 
 The combat also of the game is great. One problem of the game is that the AI sometimes directly 
 charges toward you or won't take cover and then open fire while in the open. Another problem is 
 that your character can recieve a ton of damage. You can still get killed easily when heavily under 
 fire. The gameplay though is so fun that you may not bother with the games few problems. The visuals 
 of the game still looks great even being slightly old. Both the PS2 and PC version looks almost 
 alike though the PC version has a slightly better performance. Freedom Fighter's sounds are spectacular 
 from the firing of a pistol up to the sounds of explosions including the voice acting is great.
 
  
  To simply put it, Freedom Fighters is one of the greatest games you can find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters works with the USA nationalism in a not-so-cold war, where the citizens are retaliating 
 the soviet troops in order to restore freedom. Although fun and intriguing, Freedom Fighters did 
 not do much to explain where was the USA army in the meantime of the war, neither why are the soviet 
 soldiers so weak. The game also makes the Soviet Union seem like an evil society that eats little 
 children , giving strength the United States citizens hatred for their foes in the game and in 
 their players... But apart of the nationalism issues, players like me, that have nothing to do 
 with the USA or the Soviet Union also like the hypothesis of an soviet attack on USA territory, 
 giving an end to the Cold War and starting something else.
  
  Graphics are not that much of addictive, but certainly is good enough. And the squad interaction 
 is very funny. But the game is too short I must say. A game like that had to last more than a few 
 levels... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vijay39
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a well-paced, challenging yet easy to pickup team-based shooter from the creators 
 of the Hitman franchise. The premise is typical video game ridiculousness but still welcoming and 
 different; the soviets have invaded the U. S. A and begun taking over major cities. You are a small 
 time plumber who, no surprises, begins to lead resistance groups on missions through out the neighbourhoods 
 your home city of New York. Against this far-fetched backdrop, the game is executed very effectively 
 and succeeds on all its offerings. The main element that immediately impressed was the easy to 
 use interface. You command a group of rebel fighters (who increase in numbers as the game progresses) 
 with 'aim and click' 1-key orders for individuals or hold the command key to order all your fighters. 
 This system works swiftly and doesn't obstruct the action-packed gameplay. The graphics feel highly 
 reminiscent of Hitman 2 and although may not have the wow factor of current next-gen shooters, 
 Freedom Fighter's visuals are effective enough to immerse you in the game world: its graphics hold 
 fairly strong even today. The game world includes firefights, assaults, hit &amp; run missions, 
 cover and destroy objectives in streets, parks, across railways, over rooftops and inside buildings 
 in hallways &amp; corridors. The levels are challenging enough to try your own minor strategies: 
 you don't need to finish one particular level but, for example, acquire resources from one level, 
 travel through sewer networks to another local level and use those resources to your advantage. 
 The gameplay is non-linear and allows for many possibilities. It provides you with two/ three levels 
 to work through or play through them individually - an option that hasn't been done well, or much 
 at all, in many other games. The audio is sharp but not outstanding. The music is feels original 
 with contemporary as well as cinematic overtones by superb game musician Jesper Kyd, who also produced 
 excellent music for the Hitman games.
  
  Gameplay is highly exciting as you really feel like a ragtag freedom fighter scratching at the 
 apparently impregnable soviet forces. Many details such as great voice-acting, plot-twists and 
 entertaining characters reinforce this alternative history game world. The enemy A. I is challenging 
 but the squad commanding is what truly shines in Freedom Fighters: use your fighters well as they 
 can provide you cover, distraction whilst you complete the main mission or defend key areas in 
 a level. The sheer amount of Russian enemies you kill is reminiscient of run &amp; gun shooters, 
 but there is no excessive blood or gore and the action is kept focused rather than mindlessly annihilating 
 everything in sight. I played PC version and the controls worked like typical FPS games but I don't 
 know of how the console versions perform. The only minor negative point are that the game is fairly 
 short but its great fun while it lasts and one you may play more than once but using different 
 strategies. There are no patches required for the game and I didn't experience any crashes or lockups. 
 Overall, I'd recommend Freedom Fighters to all shooter fans looking for a distinctly different 
 flavour of gameplay as well as new gamers who are put off or bored by the myriad of fantasy/ sci-fi/ 
 WW2 based games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Nothing but praise for EA Games, Io Interactive`s Freedom Fighters. The graphics good, sound good, the 
 game play absolutely superb. Except the fact that the game is quite short and that the replay value 
 is very low the game is perfect. You have a well a stocked arsenal of weapons from the standard 
 revolver to your very favorite rocket launcher of witch you must make the best use in order to 
 complete your task in each mission. An excellent control of your team allows you to plan your attacks 
 carefully and effectively making possible to use your men (and women) for both offensive and defensive 
 strategies, personally it the part of the game that i liked the most. The game quickly gets you in 
 to story and keeps you there with flawless team based non stop action. A real classic and in my 
 hall of fame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikvduyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  i found this in a bargain bin and decided to give it a go. and i'm glad i did!
  
  The story is really good and well told. The news broadcasts appear realistic and are sometimes 
 funny to hear and read, particularly the scrolling messages at the bottom.
  
  The graphics are very good too. collapsing bridges and explosions overall look nice. The fighters 
 and guns look nicely done, they feel like the real thing. Environments and buildings are interesting 
 to look at, because of the details.
  
  The gameplay was new to me. controlling a squad of up to 12 men (even though i only got up to 6) 
 at first appeared hard to do but it was easy. i've played 3rd person shooters before but this must 
 be one of my favorites.
  
  I find the sound the best part of the game. The choirs that often sound during the game give a 
 good sense of tension, as does the talking of the soldiers. for once, they don't shout english 
 at you, but russian, which contributes to its realism.
  
  The lesser points for me would be the fact that there's no unlockables, which is sad.
  
  otherwise, 
 this is a game that's definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite movies from the Eighties is the Patrick Swayze epic Red Dawn  a poorly acted 
 cult classic [Wolverines! Ed.] that depicts a Russian invasion of the United States. Short on 
 substance and heavy on cheese, the films premise is nevertheless fascinating, particularly since 
 the movie came out when the Soviet Union was still very much the Evil Empire.
  
  Playing Freedom Fighters is like stepping back in time and experiencing Red Dawn at the ground 
 level. The game puts you in the shoes of a plumber-turnedresistance fighter when Russia  which 
 already rules the rest of the world  takes aim at the United States and invades New York.
  Freedom Fighters boasts one of the most impressive third-person control schemes Ive ever used. 
 The mouse fluidly controls both your view of the action and your aim, with an optional close-in 
 over-the-shoulder perspective for precision aiming. The default camera controls  often the death 
 knell for games of this sort  never get in the way, and the action unfolds with cinematic flair.
 
  
  Youre presented with a series of interconnected missions, which give you a wide degree of flexibility 
 in how you attack them. You navigate through the mission areas via the New York sewer system (hey, 
 being a freedom fighters not all glamour) , with various manhole access points strewn throughout 
 each level, and doubling as your save points. You can also return to a manhole to change your location, 
 as well as to go back to base to re-arm if youve chosen the wrong weapons at the outset.
  
  If you start a mission and find it too tough  for instance, the mission where your target 
 is closely guarded by a patrolling helicopter  its likely you can go back to a different mission 
 area, blow up a secondary objective (such as a helipad, in this example) , and then return to the 
 previous mission to find the helicopter is no longer there. Its like a built-in difficulty setting, 
 but augmented by your gameplay.
  
  Raise your charisma score by completing secondary missions and healing wounded civilians along 
 the way, and youll earn the right to lead up to 12 freedom fighters into battle. You can order 
 your squadmates to attack, defend, and fall back, and theyll follow your commands with destructive 
 abandon. For the most part, the AI is adequate, and your troops pathfinding ability is particularly 
 good. Their glaring weakness is that they nestle in tight groups if youre not careful to space 
 them out  often hard to do when the action is fast and furious  and can thus be eliminated by 
 a single explosion.
  
  Unfortunately, the game suffers from a lack of variety overall. Most of the missions are very similar, 
 the standard array of weapons gets a bit dull, and theres a shortage of epic encounters (youll 
 only fight one tank, for example, and its easy to dispatch) . In addition, experienced players 
 will probably blast through the entire game in 10 hours or less, and will find little reason to 
 replay it.
  
  Still, Freedom Fighters manages to be fun to play, with a control scheme that makes a relatively 
 complex shooter a cinch to command. Its the next best thing to watching Swayze wax commies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters gives us a alternate world where the Soviets dropped the A-Bomb on Berlin during 
 WWII, thus pushing communist everywhere except the US. The game fasts forward to 2003 where you 
 meet Chris, the hero and his brother as they get entangled in a Russian invasion while trying to 
 do a plumbing job.
  
  The game offers excellent 3rd-person squad-based combat in which you'll have to take out several 
 things (heliport, towers etc.) , take over key buildings &amp; rescue some of your friends. The 
 first few missions will mostly be solo or with one or 2 followers. As you get further along the 
 game you get charisma points that will augment the number of people following you. The more people 
 you can command the easier the missions will become... most missions will require you to send in 
 your troops to defend a certain location, take out a certain pack of enemies, give you cover while 
 you place C4s or simply follow you as you advance. Giving orders to your squad members is surprisingly 
 easy and the AI is, for the most part, rather excellent. The missions aren't really that diverse 
 but the game is really addictive and there's a lot of different paths or tactics you can use to 
 attain your objective. The sewer save system is also excellent, you won't be able to save anytime 
 you want, but that would make this game ridiculously easy. The graphics are cartoony and what the 
 character model lacks in polygons the game makes up by placing a lot of soldiers on the screen 
 at the same time. Sometimes you'll have 10 followers helping you fighting 15 to 20 soviets... and 
 that's without a drop of framerate.
  
  The music is very low-key and it only picks up when you complete certain objectives. All the weapons 
 sound cool and the voice-overs are really good.
  
  You will have to rely on your squad member if you wish to advance in the game. All of your weapons 
 are wildly inaccurate (except for the sniper rifle) so you'll have to rely on the firepower of 
 your team. I find that the game is extremely short and i was able to finish it in a couple of sittings, 
 it doesn't really matter because you can probably find this game really cheap and it's extremely 
 fun.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who wants to try a great squad based game. I can't wait for the 
 sequel which seems to be in the making as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Great gameplay that get's you all into action as u set in as a plumer who had taken 
 upon his shoulders to foght the red's who invaved his Country . The AI is so smart , for both ur 
 Team mates &amp; the enemy , were u order your team to move to a location they atuomatically take 
 cover at the nearest object, while th enemy AI will rarly persuit you since it will keep baracading 
 after walls &amp; defensive structures waiting for you &amp; ur guys to come in &amp; fight (&amp; 
 what a fight it will be) . The Graphics looks good &amp; decent enough to make this game playable 
 , &amp; dont forget that this is from a 2003 era , were graphics weren't that high (no shader no 
 AA no nothing) so it gotta look atleast good. The Sound is simply Perfect !!!! I cant say anything 
 about it , u gotta play it &amp; hear .  
 Bad : Well some bad points about this game is the stuppid AI , were n rare &amp; as I said rare 
 ocations you might see them taking a different path or being stuck , or not moving , but these 
 mistakes are often vanished as soon as they see u &amp; u order them a new order . As to the graphics 
 , the bad thing is that the game wasn't developed at this time , it was developed in 2003 , so 
 it is ok  
 Notes About The  
 1 - The AI stuppidity can be easly forgotten , since you will not see them stuppid at all in the 
 entire gae , it will only happen rarely , very very rarely .  
 - The graphics are good &amp; ok since it is a 2003 game . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 After All I would like to say that this game should not be forgotten since it do offers alot of 
 good time &amp; it will be worth playing , you'll enjoy it for sure so if you see it on a store 
 shelf , then buy it . it's probably cheap or not available any more . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  what makes this game one of my favorites is the graphics, the hitman 2 game engine generated lighting 
 effects really are a sight for sore eyes. The game will look very detailed specially coz of the 
 fact that u are viewing in third person, a close up view will reveal that it aint that much detailed...... but 
 as long as ur playin it definitely aint gonna look bad. The action is great... it never gets boring. The 
 game aint that long.... ull need bout a day or so to complete it. The sound effects are also good 
 with some dramatic hitman like music frm Jesper Kyd..... the controls are great one doesnt need 
 to do a lot of adjustment or nethin like that. weapons are also good n controlling the AI is another 
 feature which meakes this game interesting. However by the time u complete the game ull have some 
 12 freedom fighters runnin with u which sometimes feels a bit weird.... but not very bad or nethin. U 
 cant drive vehicles which is sad..... there are however AI manned tanks and choppers.... though i 
 hv not yet been able 2 pick off a chopper with the rocket launcher..... the storyline is good.... One 
 more thing I really love bout the Ai is that the ones u hv on ur team never interfere with ur movements 
 like if one of em is standing in front of a door n u wanna go through it, it wont obstuct or nethin.... even 
 the enemy AI is pretty darn good..... at the end of it each level ends just the same way-u hoistin 
 the American Flag... maps are nice and big and overall this is one game that wil keep u glued to 
 ur seat for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  When you start up the game for the first time and check out a few cinematics, it kinda feels like 
 the game was slightly rushed upon since it looks and feels... well.... too simple. I think the 
 game uses the same engine that hitman 2 used but im not entirely sure about that. But as the hours 
 pass you get more and more involved with the action that you can't believe a game this... plain... 
 could be so great.
  
  The voiceovers, the locations, the gameplay, the story... everything is just so fun and immersive 
 that even though some locations might be repetitive, they never get boring since you will always 
 try to keep your squad together and accomplish the objective.
  
  Thats the truth about freedom fighers, and im sure other gamers will agree. The developers made 
 firing an AK and commanding a squad with three basic orders so fun and enjoyable that you will 
 keep yourself glued to your seat the whole night. You'll enjoy hours of fighting in the streets 
 of NYC, along demolished buildings and barricades, as the last line of defense before complete 
 comunist control.
  
  Sadly, as many other games, this title lacks in length. You will probably finish it in day or two. 
 Yet, there is no other game out there that even slightly resembles the gaming experience found 
 in Freedom Fighters. The sequel will surely be something to look forward to. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ankit4u_ch
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a good action packed game. While the music and a few flaws are negative points 
 in the game, the story and gameplay makes up for both of those. The game is about the Soviet Unions 
 who have taken control over the Americans and you (Christopher Stone) with a bunch of more freedom 
 fighters try to get independence back. Christopher Stone is a middle class American desiring to 
 get his independence back. So he joins a team who makes plans at the rebel base i. e somewhere in 
 the sewers of New York that acts as a hiding place. Then you along with a few freedom fighters 
 go to execute the plan. The no. of freedom fighters depend on the mission. Although a few missions 
 have to be accomplished by you all alone. Now after you have completed a few missions, your brother 
 has been killed by the army of Soviet Union. But before that he is been presented on T. V. where 
 he is been made to tell his brother to surrender himself as they will treat him well and do no 
 harm to him. But in the end he asks him to continue doing his job as they will kill you if you 
 surrender yourself. Now after that pain, you are been asked to kill the leader of the Soviet Union 
 i. e. Tartarin. Now once you do that and go back to the rebel base you realise that the person you 
 were obeying all those time and following his instructions is himself a member of Soviet Union 
 and he was doing it for his own good because he wanted to get rid of Tartarin and become the leader 
 himself. After that you build your own army and try removing the Soviet Unions and make your country 
 independent. And end of it all when you finally get independence you are unhappy for those loss 
 of lives in the struggle for freedom. Positive Points - 1. Story 2. Graphics - Except for every 
 thing circular in shape they appears to be octagonal. 3. Gameplay
  
  Negative Points - 1. Music
  2. Dead Bodies - They dissappear after a few seconds.
  3. You cannot 
 shoot your own men.
  4. Artificial Intelligence - Could have been better.
  5. Too many flaws- a) The person who is the leader of your team in the beginning, if was a member 
 of Soviet Union and wanted to rule them should not have raised American Flags on few buildings 
 instead should have given simpler missions to gain confidence in you. b) Most of the people who 
 are injured and you go to heal them you will find medic kits placed near them. Can't they heal 
 themselves. c) You ask your fellow freedom fighter to stand in one place, they will stand at the 
 same place no matter if anyone is shooting them from the top of the towers. They will not move 
 a single step.
  There are many more such flaws in the game.
  
  Altogether a good gaming experience. Game spot has overrated the game giving it 9.3/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  WOLVER..... oh, wait, wrong thing. Freedom Fighters does borrow a story, that sounds nearly identical 
 to 1983's Red Dawn, starring Patrick Swayze and Charlie Sheen, the now conspiracy theorist. In 
 Freedom Fighters and Red Dawn, the U. S. S. R won the Cold War, and therefore never disbanded. They 
 stash nuclear weapons in Cuba and South America, and eventually try to take over the greatest country 
 in the world, the United States. In Red Dawn, high school students band together and try to hoard 
 off the evil Ruskees. In Freedom Fighers, players assume the role of Chris Stone, a plumber in 
 New York City, who is simply at the wrong place at the wrong time. He then becomes a Freedom Fighter, 
 trying to hoard off the evil Ruskees.
  
  Freedom Fighters's gameplay is much like that of any third-person shooter. You run around from 
 point-A to point-B, blasting anything in your way. The game's shooting is very well done, having 
 its intense moments, and featuring a lot of Commies in red firing at you, at one time. Although 
 the shooting can be very fun at times, it can also be very frustrating. The enemy A. I. is very 
 challenging at times, and they use actual military tactics, like using cover, ganging up on you, 
 and firing at you in packs. The gameplay can be very intense, frustrating, and enjoyable.
  
  Visually, Freedom Fighters looks great. The character models are look crisp and great. The 
 Russian soldiers almost all look alike, so you can get a feeling of repetitveness. The main characters 
 though, look really great. Chris almost always has a different outfit on, so that adds to the realism, 
 and the other characters look great as well.
  
  Chris is not the only Freedom Fighter. The leader, Isabella Angelina, has been cautious of the 
 Russian invasion for some time, and has had an active role in trying to repel them from entering 
 America. There is the rest of the Resistance, the mysterious Mr. Jones, the comical Phil Bagzton, 
 and the generic characters. The Russians include, Vasilj Tatarin, the general, the also myserious 
 Colonel Bulba, head of the KGB, and the generic Russian soldiers.
  
  Freedom Fighters adds an interesting new aspect, charisma. When you complete an important objective, 
 you earn charisma. The more charisma points you have, the more Resistance members you can lead 
 into battle. The sound is good at times. The voices of Chris, Isabella, and the Russian's all sound 
 very well. The actors are very believeable. The guns are... well... passable you could say. The 
 general weapon of choice for the Russians, the AK-47, doesn't sound like one, almost at all. The 
 shotguns don't sound too much like their counterparts, and the same goes for the pistols. The score 
 is one of, almost epic proportions. The main musical theme, which appears whenever you complete 
 an objective that gives you charisma, is a Bach sound-alike with a Russian chorus. Although, it 
 does sound and blend in very, very well.
  
  Red Da.... man, I keep making that mistake. Freedom Fighters is a great game, but could've been 
 better if it wasn't for the faulty sound department. The graphics, gameplay, and all-new charisma 
 feature hold Freedom Fighters up while it can, which make it a very good game. I highly recommend 
 it to anyone with a taste for action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Freedom fighter's biggest surprise is not the game alone -- but its package. It comes in one CD -- 
 yet it has cool graphics, sound and the game duration is pretty standard. Wow -- the game is not 
 about just killing monsters till you get to the final boss, it has a mission and you interact with 
 characters. How did they do it in just one CD?
  This also means fast installation time and game loading time. The game's starting point is pretty 
 quick and the control is good enough to make you feel at home from the beginning. New York is under 
 Soviet attack!!! and you, with a gun in hand, have joined the freedom fighters to free your city 
 from the enemies. You live inside manholes and have many missions to accomplish before settling 
 the final score. Its a kind of WW2 shooter game in modern context -- only with the notion that Soviet 
 Union still exists. Hey come on this is just a game.
  As I mentioned earlier, the game loads quickly -- its because of nice programming and not-so-heavy 
 duty graphic engine. This does not mean the graphics are uncool. They are way too cool than most 
 games of 2003. And the action rocks.
  Shooter lovers, this is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a tactical 3rd-person shooter with a twist. It has a simple but nice plot of 
 alternate history where the soviets are the world police instead of USA, so the premise becomes 
 interesting in this modern-day shooter with a communist influence.
  
  This is like a modern world Dungeon Siege with the focus of your main character along with recruited 
 helpers based on your charisma and level. Yup, you have a simple level-up system that improves 
 your recruitment allowance thus your battle prowess, which is kinda cool in a shooter genre.
  
  Well, if you like SOLO PLAY and resent the idea of multi-tasking in terms of having to babysit 
 NPCs that diverges your attention (something like Dungeon Siege or Rainbow Six) , you don't have 
 to worry about that in Freedom Fighters. The presence of the extra help is only beneficial; they 
 can't die permanently in battle, only stays 'unconscious', and it's completely up to you whether 
 you want to give a damn about it, cos if not, you can move on and recruit more fighters who are 
 more than enough in the mission maps; these NPC fighters have high AI and you don't really need 
 to control them other than giving simple commands like scouting and regrouping (something like 
 controlling the antlions with your bugbait in Half-life 2, heheh) ; however, you can totally solo 
 your way through the game with or without these people, though they can seriously make your game 
 easier. Sometimes, you have important story characters joining your group and fighting alongside, 
 but don't worry about them too, they are scripted to be invincible in this case.
  
  Sorry if I confused you with my blabbering cos I'm one of those who hate multi-tasking and micro-management 
 in games. If you are like me, then don't worry about trying out Freedom Fighters, cos those management 
 things are negligible. I totally enjoy this game twice in a row, with different modes of difficulty, 
 yeah, it's that addictive too!
  
  There is a point where you can hire up to the maximum of 12 other NPC fighters and when you turn 
 the camera around to see your character and gang pumping their boots on the ground towards your 
 next goal, the sub-conscious sensation of patriotism and liberation is powerful. Very touching. 
 Moreover, the Hungarian choir soundtrack is fabulous, and it enhances the revolution mood with 
 perfect fit.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevereathim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time that I saw this game, on the xbox, I was amazed at how much the game 
 was fun, with teammates, and shooting. Then one day I saw it in the bargain bin and bought it.
 
  
  The gameplay is great, although sometimes the controls to feel a bit awkward when shooting. The 
 story is interesting so it's just right and not enough to confuse you. The game has a map for every 
 level where you choose missions from and once you're done with all the missions, you get a cutscene 
 and a brand new map.
  
  The graphics are great for its time, though it's crap on my computer, but then again my computer 
 is crap. It's just amazing how if you shoot a car it's gonna blow up, one problem is that SOME 
 helo's in the game are impossible to blow up.
  
  The soundtrack does get a bit repitive after a while, so that really annoyed me. The character 
 acting is great.
  
  I just want to point out one big issue that annoyed me, when you start out the game you see a cutscene 
 talking about the history of the world. The problem is that it is long and you can't skip it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paganinio
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  1. GameSpot says 9. I agree. I only have 1024x768 but this game supports up to 1600x1200, so I 
 have to trust GameSpot on this one.
  2. The NY street maps are especially good-looking, much better than the real life NY streets.
 
  3. Has its own style. I compared it to its graphically related games: Hitman 2 (same developer) , 
 Max Payne (VERY similar level designs) , GTA Vice City (similar street views) .
  4. The female characters are pretty. You get to look at Isabella closely.
  
  Sound:
  1. Dialogs/Voicing 
 is fair, but the style fits the game superbly.
  2. Good and memorable music. A person who doesn't know much about the Soundtrack genre can distinguish 
 this game's soundtrack from other games. The main menu theme is a bit annoying.
  3. Sound effects are ignorable.
  4. This has no effect on the scoring: when you insert the CD 
 you'll hear a "click" sound, which is a nice first impression on the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  1. Very neat. 2. Very unique control system. Especially fighting with and commanding a number of 
 ally soldiers in real-time.
  3. Addictive. After I had decided I would finish playing it I played it for 45 more minutes. That 
 rarely happens. lol
  4. Lack of gun and equipment types.
  5. Explosive weapons are less fun to use.
  6. Sometimes you really want to lean, switch items 
 by pressing a single key, or assign a certain (e. g. the female one) teammate to follow you. None 
 of those is possible in this game. Also, there's only one play mode.
  7. Mission system is great and unique. You can bypass a lot of unnecessary stuff and head right 
 towards the final goal. Or you can do those unnecessary things to get more ammo, better equipment, 
 more Charisma, kill more enemies or merely explore more areas.
  8. The actions are definitely fun to watch, some are not available in any other game. Few games 
 get this close to a modern gun action movie.
  9. You won't hurt good people by shooting so don't hesitate when enemies are in front. Less skills 
 required though.
  
  Value:
  1. Extreme lack of contents.
  2. Very unique. The game generally feels like no other game (before and after it) , and is a MUST-play 
 for action gamers.
  3. I suggest that you beat the game on all four difficulties or at least the last three difficulties. 
 That's where the Value of the game comes from.
  
  Tilt:
  1. Good story. Great twists. That makes this game feel complete though it's definitely too short. 
 The storyline is as simple as the gameplay so you won't need to spend much time on digesting the 
 story. Also there's a very clever way of telling the story.
  2. Has a great and consistent style in every aspect while being innovative.
  3. The lack of length 
 of a game goes to "Value" attribute, but the lack of game options of a game, in this case, has 
 to partly go to "Tilt" attribute, because a lot of essential game options are missing. There's 
 less than minimum level. It's clear that the people on the Credits didn't want to spend effort (though 
 I know they have very good reasons) . The game totally relies on its solid core.
  This also causes the game to have neat and beautiful interface and menu designs.
  4. Beating 
 the game doesn't feel any special. Too few is rewarded after beating all four difficulties.
  5. Minor letdowns such as: If the yellow traffic lights are shot they appear to be broken, but 
 still working; Certain vehicles won't explode for no reason; Everytime you gets out of a manhole 
 the map is renewed, causing terrible consistency; Walking makes no difference since the enemy can 
 still hear your footsteps; The garden in the Rebel Base is never used and looks ugly.
  6. The game title sounds like just another game to me, a combination of two of the most used words 
 when it comes to game titles.
  7. Great way of teaching you how to play. It's similar to how GTA Vice City did it but much more 
 effective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  Amazing musical score; intense tactical combat; hilarious cut-scenes; very good voice acting; lots 
 and lots of action; very nice special effects
  
  NAYS
  Over too soon
  
  Imagine a world where the Soviet Union never collapsed. Imagine the United States being invaded 
 by Russia. Imagine a situation where you are an underground rebel group and being labeled as terrorists. 
 It may raise your eyebrow, and although the plot sounds serious, rest assured that it doesn't take 
 itself seriously and instead offers you an often challenging and entertaining gameplay.
  
  You start off as a plumber, who, along with your brother, enter an apartment to do your work - 
 plumb. You find that no one is home, and suddenly the apartment is swarmed with the Soviet army. 
 Your brother is captured and you manage to escape. You meet up with someone on the street (while 
 you are fleeing) who asks you to follow him, and you end up being in the rebellion group set to 
 overthrow the Soviets.
  
  It may look like a serious premise, but it actually is funny, since the plot is not convoluted 
 or filled with political jargon. Instead, you are treated with comical descriptions of your actions 
 through the Soviet broadcast news, and, as you'd expect, they all speak Russian-English and label 
 you as a terrorist and as a criminal. It is highly entertaining, and is one of the primary reasons 
 you want to finish a mission so you can sit back and enjoy the breaking news detailing your most 
 recent terrorist activities.
  
  Being a terrorist, of course, your base is in the sewers, along with detailed maps and objective 
 you need to complete. Each map is composed of several areas, and each area has a list of missions. 
 All areas require you to take down the Soviet flag and raise the American, but most of the missions 
 require you to free prisoners, demolish heli pads or artillery building, or snipe out Soviet leaders. 
 It is all fun and challenging, especially that you may have to finish some areas to make others 
 more accessible. For instance, if in one are you are being tailed by a chopper which always fires 
 at you, you may want to go to another location and blow up the helipad. Then return to the previous 
 area. In the later missions, you may even end up getting the explosives from another area entirely.
 
  
  The non-linearity of the missions make them entertaining. You don't have to finish all missions 
 in order, and most likely you'll be going between areas to finish missions before you can even 
 think to attempt other missions. You can also be suicidal and head directly to raise the flag. 
 However this is a major drawback, since raising the flag automatically labels all other missions 
 in the area as finished, even if you did not attempt them. If you manage to do that, not only do 
 you find yourself an easy way out of an area, but it also detracts from the experience and challenge 
 since you will be missing out on the other missions.
  
  Missions themselves can be challenging or a piece of cake depending on the difficulty settings. 
 While this is typical of course in any game, it is especially prominent here since how aggressive 
 and more damaging your enemies are directly influence the tactics you adopt in a mission. You usually 
 command some other fighters with you, and you can assign commands to them (attack, defend or scout) 
 either individually or to the whole group. On the easy setting you can just walk through the enemies 
 and shoot them to the ground. However, on higher difficulty settings, the real fun comes out where 
 you need to plan out who attacks from where so you can minimize damage to yourself and to your 
 party.
  
  Failing a mission prompts you to restart the area or return to the base. However, you can quicksave 
 in any mission only if you happen to find a manhole. The later maps contain fewer manholes, and 
 some of them do not have any, leaving you especially cautious. You have an assortment of weapons 
 to carry with you. A handgun, a main rifle, molotovs, grenades and your wrench, along with medi 
 kits. The main rifle can be of three different types, all of which you can easily swap with whatever 
 you can find on the ground. Generally, the one you would be carrying would be the one you find 
 the most in the mission, although you would sometimes fetch a shotgun if the mission involves a 
 lot of indoors.
  
  The game, in terms of graphics and sounds, is great. The environments are details, very large and 
 expansive, and the loading time is very minimal. You may want to turn on antialiasing though from 
 the card manually since the game does not have an antialiasing option. There is rain, snow, explosions, 
 lots of buildings and soldiers, and they are all animate well and you would feel like you really 
 are in a zone and not some butchered, downsized environment. The main characters have a very good 
 voice-overs, but the real entertainment comes from the Soviets, as the way they speak combined 
 with their lines make for a hilarious combination.
  
  The only gripe about the game is that it ends way too soon, or maybe it is simply because you want 
 more of it. Thankfully a sequel is on the way, but for the meantime, when you beat the game all 
 levels are unlocked for you to play again, but most likely you'd be attempting the more difficult 
 settings to enjoy the game as much as possible as you wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I'd love to give this game more than an 8, but the replay value just isn't there, unless you feel 
 the need to redo parts of the missions. Even if the category falls short, it makes up for just 
 about everything else. The Russians have arrived in New York, and people from the city, known as 
 the Freedom Fighters, rally to force the 'commies' back. Just from that, it really pulls the player 
 in. The story is decent -- almost like a B-rated action movie with little twists you know are going 
 to happen, but don't know when or who. There are times where I thought it could be just a little 
 darker, but it felt fine anyway. During the level, there are multiple objectives to complete. For 
 instance, choosing a mission which involves destroying a heli-pad and accomplishing that objective 
 rewards you in being able to finish the rest of the level set without being bothered by irritating 
 Russian air-support. Instead of just finishing the level after killing every soldier, you must 
 search specifically for a flagpole and raise your colours for a morale boost to the American people. 
 It doesn't really change anything, but it's these little touches that make you appreciate the story 
 a bit more.
  
  It's the gameplay that makes it enjoyable. Running through the streets of New York, packed full 
 of invaders was a refreshing experience. I've always been partial to FPS, and I do believe that 
 Freedom Fighters is the ONLY third person shooter which I've really enjoyed to date. Bungie's ONI 
 was a lot of fun, but this game was amazing on its own. If you're looking for somewhere to start 
 with TPS's, Freedom Fighters is my recommendation.
  
  Running through the warehouses with a pump-action shotgun, mowing down soldiers was extremely satisfying. 
 Not only that, we all know that rag-doll physics are a great deal of fun. In Freedom Fighters, 
 it's an all-out warzone. Sure, Far Cry, you can keep your great graphics, but it's only a one-man 
 show. Russians and Fighters engaging on the streets... I'm telling you, destroying an abandoned 
 taxi which a squad of Russians are taking cover behind, then watching them fly in every direction 
 makes you feel that much better.
  
  The sound is the highest point in the game, in my book. The very European style chorale is just 
 phenomenal to listen to. Every weapon sound is powerful, save for the machine gun -- but that doesn't 
 bother me too much. The only thing I need to minus for Freedom Fighters is that the PC version 
 contains no multiplayer. The graphics aren't bad, and are probably outdone by newer games today, 
 but its cartoonish feel fits almost perfectly.
  So, if you're looking for a weekend of good gaming and have maybe $20 to spare, I'd recommend the 
 Best of EA package, which includes this, Black and White (another amazing game) , Allied Assault 
 (Best Medal of Honor, I think) , and Return of the King (a fun action game) . I personally bought 
 the package for Allied Assault, and I'd heard Black and White was an excellent game. And I'm happy 
 with my purchase with Freedom Fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piecesof8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a strange game for me. It has so many flaws that should have ruined it, and 
 yet its core gameplay remains terrific, and because of it the game is addictive and a LOT of fun. 
 Here is a game with a terrible save system, a frustrating aim system, no multiplayer, and a very 
 short length. But its group based combat is executed perfectly, and it has a fantastic sense of 
 atmosphere. Its graphics are solid, as are its sound. How much replay value it holds depends on 
 how much you like its gameplay. I've played through it a couple of times now, since I got it three 
 years ago. It remains an example of how technical flaws don't always bring down a great concept 
 and strong gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beandip1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  this game, is one of the most complex games i have ever played. it took an hour just to find one 
 flight of stairs in a building because the hallways were tiny and i was commanding twelve guys. 
 The game, implies leadership skills, and helping civilians. you gain charisma that allows you to 
 command more freedom fighters. more freedom fighters, more fire power. you can have them guard 
 a place, scout a head. or retreat back to where ever your standing.
  Your squad will trust you t lead them into justice. So basically shoot lots of people, heal wounded 
 civilians, earn more charisma, blow **** up, snipe a leader guy
  
  
  ATTENTION SPOILER ALERT!.....
  
  you find out about three or four levels before the ening your 
 info supplier guy is really a russian spy. you never actually kill him or fight him. but you get 
 to kiss that girl isabella at the end... Niccccce 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings on this game.
  
  The team combat is fairly well implemented - not too many commands to give (follow, attack, stay) 
 and much of the time they'll take care of themselves. However, occasionally they'll run in your 
 line of fire, making it difficult to aim. There's also a strange glitch where your character will 
 turn around mid firing in aim mode, which also doesn't help. Not sure how this could have gotten 
 past the beta stage but.. it did.
  
  However, the storyline is absolutely dreadful. Russians take over New York? Where's the US Army 
 in all of this? I've got to say, in a world after September 11th, the Freedom Fighter/Terrorist 
 angle could have really struck some chords, but this is just remarkably one sided - the Russians 
 are evil and that's it. Injured Russians will fight for you if you heal them. The dialogue is equally 
 clueless, and the love triangle of Isabella, Chris &amp; that annoying guy with the USA cap is 
 completely botched - you have no idea Chris and Isabella have any feelings for each other until 
 the very end of the game. No need for a love interest.
  
  However, stalking round New York in the summertime with a gun feels great, the graphics are pretty 
 nice for the age and there's some good moments, so I've got to recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  The What if story of Russia taking over the U. S. is cool and Io did a great job of bringing the 
 story to life. Freedom Fighters is mainly staged in New York and has a exciting gameplay that involves 
 flanking manuevers and using cover to your advantage. The squad ordering system is so simple it 
 is genious. You order individual recruits to places, which many not sound the most advanced but 
 back in 2003 it was something. After each stronghold or point you gain back from the Russians you 
 will see a cool news clip provided by the Red's government and is humorous. The graphics aren't 
 top of the line but get the job done. Though there is no blood in FF it is still very satifying 
 to mow down a squad of Russian invaders with your rebel teammates. As you capture more points and 
 get more charisma to gain more troops you see your rebel empire grow which is also a cool aspect. 
 The Autosave feature could be a turn off to some along with the quicksaves deleting after you quit. 
 The only other downside of Freedom Fighters is it doesn't last too long and it doesn't have a huge 
 variety of character models. Other than a few cons, Freedom Fighters is a definate classic and 
 entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the bad:
  
  1) The graphics are pretty poor but functional, looks like a dozen other Dx8.1 games out there.
 
  2) feels and plays very much like a console port, I don't know if it is but i'm pretty sure, if 
 it was built for the PC it could have been a bit better.
  3) Can you say cheese
  4) Its too short, far to short even for an action game.
  
  The Good:
  
  1) For the few 
 hours it lasts and despite its short comings its a reasonably fun game.
  2) good use of Squad mechanics, in some ways like road to hill 30 but less refined and I guess 
 more flexible. Can control upto about 12 guys.
  
  If you can get it real cheap and fancy a few hours of mindless action then you could do worse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters has done what paranoid people have been dreading since the Cold War: a Russian 
 invasion. The wide array of weapons and many levels give it plenty of room to have fun in. And 
 for those who are afraid to be alone in the middle of several Soviet soldiers; other freedom fighters 
 to keep you company. The only problem: well, I cant find one. It is good as a dedicated game and 
 as a rainy day game. I love it. If you need a good FPS, chose Freedom fighters. I only wish they 
 had a multiplayer mode for this game. That would polish it off nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerKyle17
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Definately one of my favorite games of all time. First time through, play the game normally, 2nd, 
 add cheats, Nail Gun! That was my favorite cheat anyway, i loved the ragdoll effects in the game. 
 =)
  
  Definately one of my favorite games of all time. First time through, play the game normally, 2nd, 
 add cheats, Nail Gun! That was my favorite cheat anyway, i loved the ragdoll effects in the game. 
 =)
  
  Definately one of my favorite games of all time. First time through, play the game normally, 2nd, 
 add cheats, Nail Gun! That was my favorite cheat anyway, i loved the ragdoll effects in the game. 
 =)
  
  Definately one of my favorite games of all time. First time through, play the game normally, 2nd, 
 add cheats, Nail Gun! That was my favorite cheat anyway, i loved the ragdoll effects in the game. 
 =)
  
  Definately one of my favorite games of all time. First time through, play the game normally, 2nd, 
 add cheats, Nail Gun! That was my favorite cheat anyway, i loved the ragdoll effects in the game. 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Nice original type. This is a good game really, but it is just too short. I remember Prince of 
 Persia The sands of Time being too short, but certainly it served to learn from and make Warrior 
 Within and the Two Thrones which are much longer and better. It has a GTA kind of view, city and 
 recruits. The missions are not very well thought, yep the one with the sniper was good, but the 
 others are just placing C4 and rescuing people. Although it has good graphics and loads in No time. 
 The summary: This is a good game, but could be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miabb
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  that was the first squad base game i played and i thought it the good one in the squad base games 
 consiquently. unfortunately the game dont have splendid graphics as it must but that fault goes 
 unnoticable if we think about its gameplay
  on the other hand the story line of the game was very breath taking that a fighters start a war 
 to free his land and become a hero. the story line is close to the reality.
  the game freedom fighter also gives us the concept to defend our countery that how can we save 
 our land from upcoming pearls, that concept is unity, that be a unit and defend the truth until you 
 get your target. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dren_gs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  A game from the makers of Hitman 2 Freedom Fighters, hmm I guess a game with this kind of name 
 must be great at all aspects, and believe me thats what this is. A squad based action game that 
 offers everything you need to enjoy a game at maximum. Finished it two times for myself and I thought 
 I must dedicate this game a review just to tell people how much I enjoyed this one the two times 
 I played it.
  
  The story of the game is great, it starts as a plumbing team of Chris Stone and Toy Stone go to 
 fix something at the house of Isabella Angelina (who in fact is a leader of some kind organization 
 against the Soviet Union which later becomes an organization that fights for the freedom of US) . 
 And at those moments the Soviet Red Army attacks New York and of course they come to arrest Isabella 
 but she isnt home. They arrest Chris and Toy. Thats when you start playing as Chris you escape 
 and become a freedom fighter. The greatest thing is that the game is Squad-Based so you get to 
 recruit other fighters to come and fight along with you together and you can give them orders as 
 Attack, Regroup (leave their positions and follow you) and Defend. As your charisma level increases 
 the number of fighters able to recruit increases. The Music in the game is amazing it really gives 
 you a great feeling and inspires you to continue fighting all the time so a score of 9 points will 
 be the right one Graphics are very well made too and the design of the city (NY) is great but 
 still 9 points is the highest score you can give to graphics for some reasons. For example when 
 you zoom, the graphics of the soldier and of the weapon loose their quality etc. The game works 
 the same way as the other action ones but you cant save the game anywhere you want (this is very 
 annoying) . Directional movements are WASD, first mouse button for shooting, second mouse button 
 for zooming, space for jumping, ctrl for crouching, for changing your weapons you can use your 
 wheel mouse button.
  
  There are only two things I dislike about this game: first its too short (you can finish it in 
 about 24 hours if you never pause playing) , it shouldve been longer and second its too easy. 
 A message for those who havent bought it  its been 3 years since this game came out but believe 
 me if it wouldve come out today it still wouldve deserved the 9.3 score, still a great game and 
 its not too late for buying it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lee3188
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix solid game mechanics, simple, but yet awesome gameplay, and a compelling 
 story line? I'll tell you what you get, one of the best arcade style "shoot em' ups" we've seen 
 since Max Payne. This game is just fun, plain and simple. Sure, it doesn't have the best graphics 
 out there, but once you actually get into the game, it's easy to look past that. 
  
  First, let's take a look at the game mechanics. You play the main character in third-person view. 
 The controls are very intuitive, you use the WASD keys to move your character around, space to 
 jump, your mouse to aim, and to switch weapons you can use your mouse wheel without even having 
 to think about it. The game also lets you control a squad of Freedom Fighters, which you can give 
 them commands. Attack, Retreat and Defend. Once you get the hang of controlling your squad, you 
 can do some really cool swat-type maneuvers. 
  
  Ok, we know how the game works, but how does it play you might ask. Well, the simple answer is... Great! 
 The computer's AI is good enough to make the game fun and challenging (Although, I've only played 
 on Revolutionary Mode, which is the most difficult setting. So i'm sure it varies from each setting.) , 
 but there's really nothing groundbreaking about it. The music in the game absolutely rocks, it 
 fit's the whole feel of the game and really brings out the spirit of being a Freedom Fighter. The 
 mission objectives are simple and straight forward, but the best part is there's ALWAYS more than 
 one way to complete a given task. There's usually the gun-ho Rambo approach, or the sneak in from 
 the ventilation shaft approach. Both are equally satisfying. 
  
  I don't want to spoil the game for anyone, so I'll just give a basic overview of what the game 
 is all about. You play as Chris Stoner, his day job in NYC use to be that of a plumber, but when 
 the Russian's Red Army decided to "Liberate" the American people from their "oppressive" government, 
 his career went into a very different direction and he received a way cooler job title, Freedom 
 Fighter. Before you know it, the countries last hope lies on your shoulders and the only thing 
 standing between you and victory is the entire Red Army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redomegaz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed with the quality of this game, it's not often that you get a game this good 
 that somehow doesnt manage to create a lot of hype. First of the game is very addictive I found 
 myself just wanting to keep on playing and when it ended craving the sequel, the storyline is good 
 and keeps you entertained. The graphics and sound are ok but then it's not exactly the latest of 
 games but can still holds its own. The choice of weapons can leave you wanting for more sometimes, 
 although dont be disheartened by that thats just my opinion I'm sure some wont agree with this. 
 All in all I have to say that this is one of the better games i've played in the last few years, 
 just hope Io and EA can hurry up and release the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters (FF i will call it) is not a bad game, dont get me wrong. But 9.3!!!? WTF!! It's 
 interesting, and stupid, with the whole Soviet invasion of New York. OK...... so much for the story. 
 Only a few weapons that are fun to use at first. The environments are alright and the whole tactical 
 team-based thing is ok. The A. I is alright and the game is nice and long. But I beat it in one 
 sitting, 5 hours. Graphics are alright, but only alright. It's interesting but like i said, its 
 way overrated and that score of 9.3 should be dropped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters reminded me of the film Red Dawn from the 80s; the Russians invaded the U. S., 
 and it was up to a band of regular folks to take the country back. This game started with a great 
 concept, and built upon it from there.
  
  As the title of this game suggests, the player controls a freedom fighter, and must maneuver the 
 character through multiple levels, accomplishing tasks along the way towards the goal of removing 
 the Russians from power. The most notable feature of the game revolved around recruiting other 
 freedom fighters to the cause after earning charisma points for level completion or performing 
 good deeds during a level (such as healing injured civilians) . Once recruited, the player can command 
 the freedom fighters to accomplish various tasks, such as attacking enemies or defending a specific 
 piece of land.
  
  Everything about this game was done well, starting with the storyline. The character handling was 
 superb, the music was great, and the graphics were incredible. After the game is completed, each 
 level can be replayed, which adds to the replay value. Theres even a level thats only unlockable 
 if the game is beaten on the two hardest levels. Now that the Cold War is over, Freedom Fighters 
 may be the only way you can take on the Russian hordes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a squad based action game which gives the players a chance to fight against 
 the Soviets in a game which provides thrilling action for any fan of the genre.
  
  STORY - Freedom Fighters follows the story of Christopher Stone in an alternate reality where the 
 Cold War never ended and the Soviets are at Power. The US is invaded by the Soviets.
  Chistopher is a part of a group of rebellions better known as Freedom Fighters who are enraged 
 by this Soviet invasion.
  However this wont be an Easy task as there are many obstacles for them.
  The game does a marvelous 
 job of maintaining the illusion of a Soviet-run USA.
  The Posters , The News and the well crafted cutscenes add to the already fantastic Plot of the 
 game.
  However there are a few points missing but these are overshadowed by the quality and density of 
 Freedom Fighters.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Gameplay in Freedom Fighters is pretty well done. The Fighters have to proceed through 
 a number of levels which consists of several objectives. However You will have to complete each 
 of these in order to advance further in the game.
  Unlike Other Action Games, Freedom Fighters has a Charisma Level which in turn determines how many 
 fighters can you recruit.
  The Battles are never fought alone and thats the reason we can control upto 12 Freedom Fighters. This 
 goes a long way to help you in your missions as the enemy A. I is impressive.
  Also what makes Freedom Fighter different from other action games is your command over your squad 
 mates. This is done in an efficient manner which leaves the player fully satisfied.
  Although your squad A. I is also good ,the few Bugs and Glitches will come in way of their efficiency.
 
  The Controls are better than most shooters and the difference in difficulty shows.
  The Saving Points are well balanced (Not Unlimited) . Thus maintaining the challenge in the game
 
  The Bad thing is that the Game is very short. Gameplay is not more than 8 hours and Camera can 
 get on your nerves.
  Overall the gameplay is great and thus makes for a thrilling action game.
  
  GRAPHICS - Thinking 
 about the premise of the game the Graphics are impressive. Its not great though.
  However the Outdoor and Indoor environments are pretty good.
  The variety in level design is 
 a plus point.
  Even at high settings the game runs smoothly on a Not-So-good PC.
  And there was hardly any time when i wasnt happy with the visuals.
  The graphics are good enough 
 to make the game playable.
  
  SOUND - The Voice Acting in Freedom Fighters is decently done. The battle sounds are also good with 
 different automatic weapon sounds and various types of explosions. Soviets talk in their native 
 language which adds to realism in the game. Also your squad's funny one liners will put a smile 
 on your tensed up face.
  The Musical score is Outstanding. The Orchestral soundtracks played during intense fight sequence 
 add to the thrilling ride.
  
  GOOD - Easy Controls , Good Plot , Excellent Background score, Squad based Tactics , Challenging.
 
  
  BAD - Too Short , Bad Camera Angles , A Few Bugs and Glithces.
  
  All in All , Freedom Fighters is a game which gets better and better the more you play it. The challenge 
 keeps on increasing from mission to mission and so are your skills. Thus maintaining the balance.
 
  Freedom Fighter is an outstanding blend of pure action and squad based combat which leaves any 
 fan of the genre highly satisfied.
  Although the game lacks length ,it makes up for its brilliant quality.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is an amazing game. My no.1 favourite game. Great graphics, great gameplay, great 
 value and all the features are great in FF. A good squad based third person shooting game. A short 
 game but a fantastic game. The graphics are absolutely fantastic and the dialogues are great too. 
 The story is amazing. About the present war against of US the Soviets. I really liked the feature 
 of saving the game. Just open a manhole and click quick save. That's all. A very great game.
  Freedom Fighters's the best game ever made. I am really waiting for the sequel. It would be great 
 to be Chris again. 
  Freedom Fighters's the best game ever made. 10/10. 5/5. Yup! My best game was FF, is FF and will 
 be FF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLazySouth
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I liked this game for a few basic reasons:
  
  1. The Third Person/Over the Shoulder view.
  
  2. The semi-intense action.
  
  3. Duking 
 it out with zealous drones in the streets of New York City.
  
  4. Boredom, soul-smashing boredom.
  
  At times... there were too many enemies respawning.
 
  At times... there were boring and unecessary firefights.
  At times... you could find yourself completely lost amoungst it all.
  At times... you found drinking 
 a pint of Vodka would be more entertaining then playing this game in one sitting (which is the only 
 way to play this game) .
  There were times when you wished the Russian stereotype would just die and the world could see 
 that no such thing would ever happen ever. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman650
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  When I played Freedom Fighters, all I had was a demo. While the demo was short, it proved to me 
 just how excellent the game is and that it could very well be considered a milestone in tactical 
 shooters and one of the best shooters in general since MOHAA.
  To begin with, the controls are simple and easy to use. While the hardcore tactical sim buffs may 
 scoff at the simplicity of the controls and a lack of command options, everyone else will find 
 that this is an advantage when you end up in one of the game's many and varying firefights. What 
 I mean by varying is that the firefights can range from a small ambush carried out by a soldier 
 with a sniper rifle to a SWAT- esque standoffs, which leads me to another one of Freedom Fighters' 
 superior gameplay: There is never a truly dull moment because of the fact that, since you are going 
 up against the Red Army, you will encounter large numbers of troops and the occasional aromored 
 vehicle or helicopter. 
  Also, unlike games such as GTA: San Andreas and the SWAT games, your enemies will often have more 
 weapons than you as well as vehicles which cannot be simply riddled with bullets, but must rather 
 be dealt with using more powerful weapons, such as rocket launchers and grenades. While the fact 
 that your enemies will most often have the upper hand in terms of weaponry, that can also bean 
 advantage, as it makes finding weapons and ammunition so much easier.
  One of the features that I like the most about this game is the A. I. for both teammates and enemies. 
 With most FPS games, firing off a loud weapon causes enemies to start coming at you from every 
 direction. With this game, though, the A. I. reacts differently. Instead of throwing everything 
 at you, only the enemy soldiers within the area that heard or saw the shot (s ) will come to investigate, 
 but it will escalate from there if A) you fail to kill the soldiers sent to investigate quickly 
 enough or B) the soldiers decide to call in reinforcements. While the enemy A. I. is very smart 
 on any level of difficulty, the teammate A. I. is where the game really shines. Instead of simply 
 sitting there and looking stupid, your teammates will automatically mount machine guns or take 
 cover if the situation demands it, unlike most FPS games, which require you to tell a teammate 
 to do anything beyond fighing.
  Finally, the sound is superb. The weapons sound like they should and other sounds, such as explosions, 
 bullets hitting the ground, etc. While the opera- like soundtrack can be boring at times, it suits 
 the dramatic nature of some of the firefights and was meant for some of the few areas of the game 
 that require you to use stealth. 
  While this review may not cover all of this game's amazing features, you can get the idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  The game itself is not bad but I cant see the reviewer's point of view on this one. I bought the 
 game and installed it thinking I had missed out on something good from years gone by. I found that 
 the controls were very wonky and the graphics felt very dated. it seemed like it was a game about 
 5 years old, not 3. I was expecting some signs of age but the gameplay was too choppy for me to 
 get into. The story was very hard to follow which made the lacklustre gunplay seem even more mundaine. 
 The squad based system didn't seem to gel with the gameplay as I constantly felt the need to look 
 after my team mates. The sound was very lacklustre too. Overall I felt that this would have been 
 a lacklustre performance when it was released, and it is a bad performance now. One for the bargain 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  History has been as basis for many games, but never has one quite managed to encapulate the "what 
 if" scenario such as Freedom Fighters. Freeom Fighters starts of by challenging the efforts of 
 Wolrd War 2, stating that the Soviet Union were the first to launch a nuclear bomb, and destroy 
 Berlin. As such, the cold war never took place, and the Soviet Union was never destroyed. Instead, 
 it spread abroad, taking over all countries until it came upon the United States, where a small 
 band of freedom fighters fight for their... well, freedom.
  
  The game itself is very easy to pickup, being an ordinary thrid person shooter, but soon enough, 
 the third person shooter turns into a tactical squad based shooter. As you progress through the 
 game, you earn charisma for doing certain objectives (blowing up the enemies helipads, healing 
 the sick etc.) . As you accumulate charisma, more and more freedom fighters can join your squad. 
 You can have a maximum of twelve squad mates, which turns your squad into more of a miniature army. 
 The squad itself can never die as long as you're alive. You can use medpaks on your squadmates 
 to bring them back to life.
  
  The game sports excellent graphics that truly captures the mood of the dark surroundings. Epic 
 locations makes the levels anything but repitive, and the level design leaves gameplay styles open. 
 You can run in guns blazing, or stalk your targets and go stealthy.
  
  Apart from the excellent graphics is an extradoinary soundtrack. Jesper Kyd manages yet again to 
 perfectly capture the true emotion of the game. Epic musical scores reflect the action on screen, 
 and make you feel that you really are fighting for your freedom. The general sound is excellent 
 as well, with the Russian troops speaking in authentic Russian accents, guns sounding pleasingly 
 loud, and the ambiance transporting you to the location. The only problem that I could come up 
 with is that the Russians speak english rather than russian.
  
  Freedom Fighters is one of the few games that changes the direction of where games go. An epic 
 masterpiece that should be experianced by all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  STORY: Communism has taken over each nation and its rise has brought it to america - you are chris 
 a plumber who goes from just a plain old joe to a major force in the liberation of an America. 
 A short game but the story is pretty good.
  
  GRAPHICS: Pretty average, no big wow here.
  
  SOUND: Good voice acting and tunes 
  
  PLAYABILITY: Typical third-person control problems 
 that frustrate, but are acceptable.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: The game is engaging, but the cumbersome controls detract from the replay value 
 and make it not much more then a rental or a bargin bin bought game. And it also has no multiplayer 
 hopefully the next one will, and a better overall game.
  
  OVERALL: a good game if you like bad camera controls it kinda wastes the whole idea but what it 
 lacks in fps it makes up for in story and in large scale combat so a great game if you like third 
 person shooters but theirs a lot better games out their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good game. Ok, first the story. In Freedom Fighters, you start out as a plumber 
 int NYC. You are driving in a car with your co-worker, going to an apartment to fix a problem. 
 There has been recent news of some unusual blimps in the sky, and some other unusual things, but 
 the government just ignores it. As you go to the apartement, you have a little conversation with 
 your co-worker, and then you arrive at the right room. When you get inside, you hear many helicopters, 
 and you co-worker is gunned down. The helicopters are swarming around the apartment demanding you 
 to surrender. What's going on?
  
  What's going on is the Soveits have taken over the United States, and they have begun with NYC! 
 Your job is to be a freedom fighter, and hold a revolt to try and win back your liberty with all 
 who have agreeded to join the cause. In freedom fighetrs you can recruit fighters off the streets 
 to fight along side with you. In a unique system, you can order them to attack, defend, and follow 
 you, the master. Objectives include clearing out building, blowing up speacial Russian forces and 
 equipment, rescuing prisoners, healing the wounded, raising the American Flag in designated areas, 
 and much much more. Even better! But the game is great the story and its locations all through 
 Brooklin, and how if you travel to one area and do certain things, it affects what you have, and 
 may do in the other. Your hidedout is under the sewers, where you discuss with your fellow comrades 
 where to travel to next, and what to do there.
  
  The sound in this game is great, and the gameplay, excellent. The value is definitely a 100 percent. 
 The graphics are very crisp and make the experince wonderful. The gameplay is a little struggling 
 becuase the controls are a bit easier on the console systems makeing the game a lot more fast paced, 
 but if you get uses to the PC controls it should be fine.
  
  What brings down the rating though however, is there is no multiplayer. The other versions of this 
 game on the consoles all have multiplayer, which is phenomanal. It's a shame there is no online 
 play with this game or some other sort of multiplayer.
  
  Overall, Freedom Fighetrs is an amazing game, and although it may not seem that great at first 
 it grows on you a lot, really addicting yourself to it. It is definitely a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  I love this game this is one of the best games I played. Superb game!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This game have 
 a great soundtrack Jesper the best soundtrack i every heard.
  Great graphics, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT 
 GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT GAME, GREAT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game has absolutely solid gamelplay. Contoling your team is verry easy yet effecctive. You 
 almost cant survice without them. That is on the hardest difficulty level. Wich is at medium range, 
 some chalange. The grafix look allright with some nice fire and explosion effects. Nothing to snazzy. 
 The sound has some Russian undertone, witch really adds to the expierince! The sound effects are 
 quite allright but the dialogues are a bit lame. Sometimes they just sound way to echo. But nothing 
 to bad. Overal it just feels right. You don't have allot of weopons, maybe 5 or so. But its enough. 
 The low price makes it really worth buying. You could spend allot of time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Just coming down from Adventure Island in Tampa, I stopped by Blockbuster to find a game with my 
 new gift card. There it was, Freedom Fighters for only 20 bucks. I put it in and was waiting for 
 my friend to get on and play. I realized you couldn't play co-op on story and the multiplayer is 
 boring as heck!!! The story mode is over all good. The levels are fun but need more area. I love 
 recruiting people and see them do my dirty work. Overall the game is good, but for 20 bucks. I'll 
 buy Freedom Fighters 2 but when it reaches at least 30 dollars. Freedom FIghters is also a tad 
 short. RIght when you pick up the controller, you put it back down to realize you already beat 
 it. It takes about 5 hours to beat but that goes fast. Freedom Fighters is a good buy for twenty 
 but you can just settle to rent it.
  
  Good
  + teamwork with 12 other npc's is fun
  + good levels with plenty of explosives
  + $20
  Bad
  - crappy multiplayer (only three maps)
 
  - no co-op
  - small maps without hardly any alternate routes 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Un muy buen juego con una historia interesante q te engancha desde el principio, con unos graficos 
 muy bien realizados y el sonido a la altura de un juego como los q quedan grabados en la memoria 
 por muchos aos.
  
  Desde q jugu este juego en la Play 2 y luego en la pc supe q por mucho tiempo iba a quedar en 
 mi memoria el fresco recuerdo de un juego bien logrado como aquellos de antao, este sin lugar 
 a dudas tambien perdurar en el tiempo y merece sin dudar una secuela.
  
  Para todos aquellos q les haya gustado el Hitman2 o Mercenaries, este es un jueg hecho para uds. 
 le encantar. a m me ha encantado, y eso ha logrado q no hable del juego a profundidad si no ms 
 bien q mis palabras sean solo de alabanza para este juego. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a cult classic if there ever was one. The game is critically acclaimed across 
 the board and yet i saw it at target for 4.99 (which by the way i picked up 20 copies and game 
 one to all my friends who like games) This game is in the top 5 of the best Electronic Arts games 
 of all time. The graphics are very detailed and there is no pop-up issues like there is in most 
 games like this. The game has a very fun multiplayer feature which you rarely see in third person 
 shooters. The A. I is ridiculosly smart, which can get frusturating when you are getting killed 
 all the time. This game is worth twenty dollars easily and if it was 100 dollars it would still 
 be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayasok
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Let Me Start By Saying that this game might as well be one of the most overloked games ever and 
 although ot necessarily a good thing only few got to experience the Thrill ride of this game . 
 Let Me Start With The Different Attributes
  
  Gameplay -
  
  Truly Excellent . Its amazing what an unknown developer can do with Third person and squad based 
 shooters . The Gameplay is based on basically destroying the Soviet "Empire" which has conquered 
 USA and ur not gonna let ur country fall . The Story is very well crafted with many twists and 
 turns and also with an awesome gal called Isabella (Trust me) . The Gameplay is basically u need 
 to complete missions and rescue people which will give u charisma which will help u recruit new 
 team members . It sounds pretty basic but the most Important part is that how they have implemented 
 a Basic concept 
  
  Graphics-
  
  Graphics r a bit dull even though it was released in 2003 . The Guns seem like sticks sometime 
 but they all seem to have good feel to them but the environments r perfectly made and the characters 
 all seem to have a good sense of Expression. The Graphics could have been better but it fits perfectly 
 for the Games Environments 
  
  Sound - 
  
  The Sound Is amazing . Just amazing u will feel like u r in a real battlefield lke u do in COD2 
 and the Music pretty much fit the game according to the situations . The Weapons sound authentic 
 and the voice acting is very well done . Overalll an Amazing part of the game
  
  Value -
  
  Like Thay say good things never last - The game is very short with only upto some 6-10 hrs 
 gameplay depending on the difficulty and Mind u the game isn't easy . Sadly there is no mutiplayer 
 which might have been one of the reasons for its failure. But hey u will have fun playing and thats 
 all that matter
  
  Tilt -
  
  I Don't have to talk bout this cuz u might have understoond that i was totally capitivated By the 
 Game 
  
  Conclusion
  
  The Game is a must buy by all means if u can find it and i hear a sequel is on the wrks hope thay 
 add multiplayer this Time. This Game Is all bout Fun and enjoyment and u will have a refreshing 
 time playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabatman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Freedom fighters is a superb game with a nice look and control system. The single-player mode was 
 where the heart of the game was and it didn't fail to please. The missions were challenging yet 
 fun at the same time and the control system for the squad was easy to use and a tactical dream. 
 During some missions the intensity was very high and the squad controls didn't prevent me from 
 accomplishing my goal and never got in the way. The multiplayer was a little less deep but fun 
 none-the-less. I thought that the story was stereo-typical but well-done, it helped me get into 
 the missions and make me feel like what I was doing was actually accomplishing something. The only 
 downside I would have to say is the weapon switching controls. They did get in the way sometimes 
 and made it difficult for me to switch is the heat of battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickfan44
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome it has everything from awesome firefights to the best storyline. It also has 
 a good squad combat system which lets you tell them what to do. Did i mention the storyline was 
 one of the best i have ever read. The graphics are up tp date they are not amazing but not great 
 i also like the ragdoll effects in the game and the third person is awesome. The envrioments are 
 very close to free roaming i would like but they are pretty big enough for different routs and 
 there are a good bit of weapons and not all the characters are the same and i almost forgot the 
 AI is awesome to for your characters and the enemy. So please go buy this game if you haven't by 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  Here go.... great static lightining makes gaame from the start very enjoyable.... 
  
  Well, right start.. damn starts very cool! Pretending that all historic achievments of USA is blowed 
 up by USSR since WW II. USSR placed the its continental missiles in Cuba, won the war in Afghanistan, 
 and so on... They became the super nation and now ruling the roost in most of the parts of Earth. 
 Now is the time to occupy and destroy the main enemy US nation. 
  
  Your are the plumber in NY city.... and it is your rutine day to do your job.. but suddenly whole 
 world goes upsidedown around you and how starts our long journey through the New York streets.
 
  
  This game is not hero game this game is squad based team game. coz defeat all troops of soviet 
 army you will not be able.. so you need to join to the pratistant squads all around the city and 
 save lifes and free your land!
  
  Not too much option in primary ad secondary weapons... just three slots for firing weapons all oher 
 slots will be filled by other stuff whih might be useful during game. It is not so hard to play 
 this game as long as you can manage with city maps partialy. coz you will get some assembly points 
 beetween the occupied sections of city which will allow you to save game and same time allows you 
 to determine your and yours enemies location easily. 
  
  Free The Lands!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters takes place in an alternate world where the Soviets are still alive and kicking 
 quite well. You take the role as stone, a plumber who will eventually grow within the ranks of 
 the freedom fighters to eventually become the leader. Overall this game is a 3rd person shooter 
 which delivers quite well as the levels are quite large and are also quite interactive. An interesting 
 part of this game is that I found it to be suprising light as I would have expected a much darker 
 theme to this game from the original looks of the cover of the game itself. The game boasts many 
 different weapons that you can utilize on your quest to upsurp the soviets from your native lands. 
 The squad based fighting which is the center and focal point of this game is quite solid as it 
 is both simple and effective. there are only three buttons that are really used in order to control 
 troops on the battlefield. Of course there are some problems with it once in a while like a wall 
 or some other barrier that might get into the way of the AI while you are giving orders. However 
 the game itself is quite solid and generally good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Doomsday
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a pretty good game when it comes to the action sequences and the overall grip 
 that the game has on players, but there are a few flaws, nonetheless. The Artificial Intelligence 
 is okay, but under a few circumstances (usually found when experimenting) the A. I. can go a little 
 weird. You know, people getting stuck on corners and obstacles or doing that weird thing where 
 they go between two texture panels and start spazzing-out. The graphics are pretty good, unless 
 you look at something from a distance, but hey, nobody's perfect. Freedom Fighters is one of those 
 games that you sit down and play for maybe two or three weeks, and then it starts to get boring 
 and you only come back to it every once in awhile when you're really bored until eventually you 
 forget about it completely and a year later you look under your bed and go, "whoa, I completely 
 forgot about this game!". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I have bought freedom fighters these days and played it with much pleasure since it's a small pack 
 that hides much fun and pleasure inside !! i was satisfied with the graphics that look pretty nice 
 and eye-catching. The game play is phenomenal; just the idea of being the boss of a fighters band 
 is very attractive, and i was extremely satisfied with the mouse and keyboard configuration which 
 is very simple and addective. the different mapes and possebilities add a lot to the game. I never 
 thought this game would reveal such pleasure and satisfaction it's one of the best games i have 
 ever played ! A piece of advice... buy this game because it's awesome ...!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbishash
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  every thing is good but it missed the clips in between n graphics r not excellent, great team leading 
 game, graphics wise it should be rated 6 out of 10 but this has got many things which makes it exceptional. non 
 compareable. good story show real use of c4s, snipers n granites.
  u can use only 2 guns at a time which makes it difficult. BUT it feels real. choose party members 
 having different guns which u r not handling.
  always try 2 keep them on defence then command 2 save medipacks. 
  very small but smart can be 
 completed in 6 hours. if u r walking in the park..
  can only say try it out ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, it worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Befor I start this game is bit on the revoulionary side with the whole squade base thingy it does 
 it like no order and really does give you the freedom to fight how you want. Sadly this game fell 
 short for me it just didn't do it for me, its worth playing and thats about it, Freedom Fighter 
 2 sure I'll get it could only expect it to be better and fix what wasn't in this one.
  
  Gameplay: Freedom Fighters is fundamentally your standard third-person squad based shooter. You 
 control the main character, and issue one of three commands (follow, attack, and defend) to your 
 squad mates using the number 1-3 keys. The story is told through tongue-in-cheek cut scenes of 
 a television news program, where the results of your exploits are the headlines of the day.
  
  While run-and-gun is the order of business, some strategy must be employed. It is greatly to 
 your benefit to find doors and ladders to allow you a better position when engaging enemies. Since 
 you can only carry one primary weapon and one secondary weapon, plus some grenades and Moltov cocktails 
 thrown into the mix, making the right armament selection is important.
  
  However the very limited selection of weapons (about 8 firearms in all) makes choosing the right 
 arsenal easy. Mission areas are arranged around a central hub (your rebel hide out) in a non linear 
 manner, allowing for a variety of ways to tackle goals ranging from placing explosives to assassinating 
 Soviet leaders.
  
  Each section of the map is divided into one main mission and several sub-missions. Achieving the 
 main mission, usually taking over a Soviet stronghold, will clear that section of map including 
 the sub-missions. If you choose to tackle the sub-missions first, however, you are awarded with 
 charisma points.
  
  Filling your charisma meter will allow you to add one member (maxing out at 12 members) to your 
 squad of rebels. This adds an interesting dynamic to the game, and keeps you motivated to take 
 on the sub-missions rather than just aiming for the main headquarters right away.
  
  What order you choose to achieve the goals in each mission will affect the ease in which you complete 
 other missions. For example, in one mission you need to take out a bridge that is guarded by a 
 Hind gunship. In order to take out the helicopter you can go to a different map location and destroy 
 the helipad there. When you return to the bridge, there will no longer be a helicopter guarding 
 it.
  
  Save points come in the way of manhole covers which must be opened. Once a manhole has been accessed 
 you have the option to either quicksave, or change map locations. Being a big proponent of the 
 "save anytime" school of thought, I found this method a bit annoying.
  
  Luckily the manholes are abundant enough to not require a huge amount of backtracking.
  Control 
 is tight and responsive, and lends itself well to the keyboard and mouse combination. Giving commands 
 to your squad mates is as easy as looking a direction and pressing a key, and your team will leap 
 to fulfill your requests.
  
  While your squad mates AI is not terrific (they have a tendency to cut in front of you while you're 
 firing and don't necessarily stay put when you tell them to) friendlies are still smart enough 
 to find cover when fired upon and run from grenades when they land nearby. Enemy AI is realistic 
 and effective.
  
  When under fire, baddies will duck for cover, then send out advance parties to try to flush you 
 out. When available they will man machine gun turrets and lay down heavy fire. Overall enemies 
 provide just the right level of challenge to make things interesting.
  
  Overall I enjoyed Freedom Fighters. The story was engaging enough to keep me interested, while 
 the game play had enough variety to stave off boredom. The charisma meter provides ample motivation 
 for completing sub-missions to gain followers.
  
  It is very thrilling to lead a small army of warriors through the streets of Russian occupied New 
 York spreading wanton destruction wherever you go. Ultimately the game is a little on the shallow 
 side when it comes to mission goals and weapons, but it is fun enough to overlook these shortcomings. 
 
  
  You should totaly buy this game because it rocks hard man, best part is you got to throw bottles 
 of flame to kill the russins and the machine gun which really rocks but to tell the truth a few 
 levels are quite hard and difficult to succed it im still trying and I have played them all quite 
 difficult and few save points really tick me off, its all good tho.
  
  Graphics: Good for its time nothing that special the character models looks cartoony other then 
 that nice effects and overall appeal.
  
  Sound: I really enjoyed the sound effects in FF. All weapons had a distinct firing note, and explosions 
 were loud and satisfying. Ambient noise is present and appropriate to the surroundings, although 
 it could have been a little more comprehensive.
  
  The voice acting is professional, and with the exception of one of your fellow fighters (a horribly 
 acted, god awfully annoying, baseball hat wearing, wanna be hip goon-boy named Phil Bagzton) delivered 
 with skill. Even the Russian accents are serviceable.
  
  During game play enemies speak only in Russian, which adds a certain authenticity to the game. 
 The musical score is impressive as well. With a distinctively Russian influence in parts, and an 
 equally distinctive American influence in others, the variety of music is diverse enough to be 
 appropriate for any situation you may find yourself in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a great game with totaly awesome graphics if u are having an ATI radeon which 
 is 9500 and above the graphics would really rock because i have one of the latest graphics and 
 it really rocks like hell 
  
  You should totaly buy this game because it rocks hard man it rocks hard but the best part is uve 
 got to throw bottles of flame to kill the russins but the best part is using the machine gun which 
 really rocks but to tell the truth a few levels are quite hard and difficult to succed it im still 
 trying you know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters takes place in an alternate reality that never saw the dissolution of the Soviet 
 Union. Instead, the Red threat has continued to grow since the end of World War II, taking hold 
 in countries as close to home as Cuba and Mexico. The game opens with the plumbing team of Chris 
 and Troy Stone paying a visit to the clogged sink of Isabella Angelina, who also happens to be 
 a vocal member of a watchdog organization devoted to informing the American public about the evils 
 of the Soviet Union. The duo enters her apartment to find that it has been hastily evacuated, and 
 soon after, Soviet troops bust in to try to find her, only to capture Troy instead. The Soviet 
 invasion of the US has begun. 
  
  After that brief setup, you're thrust into the role of Chris Stone, and you hook up with Isabella's 
 resistance movement almost immediately. Operating from the sewers beneath New York City, the movement 
 aims to overthrow the invaders and drive the communists out of the country. You'll start as a lowly 
 member of the team, but you grow in popularity and influence as the game goes on, and Chris will 
 slowly transform from an average 32-year-old plumber into a battle-hardened leader.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  if u dont know what Freedom Fighters is let me clue u in. its a game where u fight the Soviets 
 who have taken over NYC. well thats what i think the storyline is. anyway, gameplay is real addictive 
 and its kind of challenging but not totally hard. this game probably is the reason Mercanaries was 
 created. Graphics are really good. its not horrible or awesome graphics but good enough to pass 
 off a 2003 game. sound is real nice. hear ur squad agree with what u say. its got some really good 
 value on it. overall its a good TPS for all the people who like TPSs like Hitman, Mercanaries, and 
 GTA3. ill give a 7 or 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent1333
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this title way back and I still get the urge to bust it out and play. Believe it or 
 not, but I found the story to be really good for a action shooter, and the news reports are hilarious 
 at times, a real must see. The controlling of your teammates is simple, you don't have to open 
 up an entirely different window and fumble around trying to find a command but really just point 
 and press. The graphics are pretty good and they do well to keep up with the awesome sometimes 
 hectic fire fights. Another thing I found to be pretty cool was how Chris changes over the duration 
 of the invasion, clothing, bandages etc. The background music is really cool, it goes real well 
 with game and what is going on. A must buy for you action shooter lovers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a great game, and the only problem is that there isn't enough of it. The game 
 is very simple, but it somehow just manages to be nonstop action and fun. The price for this game 
 has dropped so far that even despite the fact that it's a bit short, buying it should be a no-brainer. 
 
  
  The game is played in a series of chapters, each of which contain 2 or 3 submissions. In each submission, 
 you usually blow something up like a bridge or depot, and then capture an important building. The 
 best part of every mission is at the end, when you go to the roof of the building and raise the 
 Stars and Stripes over it. You get this warm, fuzzy patriotic feeling and then move on to the next 
 mission so that you can shoot some more evil Commies. Yes, it's corny, but it works great. The 
 game does a great job of paying homage to Cold War era action movies like "Red Dawn" and "Missing 
 in Action". Between each mission, you get to watch a Soviet propaganda news broadcast describing 
 your activities as "terrorism". The news broadcasts are usually pretty funny and provide a good 
 reward for completing each chapter. 
  
  The graphics for the game are decent, but not great. The scenery is immersive enough to be believable, 
 but other games out there look sharper. The cutscenes dont look very good, and characters dont 
 move their lips when they talk. 
  
  The core gameplay is what is so great about this game. You control a squad of Freedom Fighters, 
 and you lead them through the streets, pointing them at objectives and generally shooting anything 
 with a red star on their uniform. Mission design is great, and no two missions are quite the same. 
 Gameplay isnt complex. There aren't that many weapons that you can use, and you can only give 
 three simple commands to your squad ("Follow", "Attack", and "Defend") . Usually, your squadmates 
 are good at fighting, but you will do most of the work. AI for enemies is good enough to give you 
 a good challenge, but never frustrating. Enemies are pretty good at using cover and avoiding grenades, 
 but you can often snipe them from far away, and they won't do much to retaliate. The action is 
 always exciting, but you still have to use your head. You are usually outnumbered, and lots of 
 areas are guarded with machine gun banks or guys behind walls. 
  
  Freedom Fighters has a checkpoint save system that we PC gamers love to hate. However, the game 
 is very forgiving. Squad mates never get killed. They just get incapacitated, and you can revive 
 them with health packs. You never have to worry about running out of those, since each level has 
 tons of them laying around. You can take plenty of bullets yourself, so if you get surprised, it 
 usually won't kill you.
  
  The soundtrack might be my favorite part of the game. Jesper Kyd composed the music for the game, 
 and it's simply excellent. The opening track is a booming orchestral piece of music that sounds 
 like it could be a Red Army cadence. The action music is great at raising the tension in the levels 
 and giving the game a sense of drama.
  
  The interface for the game is not good. You can tell that this game was not designed for the PC. 
 If the game wasn't so simple, then this might be a problem. Also, as I said before, the game is 
 pretty short. I finished it in about 9 or 10 hours, although I liked it enough to play it again. 
 Other than that, the game doesn't have any real problems. Since the missions aren't very scripted, 
 you can find different ways of fighting the same battles. This might not have been a great buy 
 when it was new at full price, but now that it has dropped into the bargain bin, it's a no-brainer. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  When I installed the game and watch the introduction to it, it looked extremely great!
  
  The graphics are nicely done and the sound is as to be expected.
  
  As I started playing you 
 get a sort of tutorial at the start, which was good, as I got more into the game it started been 
 a bit repetitive same sort of missions, send your men that follow you into the fray and then heal 
 the, if needs be.
  
  Some of the missions are fun, just shoot every enemy personnel! and get hold of the unmaned submachine 
 gun placement!
  
  Overall, its a pretty good game, but nothing outstanding. I recommend buying it, but its not so 
 great and grand as the gamespot review makes it out to be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters requires the same mindset that Red Alert 2 did. The USSR has invaded the USA. 
 If the former sentence made you scoff, you can stop reading right now, as you'll have little understanding 
 for the story of Freedom Fighters. If you thought "it's just a game" and are curious as to how 
 it plays out, read on. 
  
  Freedom Fighters casts you as a heroic plumber (ironic that a member of the proletariat helps repel 
 invaders of an ideology that idolizes them) who must cripple the Soviet attackers by destroying 
 helicopter pads, munitions depots, and the like. You do this from a third-person perspective while 
 issuing simple orders to small squads of soldiers. 
  The game uses an interesting mission design. There are usually around four missions in a 'zone' 
 and each one has specific targets, which in turn affect the other missions in the zone. For example, 
 there are places in missions where armoured cars or helicopters will appear with reinforcements 
 of enemy soldiers. Destroying a bridge or helicopter pad in a different mission will stop this 
 influx and make the mission easier. Unfortunately you may need C4 to destroy it, which you can 
 find in a different mission. Therefore you may find yourself skipping between missions (which is 
 possible at any sewer manhole- they double as save points) until everything is in place and you 
 deal the final blows. It is possible, however, to get past some of these areas with timing and 
 a well-placed stationary machine gun. Just don't try it when the obstacle is an attack helicopter. 
 Ouchie.
  
  The enemy AI isn't bad. They'll try to flank you at times but aren't the best at looking for cover. 
 They'll also race over to take control of defensive machine guns if you take out the soldier who 
 was using them before. In one mission I happily sat on the roof of a building, sniping scurrying 
 commies and laughing at my superiority when I started getting shot at from behind, as a few soldiers 
 had circled the building and climbed up using boxes and vents. Another time I shot someone in a 
 parking garage and continued creeping around behind the cars when I noticed an enemy prowling in 
 much the same fashion.
  
  The squad commands are basic and therefore simple to master. Attack, guard, or follow me. It's 
 not SWAT 4, but it works well enough and it's thrilling to take a high position and send a group 
 of soldiers from cover to cover while supporting them with a sniper rifle or machine gun. The only 
 problem is that you issue orders in sequence and if you have one soldier guarding the door, another 
 guarding a second door and you want soldier 2 to follow, you'll probably get soldier one leaving 
 his post instead. Curses.
  
  The game itself is quite short, but seeing as the title will probably be in the bargain bins at 
 this time (I noticed it as part of an EA Games pack - great deal) you'll get your money's worth 
 nonetheless. Buy it for the epic multi-soldier urban battles. I am not American, so it left me 
 neutral, but Yanks should get an extra kick out of lowering Soviet flags and replacing them with 
 the Stars and Stripes. For me, beating the crap out of commies was rewarding enough. Now if we 
 could only get the 'hip' to stop wearing CCCP t-shirts... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  What if the Soviet Union had dropped a nuclear bomb on Berlin to end World War 2, and gained sole 
 control over the rebuilding of the European continent? And what if their Communist power eventually 
 extended into every corner of the globe with the exception of North America? Chris, a Manhattan 
 plumber, refuses to believe that his country could fall to a Soviet invasion. But on a clear summer 
 morning, Soviet soldiers kidnap Chris' brother, an attack helicopter chainguns a client's apartment, 
 and Chris trades his plumber's wrench for a captured Soviet pistol. The Battle for Liberty Island 
 has begun.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  In a refreshing twist on the action genre, you don't start out as the cliched "chosen one". You're 
 a plumber, and nobody wants to fight with you. But by accomplishing certain tasks Chris gains "charisma 
 points" which enable him to recruit up to 12 freedom fighters for his team. Rather than pausing 
 gameplay to command your squad, as in Brute Force, IO Interactive has made it simple for you to 
 give orders on the fly. Your freedom fighters are intelligent, effective, and as you gain their 
 trust they will do whatever you tell them to do. Enemy AI also shows some intelligence: hiding 
 when under fire, scaling walls to get at you when they sense an advantage. Impressive, especially 
 on the higher difficulty levels.
  
  The Soviets are using Manhattan's various locales (Post Office, Fire Station, etc.) to back their 
 invasion. Your mission is to raise the American flag over these strongholds. When the New Yorkers 
 see their flag flying over a Soviet base their patriotism will increase and they will join the 
 resistance. Secondary objectives are equally important to your success. For example, the Movie 
 Theater has been converted into a media center for Soviet propaganda. You need to stop the Communist 
 lies, but there's a pesky attack helicopter patrolling the area. Intelligence reports indicate 
 the Soviets are using the Manhattan Docks to refuel their helicopters. Go to the Docks, blow up 
 the chopper's fuel supply and the Movie Theater is looking at clear skies. What you do in one area 
 affects your situation across town and requires a certain amount of strategy from you as you decide 
 what you need to do first: cut the power, eliminate troop helicopters, free captured allies, etc.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The destruction to Manhattan and the chaos in the streets makes the environments come alive, as 
 if you truly have been dropped into war-torn New York City. It's eerily reminiscent of footage 
 taken on the streets of NY during the September 11 terrorist attacks, only this time the threat 
 has permeated every corner of the city. Fire escapes collapse under your weight, buildings topple 
 and crush cars, smoke fills the air, and crashed helicopters smolder in their craters. Most of 
 the destruction is scripted, but much of it is caused by you as you detonate C4 over bridges, gas 
 stations, and helicopter landing pads. The game spans three seasons: summer, fall, and winter, 
 and the environments change appropriately. All of the nicely-modeled characters bundle up when 
 it gets cold outside. Chris himself has 5 outfits throughout the game, ranging from his plumber's 
 uniform, to a ski-mask for sniping, to layers of heavy winter clothing. The characters animate 
 well, although late r in the game when you're commanding 8-12 freedom fighters they tend to get 
 climb out of trenches single file, which looks a little ridiculous. Early in the game there's some 
 problem with seams not lining up, but other than that, IO's attention to detail and atmosphere 
 is fantastic.
  
  Freedom Fighters
  
  SOUND
  Freedom Fighters has all of the normal war-game sounds: gunfire, explosions, etc. Yet it carves 
 for itself a certain uniqueness by fleshing out the premise that you're a New Yorker fighting Soviets 
 in Manhattan. All of the Americans have the New York accent. The Soviets shout in Russian. And 
 all of this happens to a powerful Russian-themed soundtrack sung by the Hungarian Radio Choir. 
 Authentic and excellent.
  
  VALUE
  For a twelve-hour game, Freedom Fighters is oddly satisfying. There are four difficulties: the 
 easier ones let you run-and-gun, while the harder ones force you to think and use your troops effectively. 
 So you could say that Freedom Fighters is two games in one, but that's pushing it. Finishing the 
 game on any given difficulty unlocks all missions for that difficulty level. That's it. For the 
 console versions there is a multiplayer mode that seems like an afterthought.
  
  VIOLENCE
  You can snipe Soviet soldiers in the head, smack them upside the head with your plumber's 
 wrench, and blow up their trucks and tanks. The fact that this is "a time to kill" (Ecclesiastes 
 3:3) puts the violence in perspective, however. There is absolutely no blood whatsoever, nor is 
 there any gore, even when you hit a Soviet with a rocket.
  
  LANGUAGE
  One use of the d-word. Four uses of the four letter c-word.
  
  Freedom Fighters
  
  SEXUAL 
 CONTENT
  The most glaring instance comes in a comment from Chris's brother, who excitedly confesses that 
 he'd like to: "check out the plumbing on that Isabella chick." A female newscaster wears a somewhat 
 revealing top. So does Isabella at the beginning of the game, but that's understandable since she's 
 fighting in the summer heat. By autumn she's bundled up.
  
  POSITIVE ELEMENTS
  Freedom Fighters teaches us that you don't really appreciate the freedoms you have until they're 
 taken away from you. Players can help wounded civilians and rebels by sacrificing their own med 
 kits.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Freedom Fighters drops us into a believable story, throws a couple of pretty intense plot twists 
 at us halfway through, and gives us a great-playing and satisfying squad-based action game. To 
 the same degree that Brute Force was a letdown, Freedom Fighters is a nice surprise. It's a very, 
 very nice surprise for cautious gamers who don't want their action served with generous portions 
 of blood and guts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebusrocks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  as i said nowday shooting games are way better, but this game is pretty good compared to the date 
 it came out on. i think it is better than soccom, but not as good as medal of honor, call of duty 
 or any new shooting games but still worthwhile to play, i'll rent it, cuz it is very very easy, 
 even in the hardest mode. Gameplay is pretty cool compared to other games, and i like the charisma 
 idea on how you can recruit freedom fighters, but sad that there is no multi-player for this s 
 s s s s s lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. Everything from the gameplay to creativity to the outrageous cutscenes 
 blew me away. It was never too hard or too easy, and I got into the game pretty quickly. I usually 
 don't play shooters, but this game showed me how good they can be. Too bad there's no multiplayer. 
 But the re-play value and fun of the single-player alone is enough to keep you occupied. The only 
 thing about the game I didn't like was that the ending sucked and did not give any closure. I'm 
 guessing the ending is left open to leave room for a sequal, but I'm still dissipointed. Do your 
 self a favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  freedom fighters is a flawless game! when i first saw it being played, i actually didn't like it, 
 i didn't like the graphics and thought it was an old game, tha i didn't hear about, but a friend 
 of mine corrected that info. to me and asked me to play it. And when i did, i couldn't get off!!
 
  i jus liked the idea of russians attack on new york, it made me so patriotic, even though i'm 
 from egypt!!?
  anyways, this game requires a sequel, i can't figure out what the sequel would be about, but surely 
 i will buy it.
  in this masterpiece u get to recruit alleys from the streets and shoot your way, but there is a 
 stealth mission too, which had been a delight, besides lots of weapons, man. sniper rifels ,aks, 
 machine guns, pistols, rocket launchers, grenades.... almost everything.
  and the easiest way to dipatch any enemy, with any weapon is a shot to the head! how realistic.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMeier
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  This review is for the PC version.
  
  I read the review and seen the screenshots for the game Freedom Fighters and decided to buy it. 
 The graphics, voices, music and the story are very good. You start off as a ordinary citizen name 
 Christopher Stone who lives in New York and his profession is a plumber. 
  
  The Soviets have taken over New York and you and a small band of rebels must retake the city back. 
 The weapons available in the game are: 
  Monkey wrench (this is what you start with)
  Sidearms (revolver and pistol)
  Shotgun
  Assault Rifle
  SMG (a sub machine gun used by the 
 Soviet Forces)
  Sniper Rifle
  Molotov cocktail
  Fragmentation Grenade
  C4 Plastic Explosives
  Mounted Machine Gun
  Rocket Propelled Grenade Launcher (you will need 
 this to take out tanks and helicopters)
  
  If you run out of ammo (you will run out of ammo, trust me) , you can reload you weapon (s) with 
 ammo boxes. You will have to find medic kits to replenish your life bar, heal civilians and soldiers 
 that follow your command (they will have a big red cross sign over them when they have been taken 
 down by the enemy) . They are not hard to find. You must look for sewers to save your game; you 
 must use quick save in order to start from the sewer if you have been eliminated. The game will 
 only be save completely when you defeat the level. That means that your quick save will be erase 
 when you exit the game. 
  
  To recruit rebel fighters you must increase your charisma level. You must health ordinary people, 
 free prisoners, capture or demolish a target and must hoist the Stars and Stripes flag ( Hoisting 
 the flag completes the mission) . The limit of rebels to command is 12.
  
  This is my first time writing a review for a game but I hope that I gave you a little more information 
 that you would be interested in playing it.
  
  KingMeier
  
  P. S. Pardon my spelling and grammar :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Frickin' sweet, I loved this game. Sure it's graphics aren't awesome, but the amount of detail 
 put into each level is amazing, along with the action and story line that support it. It's a very 
 original idea that I'm glad came to the PC, because it just rocks. The controls are smooth, and 
 squad-based play is fluent throughout. 
  When I heard about this game, I just shrugged it aside and thought "Oh no, not another port!" But 
 I was sorely mistakened, because even Freedom Fighters on the PC is worth checking out. Although 
 the graphics aren't up to par with other games during the time, the gameplay more than makes up 
 for drawbacks. It's intense with a ton of fire fights throughout the streets of New York, from 
 a warehouse yard and highschool to more broad levels such as a secluded island. They're all packed 
 with chances to pick up charisma, ultimatly expanding your platoon of freedom fighters. This helps 
 to add to the war feeling, as you and your squad battle it out in hopes of running out the Russian 
 lock down. The story is really interesting and orignal, creaking an immersive and captivating series 
 of objectives which have to be completed. Objectives such as destroying a helipad or larger scale 
 missions such as taking back a set of warehouses from Soviet hold keep the game going.
  The controls are suprising slick for a mouse and keyboard, almost making it feel as if this game 
 should have been on PC soley. Squad control is also easy and simple to manage, letting you bark 
 commands to further advance. The AI isn't that bad either, taking cover and attempting to get afew 
 rounds in.
  Though this review is relatively short, please don't dismiss this game. It's full of suprisingly 
 fun elements which ultimatly turn it into a fine PC third person shooter. Hell, I wouldn't even 
 call it a port, it was so good. If you've played this previously on another system, you won't be 
 missing much. But if you haven't played it, go out and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw this game on the shelves in my local game shop i didnt think much of it, a while 
 ago i went on amazon and had a look in the clearout zone for the pc and there it was, a measly 
 1, i thought to myself, waht harm can it do for that price? added it to my basket and bought it. 
 it came in the post and i put in in my disk drive thinking that it was going to be another let 
 down..... i was wrong, i was thrown straight into the action on the streets on new york killing 
 russians. what more would you want for a first level? with a strong story, great graphics and beatiful 
 gameplay i was amazed! this game was not only a great squad based 3rd person shooter it was a great 
 squad based 3rd person shooted with attitude! i then played this game all the way through on the 
 different difficulties and loved it more every time, check out your loacal bargain bin, this is 
 not to be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nely_nelson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  To bad their is no multiplayer. This is alround great game. Somethings i found annoying were
  
  -----  Annoying fences that made the maps like a maze
  -----  easy gameplay
  ----- hard 
 to aim proparly
  ----  can only cary 2 wepeons at a time
  
  Some things that i found good about it were
  
  -----  Good storyline
  -----  pretty graphics
 
  ----  didn't take 10 years to beet
  -----  realistic sounding voices
  
  The main plot of the story is Russia invades New York. You are a Rebel in the sewers who brings 
 freedom back to New York (srry if i spoiled anything but its kind of obvious) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much when I got my hands on Freedom Fighters; in fact I had heard nothing about 
 the game prior to obtaining it. After it spent some time collecting dust on my shelf I decided 
 to pop it in and try it, and I must say it is one of the best third person shooters I've ever played. 
 You take on the role of Christopher Stone who is a rather down to Earth plumber who works alongside 
 his brother Troy in an alternate reality where the Soviet Union was never disbanded. The two are 
 called to the house of an anti-Soviet lady and it is there that Chris' destiny as a rebel leader 
 begins when his brother is taken prisoner by Soviet invaders.
  
  Freedom Fighters is a pretty linear game and is simple to learn; despite letting you attack different 
 areas whenever you want there is still a certain order in which you should take on the missions. 
 In each mission your primary objective is to lower the Soviet flag and hoist the American flag 
 on a key structure. In most missions there are also sub-objectives which are optional, but helpful 
 in getting charisma so you can recruit more resistance members to assist you. The unfortunate thing 
 about Freedom Fighters is its length; you'll finish the game in probably ten hours tops, but it 
 is one great thrill ride while it lasts.
  
  The graphics in Freedom Fighters aren't the greatest, but they're not by any means bad. The architecture 
 of the levels is solid and the textures look good. Firefights also look very nice once you begin 
 going on missions at night; I will admit to occasionally being distracted by all of the pretty 
 flashing lights in some of the later missions.
  
  The sound is all around great; the voice acting for the most part is excellent and the weapon and 
 ambient sounds fit well. The music in Fighters is superb and tends to fit the mood of the game 
 very well.
  
  Freedom Fighters is a great third person shooter, though; I have not played an awful lot of the 
 third person genre. If you're into over head shooters I urge you to give Freedom Fighters a shot. 
 If not, try it anyway; you might be pleasantly surprised like I was. Then again, I suppose I shouldn't 
 expect every over head shooter to be another Beast Wars: Transformers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armanhaikia
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighter, when I first started playing it, I thought it would be like all other boring, 
 no plot, nothing new, stupid type of game, but as it turns out I was wrong.
  
  The most enjoyable aspects of the game are game-play, sound and to some extent the graphics, but 
 the real beauty is definitely the squad-based type of controls. It is easy to control your squad 
 and also effective, BEAUTIFUL.
  
  Many other games make use of the squad-based game-play, but I haven't as yet seen any other that 
 has done it in a more realistic kind of way, You don't feel like they are made to be a burden on 
 you but they actually feel like fellow soldiers there to help and thanks to the amazing controls 
 you don't have to worry about how to issue orders just what orders should be issued.
  
  As far as the AI is concerned, your opponents are quite intelligent. teaming up, taking cover and 
 using arsenal at hand hand quite, lets just say, incredebly, but they are not really that cunning 
 as many times you will see them taking cover OUTside a wall right in front of you, and they think 
 that they are untouchable, HAH.
  
  Your squad though is better, taking the best route and taking cover on the way but, there are at 
 least a dozen time when you hope they would sit down so that you wont have to heel them, huuuh.
 
  
  So All in all it is worth playing even though the storyline is very uncomplicated and linear. One 
 of those that you know how will end less then halfway to end. That isn't really honest. Alright, 
 alright there is a bit of drama and I know it is not worth mentioning but still........ it wouldn't 
 be honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Released on October 1st of 2003, Freedom Fighters, developed by Io Interactive, brought the pc 
 gaming community the experience of a great A. I. squad based tactical game that included a good 
 storyline that took a regular average plumber and made him into the hero of New York City. Now 
 that might seen like quite a large accomplishment, but these are also the same developers who brought 
 us Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, and with it, succeeded in bringing their fan community a stealth/action 
 experience that progressed the story of everyones favorite assassin from the previous installment 
 in the series. Freedom Fighters not only includes a great squad based style of gameplay, but it 
 also has a decent storyline that flows throughout the non-linear style missions that are portrayed 
 with some good looking graphics.
  
  The story begins with Chris Stone, the hero of the game, going on a plumbing call with his brother 
 Troy to fix the septic system of one Isabella Angelina, a news reporter. Once on the scene, they 
 realize that no ones there and thats when everything gets hectic. The storyline takes place from 
 a point in history as if the Soviet Union never disbanded, and thats when Soviet soldiers burst 
 into Angelinas apartment only to find the plumbers. Chris is actually in another room, so Troy 
 is the only one taken and this is where youll begin your adventure. On a whirlwind ride through 
 New York City, Chris will soon meet up with other members of the resistance to the Soviet takeover 
 which is actually headed up by Angelina herself. From then on, Chris Stone will try to take back 
 different sectors of the city hoping that other members of the community hiding in seclusion will 
 trust in him and the dream that he and Angelina share in taking back the freedom they once had 
 before the Soviets came. Chris will begin by taking by the suburb of Brooklyn by dealing with 
 a Police Station and a Post Office and from there, move on to larger posts that the foreigners 
 hold. 
  
  As Chris helps out others along the way, hell build up his charisma which will come in handy, 
 because the more charisma Chris possesses, the more followers hell be able to control with him 
 in his squad against the Soviets. And numbers can really decide the turn out of any gun battle 
 in combat in Freedom Fighters, but the more important part is the way that you use your group members. 
 Chris will have three basic commands including, offense, defense, and follow, but with these three, 
 you can command your troops to defend any area on the map, or proceed into combat in any area all 
 with the click of a mouse button. The way that the squad tactical combat is done in Freedom Fighters 
 is really great for this games time. The ease of use to any player that picks up this game is 
 phenomenal. On Chris journey to retake New York, hell come across a multitude of weapons including 
 a pistol, a machine gun, an assault rifle, a shotgun, and many other weapons thatll come in use 
 against the Soviets. The game isnt very long, really only spanning over about 8-10 hours, and 
 there isnt any type of multiplayer on the pc, so the replay value really depends on the maneuvers 
 you want to take throughout the games many missions. Depending on how many men you have in your 
 squad, the game, and the combat within it, can range in difficulty and tactical strategy at every 
 turn.
  
  The graphics in Freedom Fighter are great. Everything is crisp and clear and the different levels 
 are each unique and detailed. The developers took their time in giving the player a good gaming 
 experience while going through the streets of Brooklyn all the way to the Governors Island. The 
 player does have to spend some time in the different levels a couple times, but the objectives 
 keep the flow and experience different each time through. In between most levels, the player is 
 given a short cinematic movie of the new Soviet News Reporter who describes Chris triumphs throughout 
 the entire game and this provides the player with some humor as you see the Soviet Army fall to 
 the freedom fighters rebellion. During the game, youll notice Chris appearance change from the 
 simple minded plumber to the hardened hero at the end of the game. These simple changes each level 
 give the sense of change within the Chris mind as he finds his role as the rebellion leader, a 
 leadership earned through his hard work against the Soviets. 
  
  Freedom Fighters also has some pretty good sound. The voice acting done within the game is decent, 
 with the exception of the Soviet characters, but tell me a game that includes Soviet/Russian voices 
 that sound like their actual nationality that theyre supposed to. The weapon sounds are good and 
 different with each weapon. The pistol sounds like a pistol and the sub machine gun sounds like 
 it should. The game also has a musical score that will provide the player with entertainment throughout 
 the game becoming more intense in situations where gun battles break out and this gives the levels 
 more atmosphere as the player commands his troops against brigades of Soviet soldiers. 
  
  In the end, Freedom Fighters is an excellent tactical squad based combat game thats easy for anyone 
 to pick up and control. People will not only enjoy the storyline, the sound, the great use of tactical 
 A. I., but also the graphics and the time that Io Interactive took in creating this game. Just because 
 there isnt a multiplayer feature in the game, it doesnt mean that it doesnt hold any replay 
 value. Many gamers will find enjoyment in repeating the game different times to see how they can 
 better themselves in commanding their team in combat. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of EA's best. It has a compelling story, pretty good graphics, and you shoot people. 
 It doesn't get much better than that. That said, it does have some unlikeable parts. 
  
  The biggest problem is the weapons. The guns are all Russian, so they're good, but are unnecessarily 
 inaccurate. The most accurate weapon next to the sniper is the PKM, a heavy machine gun?!?! Even 
 in a prone position could that be impossible due to the enourmous kick-back. 
  
  The whole game consists of the same enemy units, and the AI isn't really that smart.
  
  It 
 is however $20 so it is a good bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Freedom Fighers in the EA bundle pack sold for 20$ I was oringally getting it for Black 
 & White (Also includes MOH: Allied Assault and LOTR: Return of the King) but I turned out playing 
 Freedom Fighers the most because the gameplay is just so great. It's so simple it's a wonder why 
 games don't do this all the time. In most third person shooters when you "Strafe" the character 
 sidesteps, which is really werid, when in life do you ever sidestep? In Freedom Fighters the character 
 (Chris) will acutally walk that way, but it will still seem like your strafing. Also when walking 
 backwards you'll acutally walk backwards, instead of backstepping. This doesn't effect shooting 
 at all however when going backwards he'll simplely spin around and shoot while moving backwards, 
 same with "strafing". Also how ducking works is great, in most games you set it to "Toggle" which 
 means you tap duck once and press again to get back up, or "Hold" in which you hold it. But in 
 FF it's both. If you hold the duck button it'll do the "Hold" version if you tap it, it will be 
 Toggle. It's great! These little things make the gameplay so great.
  
  The gun shooting is also realistic, you never have an aimed shot, it always has a change of going 
 off a little bit every time, even when ducking and sitting still. There is a zoomed in shot but 
 it's not like a sniper rifle, just gets a little closer to crosshairs to help you shoot. Also when 
 jumping near something to climb over Chris will climb over it automatically, it's very helpful. 
 All these small things are a great addition to the gameplay. Also the graphics are very nice, though 
 they have a tiny bit of cartoonish so when the serious part of the story comes, it's hard to take 
 it, even when your fighting through dark cities of New York it still has a light side to it.
  
  The story of FF is great, it takes place present day only the USSR never disbanned and started 
 taking over South America, mexico, and now the USA. You take Chris the plumber, your brother and 
 partner believes the "conspiracy crap" but it becomes very real as you encounter it first hand, 
 you end up your way as a Freedom Fighter. The story is rather short and makes you want more 3/4s 
 of the way through. You get to control ally FFs about 20 minutes into the game, they do a great 
 job, the AI is fantastic you get 3 basic commands (Hold up here, Attack, Follow me) which you can 
 issue to one person, or all of them. However towards the end of the game you get around 10 FFs 
 and things get a little too hectic since the areas are small and they normally get in your way 
 instead of helping. But it's not the AI fault, it's just there so many of them in a little area. 
 But fear not, tight corridors are no problem in FF's camera.
  
  The Camera changes depening in what area you are in, if your in a tight area like an apartment 
 it zooms in so you can see everything better and not go through walls, outside, it zooms out so 
 you can see everything better, and it varies around different areas. Another feature of the game 
 is that you can only hold 1 machine gun (or shotgun) and 1 pistol, which is ok once you get use 
 to it, it adds to the realism of not having 50 guns stashed in your pocket. Another great part 
 is the cities themselves, all the areas really feel like urban areas, you'll hid behind boxes but 
 they're not randomly placed there, the boxes are ammo boxes or something, or cars in the streets, 
 it has a great feel to it that can only be explained by playing the game.
  
  Bottom Line:
  This game won't last you very long but in the bundle pack for 5$ per game who cares? 
 It has a great system and the only real fault is that the audio is pretty bad, the guns don't sound 
 that powerful or great and voice echoing is annoying. It's defently worth getting, you may even 
 find it indivuadally for around 10$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falco1029
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this is a great game, even today. The Ai is great for its time, and the graphics, 
 though not great, arent anything too ugly.
  
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay si fun and ambitious. Basically, you are leading several attacks against 
 the Soviets, who have taken over the US (or NY at least) , in an attempt to take the area back. 
 You start off (after the tutorial level) able to recruit 2 soldiers to help you, and eventually 
 can get up to 12 (by doing certain deeds and side missions) . The AI of both your squad and the 
 enemy surprises me, because even today, most shooters have lackluster AI compared to this. Your 
 squad will take cover, supress the enemy to allow each other to advance, and grab machine gun nests 
 to attack them with. Likewise, the enemy will advance if you're not shooting, will take cover when 
 you are, and will call more troops over if they need to. Of cours, e the AI isnt more than it should. 
 They wont see you if you're quietly creeping behind barrels and such, and they wont automatically 
 know it was you when you shoot over at them and hide (rather, they'll take cover or come over to 
 investigate) . The AI is what really makes the game fun. Though the fighting is good too. There 
 are several machine gun nests, and a variety of weapons to use. However, even on the second difficulty 
 level, it can sometimes have hard areas, and I dont exactly like the save system. Otherwise though, 
 it's great.
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics: Nothing special, they're old. Little antialiasing, mediocre textures, etc. But still, 
 they arent anything that would make you gouge your eyes out.
  
  
  
  Sound: It's good, everything done sound slike it should, and footsteps and the like are hearable.
 
  
  
  Value: From what I hear, it's a short game, and not very replayable. I myself have not gone all 
 the way through yet though.
  
  
  Tilt: The systems, for their time, are great, and the game is good even today, so the tilt is full.
 
  
  
  Bottom line is that the gameplay and AI are great today, and this is a game any shooter fan should 
 pick up (very cheap nowadays too) .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taliancich
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  What a great premise! It worked well for the 80s action movie Red Dawn and it works even better 
 in Freedom Fighters. The Soviets invade America, and its up to a group of ragtag American rebels 
 to save the day. With nary a glitch in the whole game to sully the fun, Freedom Fighters puts the 
 player in the role of a blue-collar worker-turned freedom fighter who will lead a ever-increasing 
 group of rebels against the Reds. The squad based dynamic is great and the game really gains momentum 
 as your squad grows. With excellent production values, a streamlined interface, and a tight storyline, 
 this third-person shooter will never disappoint, bore, or frustrate. Graphics, sound, and level 
 design are top-notch. The game is relatively short on easier difficulty offset by the fact that 
 you will not get bored due to its consistently brisk pace and thrilling action. Freedom Fighters 
 is a great sleeper, and has even merited a sequel in the not-to-distant future. Play it while you 
 can, you will not be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unreal-Strife
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is an excellent game. Anyone who has missed this game when it was released should 
 get it now. There's virtually no bugs. It's bug free and the graphics work well enough while with 
 low requirements. Well, lets get into a little detail.
  
  Sounds: Good but not great. They're passable.
  
  Graphics: Works well for the game. It looks 
 good even on medium settings but definately not low. Low graphics requirements still allowed me 
 to run it on a 32 mb video card with little hiccups except at the end levels on Medium.
  
  Gameplay: Fun and great, the game will absorb you in it. However, the game is a short 10 hours 
 +, and doesn't have much replay value or any multiplayer at all. The only gripe I have is that 
 there is no blood and weird bullet aiming system. It's fairly hard to hit enemies as your bullets 
 will scatter everywhere even with a assault rifle or machine gun. It's even worse with a pistol. 
 It's difficult to kill an enemy far away without wasting at least 50 bullets - 1/3 or your maximum 
 ammo limit. No blood also detracts from the experience a little but the amazing ragdoll physics 
 is a 10/10. The enemies "gets hit" convincingly with their bodies shaking with the impact of your 
 bullets until they die. Like I mentioned earlier, blood would add a lot to the experience.
  
  This is a great game that everyone should pick up. By the way, remember to pick up Freedom 
 Fighters II that's coming out soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrono5788
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 9, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  There's no reason for this game to score so high, it's merely an average shooter from 3rd person 
 perspective with teammates. Most every element of the gameplay is cloned. It's a me-too game that 
 takes a somewhat serious theme - USSR invading the USA - and uses laughable textures and overly-smooth 
 recoil, to undermine this and come off as a bad arcade-style shooter. The shooting is, by the way, 
 sub-par in every respsect. Money spent on this would be better spent on a shooter that doesn't 
 rely on a gimmick, and is just pure fun, like Duke Nukem 3D, Quake, Halo, etc... It's absurd to 
 find that this game should outscore both Duke Nukem 3D and Doom, and today, Half-Life 2.
  
  The graphics are bland (art style is sub-par)
  The shooting is overly repetitive, non-satisfying, 
 and in short will bore you in no less than five minutes
  Sounds are not only bad in and of themselves (gun sounds lack punch, teammates get annoying) , they're 
 also rendered and recorded horribly and sound muffled and disgusting.
  Controls work, but help the arcade feel of this game doesn't mix with the serious material it uses 
 for its backdrop
  Play the demo and see if it's for you if you, for some reason, are planning on purchasing this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a tactical third-person shooting game from IO Interactive, the Company that 
 brought last year's highly acclaimed stealth game Hitman 2: Silent Assassin. In Freedom Fighters 
 you play as a plumber Christopher Stone caught in the unlikeliest of circumstances and asked to 
 save the United States from the invading Soviet Army. Freedom Fighters is evocative of games like 
 Swat 3 and Rainbow Six but is much more easy and balanced than any of those games and will attract 
 fans of tactical shooters and newcomers alike.
  
  Freedom Fighters takes place in an imaginary world where the Cold War never ended and the Soviet 
 Union grew more and more powerful capturing all of the territories surrounding the US. The story 
 begins as the Soviet has finally invaded the US in an attempt to overpower it once and for all. 
 Your day starts of normally as you're going on a regular plumbing work to Isabella's House (who 
 also happens to be one of the revolutionaries campaigning against the Soviet Union) until you find 
 that she has hastily evacuated the house and the Soviet Army is swarming it like bees and your 
 brother gets captured. You start off from there first in search of your brother and start building 
 up a big army of fellow freedom fighters who are also normal Joes like yourself until you are finally 
 in a position to overpower the Soviet Army.
  
  The game has a pretty good story to it which is advanced through a series of Soviet run Newscasts 
 that are funny and give you much needed insight on the other happenings around you. There are many 
 characters in the game like the aforementioned Isabella, the head of the Soviet Army and many others. 
 Though you may not build up a special relationship with any of them as in a RPG like KOTOR, they 
 are still pretty unique and have a separate character of their own in the game.
  
  The game has a very easy interface to get into and needless to say anyone even if he is not already 
 interested in tactical games will find easy to get into. You use only three keys to command troops 
 that build in size from 2 to 12 in the end of the game. The first key will let you point to any 
 location and order your men to attack there, the second to point to any location and order them 
 to defend there and the third to order them to fall back if caught in a fix. In all the cases one 
 press will give commands to only one soldier and continually pressing will give commands to all 
 your men. Therefore, the very difficult command usage of previous tactical op games is not present 
 in Freedom Fighters.
  
  The on-screen display is also not intricate. The main stats on your HUD are you health and the 
 health and status of fellow soldiers. Apart from these the HUD also shows the Charisma which is 
 a new feature introduced in this game. The Charisma is your key feature in the game. You gain Charisma 
 by healing fellow soldiers, by completing mission objectives and a lot of other ways which are 
 best left discovered on your own. The more Charisma you gain the more the number of soldiers that 
 follow you and therefore the better you fight in the thick of the battle.
  
  Almost all of the mission objectives include planting flags on specific building to take command 
 of it or planting bombs to disable enemy chopper or other heavy vehicle movement through bridges 
 and other places. You will be supplied a heavy arsenal of weapons ranging from Pistols to Assault 
 Rifles, Shotguns, heavy machine guns and grenades and a wrench (after all you are a plumber) which 
 you use to open sewers where you will set up your revolutionary bases.
  
  The game is also not difficult in terms of telling you where to go next. When you are in your revolutionary 
 bases you will have access to a map which will show you both the places that you have taken over 
 under your control and the places you have yet to take over. The map is one of the handiest features 
 in the game as almost in any case you wont have to wonder where to go next. The map also serves 
 the purpose of finding sewers in the game. This is important because the sewers are will be one 
 of the key areas in the map. The sewers are the places where you can save your game. This is one 
 of the notable individual features of this game wherein you dont save by using the menu whereas 
 you use your crowbar to open the sewer and actually save there. The sewer also helps you access 
 other areas of the map even when you have not completed the particular area in which you are in. 
 This feature of saving the game using sewers adds to the difficulty aspect of the game making it 
 much more challenging and thereby much more enjoyable.
  
  The graphics in the game are gorgeous. Throughout the course of the game's many missions you'll 
 visit a wide variety of places ranging from police stations, post offices, fire stations, a military 
 complex set in an island etc. and each of these have some similarities to all the others but are 
 still good-looking and colourful and urban enough to be believable. All the character models in 
 the game look good and feel life like and move about in a plausible manner. The game also exhibits 
 some basic physics wherein all the characters will be thrown around when shot at and will go flying 
 on the impact of grenades causing some satisfying effects. Even though, there will be slowdowns 
 here and there on lower-end systems especially during some bigger firefights, there are no major 
 graphical issues with the game and the game maintains a good frame rate throughout.
  
  The sound in the game is nothing short of outstanding. The music is composed by Jesper Kyd, the 
 same person who provided the orchesteral score for last year's IO game Hitman 2 and he again does 
 a great job and provides us with music that is great to listen to and to a great extent resembles 
 the Soviet National Anthem. Each of the weapons sound unique and add to the unique feel and realism 
 of the game. The voice-over for the Soviet Newscasts and the other characters and soldiers in the 
 game is also worthy to be noted in the context of the game.
  
  However, no game is without its flaws and Freedom Fighters suffers from a major one in that it 
 is a pretty short game. Hardcore tactical fans can finish the game anywhere between 8 to 12 hours 
 depending on the difficulty setting of which there are four. These four difficulty settings are 
 pretty varied in the amount of soldiers you'll be facing. The AI exhibited by the soldiers also 
 increases somewhat as you increase the difficulty level making the firefights more intense on the 
 higher difficulty settings. Unfortunately there is no multiplayer in the game which greatly reduces 
 the games longevity. However there is a good amount of replay value to atleast go back a second 
 or third time at varying difficult levels, so needless to say you'll get your money's worth with 
 this game.
  
  All said and done, anyone who has a heart for the tactical shooter genre and has played and loved 
 games like Swat 3 and Rainbow Six or anyone who has played third person action games or even anyone 
 looking for a combination of both third person action and tactical shooting with easily understandable 
 commands and interface need look no further than Freedom Fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and sound are what you'd see in any other FPS today. Not amazing, but nice. 
  
  What was enjoyable is having followers. Whenever you do a good act (helping out a wounded civilian/person, 
 do a quest for them, etc...) you are awarded with points that will eventually allow you to gain 
 another follower. There are a few different types of followers, while they look different, it's 
 mainly just what gun they use. 
  
  You can give orders to your followers, like 'go here', 'attack this man', or 'fall back', which 
 is pretty nice, though a little lacking. A few more commands would have been a nice addition, but 
 that game is nice as it is. Your followers actually have a decent AI as well, most refreshing from 
 all of the bad AI's around lately. 
  
  The missions are actually pretty entertaining, though nothing that would leave you speechless. 
 Shooting I would only consider adequate, and weapon selection is just ok. Despite everything being 
 about 'average' as I put it, the game is still quite entertaining. I don't quite know why, but 
 if you like team-based action games, give Freedom Fighters a try, it's surprisingly fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a fun game that is played from a 3rd person viewpoint which is necessary because 
 your character is in charge of up to 10 NPC's (toward the end of the game) . The ability to command 
 troops is simple and well done. They fight well, and they very rarely get hung-up in the game. 
 Also despite being simple, giving commands is effective and necessary to complete the various mission 
 undertaken. The only shortcoming with the method of issuing commands is the inability to single 
 out a particular character and give them orders. The game basically cycles through the characters 
 sequentially when you bark orders to them instead of letting you decide who you want to carry out 
 a particular order. 
  
  A major drawback to this game is the in-game interface. You are not allowed to hotkey any weapons 
 and must utilize a next/previous weapon method of rotating through your inventory. This is really 
 the worst part of the game, and it seems it would of been so simple to correct. But it is what 
 it is, and as a result, changing to grenades (or anything else) , then back to your primary weapon 
 is a real nuisance. It is much more difficult than it should be. Why can't we just hit '1' for 
 piston, '2' for rifle, '3' for health kit, and so on? Instead we are forced to cycle through the 
 whole inventory until you land on the thing you need. Sometimes you get waxed as you frantically 
 try to get back to your primary weapon after throwing a grenade, or healing yourself. The inventory 
 selection method is very bad, in my opinion.
  
  Another weak point to the game is the sounds concerning the weapons and when you discharge ordinance. 
 Everything just sounds very weak. The music score is respectable (the main theme is fantastic) , 
 but the lack of good sounding weapon discharge is an almost complete let down.
  
  The other weak aspects of the game is its length and diversity. It is very short and you can complete 
 it in about 8hrs. Additionally the levels get a little repetitive and are designed with a dominant 
 pallete of grey.
  
  The graphics are serviceable and while they aren't great, they certainly aren't bad either.
  
 
  If you can get this game under $20.00, then it is pretty good. If you paid full price, you were 
 taken advantage of. I am amazed this game scored a 9.3. There is nothing absolutely stunning in 
 the game, and it is really short. Also there is virtually no replay value. Even so, it is fun and 
 does a few things well enough to make it that way. But again, it is short, has kind of weak sound, 
 and sometimes contains bland and somewhat repetitive gameplay. Hopefull IO (developer) can grow 
 and expand on the good aspects of this game (squad control) and really create a game that will 
 really be worthy of a Gamespot 9.3 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2004 6:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that I am a sucker for alternate history premises. And I was a die hard 
 fan of all the propoganda films in the 80's that had the USSR invading the USA. Great films that 
 stoked the hatred towards the big red bear of the east. Freedom Fighters takes this motif and crafts 
 a well designed game that is short but packed with action.
  
  Freedom Fighters starts off with Manhattan being invaded by the Russians. You are a simple plumber 
 working with your brother in an apartment when the Russians storm the place. You quickly have to 
 fight your way off only to find yourself embroiled in the resistance fight against the Russian 
 invaders.
  
  Once underground, you are shown a map that has two to three sections, each with main and secondary 
 goals. You can perform these missions alone or with other freedom fighters based on your Charisma 
 points, but more on that later. Once you complete all the areas on the map, you move to a different 
 area and a new map has more objectives. I liked this presentation, and in a nice touch, things 
 you do in one section of the map can have positive reactions for the other sections of the map. 
 In one example, taking out a flight pad on one section of the map means no helicopter support on 
 any other section of the map.
  
  As I mentioned before, you have Charisma points. These points are awarded via mission completion, 
 completing secondary goals, healing wounded civilians among other things. Once you fill up the 
 Charisma bar, you will be able to recruit a fellow freedom fighter to fight along side you in your 
 battles. The more times you fill up your bar, the more slots you have available for help. And these 
 aren't dumb race into the fire helpers. These NPCs will use cover and with give supressing fire 
 when necessary.
  
  As for the enemies, they are fairly intellegent as well, and will use cover and supressing fire 
 also. It is great satisfaction to see the panic in the enemy when you lob a grenade at them. Sometimes 
 though, they do run into live fire and can be trapped into corners. 
  
  This is a great game that suffers by being to short. The IO Interactive guys are a great development 
 team and I cannot wait to see what is in store for the sequel to this game. Hopefully they lengthen 
 the game a bit and keep refining the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2004 11:52 am PT
Review:  You will feel as you're in the middle of a revolution. And you should, the gaming revolution. This 
 once unknown and apparently "little" title has done what none other game has: give you an intriguing 
 storyline while succesfully combining military strategic gaming with non stop arcade shooting action. 
 
  
  In Freedom Fighters, one of the greatest things is that you can play the game by your own phase: 
 You can choose to be careful and look for cover while carefully gunning down the mad russians, 
 or you can go berserk and try to play it clint eastwood by diving yourself right into the crossfire 
 of the russian revolution over manhattan.
  The impact and power of the main plot is nothing but genious: Thanks to strategic political and 
 social key moves, the russians where slowly closing in to attack his nemeis: The USA. Until one 
 day, russian subs emerge near the statue of liberty, and manhattan is seized. Brilliant and powerful.
 
  Fortunately, the rest of the game's aspect is as powerful, if not more.
  You are part of the american resistance, and as the story evolves, so does your character. No only 
 on the respect side (the more succesful posts you recover from the russians, the more "respect" 
 you earn, and the more men you can command) but also on your character's actual appearance.
  Inmersive Story, character depth, arcade action and strategy combo makes Freedom Fighters a must 
 buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calsouth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2004 2:07 am PT
Review:  In brief: this is an outstanding game with (as Gamespot put it) , "refined control." This game has 
 a fluency to it that really lets you delve into the engrossing gameplay mechanics. I would prescribe 
 this game to anyone looking for an intense, combat driven experience that will not only test your 
 skill with realistic gun physics, but also leadership and guerrilla tactics.
  
  Adding to the game is the implementation of some of the greatest music to be found in a game. The 
 beautiful sound of the choir truly brings out the essence of the combbat you will experience, and 
 envelopes you (in some cases actually giving you goosebumps) .
  
  Try it out. It's awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JereStarsJ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2004 1:23 am PT
Review:  This is the best tactical based game ever. The AI is one of the most amazing things. The AI is 
 not stupid anymore in this game. It won't get stucked on a wall. I will follow your orders. It 
 will take the best possible route to you desired location that you want it to go. The graphics 
 are probably one of the best. Great graphics for a game that only needs 32MB of graphics memory. 
 Also this game will play with almost any graphics card. The story is one of the best. This game 
 is way better than any other tactical or squad based game ever. Also this game is a great bargain. 
 Only $9.99. Great game to buy for a gift. The only problem is that the gameplay is relatively short. 
 The other thing is that everybody thought that it should have an online multiplayer for the PC 
 version. None the less the PC version and the other Freedom Fighter versions are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mini-Me
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2004 5:05 pm PT
Review:  With titles like Hitman: Codename 47 and Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, danish developers IO Interactive 
 has already made their name well-known and respected worldwide. And with good cause as well. Their 
 latest title, Freedom Fighters, won't scratch the good reputation because IO Interactive has pulled 
 off yet another great title.
  
  In Freedom Fighters the world history is altered (slightly) by the fact that the Soviet Union has 
 won the second World War and since engulfed the european continent as well as other countries into 
 a communist regime. One exception is the United States which seem rather untouched, at least up 
 until now; the opening sequence will let you know that things are about to change.
  
  You are introduced as Chris Stone, an average guy working as a plumber along with his younger brother, 
 Troy. As the game starts you find yourself on a regular day at work, going to fix the pipes in 
 an apartment downtown New York. But you soon find yourself in the wrong place at the wrong time, 
 as the apartment is rushed by Soviet forces. Troy is taken into custody while you, Chris, fortunately 
 manage to hide and avoid arrest. You soon learn that the Soviets were after the owner of the apartment, 
 Isabella, and that she's the leader of the freedom movement fighting against the Soviet invaders.
 
  
  The actual game starts after the Soviets have left the apartment, and once you get control of Chris 
 the first level plays out; it has a tutorial kind-of feeling since you'll be introduces to a few 
 different weapons, as well as a few hints on general gameplay (eg. shooting explosive barrels to 
 provide several nearby enemy troops with more than just severe hearing disorders) .
  
  Once you've played out the first level, you are introduced to the basic mission style progression 
 in the game. The game is divided into different chapters, where each chapter usually consist of 
 2-3 missions (or maps) laid out in the same area or portion of New York. Each mission has a number 
 of primary objectives that you need to secure to win that mission, along with some secondary (optional) 
 objectives that you can fulfill if you have the time and energy for it. The primary objectives 
 will usually be raising the american flag over some key building to signify that it's under american 
 control. Secondary objectives involves freeing prisoners and sabotaging key map elements. The latter 
 actually has a bit of depth to it since blowing up bridges or helipads may alleviate the enemy 
 presence in different areas on the different maps. Taking out a helipad, for example, could mean 
 that you will not encounter attack helicopters in other maps, or that the enemy will not get reinforced 
 by troop transports. This really improves the games replay value since the order in which you take 
 out objectives may have a huge impact on what kind of resistance you will meet and where. But no 
 matter what, you'll probably find it most satisfying completing all objectives, and since it can 
 both be a good help, but also earn you Charisma points (more about these later) , they're really 
 not that optional.
  
  The freedom movement has it's base of operations in the sewers of New York. Most of the maps you 
 play will have several manholes scattered around. One of the manholes provide the fixed entry point 
 into a map when you first enter, but after that you can use the manholes to both save your game, 
 but also access other maps or go back to the base. As mentioned above, this is a good thing since 
 it allows you eg. to take out helipads first, and then concentrate on the actual objectives of 
 the different maps.
  
  One of the core aspects of Freedom Fighters is that you can recruit followers. By doing good deeds 
 for the freedom movement, such as blowing up key bridges and helipads, freeing prisoners, and raising 
 the american flag wherever you can, you earn Charisma points. And once you reach a certain amount 
 of Charisma, it will be converted into a "follower" slot - which means you can recruit a follower 
 to tag along and help you in your missions. On the different maps you will find freedom fighters 
 scattered around, sometimes in actual combat with enemy troops; you can recruit these if you have 
 a free "follower" slot. In time you'll earn more slots, and soon you'll have a handful of helpers 
 by your side. And toward the end of the game, you'll be able to recruit a total of 12 freedom fighters 
 which basically means you're totin' a small army. And the old saying: "the more the merrier" certainly 
 applies here as well. It's a cool and innovative feature for a 3rd person shooter.
  
  One of the beauties of these followers are that they work. And they work well. The AI really does 
 a good job of making them someone you actually want to trust, and they provide much help on their 
 own. And the fact that you can issue specific commands to them as well doesn't make them any worse 
 either. In fact, setting up a defensive perimeter is very easy, just as setting up covering fire 
 for moving troops, or troops initiating an assault, is a breeze. The interface is very easy and 
 effective to use, also in a combat situation. You have three basic commands available, two of them 
 can be used in different ways. For example, you have a "Scout ahead" command that can be used, 
 as the command states, to have your buddies scout some area, and engage any enemies in the vicinity 
 of course. However, you can also use the command to make an assault on a specific enemy, or have 
 some of your buddies concentrate fire on certain enemies while you focus on others.
  
  The weaponry in Freedom Fighters is pretty standard and has no big surprises. However, unlike many 
 other shooters, you'll only be able to carry only one major firearm (like a shortgun or assault 
 rifle) and one sidearm (eg. a pistol) , along with a limited number of medkids, molotov coctails, 
 grenades, and C4 explosives. Fortunately you can switch weapons if you want to - fallen enemies 
 drop their weapons which gives you a chance to stock up on ammo or change weapons. And although 
 all these weapons listed will be your primary outfit, you'll come across other weapons as well; 
 these include sniper rifles, portable and stationary machineguns, and rocket launchers, but since 
 these are rather scarce they'll be more a temporary aid than a preferred weapons as such - one 
 exception is the machinegun that, with it's 300 round capacity, precision, and raw power, can prove 
 quite useful over longer stretches; also because that once you finish a mission, you will carry 
 your current weapons into the next mission. However, in between missions you will usually visit 
 the underground base and get an opportunity to equip other weapons if needed.
  
  The graphics in Freedom Fighters are great, and the Glacier engine (also used for Hitman 2) does 
 a very good job of bringing the streets of New York to life and detailing thrilling experiences 
 that you will remember for a long time. It also packs a great rag-doll system that often will procure 
 some astonishing (and often funny) scenes.
  
  Both the sounds and music in Freedom Fighters are very well done and they contribute alot to the 
 great atmosphere that builds up during the entire game from introduction to end. Jeper Kyd deserves 
 special mention due to an awesome soundtrack; for once, I actually turned up the in-game music 
 because it was really adding to the experience without becoming repetitive or annoying. This is 
 a rare quality for a game in my book.
  
  In the end, Freedom Fighters is a great game that has alot to offer for both newcomers and seasoned 
 players, and it brings along some innovative and fun aspects to the genre of 3D shooters. A major 
 let-down is that Freedom Fighters does not include a multiplayer mode - but it's still worth buying 
 for the single player experience alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dierk467
Rating: 1.2
Date: Sep 29, 2004 1:08 am PT
Review:  Ok i m going to make this review short this game is totally BORING why? because all you do is just 
 raise the flag in order to finish the mission and there is only one mission where you have to assasinate 
 this general and nothing else it's just raising the flag and destroy helipad. the sound, horrible 
 the gunfires are not even realistic and the blood is PINK how The heck is that possible????? please 
 people don't waste your money on this piece of junk game trust me IO interactive had made hitman 
 2 which i heard it was sucessful, please at least make a patch to fix some sounds you guys can 
 make better games than this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:39 pm PT
Review:  IO Interactives Freedom Fighters is like a modern day arcade game, reflecting the progress of 
 technology since the 1980s and delivering action experience that is even more of pure fun than 
 platformers used to be back in the days. Just like in a typical arcade game, the plot of Freedom 
 Fighters serves no other purpose than to establish a setting of New York City sewers and other 
 environments in a scenario where Cold War has taken a different turn and the Russkies are invading 
 Eastern USA. Freedom Fighters is essentially a third-person shooter, but with the major difference 
 that it is squad-based. Add responsive controls, excellent and varied mission design, many witty 
 FPS elements and of course outstanding AI = you get a very fun fast-paced action game. It is fascinating 
 how well the third-person view has adopted some of the traditional FPS elements: firing from the 
 hip, precision firing which makes camera coolly zoom in on your soldier, using inventory items, 
 other guns, grenades, health packs, binoculars and explosives, etc. Yet what makes Freedom Fighters 
 special is the controlling of your squad. You can control up to 12 soldiers depending on your charisma 
 rating (can be increased by rescuing prisoners and healing civilians) , and the only three commands 
 (recall forces troopers to fall behind you, attack to occupy a particular area or target, defend 
 to hold their positions) targeted either individually or at the whole squad work surprisingly well 
 and add an extra tactical dimension to the action. As appropriate to well-paced arcade games, in 
 the beginning you face Russians armored with lighter weapons, but as the game carries on you will 
 confront troops with flak jackets, heavier weaponry and even a tank. Thus Freedom Fighters is a 
 short but quality experience, with the only drawback that with linear missions and no multiplayer 
 support there's almost reason to play it again. And secondly, although it can hardly be considered 
 a flaw, it is perhaps the first PC game with advanced AI that does not aspire to get the player 
 emotionally involved, to be anything more than mere entertainment.
  
  17/20 - Based on : 3 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Nice.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - It's a shooter.
 
  3/4 PACING - "Repetition" is the keyword here.
  4/4 INNOVATION - Group work, and a 3rd person shooter are cool concepts to put together.
  2/4 
 IMMERSION - Shoot shoot shoot. Ask questions when the game is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 18, 2004 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic. It's addictive as tetris and the overal feeling is superb.
  It's one of those games you play and you don't really realize it's over until you see the "The 
 End" sign. I kind of became one with the game and the time just vanished. To bad it was girlfriend 
 time. She started to wonder what I was doing in the room hour after hour. The dark side of this 
 is that it felt a bit to short and I haven't figured out if this feeling is unique to Freedom Fighters 
 for me.
  Therefor the scoring for time spent may not be so accurate
  
  The reality feeling (RF) is good but not great. I never really felt it was a rifle I "held in my 
 hand". A comparison is Need for Speed Underground to car simulation games. It's all about the speed. 
 For Freedom Fighters... It's all about the atmosphere and the fast never ending action.
  
  As final words I would like to comment that it's great to see Jesper Kyd still making music. He 
 was one of the big ones in the demoscene. Back to the pyramids, I say!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JyePhye
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2004 11:18 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters takes a totally new approach to the third-person shooter genre by adding in an 
 unbeatable strategy system which makes this game what it is. I have never seen a game like this. 
 The ability to control a group of up to 12 soldiers so easily is not only fun, but something more. 
 This ability makes you feel powerful, very powerful. The other factors that build this game are 
 all standing on sturdy foundation as well. All of the games weapons are accurate and fun to use. 
 I did however become frustrated when I found that almost 50% of the enemies used assault rifles, 
 making it hard to find ammo for other weapons. Another small problem I found was that at certain 
 points in the game, when shooting at enemies while friendly troops followed behind me, my character 
 would suddenly turn around and shoot my own soldiers. These were the only minor problems I found 
 when playing the game.
  
  Story wise, this game does a good job of blanketing the excellent game play with a storyline. The 
 basic plot summary is this. Imagine a world where World War II was ended by the Soviet Union dropping 
 nukes on Germany and the Cold War never being won by America. Now imagine that the Soviet Union 
 is still around in 2003 and that they take over all of Europe and then attack the U. S. This is 
 the world of Freedom Fighters. The main character (you) of the game is named Christopher Stone. 
 You are a Freedom Fighter in New York City fighting the Soviet Union Red Army.
  
  The graphics in this game are very good considering this is a multiplatform game which is also 
 on all three consoles. Another amazing factor about the games graphics is that the game runs on 
 virtually any computer made within the past 3 years. Most people will be able to play this game 
 on full graphics settings with very low slowdown or possibly no slowdown.
  
  The games music selection truly makes you feel as if you are really fighting Soviet scum. At one 
 point in the game, while my soldiers fought up ahead of me, I slowly walked down the wartourn streets 
 of Manhattan, with blown up cars and guns laying on the ground, I felt chills shoot up my spine 
 when I heard the music come on. The music for this game was amazingly fitting. All of the games 
 voiceovers were very good as well. Depending on the environment around you, voices reacted differently.
 
  
  I did think that this game was a little too short. I cannot wait until Freedom Fighters 2. But, 
 as I always say, quality over quantity. This game truly delivers an incomparable experience during 
 the time it lasts. And that is all that matters.
  
  This game is definitely a sleeper hit. I cant believe this game didnt get as much hype as it 
 deserved. Freedom Fighters has introduced an entirely new type of strategy to the gaming industry. 
 And not only does this game introduce new concepts, but it delivers them in an excellent game. 
 Freedom Fighters is awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bombad_jedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2004 9:13 pm PT
Review:  When this game was released last fall, I passed over it, thinking it was another mediocre 3rd person 
 shooter.
  
  Several weeks ago, I was bored with the games that I had, and went to look through Gamespot's highest 
 rated games.
  
  That's when I came across a game called Freedom Fighters, and upon reading the review, downloaded 
 the demo.
  
  I enjoyed the demo so much that I immediately went out and bought the game off eBay for the low 
 price of $9.00.
  
  I was not disappointed.
  
  Although the graphics leave a bit to be desired, they are so interestingly detailed that it more 
 then makes up for the lack of some of the modern tricks.
  The sound is simply amazing, from the satisfying bang of a pistol to the stellar choral soundtrack 
 with Hungarian vocals.
  
  The gameplay is the best part, and it is very simple to control your squad.
  
  I had a lot 
 of fun with this game, and I highly recommend it to anyone looking for a entertaining, and delightfully 
 simplistic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magesx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 2, 2004 3:32 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters takes place in an alternate reality where the USSR didn't collapse and has taken 
 over present-day America. Your brother has been kidnapped. As a New York plumber you set out to 
 save your brother. (Sounds like a Mario Bros. story doesn't it?) The controls are basically the 
 same as Call of Duty, with W, A, S, and D as your movement controls. The mouse is used for aiming, 
 left-click shoots, right-click looks down the gun, and the scroll wheel changes weapons. Just like 
 CoD. But the gameplay itself is very good, requiring lots of strategy and thought to control your 
 Freedom Fighters. Yet, having to restart a level every time you die gets irritating. And, its' 
 also really easy to die, and the Russian soldiers seem to have more health and power than you do. 
 It is a good-sized game and not too short. The weapon selection is very small consisting of about 
 7 or 8 main large guns, 2 pistols, and grenades and molotov cocktails. The graphics are pretty 
 good, but one of the noticable things is when you shoot the fuel tanks, the way they explode is 
 sort of flat. Also there could have been more variety in the Russian soldiers. Freedom Fighters 
 seems to take a war theme from Call of Duty, and the "save the brother" theme from the Mario Bros. 
 It takes these and sticks them in an alternate reality. But, the reason I gave it a 9.2 is that 
 it's fun. It is just a really, really fun game, and it's hard to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfoy
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 25, 2004 3:23 am PT
Review:  If Max Paine 2 is the gold standard for 3rd person perspective, Freedom Fighters is barely acceptable. 
 There is not a drop of blood anywhere and playing at the higher levels is an exercise in repetitive 
 level re-start. Any of the recent Rainbow Six titles beat this game hands down for squad based 
 play. For all that, the squad AI is good considering the basic limitations of the game. The simple 
 squad command structure will be good for those new to this genre, The plot line is interesting 
 if you're following events is Iraq. It answers the question; what is the difference between a terrorist 
 and a freedom fighter? The answer being - the freedom fighter is the one who wins. All in all, 
 this is a kids game for consoles and should have stayed there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psikosis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2004 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is an excellent game. It has no single outstanding feature, rather it combines 
 a simple squad control system with a third-person shooter and drops the result into a "Red Dawn" 
 type of Cold War era scenario. What's not to like?
  
  Graphics are this games weakest point. Frame rate is smooth with simple, easy camera control. But 
 clipping issues mar the experience far too often and the results can impact gameplay. For example, 
 I was killed occasionally by enemy guns that projected through a supposedly solid barrier. Some 
 of the textures, such as cases of grenades or shells, could have looked better as well. There's 
 just no excuse for either flaw. At the very least, a patch should have fixed the clipping problem. 
 Cutscenes are merely average in graphical quality, but fun none-the-less. Certainly this game does 
 not showcase the vast superiority of PCs over consoles.
  
  Gameplay is where Freedom Fighters excels. As the hero, Chris Stone, you lead a motley band of 
 rebels in New York City battling Soviet invaders in an alternate timeline. Missions are not linear 
 within areas of the city, but some missions are almost impossible to beat without clearing other 
 missions first. Usually, this involves destroying a helicopter pad to rid yourself of pesky HiND 
 helicopters or destroying a generator in one place to get through a mission elsewhere. Charisma 
 is increased by healing wounded citizens and rebels as well as completing missions. A variety of 
 weapons are available and each is useful at least some of the time. By far the worst criticism 
 of the gameplay is the truly awful save system. In-mission saves are few and far between (occasionally 
 non-existant) most of the time and disappear if you quit the game. This forces one to commit significant 
 time to play as you must complete at least one mission to make any permanent progress. I personally 
 don't mind checkpoint systems, but the checkpoints should be reasonably often (as in Far Cry v1.00) .
 
  
  The sound effects are adequate, but the music is excellent. Mostly Soviet Cold War vintage choral/classical 
 pieces that sound not unlike the old Soviet national anthem. It supports the mood of the game in 
 a way few soundtracks do and makes the gameplay even better.
  
  Freedom Fighters is a better game than the sum of it's parts might suggest, especially given it's 
 non fifty dollar price tag. In an era of Will-O-Wisp terrorists and stealth-action games, Freedom 
 Fighters returns us to the age of clearly uniformed enemies best handled with a volley of grenades 
 and a hail of automatic weapons fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2004 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game was very good expect the trilling !! :) !! the russians to Capture the new york it was 
 crazy.. heh .. okay lets go than i liked this game and gamespot review-d it very Professional so 
 i saw the Rating from the gamespot workers etc.. and i buyed this game .. the gameplay its very 
 good maded so i gaved 10 points the graphic was very clearly very nice and very good .. so the 
 sound it could be much better the missions was very good and i Completed missions one by one to 
 See the TV Channel that was from Russian's in Center in New York i laughed when i saw it she sayad 
 "we are here for freedom and democracy" wtf :D it was fun to see her and the mission to capture 
 that TV station was crazy and fun 2 i liked this game too much and i thank gamespot for review-in 
 it PROEFFESIONAL !! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redruler
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 9, 2004 5:27 pm PT
Review:  
  I was a little surprised by GameSpots very high score for Freedom Fighters, but never really thought 
 much about it besides that. I just recently finished the game, and I will say that I am impressed.
 
  
  The overall experience I would say is... fun. The graphics are nice and clean looking, if a little 
 cartoony, they fit in perfectly with a game that doesn't take itself too seriously, especialy when 
 you hear the story ;)
  
  Okay, so a plumber goes on to lead an underground resistance in New York against a Soviet army 
 who somehow has taken control of the United States. Ahem.
  
  So, story aside, why is this game any good? Gameplay. It is super intuitive and just plain fun. 
 Once you understand that you have to accomplish objectives in a certain order, the game really 
 comes alive. At first when your on your own, the game is like a 3rd person shooter, not unlike 
 Hitman 2, only faster. Once you complete a few missions and begin recruiting your own members it 
 turns into a strategy game. You are the commander, tell them where to stand, who to shoot at, while 
 your busy covering them, or taking an objective or whatever. Controlling your men is very simple, 
 and for the most part they will react compitently. 
  
  The voice acting in the game is good for the most part. As are the cut-scenes. Some of the voices 
 are over acted, but nothing too annoying. I found the game gets too easy in the latter stages, 
 when you are able to control a bunch of guys. You can just basically send them in, and let them 
 do all the work with their huge amount of firepower. I would have suggested they limit the number 
 of guys you can controll to about five or six. Then you would have had to plan your attacks much 
 more carefully. This game would have greatly benefited from a co-op mode too. 
  
  All in all, still a very good game, worth all the time put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loismustdie89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2004 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the most under estimated shooter. The heart of this game is it's story. The immersive expierience 
 of the Soviet invasion is enough to buy this game. Since I've see it for only $10!. Graphics are 
 nice and so are the intense urban shootouts. I only have two problems with this game. First off 
 when you are in thrid person there is no recoil. Second, there is no replay value on the PC since 
 it doesn't have multiplay which this game screams for. I have also learned something from this 
 game. In this game the Soviets invade the USA thinking they are helping the supposed trouble government. 
 Then rebels start attacking soldiers trying to keep peace in their new order. The soviets denounce 
 the rebels and try to supress them. To me this sounds an aweful lot like a war we just fought. 
 Overall this is a standard shooter with a great story. I insist on picking this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_ANGRYMAN
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 16, 2004 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I am a long-time gamer by most standards and I just had to write a review of this game. I had to 
 write it because, unlike every other Gamespot review, this one stands out as being way-off. 
  
  Don't get me wrong this game was fun - a bit repetitive - but still fun. The save-game feature 
 was a bit of a drag, but no other real comlaints. Gamespot's rating simply stands out - it is way 
 too high for this game and I am constantly reminded of it when I visit the Top Rated games of all 
 time section. It simply does not belong there.
  
  Anyway - my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confirmed_Kill
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2004 10:24 am PT
Review:  FF is a game which fundementaly reaches all the requirements for an average to good game in today's 
 industry. That being said however I do not believe it introduced anything very different from the 
 rest of today's Console / PC FPS'. ALthough the team based system in this game is different from 
 most squad based FPS, it isn't as unique or outstanding as it could have been. While you can go 
 around and recruit American civillians with they're own special talents, and then have them lay 
 down covering fire for you, this has all been done. Although it did give you a nice feel of "being 
 there" fighting the russians themselves.
  
  The graphics in this game I enjoyed, they did have some neat effects however they weren't anything 
 not seen before. Although the weapons did have they're own uniqueness in how they looked, the actual 
 firing of the weapons remained the same with each one you found. From the MG's to the sniper rifles, 
 they're remained no "requoil" with either of them. This I believe took away from the game.
  
  The Sounds in the game, were, as well very simple yet effective. There was no real uniqueness 
 to this aspect of the game, just the same old sounds over and over. However they we're appropriate.
 
  
  This game is average by my standerds, however if you love history, as I do, then you will really 
 enjoy this game despit it's similairities to other recent FPS.
  
  I enjoyed this game alot, mission-wise it did provide some excellent variety. Everything from sniping 
 the enemy leaders to running in, gunz a blazin'!!! If you like history or enjoy most of our recent 
 FPS then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avaker
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2004 9:01 am PT
Review:  I love games that make me want to play to find out what happens next. To me, a good game means 
 great characters with an incredible mission with solid gameplay. Although traits of all these could 
 be found in Freedom Fighters, the mixture didn't turn out quite right. Simply put, this game lacks 
 emotion. I liken the gameplay to a Max Payne meets Ghost Recon (3rd person + squad) , but unlike 
 the Payne, never once did I feel the tension and empathy for the characters. This is a good game, 
 and the friendly AI and squad tactics are top notch, but its definately not worthy of a 9.3 rating 
 from GameSpot. However, if you can find it from the same clearance bin that I dug it out from, its 
 a great deal. Play it, but don't expect a thriller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2004 3:12 am PT
Review:  Please excuse me but I'm going to wax lyrical here for a minute. I bought three games in one go 
 recently. Far Cry, UT 2004 and Freedom Fighters. I bought this game because, well, Gamespot gave 
 it a good review and it only cost me $10. Of the three guess which game has me hooked? Ok, the 
 graphics aren't exactly state-of-the-art but they are still relatively impressive, the storyline 
 is solid, if a little corny, the sound is excellent, the control is smooth and responsive, the 
 AI is good without being infuriating and the way you control you team is refreshingly simple. Above 
 all though, this game is just great fun, and isn't that why we buy games?
  
  Right from the opening cinematic Freedom Fighters sucks you into a battle for life, freedom and 
 all that other American Dream stuff. The idea of building charisma (probably respect would have 
 been a better word) allowing you to hire new recruits who want to fight alongside you as your reputation 
 grows is clever, it makes you feel like you are making a difference. One of the reviews here says 
 that the gameplay is repetitive, all you have to do is blow stuff up and raise flags, but isn't 
 that what guerilla warfare is? Fight and hide, disrupt and disappear. The save system (once you 
 get used to it) is innovative too. You are never far from a manhole and a quick dive to the sewers 
 saves the game. Brilliant! It maintains the illusion of being a fugitive battling the invading 
 force. Despite what the other reviews say there is enough variation in the sub-missions to keep 
 you interested. Prisoner breakouts, destroying bridges, disabling helicopter pads, assasinations, 
 all the stuff real rebellions are made of. If you allow yourself to get sucked into the struggle 
 for freedom instead of just viewing it as a game, then Freedom Fighters really will provide enough 
 ammunition to keep you enthralled.
  
  Now for complaints. There's no multiplayer. I would kill for a co-op mode where a friend and I 
 can take on the red menace together. It's also a little short. This battle could have gone on for 
 years and there is plenty of scope for other missions, perhaps moving across the country to battle 
 the soviets. All we can do is beg IO Interctive to bring out some add-ons.
  
  To sum up, this game is the most fun I've had with a PC game since Duke Nukem 3D and that's saying 
 something. While other games may be more highbrow, more technically impressive or more detailed 
 they are not necessarily as much simple fun as this title. My girlfriend's even hooked! That's 
 probably the highest praise this game can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kethryn
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 4, 2004 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I usually honor all of Gamespot's reviews and find many of them extremely 
 useful when selecting games. However, upon playing Freedom Fighters, I do not believe it deserves 
 even close to a 9.3.
  
  The Gameplay has one unique feature which has been of great interest to a lot of people: the easy-to-command 
 fighters in league with you. I have to admit, this impressed me at first. You follow me!! Attack!! 
 Defend here!! However, due to the extremely repetitive gameplay this feature gets old quickly. 
 While there are several secondary missions, most of which consist of simply blowing something up, 
 nearly all of the primary missions just involve getting to the end of a level and putting a flag 
 up. I mean come on!! Couldn't we have been a little more creative here. Sure there is one assassination 
 and one time you have to flee for your life, but compared with all of the flags that doesn't amount 
 to much. (The only reason the final level is different is you have to put up four flags instead 
 of just one) .
  
  Plot is also something I look for in a game. I was quite excited when I heard that the storyline 
 would be conveyed via news broadcasts, but once again this did not work out as well as I had hoped. 
 For one, there is only an extremely simple plot anyways, basically nothing compared to some other 
 games like Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid. The broadcasts are quick interludes between missions, 
 and while sometimes comic, get old fast.
  
  The graphics in Freedom Fighters is nothing too spectacular either. Sure, it's acceptable, but 
 there's absolutely nothing special about it. The sound is the only thing that really stands out, 
 using the eerie vocal music to great effect throughout the game.
  
  After finishing the game, I decided to go back and play it again to make sure I hadn't missed whatever 
 Gamespot loved about it so much. I finally came to the conclusion that what this is is a perfectly 
 average game, for better or for worse. However, many completely average games come out these days, 
 and we cannot start giving all of them Editor's Choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 12, 2004 8:23 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters is a great game, and the only problem is that there isn't enough of it. The game 
 is very simple, but it somehow just manages to be nonstop action and fun. The price for this game 
 has dropped so far that even despite the fact that it's a bit short, buying it should be a no-brainer. 
 
  
  The game is played in a series of chapters, each of which contain 2 or 3 submissions. In each submission, 
 you usually blow something up like a bridge or depot, and then capture an important building. The 
 best part of every mission is at the end, when you go to the roof of the building and raise the 
 Stars and Stripes over it. You get this warm, fuzzy patriotic feeling and then move on to the next 
 mission so that you can shoot some more evil Commies. Yes, it's corny, but it works great. The 
 game does a great job of paying homage to Cold War era action movies like "Red Dawn" and "Missing 
 in Action". Between each mission, you get to watch a Soviet propaganda news broadcast describing 
 your activities as "terrorism". The news broadcasts are usually pretty funny and provide a good 
 reward for completing each chapter. 
  
  The graphics for the game are decent, but not great. The scenery is immersive enough to be believable, 
 but other games out there look sharper. The cutscenes dont look very good, and characters dont 
 move their lips when they talk. 
  
  The core gameplay is what is so great about this game. You control a squad of Freedom Fighters, 
 and you lead them through the streets, pointing them at objectives and generally shooting anything 
 with a red star on their uniform. Mission design is great, and no two missions are quite the same. 
 Gameplay isnt complex. There aren't that many weapons that you can use, and you can only give 
 three simple commands to your squad ("Follow", "Attack", and "Defend") . Usually, your squadmates 
 are good at fighting, but you will do most of the work. AI for enemies is good enough to give you 
 a good challenge, but never frustrating. Enemies are pretty good at using cover and avoiding grenades, 
 but you can often snipe them from far away, and they won't do much to retaliate. The action is 
 always exciting, but you still have to use your head. You are usually outnumbered, and lots of 
 areas are guarded with machine gun banks or guys behind walls. 
  
  Freedom Fighters has a checkpoint save system that we PC gamers love to hate. However, the game 
 is very forgiving. Squad mates never get killed. They just get incapacitated, and you can revive 
 them with health packs. You never have to worry about running out of those, since each level has 
 tons of them laying around. You can take plenty of bullets yourself, so if you get surprised, it 
 usually won't kill you.
  
  The soundtrack might be my favorite part of the game. Jesper Kyd composed the music for the game, 
 and it's simply excellent. The opening track is a booming orchestral piece of music that sounds 
 like it could be a Red Army cadence. The action music is great at raising the tension in the levels 
 and giving the game a sense of drama.
  
  The interface for the game is not good. You can tell that this game was not designed for the PC. 
 If the game wasn't so simple, then this might be a problem. Also, as I said before, the game is 
 pretty short. I finished it in about 9 or 10 hours, although I liked it enough to play it again. 
 Other than that, the game doesn't have any real problems. Since the missions aren't very scripted, 
 you can find different ways of fighting the same battles. This might not have been a great buy 
 when it was new at full price, but now that it has dropped into the bargain bin, it's a no-brainer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2004 6:09 pm PT
Review:  As you can tell the only real negative was left by a retard who cant even spell or speak right 
 like a retard with an impedament. Saying that you would have to be a retard not to like this game 
 this game is great I have played it and owned it on PC and Xbox both I have left feedback for and 
 Once again like in my XBOX this GAME RULES control on PC were easier than XBOX but the XBOX controls 
 didnt cause much of a fuss for me as you would have to suck at XBOX for them to really bother you 
 or to take the fun out of the game like one reviewer said. Its sad the great games today being 
 critized by losers who played to much desert storm and pong to know what a truely fun game is This 
 game graphics great sound surpriseingly real and may I say the guns looked real and anyone who 
 critizes the guns on this game needs to go buy the gun hold it up to the ear preferably pointing 
 at the real with just one bullet ONE For you retards who dont understand UNO, EIN! and pull the 
 trigger and see how it sounds and yes I am saying what I am saying because if your stupid enough 
 to misjudge and critize this game your stupid enough to do the above. And I am a true war gamer 
 I am fairly wealthy I dont like to brage on my riches but I have like every WWII or war game for 
 that matter I even have bought the sucky game just to see how they are for myself to throw wood 
 in the fire of disgust in which may I say once again for this game is like the size of what a liter 
 produces and this game just is great with the "Ragdoll Effect" of death which I like to call it 
 free form deaths are realistic and most games have started using them noticing its success in increase 
 of realism greatly and if you would like to see more of what I thought about this game which is 
 once more all positive go to the review in XBOX of Freedom Fighters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2004 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics and is a pretty fun game to play. The weapon selection is nice and 
 the precision aim really helps to conserve ammo. The main part I hate about this game and others 
 like it, is the lack of being able to save the game anytime. Playing the same level over when I 
 just about made it through is inexcusable. If GameSpot and other reviewers would start docking 
 game developer's points on ratings for this insane oversight (or laziness) then maybe they would 
 start fixing it. If it had a save anytime option, this game for me would be a 9.0+, now it is a 
 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 16, 2004 6:22 pm PT
Review:  9.3? Not by a long shot.
  
  Dont get me wrong, Freedom Fighters is a playable, somewhat enjoyable game. But ranking it with 
 the likes of Mafia and Grand Theft Auto is misguided. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 7
  
  Not having played a squad-action based game before, I have not experienced the frustration of squad 
 based AI in the past. Having squad AI that acts as it should isnt grounds for a great review, 
 and it isnt as flawless as one may thing. The squad AI frequently gets bogged down in firefights 
 when it should continue following the lead character to a better coverage situation. There are 
 parts of levels that require you to move QUICKLY and having your squadmates stop and engage enemies 
 every few moments quickly becomes frustrating.
  
  That being said, the AI does work pretty well most of the time. You can plant some of your squad 
 at strategic locations to support your efforts in scouting or in sniper removal. Having reliable 
 AI partners that will do as theyre told for the most part allows you to make thoughtful tactical 
 decisions that help complete the games challenging levels. Your AI comrades take appropriate cover, 
 as do the enemies, but all too often you can take down an enemy without other opposing forces even 
 noticing.
  
  The save system is the games weakest aspect. While I believe that a game that allows you to save 
 every five seconds doesnt pose much of a challenge, this game goes too far in the other direction. 
 You can only save your game progress one you complete a sub-levels objectives. You can quick-save 
 at any manhole, but the quick-saves are lost if you have to quit the game. With the levels being 
 as challenging and long as they are, this requires possible hours of gameplay before reaching a 
 true save point. Limiting the number of saves per level, as in the Hitman series, is a much better 
 system.
  
  The in-game maps are completely useless. They are confusing at best; dont help you determine where 
 you precisely are or where you need to go; and dont contribute to the gameplay whatsoever. The 
 character briefings in the rebel base are equally useless. What little information you do get is 
 impossible to decode on the EGA-quality maps supplied.
  
  The controls are responsive and intuitive. Commanding your other team members is easy and well 
 thought out. Using fixed-position weaponry is likewise as easy. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 6
  
  The graphics are the weakest part of the game. The textures are pretty bland and repetitive. Every 
 building looks washed out. The supposed snazzy-looking level of neon signs looks more like a reject 
 from Smash TV. The character models all pretty much look the same. The enemies you face are cookie-cutter 
 repeats of all the other cannon fodder youll face in the game. The ridiculously large crosshair 
 is distracting and cannot be changed. The game looks like it was directly ported from a console 
 and does not take advantage of the PCs graphic superiority. Gunfire resembles laserbeams and the 
 introduction looks like its from games several years old. 
  
  There is no real reason why this game requires polygonal character models since sprites would have 
 worked fine for the level of detail, animation, and realism offered in Freedom Fighters.
  
  SOUND: 8
  
  The music is appropriate and the sound effects pretty good. The game doesnt seem 
 to take advantage of EAX capabilities as other shooters do. No matter what direction you face, 
 the sound comes from directly in front of you.
  
  Although the voice acting is laughable and all the weapons pretty much sound the same, the sounds 
 are well done and not out of place. The enemies you face shout at you in Russian, and the soundtrack 
 changes to the action youre experiencing. 
  
  VALUE: 9
  
  The best part of Freedom Fighters is that it is a solid -- if lacklustergame that can currently 
 be found for $20. If you are a fan of shooters and are looking for a bargain, you could do a lot 
 worse than Freedom Fighters. 
  
  TILT: 7
  
  This is an average game. The squad-level actions by the AI may be the best to date, but this is 
 no real reason to stand up and applaud. The graphics are marginal, the save system stupid, the 
 character models repetitive, and the best part of the game is its low price. That being said, it 
 is a fun diversion if you can overlook the difficulties. This isnt a classic, certainly not in 
 the league of last years Mafia, and has been rated way too high by Gamespot. I wouldnt say to 
 avoid it, and I wouldnt recommend it. Thats a solid C in my book, and worth my final rating 
 of 7.3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2003 1:06 am PT
Review:  I'm joining the ranks of other guy that really loves this game. After reading some of the luke warm 
 consumer reviews it made me want to voice my opinion in defense of a really great game. I have played 
 all kinds of single player action games, and in comparison, the complex squad fighting of Freedom 
 Fighters has been more engrossing in the pure combat aspects, then any of my other 3d shooters 
 .I am currently on the last chapter, and being an older gamer with a life outside my computer, getting 
 30 minute to 1 hour sessions, this game is lasting long enough for me. I can milk it for a good 
 3 weeks until I finish it.
  
  The meat of Freedom Fighters is of course the squad tactics, and the execution of this part of the 
 game is phenomenol. I think even though there are other aspects to like about this squad shooter, 
 its the A. I. that stands out for me. The ability to make the combat believable is what I look for 
 in a good game and Freedom Fighters has it. Add in a decent patriotic story and with well done sound 
 track and I'm hooked.
  
  I"ll illistrate a couple of examples of what I like about the combat action of Freedom Fighters. For 
 instance, in most of the later missions its possible to; send in your team in ahead of you at good 
 stratigic positions, engage the enemy into a fierce fire fight, follow in behind them lobbing grenades 
 at the larger enemy troop concentrations, issue on the fly squad command changes, and finally change 
 your weapon back to and assault rifle to help the team finish off the last of the enemy. These battles 
 are saturated with fast pace gun fire. Another interesting aspect in combat is how the difficulty 
 increases at a very acceptable rate as you go through the game. On the last level I had a squad 
 that got decimated in the final fight to the flag but I just managed to kill the last Rusky before 
 he got me.
  
  In reguards to Graphics and Sound this game is top notch with cool lighting, real shadows, super 
 cool bullet sounds (especially hitting metal objects) and decent explosions. 
  
  As far as improvements I could offer a few little tid bits if they decide to make a sequel. I think 
 that the Russian Officers should lob more grenades to make the action even tougher. Also destructable 
 terrain would be a nice addition. I think more tank battles would be cool as well.
  
  Overall I'm pleased and engrossed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 15, 2003 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is quite frankly one of the best 3rd person shooters I have ever played. The controls are 
 amazing, and the gameplay is totally different than any other game I have ever played.
  
  In Freedom Fighters you command a squad (once you get past the beginning) of Freedom Fighters (duh) 
 to try to liberate NYC. This in itself is a great idea for a game. Ontop of the great story is 
 the amazing gameplay. You can give your fellow fighters precise commands as to where to go, what 
 to do, and what not to do. This command and control structure is not very complicated but at the 
 same time has a lot of depth, as there are many strategies that this allows for. While you are 
 commanding you are also fighting, which obviously adds to the fun of this game. The sound is very 
 good with adaptive voice features. If you put in the profile name of "Josh" for instance, the characters 
 in the game actually pronounce your name (very cool) . 
  
  Overall this is a great game and I highly recommend it to anyone who is interested in action games, 
 first person shooters, or third person shooters. You will have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2003 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I have read some of the other reader reviews and they all seem to be very negative about the game. 
 I for one found it to be an awesome game that should be included in every gamers library. I am 
 not going to bore anyone writing an entire review because the Gamespots review hit the nail on 
 the head. If you want a great action game with a very cool story (Reminds me of Red Dawn) then 
 this game is for you. If you have any questions about the game throw me a PM on the forums and 
 I would gladly answer them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormlifter
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2003 8:07 am PT
Review:  Freedom Fighters at first may appear to be the same old content with a different name. This is 
 not true, but it also doesnt merit Freedom Fighters with a awesome-fresh-content award. Freedom 
 Fighters excels in the squad-controlling area. The squad responds very well, the commands arent 
 very precise (only three) , but they do a great job and keep the game flowing without having to 
 sit and think, which can be good and bad, but in Freedom Fighter it works out just fine.
  The main problem that I have with Freedom Fighter is that it doesnt have multiplayer support (PC) . 
 I dont know why any company would release a game without multiplayer and mod support. A great 
 example of why NOT to do this is Half-Life. Take a look at that game, it would have died a few 
 years before it did had it not included mod support that allowed for modifications such as Counter-Strike 
 to keep it alive, probably doubling Valves profit. Without modification support and multiplayer 
 action Freedom Fighters value drops significantly. If EA would have held onto the title for a 
 bit longer they couldve had a very strong title, but unfortunately without those things included 
 Freedom Fighter is almost not worth buying.
  I hope that EA, and others can learn from this and stop putting out games that some of us end up 
 buying (unfortunately) , playing till the missions are done, and forgetting about what we spent 
 $30-50 on. By adding multiplayer and modification support you give the opportunity for limitless 
 value. Modifications put the end-value in the hands of the gamers to make into whatever they 
 want. Multiplayer gives the game a social value; being able to play with other people gives a game 
 its greatest value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacarr02
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 8, 2003 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I found the demo WAY more interesting than the game. Based on the demo I thought this game would 
 kick serious butt and waited impatiently for it to arrive. I played the game through at the third 
 level of difficulty and found it boring and repetitious. Fun, mind you, but there were limitations 
 and a few bugs I did not like. You could complete scenarios without actually blowing targets up 
 (which happened often as I did not have the required C4 explosive) , and most combat situations 
 simply required you to send in your troops and heal the few that needed it. Only in a couple situations 
 did it require real strategic thinking and cunning. At the hardest level, however, it does improve. 
 I just expected more complexity and challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValuJet
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2003 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is not near as good as the gamespot review. Don't get me wrong, it is a fun game with 
 real value, BUT the story is lacking, the missions are short and I can't figureout a reason to 
 play this one again. 
  
  The graphics are very well done, as is your squad's AI. However, the missions just are the same 
 thing over and over again. First you have to decide which target you would like to take out first. 
 Almost always this hsould be the attack helicopter because it will destroy your squad quickly. 
 
  
  In all I'm dissappointed I shelled out 50 bucks for this squad based shooter. It really wasn't 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tstar
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2003 5:22 am PT
Review:  How much is EA paying you guys?? Come on this game is nowhere near a 9.3!!
  It's good fun, but at a 9.3 I expect something more. The graphics are allright but nothing special, 
 same goes for sound. And after playing for a while you get kind of tired having to command yet 
 another freedom fighter. And also just a few annoyances to get off my chest. The recruits look 
 a bit to similar, they are sometimes even paired up together.
  Also if you touch a moving vehicle, without actually touching it, just near it enough, you die. 
 Now that really sucks.
  So in all fairness it's a good game but not a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magogian
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 1, 2003 1:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is quite fun and entertaining, but it is not as good as the gamespot review 
 says it is. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but they aren't anything revolutionary. Sounds are all done well, 
 but once again nothing really outstanding.
  
  The story is a lot of fun. You are thrust into the action from the very beginning. And I loved 
 the Russsian newcasts, especially when playing watch for the scrolling text on the bottom of the 
 screen in the newcasts. Some of it is really hilarious tongue-in-cheek humor.
  
  The gameplay is done well, the mission architecture keeps things interesting. The firefights between 
 you with your mean against the enemy can be a blast. Having 20+ soldiers shooting it out with choppers 
 flying over ahead and snipers taking potshots can be riveting. But the gameplay won't blow you 
 away. Once again its pretty good, but not great. 
  
  Finally, they seem to emphasize that the AI does a very good job with your fellow soldiers. Well, 
 I have a major gripe. Most of the time if they are moving somewhere, they will walk right past 
 the enemy and get wasted without returning fire. Other times if they get close to the enemy soldiers 
 they will completely ignore the close ones blasting fire into them and take potshots at enemies 
 far away. Besides that though, the AI does a decent job.
  
  Overall, its a pretty good game, but nothing outstanding. I recommend buying it, but its not so 
 great and grand as the gamespot review makes it out to be.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
