-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Freedom Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/freedomforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,267 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Developer: Irrational Games
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 24, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even with its minor problems, Freedom Force is very easy to recommend -- it's a superhero game that 
 gets everything right. 

 Freedom Force isn't the first eagerly awaited superhero game, but it is the first to actually be 
 released. With the cancellation of Hero Games' Champions, Bullfrog's The Indestructibles, and MicroProse's 
 Agents of Justice in previous years, it seemed as if there would never be a decent superhero game 
 for the PC, or any superhero game for that matter. But Freedom Force saves the day. Irrational 
 Games has combined the surface elements of a role-playing game with a tactical combat engine, creating 
 a hybrid that isn't very deep but is totally satisfying in its breadth. And, perhaps more importantly, 
 Freedom Force has a winning personality and a developed style that's as good as PC gaming has ever 
 offered -- it joins the ranks of games like Interstate '76 and Grim Fandango.           Freedom Force 
 features a memorable cast of superheroes...    

  Immediately upon starting the campaign, it's apparent that Irrational Games took its inspiration 
 from the silver age of comics. The game opens with the origin of Minuteman, the patriotic leader 
 of Freedom Force. The first thing you see is an elderly man's face, all Jack Kirby-style black 
 lines and wrinkles, surrounded by bright secondary colors. The narrator explains the game's events 
 in a bombastic voice that owes more to Adam West's version of Batman than Tim Burton's. The heroes 
 of Freedom Force don't have time to brood in dark corners; they're too busy returning stolen purses, 
 fighting the communists, and protecting Patriot City from dinosaurs and aliens. It's a spot-on 
 homage to the era that may seem like a parody only because it gets almost every detail, from the 
 dialogue to the enemies, exactly right.   

  Freedom Force is primarily a squad-based tactical game. At the beginning of each mission, you choose 
 a squad of up to four heroes from the available roster. You enter the map, fight some enemies, 
 occasionally fight a boss, return to base, and repeat. The combat system is similar in some respects 
 to that in Baldur's Gate, in that it seems like a turn-based system but it plays in real time. 
 You can pause the game whenever you like to issue orders, and you can also slow things down and 
 speed them up at your discretion. Your heroes have a wide variety of attacks and defenses, including 
 melee, projectile attacks, and area-effect attacks. Attacks do different types of damage, such 
 as fire, cold, crushing, mental, magic, and so forth. Defensive powers will generally help against 
 only a particular type of damage, and certain heroes and enemies are particularly vulnerable or 
 immune to certain types.   

  The best thing about the combat system is that the streets of Patriot City aren't just a backdrop. 
 The environments play an important part in any battle. Strong heroes can pick up cars and throw 
 them. You can wrench stoplights out of the ground and bat thugs around with them. You can jump, 
 climb, or fly to the tops of buildings and rain energy beams down on your foes. The physics are 
 great -- you'll learn to use them to your advantage, knocking foes off of buildings and batting them 
 into oncoming cars. You can turn whole buildings to rubble in a matter of moments. You'll want 
 to be careful, because causing too much havoc can take away from your prestige -- you gain prestige 
 points at the end of each mission, which are used for recruiting new heroes. But in the best combat 
 missions, you'll be out of the confines of the city and free to wreak destruction as needed. The 
 combat system includes everything you'd want in a superhero game -- some characters can fly, some 
 can climb walls, and some can leap tall buildings. It's almost perfect.           ... and a great 
 tactical combat system.    

  There are only two problems with the combat. The first is that the game doesn't allow for automatic 
 pausing at regular intervals. Stopping to issue orders must be done manually, which is strange 
 considering that it would be impossible to play Freedom Force as a real-time game. Missions often 
 require you to split your squad, so keeping track of everything that's going on becomes impossible 
 without stopping and surveying the situation. The system works as is, but an automatic pause would 
 be more than welcome. What's more of an issue is the complete lack of a minimap. Except in rare 
 cases, there's no indication of offscreen enemies, even if they are within the view of your squad. 
 Enemies can also be hidden under trees and other objects, and when your squad is divided it's easy 
 to overlook someone getting clobbered by a villain that's not visible for one reason or another. 
   

  In theory, the problem with superhero games is that superheroes are traditionally static characters: 
 They have their powers and that's that. Irrational has broken with tradition here, and it was a 
 wise decision. As you complete missions, your heroes gain experience. Every one of your heroes 
 gains experience for every mission, though the four who directly participate get slightly more. 
 When a hero gains a level, he or she gets points that can be used to buy new powers or to improve 
 existing powers. Deciding when to improve and when to expand a particular hero's powers is one 
 of the more interesting elements of the game, allowing you to create heroes that are relatively 
 weak yet versatile or heroes with devastating yet very specific abilities. Should El Diablo specialize 
 in his missile attacks, which do a good deal of damage but are hazardous in populated areas? Should 
 the strong but slow Man-Bot work on his ranged attacks to make up for his speed deficiency?    
 

 The experience system is Freedom Force's most significant tie to role-playing games, but there are 
 a few other touches borrowed from RPGs as well. Missions occasionally have secondary objectives, 
 small side quests you can find by talking to the citizens of Patriot City. These tend to break 
 up the monotony of the missions, which often require you to just hunt down enemies on a map. The 
 later missions lose the side quests but get much more interesting in structure. Missions are arranged 
 into short storylines. A new supervillain appears in Patriot City, and Freedom Force must find 
 out what he or she is up to, then put a stop to the nefarious plans.           Superheroes can 
 fly, climb walls, burrow underground, and much more.    

  The villains in Freedom Force are creative and interesting, as are their minions. The Shadow lives 
 underground with her deformed acolytes, Deja Vu takes to the streets with his cloned sidekicks, 
 and Mr. Mechanical wreaks destruction with his robotic cohorts who swing their wrecking-ball arms 
 at the city's landmarks. Though each villain's arc is a self-contained set of missions, there's 
 an overarching story, one that explains why these heroes and villains acquired their powers to 
 begin with, and who is behind the strange goings-on in Patriot City.   

  The heroes are at the heart of this story, and like all good comics, Freedom Force is essentially 
 a soap opera. You've got a love story, and you've got interteam rivalries. You have all the archetypes, 
 from the android that works purely on logic to the brooding loner trying to amend past wrongs. 
 You even have new archetypes, such as a speedy Southern gent who spouts ridiculous slogans and 
 sounds like Ross Perot and an ex-fisherman turned fish-man who sounds like Sean Connery. And though 
 there are plenty of missions, and some good moments of character development, you'll wish the game 
 were longer simply so the relationships could develop more. There are a lot of members of Freedom 
 Force, and they each have a strong personality. It's a shame that some of them have to be relegated 
 to supporting roles.   

  You can even make your own characters for the team, and the character editor is one of the game's 
 highlights. Almost every possible power you could want is included, and the wide variety of user-created 
 skins means that you can easily re-create your favorite superheroes and recruit them for your team. 
 Add Wolverine, add Green Lantern, add the Silver Surfer. You can even create your own, if you're 
 so inclined.   

  The characters look great. Freedom Force is bright and colorful, and the costumes all perfectly 
 evoke the silver age. You even get quick sound-effect images onscreen during battles ("Thwack!" 
 and "Foosh!" and so on) . It's hard not to wonder, at first, why the designers went with a typical 
 3D look for the characters and not the cel-shading effect that gave Jet Grind Radio for the Dreamcast 
 its distinctive look. But the 3D graphics are great and well suited to the game. The origin movies 
 are excellent, perfectly re-creating the art of the era, with slight animations to give the panels 
 life. Even the loading screens are great, featuring fake comic book covers that are dead ringers 
 for the real thing and that will most certainly bring to mind classic comic book hooks like "In 
 this issue: Everybody dies!" In comparison to the origin movies and the loading screens, the in-engine 
 cutscenes unfortunately aren't as comic book-like.   

  The audio in Freedom Force is even better than the graphics. The voices are perfectly overdramatic, 
 delivering the earnest dialogue with a seriousness that borders on the zealous. "All I need is 
 a spaceship," says Mentor in his origin movie, "... and courage!" There are a few bad jokes, but 
 for the most part the game plays it serious enough to be the right kind of funny. Some of the voices 
 aren't as good as the majority -- mostly bit parts that sound poorly recorded. The music is excellent 
 and diverse, featuring different themes for different characters and managing, like the game itself, 
 to be both lighthearted and serious at the same time.           There are plenty of characters 
 to choose from, and you can also make your own.    

  The game's occasional problems are easily forgivable in light of all it has going for it, but they 
 can sometimes be frustrating regardless. Some are small interface issues, like the fact that saved 
 games are listed alphabetically instead of chronologically and that it's a bit of a hassle to figure 
 out which heroes have gained a level after the initial mission wrap-up screen. You can't reconfigure 
 your team when restarting a mission unless you fail the mission. The game is slightly unstable, 
 and occasionally a mission will be impossible to finish for reasons beyond your control, such as 
 when a plot-critical nonplayer character falls unconscious or gets knocked out of speaking range 
 by a stray explosive. But without a doubt, the biggest shortcoming of Freedom Force is that the 
 single-player game is really all there is. There's a deathmatch multiplayer mode, but there's no 
 cooperative mode and no skirmish maps for extended single-player gaming (though Irrational has 
 promised a skirmish mode in an upcoming patch) .   

  Fortunately, the single-player game is highly replayable, if only because of the nearly limitless 
 number of heroes and tactics available. And even with its minor problems, Freedom Force is very 
 easy to recommend -- it's a superhero game that gets everything right. It has the living, interactive 
 city promised in The Indestructibles, the tactical combat promised in Agents of Justice, and the 
 role-playing promised in Champions. It looks great and it sounds even better. You'll have a great 
 time with Freedom Force if you like, or have ever liked, comic books, because it was made by people 
 who obviously love them. And though Freedom Force could probably skate by on its premise and personality 
 alone, it doesn't need to: Beneath the masks, capes, and heroic platitudes is a superb game.   
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Force sure looks nice. The box is pretty. The story is pretty. The music is pretty. The 
 controls are easy enough. While Providing beautiful packaging, Freedom force doesn't package any 
 game-play elements
  
  The gameplay in Freedom force simply sucks. There is no other way to put it.
  
  To describe 
 the gameplay in this game would be a daunting task, but I will try.
  
  Remember playing the original Sims? Lets say your sim is sleeping, and all of a sudden your stove 
 catches fire. Remember how much control you had to actually put the stove out? It took you 20 minutes 
 on the game-clock to actually reach the kitchen. Then once you got there, it already spread. You 
 just had no control with the time given.
  
  Exactly the same thing here. Certain super heroes that you control, are very awkward, slow, choppy. 
 For instance, once your super-hero destroyed a villain, he will just stand there, even if he is 
 getting pelted on by another villain. Say hello to micro managing.
  
  Let's say that you are at the base of a building. A villain is up top chucking down grenades. Well, 
 certain heros have to walk (Yeah, don't run.. just walk) around, and up the stairs. While other 
 certain characters simply jump.. or fly up. This can make controlling and assigning characters a 
 huge mess.
  
  Certain objects in the environment can be used to your discretion. But how effective is it? Well, 
 by the time you pick up the huge boulder, the enemy already saw you, and moved out of the direction 
 of impact.
  
  The game-play is just damn sloppy, and irritating. That is too bad, because Crave really polished 
 this game out to every period. So much that the comic scheme simply looked beautiful. The voice 
 acting was godly, and it's the best a game will ever see.
  
  The sloppiness is just what ate it. The game relies on point and click mechanics. But your characters 
 move so slow, that actually creating any tactical prowess deems useless.
  
  It's really bad that a game like this has to be flushed down the drain. It simply had everything, 
 but game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Simply the best superhero game ever made. Do not forget to download meshes as they garantee more 
 fun to your adventures. The story is also very funny, althought the game is simple. To became a 
 perfect game they just have to improve graphics and add more powers as well as the possibility 
 of creating your own superhero without using meshes created in the internet. i hope they make a 
 new one with all these improvements. i also suggest players to search for skins and meshes in the 
 internet ( i have one dvd with losts of them) and play the game one, two or three times with different 
 heroes. it makes the games more additive and garantee the possibility of recreating your favorite 
 superhero in Freedom Force.
  In my list it is top 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  This is one lousy game that I just love so much. I think the problem is that there just aren't 
 enough cheesy super hero themed games. I don't really think there ever have been. I love pulp, 
 and we NEED more of this.
  
  The game isn't GREAT though. It's fun, but not great. It makes a decent RPG/Strategy kind of game. 
 It doesn't feel a lot like an RPG because it's so limited. It's level based. You move from one 
 map to the next. Yet, it's turn based. I guess it should feel a lot more like Final Fantasy Tactics, 
 but it just doesn't feel as rich as that. The ability to customize your heroes just isn't that 
 rich, and by the end of the game, the schtick wears off and the plot is BORING. I admit, I didn't 
 finish the game. I just couldn't find the motivation to finish the last few levels.
  
  I really liked the game, but it loses it's lustre really fast. It's a shame. I'd love to see a 
 more robust superhero RPG. Give me a chance to really build a custom character and play around 
 in a huge sandbox world. Keep the cheese and you'd have a great game. This is a refreshing change 
 from the standard, but it just leaves my wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  If you're into comics and super heroes this game is a must have. The game is set up like a comic 
 book, with heroes, villians, and super powers abound, some better than others. The story is actually 
 pretty good in a cartoony kind of way, but you have to understand it like a comic book-it's not 
 meant to be taken seriously. Gameplay is good, but you have no direct control of your heroes. It's 
 point, click, and watch them attack unfortunately. But what you're watching can be awesome! Most 
 of the attacks are really cool and destructive, you can soon level city blocks and watch them crumble 
 to the ground around you. Which oddly makes me think of the bill believe it or not. Sound is well 
 done, but again, its set up like a comic book so you'll get a lot of Hero speech. The story is 
 quite expansive and you'll be playing the game for a while. As your heroes get stronger you can 
 give them new additional powers, and this adds to the RPG element in that you'll need to allocate 
 points to certain powers you want raised. And with a few cheats here and there you can enlist the 
 best heroes right at the start, which adds a whole new dimension to the game if you're into that 
 sort of thing. Don't let the comic book atmosphere get to you, this is a great game and well worth 
 playing. There are newer games quite similiar to this (Marvel Ultimate Alliance for example) , but 
 for a game that has heroes YOU want, including home made heroes with custom powers, set out on 
 a new and different kind of story unlike M. U. A. Freedom Force is the only way to go. FOR FREEDOM! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaloko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is a solid game and very exciting also.
  
  You can do EVERYTHING. You can grab cars, phone cabins, lights, garbage bins, rocks, etc. You can 
 break walls, buildings, cars, etc.
  
  You can make your own hero and customize everything about him... Now with tons of mods, and even 
 with the mod-maker, you can play hours and hours and still be addicted to it.
  
  Stunning graphics and a very good sound, combined to a very good interface and pleasant gameplay. 
 Everything about this game is just perfetc!
  
  There is many heroes, many villains and the story-line is just perfect. I never thought there would 
 be a game so good as it is!
  
  I recommend it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Freedom Force was the first game that got the whole superhero thing right. From the comic-booky 
 style graphics, to the very cool RPG style gameplay and plot, Freedom Force succeeds in pretty 
 much every way. The graphics could be better with today's technology, but still stack up pretty 
 well with games such as XIII and Ultimate Spider-Man. The voiceovers are pretty hokie, but they're 
 suppose to be. The single-player storyline will take someone a while to complete, plus you can 
 play through with a custom hero, so it can be easier. The multiplayer mode is disappointing because 
 you can't fight along side your friends, you have to fight them, but it's still fun to throw cars 
 and lamposts at your flying friend's hero. This is a game that comic-book fans and hero fans will 
 love, so I highly recomend picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_Schmay
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Love the game and the voice over cracks me up! 
  
  The Narrator is so cool!
  
  Love using super powers against bad guys and 
  Having fun in character creation and pit against 
 the story mode which gives a sense of an interactive comic book. I like the sound balloon (forgot 
 the grammar term) like "THUD" showing up. Wide variety of moves I can create and the characters 
 innate resistance/weakness and origin feature
  
  Not so jittery about the sound effects though, a few times it okay but try listening to "BING" 
 of bullets starts to sound like bike bell and gets annoying. Wished that the walking strides coincides 
 with how fast they have travelled cause looks like a moon walk going forward.
  
  There are stuff i'd like to have Irrational add to maybe contemporary version of this series; Improved 
 map navigation; a playing mode that changes the view to arcade side scrolling type when you focus 
 with just one character, like a button mash fighting; size changing ability or phase through or 
 maybe even just have the character change "physical appearance" activated powers.
  
  What really blew me away was the comic-like dialogue and the idea of playing a strategic turnbase 
 comic-book hero in a world of villains with twisted diabolic plots and (crisi?/crisises?) that 
 you need to defeat and save the citizens. You have to follow -through up till the end to unfold 
 the whole comic book game. I would really recommend this game to all true believers or non-believers. 
 
  
  EXCELSIOR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poindoink
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game has such a great concept behind it, I'm not sure how it could have gotten messed up. 
 I suppose the fact that merging fast action with a near-turn-based RPG would be difficult to do, 
 and maybe it was. While the gameplay is certainly innovative, and the graphics are beautiful, they 
 appear to have mis-stepped in a few areas. 
  
  For one, throwing objects doesn't seem to be very effective, and comes off more as gimmicky than 
 useful. Throwing 220-pound objects at ordinary street thugs barely makes them flinch, and does 
 minimal damage. Throwing larger objects like explosive tanks will do some lethal damage - if they 
 explode, but if it just hits them it does little damage, occasionally knocking them over. Throwing 
 boxes of TNT proved counter-active, as the box would bounce off the enemy, come crashing back at 
 you and explode, costing you huge amounts of energy. I blew out the side of a building with a thug 
 standing on top, and watched the criminal fall 5 stories, take 0 damage, and get right up and start 
 beating me with a bat. All the while trying to micromanage my useless 2nd hero who could barely 
 pick up a box. 
  
  I'm not sure why, but half the time if you send a hero to go melee attack a guy, they'll hit them 
 once, then stand there doing nothing while getting their face beaten in. You have to go re-select 
 the hero, right-click on the same bad guy, and select the fight command again. Left-clicking seemed 
 to do nothing all this time. All the while trying to micro-manage your other superhero who's getting 
 caught in the same flaws. And yes, this is the Beta 1.3 patch. 
  
  For some reason it doesn't appear the developers put a bounding box around anything, which means 
 your mouse pointer has to be directly on a polygon of an object or character you're trying to select. 
 This means you'll tell a character to go attack a guy, then go try to click your other hero, miss 
 because he's obscured by a rock he's holding, or a tree, or just walks out of clicking distance, 
 and inadvertantly tell your first hero to walk towards the spot you just clicked. This game is 
 loud and boisterous and action packed, and I don't expect to take careful consideration into every 
 single mouse click when doing simple things like attacking a group of enemies. I almost would have 
 preferred to have it be turn based; at least I'll know I made the right move, and the system will 
 actually perform it. 
  
  This game is fairly difficult as well. Besides the little glitches, these super-heroes aren't very 
 defensively strong, and your energy gets wittled down quickly. Considering how scarce energy-regeneration 
 pills are in the level, it would have been nice to have them spontaneously regenerate energy. I 
 mean, they are superheroes, right? They've been exposed to Energy X, which makes them younger and 
 stronger and more powerful. Why is it a bunch of thugs can have tables and boulders and water tanks 
 slung at them repetitively without hardly flinching, when all it takes is a full clip of ammo to 
 take out your superhero? Who's the superheroes here? Sure, it's fun to blast somebody with "Tongue 
 of Flames" or "Minute Missile", but not when you're doing it most of the time!! The only attacks 
 in this game that are useful seem to be up-close melee attacks and long-range special superhero 
 attacks. This turns the game into more of a tactical-strategic-planning game than it needs to be, 
 and subtracts the smash-em-up fun of it. 
  
  Aside from the grievances with the interface and shattered expectations, what kept me coming back 
 for a while was the over-the-top storyline and the extremely hilarious things you could do with 
 the environment's architecture. Pick up a street lamp pole, and smash that water-pump station into 
 rubble. Throw that taxi down a street, and watch it bounce off every object, causing people to 
 scream and other objects to break apart. This alone is entertaining enough, but usually doesn't 
 execute very well as your heroes aren't smart enough to realize there's an obstruction, and will 
 end up bouncing it off a building or just whatever is in the way, sometimes causing damage to yourself. 
 
  
  Oh well, enough bad talk. If you like comic books, RPGs, and nice graphics, this one is right up 
 your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw0rdfish
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  Growing up, I read comics all the time. Superman, Spiderman, even Archie, so naturally as soon 
 as i ran across this game in the store, I didn't hesitate to take it home.
  
  Now there's 2 very interesting aspects that make this game all it can be. First off, you have the 
 game, and the built in story line, which is awesome. It's fun, it's engaging and offers you an 
 fairly good amount of game time. The story is presented as a mix of a comic book / cartoon that 
 just adds that much more to the game!
  
  The second aspect, and part I enjoyed, and still enjoy the most, is all the mods that are included. 
 has links to the many, and I mean MANY, community mods that exist for this game. From character 
 builds, to entire campaigns and modules, this is one of the most active communities a game has 
 ever seen. You can kill hours and hours just replaying the community mods and custom campaigns.
 
  
  These community additions make the replay value of this game, the best out of ANY game in recent 
 history. There's no end to the amount of things you can do, and when you've played every addition 
 there is ( good luck ) you can crack out the included tools and make your own!
  
  Like i mentioned, this game is a comic book lover's dream, and an all round GREAT game for the 
 rest of the gamers out there.
  
  One knock on this game is that it has it's technical issues. I've had little problems resolving 
 them, as the website was very helpful, however i did have some problems, and I've heard of people 
 not being able to fix these issues, for that reason, I've decided on a lower tilt, however the 
 price of this game, easily makes it worth your money.
  
  Game Hard!
  sw0rdfish~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optophobic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  First, one of the most fun things about this game is the Jack Kirby-esque look. I love the comic 
 book cut scenes with the art that is a direct copy from Jack Kirby. Because of this, a possibly 
 very corny game is saved and turned into a classic looking gaming.
  The characters in the game are fun, and the missions you do aren't creative, but they are classic 
 super-hero missions.
  The create-a-character option in the game is a whole lotta fun as well. And with the many meshes 
 and skins you can download online, you can make any character you want in the game. You can make 
 Silver Surfer, Spider-Man, Batman (even the Azriel armor version) , and on and on. The limits to 
 the characters are only how limited you are to looking through volumes of sites and forums online. 
 And the RPG feel of gaining superhero points and building your characters is a lot of fun.
  The game play is easy enough. Point, click, bash is about as simple as it gets. You are in control 
 of a team at times and team can sometimes do what they want without any regard to what they need 
 to do. Because of this sometimes the AI gets you into trouble and can cause you to fail a mission 
 because an allie dies.
  The sounds on the game are great. The voices are over the top and campy, and they perfectly fit 
 the feel of the game. Remember those old 70s comic book cartoons on tv that was just the original 
 cartoon cell with basic movements, but no real action? That's what this game is like. Even the 
 voices from those old campy shows seem to be immitaded.
  All in all, I think old school comic book fans will really enjoy this one. I think other people 
 than that will aswell, but some people may not enjoy the gameplay as much as others will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2004 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Force is a game that truly immerses you in the game. The lush environments that are very 
 destructable to the story that will pull you in and is full of little touches of brilliance.
  
  The story will take you from a solo hero to a team of heroes attacking an unseen foe at first. 
 The story is well paced and has a bit of a surprise at the end that is very good.
  
  The graphics are top notch and feel right for the era that they are trying to capture. The destructable 
 enviroments are handled well and look great when things are blowing up.
  
  The characters are varied and the origin stories are great.
  
  But the little touches are great. 
 The whole USA vs. Communism feel in the background is nice. The look of the graphics is a tribute 
 to the era. And you just get attached to the characters, which plays into the surprise ending.
 
  
  I can't recommend this game enough. Whatever your gaming fancy is, this game will thrill you to 
 no end. And it is a good superhero game to boot, which is hard to say in the gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2004 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Freedom Force pays homage to the old school comic book heroes. You control a slew of different 
 comic book style heroes against a bunch of evil comic book style villians. All of this is done 
 in style. It is done like an interactive comic book with over the top characters, moves and storyline. 
 It contains fully destructible environments and you can use almost any object in the game and all 
 action is in real time.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are done very well. The character models are just like you would want a 
 comic book hero and villians to look like. Very detailed and with great animations. The environments 
 are extremely detailed and are fully destructible. The animations of buildings blowing up and special 
 effects are done very well. The artistic design of everything in the game looks great. There are 
 civilians walking all over the city, cars, telephone poles and everything else in the city that 
 makes it look alive. You can zoom in and out of the action and it looks very good zoomed in. The 
 cutscenes are also done very well and are all played out like reading from a comic book.
  
  Sound: The music and voice overs are great. The voices are over the top and very unique for each 
 character. It sounds just like you suspect comic book characters would sound. It has a campy feel 
 like 70's cartoons or TV shows even with the "THWACK" "BANG" etc.. that you wold see when you are 
 in battle. All environment sounds are authetic and nothing seems out of place. The music in the 
 game is outstanding.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is realtime. You control all of your characters and point them where to 
 go and what actions to perform. You can use almost any object in the game to your advantage. For 
 example if your character is strong enough you can pick up a car and throw it towards your enemies 
 knocking them down and causing damage. You can destroy buildings which can crash down on your victims 
 and you can use telephone polls and lamposts as weapons like a baseball bat. All you characters 
 have powers that you can level up throughout the game to make them morepowerful and also get new 
 powers. The level up system is robust and just like you would want from an RPG. While playing yu 
 can control the time so you can pause or slow down time in order to give you enough time to issue 
 orders to all your characters. It can get very hectic controllig 5 chracters at once so this is 
 a welcome feature. You can also speed up time which comes in handy when there is a lull in action 
 and you want to get to your destination faster.
  
  The story plays out very well. The city is overrun by this mysterious substance that has caused 
 mutations to average humans which turned them into superheroes or villians. Some of the characters 
 which will play out come from other places around the universe.
  
  The rpg elements of the game and story are done so well that even people who arent fans of comic 
 books will enjoy Freedom Force and comic book fans will especially enjoy it. The game is long, 
 around 30-40 hours hours, the story is great, the action is frantic and the levels are very varied. 
 This all adds up to one of the most unique and fun RPG's that you will get to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 21, 2004 6:29 am PT
Review:  Freedom Force is obviously a labor of love, and is influenced from the Silver Age comics of the 
 1960-70's. Through a blend of humor, action and style, it does a fantastic job of dropping the 
 player into this world. Red Commies, evil aliens, and New York accented cops all make their appearances 
 here. Any comic book fan will feel right at home.
  
  FF could best be described as a tactical combat strategy game. You control a squad of 1-4 super 
 heroes, all in a isometric view. Heroes can be controlled via a simple mouse driven interface, 
 and the game plays out in real time. Most of the action is point and click, and the few sub-menus 
 available allow you to control your heroes easily. You guide the Freedom Force from one mission 
 to the next, accruing points which allow you to hire new heroes to the mix, as well as beef up 
 the powers of your existing crew.
  
  Freedom Force is one of the blessed few games that has a story; a great one. The FF gets thrown 
 into a galactic conflict of epic scale from the get go, and really delivers a solid and satisfying 
 single player game. 
  
  Graphically, Freedom Force looks outstanding. It has bright, vibrant colors, and stays true to 
 it's comic book roots. Heroes have the usual outrageous costumes, and villains look appropriately 
 goofy. The 3D environment is fully destructable, and allows you to rip up trees, throw cars, and 
 even knock down buildings on your foes. This results in some fantastic knock down fights where 
 heroes are litteraly punching their foes through buildings, and smashing them upside the head with 
 lamposts, mailboxes... whatever!
  
  Freedom Force's sounds, both music and effects, are great. The game features an awesome array of 
 hokey heroes, goofy villains, and screaming civilians. You'll know you're in the zone when you 
 hear Minuteman scream "Should have bought American!" when the Soviet guns jam... The soundtrack 
 is well done, if somewhat subdued in places, and really gives the game a lot of life. Voice acting 
 is top notch, again hammering home the comic book nature of the game.
  
  Replay value is something FF has plenty of, since you are constantly changing your roster, tinkering 
 with powers, and deciding who to take on what missions. The different heroes all have a variety 
 of powers which have varied effects on the game's foes. If you enjoyed the game the first time 
 through, you'll definitely be playing it again.
  
  While Freedom Force has a lot of strengths, it does suffer from a few flaws. The game's camera, 
 while moveable and great, does have the occasional difficulty focusing on heroes in the midst of 
 buildings, hordes of enemies, etc. It's really only an issue due to the game's pacing, which can 
 get a bit frantic at times.
  
  Also at issue is the game's multi-player; it's tacked on. What could have been a quick way to have 
 super-powered showdowns with your friends turned into something of a muddle. The multi-player community 
 has addressed this to a certain extent with mods, but the initial release really suffers here.
 
  
  Bottom line is Freedom Force delivers in a lot of areas, and only falls short in a few. It is a 
 steal in it's current bargain bin state, and any fan of the subject matter or a humorous/well written 
 single player campaign should pounce on this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2004 3:23 pm PT
Review:  If you play the game in real-time you wont encounter the turn-based bug where the game wont remember 
 the commands you just gave your superheroes. For me I used the turn-based option a lot, and this 
 was a game-breaker. Very irritating.
  
  The level design can be disappointingly claustrophobic -- lots of narrow paths. Or you fight in 
 cities where you can't see between the tall buildings unless you carefully spin the level around 
 in 3D. If you fight in real-time, you will be replaying levels over and over again because you 
 can't see everything that is happening to your heroes. Also a bit irritating.
  
  The single player game is very very linear -- you cannot always choose your heroes in the missions 
 either.
  
  Basically, the game's interface and some of the game design choices bugged the hell out of me. 
 I ususally like this type of game, but not this time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickissack
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2004 8:29 am PT
Review:  An incredibly unique, original game. It's very stylish, it looks great and sounds great, although 
 some of the voices are overly hammy... and the narrator's voice, strangely enough, seems incredibly 
 flat and unprofessional. Strange. But it doesn't detract from the game much.
  
  Furthermore, Freedom Force has great replayability. Although... well, I happen to be one of those 
 people who find replayability a somewhat overrated quality. When I finish a game, I like to feel 
 like I've gotten the most I could possibly get out of it. Freedom force is designed so that one 
 cannot possibly unlock each character's full abilities, or even unlock every playable character, 
 in one play-through. Perhaps a better balance can be struck between making it fun and enjoyable 
 to replay a game and making it absolutely necessary to replay a game in order to feel like you've 
 unlocked its full potential. Does anyone feel me on this?
  
  Anyway, don't let my personal bias dissuade you. It's really an incredibly fun, original game that 
 will keep you entertained for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2003 11:42 am PT
Review:  Ill start by reiterating the introductory line of Gamespots review. This game gets EVERYTHING 
 right. There is nothing ugly, klunky, or unfun about it. Freedom Force is the closest you can get 
 to stepping inside of a Saturday morning cartoon, or getting into a Batman TV show-style fistfight. 
 I love this game, and I cant believe that it has gotten so little of the limelight.
  
  The easiest way to describe Freedom Force is as a tactical combat game. You have up to four superheroes 
 on a map along with a number of enemies, and you rely your various abilities to beat up the bad 
 guys and save the day. The combat is great, because there are so many different character and enemy 
 types, and so many different abilities. There are ranged attacks, melee attacks, area of effect 
 attacks, and arc attacks. You have to coordinate your squad members so that they can take advantage 
 of each others strengths. The game is also balanced in such a manner that all of your superheroes 
 are useful, and none are really overpowered.
  
  The games combat engine is brilliant. Not only does it look gorgeous, but it is fully interactive 
 and simply perfect for the game. Buildings can be bashed, or destroyed by errant missile weapons. 
 Characters can pick up cars, phone booths, or other objects and throw them at enemies. Whats really 
 fun though, is ripping traffic posts out of the ground and using them as giant baseball bats. You 
 can whack a couple of bad guys with a lamppost and send them flying across the screen. 
  
  This game nails the comic book superhero theme perfectly. And I mean absolutely perfect. The script 
 is perfect, and the voice acting is terrific. It is a delight to listen to the games corny good 
 vs. evil dialog. Every character, both good and evil, is decked out in a colorful costume and has 
 a unique personality. Minuteman, who is sort of the games centerpiece, has a loud, booming heroic 
 voice and yells out Right makes might! or For justice! when he attacks. No two superheroes 
 in the game are alike. In contrast, the villains in the game are all brilliant, overconfident, 
 and diabolical. They are all uniquely crafted too. The game even has bratty child sidekicks to 
 go with the heroes. Every superhero in the game has a secret origin that you get to see play 
 out when he or she joins the game. Its a series of comic book frames with an overly dramatic narrator. 
 
  
  The game has an interesting storyline, right down to the games final boss, which is fitting for 
 the theme. It also has great music. The variety of superheroes that you can choose to have join 
 you and participate in each mission gives the game a good measure of replayability, which is good, 
 since it doesnt take very long to finish. To top matters off, it has a Serious Sam-like budget 
 price (at least now it does) . Freedom Force is fun and satisfying in almost every way, and its 
 very hard for me to find anything wrong with it. You might not love this game as much as I did, 
 but you cant go wrong with it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
