-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Freelancer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/freelancer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  4, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.5, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 4,047 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Digital Anvil
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Mar 3, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it's not the revolutionary title it initially promised to be, Freelancer delivers the exact 
 combination of addictive and accessible gameplay that the genre has needed for a long time. 
 

 When Wing Commander creator Chris Roberts announced that he was leaving Origin Systems, fans of 
 his games were concerned that he had abandoned the space simulation genre. In 1999, those concerns 
 were replaced with eager anticipation when Roberts announced that his next game, Freelancer, would 
 be one of the most ambitious space simulations yet. But then Roberts left the project, and gradually 
 several of its more innovative features were scaled down or dropped altogether while its target 
 release date was constantly postponed. Freelancer has finally arrived, and while it's not the revolutionary 
 title it initially promised to be, it delivers the exact combination of addictive and accessible 
 gameplay that the genre has needed for a long time.           The character animations and cinematics 
 in the single-player game are well done.    

 One of the most distinctive features of Freelancer is its control scheme. Perhaps in order to appeal 
 to a broader audience than die-hard simulation fans, the game eschews the use of a joystick altogether 
 and instead offers a simplified mouse-and-keyboard interface. While other space sims have allowed 
 the use of a mouse to emulate a joystick's functions, mouse control in such games was generally 
 a poor alternative. Freelancer, on the other hand, was designed with the limitations and advantages 
 of that input device in mind, and as a result its mouse control works efficiently and actually 
 enhances the gameplay.   

  You can opt for either a mouse-look system that steers your ship in whichever direction you move 
 the curser toward or a system that requires you to hold down the left mouse button in order to 
 change your vessel's direction, and you can quickly switch between the two by tapping your keyboard's 
 space bar. The mouse control lets you direct fire at opponents anywhere in sight instead of merely 
 those in the center of the screen, while simultaneously having your ship strafe, move backward, 
 or charge forward using keyboard controls similar to those used to effect similar commands in most 
 action games. It's an elegantly simple and effective control scheme that should both be accessible 
 to simulation neophytes and satisfy fans of traditional space sims.           Initially you'll 
 be challenged by only a handful of enemies, but the final battles feature dozens of ships.    

 
 Freelancer consistently straddles the line between an arcade-style action game and a more hard-core 
 space simulation. On one hand, most of the control and interface conventions of the space simulation 
 genre have been ejected entirely or simplified considerably in order to make gameplay more manageable 
 for beginners. There's no radar to track the positions of your opponents; there's no power allocation 
 system to adjust the strength of your vessel's shields or weapons; and even if your mouse had a 
 hat switch, there's no way to check what's happening anywhere other than directly in front of or 
 behind your ship. You also never have to wait for weapons such as missiles and torpedoes to lock 
 onto a target, and, if you have the requisite supplies, you can instantly and fully repair your 
 craft's shields or armor with the click of a button. The default camera perspective is behind your 
 ship, although a cockpit perspective is also available and works well.   

  On the other hand, while fans of traditional space simulations may initially object to its simplified 
 control scheme, Freelancer offers the sort of free-form gaming world that such fans have been clamoring 
 for since the original Elite and Privateer games. It's a gaming world that's truly massive and 
 full of colorful interstellar phenomena and a wide variety of potential enemy types, and the single-player 
 campaign exposes you to less than half of it. While recent space simulations have provided similarly 
 expansive gaming worlds to discover, they've also required you to micromanage controls and master 
 situational awareness in order to succeed in your explorations. Freelancer offers simplified gameplay 
 but makes it easier for you to quickly discover the appeal of the genre's action-oriented gameplay 
 and free-form exploration.     

 You can elect to enjoy the gaming world entirely as an interstellar sandbox, governing your explorations 
 by whim, by ignoring the main storyline's missions or by playing the game's multiplayer mode. Gameplay 
 outside of the campaign primarily consists of undertaking missions to kill the enemies of one of 
 the many political factions represented in the game or embarking upon your own self-directed trade 
 missions. There are dozens of outposts, planetary bases, and vessels littered throughout the galaxy, 
 and each one will offer you the opportunity to trade in a variety of goods and equipment or undertake 
 randomly generated missions on behalf of represented factions. Those missions lack variety or depth 
 and generally involve traveling to a nearby location and exterminating a handful of vessels in 
 exchange for some cash.           There's no radar screen, but you'll frequently rely upon the 
 game's excellent auto-map feature to plan your explorations.    

 Successfully performing missions on behalf of any of the many outlaw, corporate, security, or military 
 factions in the game will cause your character to gain prestige within that faction and lose favor 
 with its enemies. Whether or not a faction likes your character will determine whether or not its 
 ships will attack on sight and whether you'll be able to access its facilities, but it will otherwise 
 have no lasting effect on the gaming world. If you'd prefer to become a trader and transport goods 
 across star systems, there's an excellent interface that tracks the prices for the types of goods 
 at every base you've visited, but the game doesn't provide noncombat missions to direct your efforts. 
   

  And there are other activities you can do of your own volition that will vary gameplay and benefit 
 your character. You can loot passing transports, blast asteroids for minerals, or just tag along 
 with police or military fighters and fight any outlaws they randomly encounter in their preset 
 patrols. All of these activities vary in difficulty depending upon your location in the gaming 
 world, and randomly traveling around will let you consistently uncover unique sights in addition 
 to opening up new adventuring possibilities.   

  The single-player storyline is far more than just a skeletal framework to motivate exploration. 
 Freelancer is nominally a sequel set several hundred years after the events in Digital Anvil's 
 first game, Starlancer. The major powers of the Western world have lost the lengthy war that divided 
 humankind and colonized a distant star system. The remnants of Germany, Great Britain, the United 
 States, Japan, and the Spanish populations of Earth have established a new, prosperous society. 
 Aside from skirmishes with a few radical political and outlaw factions, the galaxy has enjoyed 
 a period of sustained peace as well, and distant travel is readily accessible within systems through 
 manufactured trade lanes and between systems through mechanical jumpgates and natural jumpholes. 
 After an outpost is suddenly destroyed, your character becomes embroiled in an involved plot that 
 contains a few interesting twists and several artistic cinematics. While the story contains more 
 than its share of genre clichs, it still effectively builds interest as it unfolds, aided 
 by excellent character graphics and animation.           Your status with the various factions 
 is affected by your choice of missions.    

 For a game that generally attempts to avoid stale conventions, it strangely includes some of the 
 genre's most notable weaknesses, such as repetitive and inane wingman chatter. In fact, aside from 
 the dialogue in the scripted campaign, conversations with computer-controlled nonplayer characters 
 (NPCs) are terribly done -- wingmen and opponents continuously bark the same handful of lines in 
 the same voices regardless of nationality, and every discussion with NPCs at bases unfolds in an 
 identical manner. It would be unfortunate if the generic NPC conversations discouraged you from 
 trying the single-player campaign, since it's one of the game's real strengths.   

  The campaign missions are also far more complicated, and difficult, than the randomly generated 
 faction missions. Each mission is divided into several discrete objectives, usually involving multiple 
 treks across systems and several different confrontations. Fortunately, Freelancer automatically 
 saves the game after each major event within a mission, so you can usually avoid replaying all 
 but the final portion of any missions you fail. While the campaign missions are more involved than 
 their random counterparts, your goals are still generally restricted to inflicting destruction 
 upon your enemies, and even genre staples such as base defense and escort missions are largely 
 absent. Occasionally during the course of a mission you'll be tasked to protect a particular ship, 
 but you can largely ignore any such prompting without adverse consequences.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (149 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Samrat_Ashok
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Arcade Flight Sims, so this review might be biased. I bought this game because 
 I was getting it cheap, in a special deal. 
  Once I installed and started playing it, I got hooked. The whole thing looked quite good for a 
 2003 game (save the character models) , and while the story was your generic sci-fi thing, still 
 it was pretty interesting.
  Like I said, being a fan of arcade flight sims, I simply loved the spacecrafts and the dogfights. 
 The open ended world gives you a lot of places to go to, quite a few new ships to check, mission 
 to complete (though most were simply, 'go there, kill this', but hey, we like killing bad guys) 
 with slight restrictions to keep the game balanced. 
  That's basically what you do through out the game. You join up with others or go solo in a bunch 
 of missions to kill bad guys in space. There are cut scenes which keep you updated with the story. 
 The voice acting is quite good. Infact despite the outdated character models, one my favorite things 
 about this game was a few of the characters (specially Jun'ko Zane :D) .
  All I wish that the storyline missions were a little longer. Because once you finish them off, 
 the game gets slightly drier. Though by the time you finish the story, you won't have seen half 
 of the game world, so there is still a lot to see and explore and new ships to buy, but yet, the 
 game does lose some of it drive there after.
  On a final note, if you like AFSs, then buy this game. never too late. And buy the special edition. 
 You get dev videos and the whole back story in that DVD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildRaven8472
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  After watching a friend playing this i felt compelled to get my own copy and get into this myself.. 
 That was a decent number of years ago and this is still one of my most played games.
  While the main story does end very abruptly and the side missions are all virtually the same, Freelancer 
 is still surprisingly addictive to play. While looking somewhat simplistic and uncomplicated in 
 it's build it's still very satisfying visually and the quality of the sound effects and the music 
 is top notch. The only negative thing i have to say about the sound is the american accent for 
 every faction in the game, making the map feel somewhat smaller than it actually is.
  The story is highly immersive and quite engaging although as allready said, the main-mission does 
 end rather abruptly, leaving you thinking 'erm... what now?'
  Despite it's faults Freelancer is deffinately the best space-sim on the market right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebyval
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 3:38 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is an innovative space sim game following an impressing storyline. You play as Edison 
 Trent, who just escaped from the base Freeport 7, which has been destroyed by an unknown lifeform. 
 You have been brought to planet Manhattan, from where you meet Juni and King, and your adventures 
 start. You are starting to investigate some strange happenings which start in the New York system, 
 and end in the Rheinland system as well as some of the Omicron systems (alien) . You will encouter 
 the elusive faction of The Order and also, Nomads (aliens) . The game is not over once you complete 
 the campaign, though, you are let to explore the entire Sirius system, containing hundreds of systems, 
 and thousands of planets. You can choose from hundreds of ships, and thousands of weapons. Though 
 the campaign is over, you can complete missions for a faction to improve relations, or just to 
 make some additional credits, and also, you can trade. The trading system of Freelancer is dynamic. 
 Every system is huge, so in-system travels are made using Trade Lines, and for traveling to other 
 systems, you can use either the Jump Gates or the Jump Holes, which are hidden. The systems are 
 put in groups that belong to houses. There are 4 houses: Liberty, Bretonia, Kusari, and Rheinland. 
 There are also uncharted systems, which can be acessed by hidden Jump holes. Freelancer is moddable, 
 and has a HUGE modding community, so the re playability is very high. So that is why it's a must-have 
 for space-sim fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalaxyCluster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer is a great game. Simple as that. If you like space games and RPGs, this is a must have. 
 
  
  You begin as Edison Trent, a freelancer who survived a brutal attack on an outpost called Freeport 
 7. You managed to escape with a few others, and you have a little fame to go along with your exceptional 
 luck. But the attack on the outpost is believed to be the work of a terrorist organization called 
 "The Order."
  
  The plot twists and turns and leaves you wanting more. And you will get more as long as you can 
 complete missions that award you with credits. Credits are the monetary system in Freelancer, and 
 as you acquire more, you will unlock successive levels in the story.
  
  The best part of Freelancer is the ability to be whatever you want to be. You can completely disregard 
 the plot and be a pirate, but you'd be missing out on the excellent storyline.
  
  The bulk of the game is spent destroying enemy ships, and you have the option of doing that in 
 1st and/or 3rd person perspective. 
  
  What makes this game so compelling is feeling like you are actually in space. I was disappointed 
 with the fact that the planets don't move, a detail that I think takes away from the realism. But 
 with the vast amount of star systems that you can visit, it doesn't ruin the game.
  
  This is a must-own for lovers of the space genre. Pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Great game.... don't know why I didn't played it sooner.... nice graphics ... grows on you... nice 
 difficulty ... and u could not remark the easy gameplay.... nice simulator... nice game... overall 
 nice nice nice.... i suggest u try it....
  And for the other game designers out there.. try to do something similar when u are creating space 
 simulators.... or fly simulators....
  And the fact that u can play freely after u finish the game... that is another asset to Freelancer... why 
 I love it so much... I also liked star wolfs 1&2.... nice game... a little rts/fly simulator.... try 
 that one to... you will enjoy it... thanks that's all.... cya on the next review.
  And for all the other gamers out there... if u know a game similar to Freelancer that is worth playing 
 please pm me... and we can even ... exchange thought and game play tips and tricks on many other 
 games... for points check my game list... and also I would like to know anything in the mmorpg area... if 
 u are fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtom33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  as soon as i started playing freelancer, i knew there was something real special about it. the 
 number one thing that instantly stood out at me is the amazing atmosphere and vibe which makes 
 you feel so snug in your little freighter, flying around liberty space doing whatever you want, 
 whenever you want. 
  the trading system is awesome. with so many different commodities and flexibility: you can haul 
 anything from oxygen to toxic waste to copper to sidearms. a dynamicaly changing economy would 
 have been the icing on the cake though :p
  as for the jobs you can do for the various factions, they are fun, but extrremely repetitive. this 
 is one area where the producers could have made the game soo much better, but they didnt.
  while on that topic, the voice acting is also good. however, the amount of repitition of it makes 
 the game feel very repetitive somtimes. another area where they could have vastly improved the 
 game.
  i bought this game about a year ago, and to me the graphics are not bad even for these days. i 
 love it how there are numerous nebulas and how each system looks different as far as colour goes.
 
  soundtracking is awesome, when flying around the border worlds and other nasty areas, an eerie 
 musical score sits below the hum of your ship. when you are in kusari (japanese) space, there is 
 a really nice track.
  the one BIG BIG BIG problem with freelancer is the fact that the producers made such a massive, 
 gorgeous universe, full of many factions and much life... yet, they just did not utilize all this 
 to its maximum capacity. this is what every person who plays freelancer tears their hair out at 
 lol. i have read the stories of how it got cancelled, then was back in production, and was lucky 
 to even be finished. i am grateful it got to the public in the end :)
  luckily there is a huge potential for modding out there, and some very dedicated and awesome guys 
 who are constantly modding freelancer into what it should have been and more. if only microsoft 
 would release the full script to people so it could be fully modded : (
  overall, a highly addictive, immersive, fun game that is easy to play and easy to enjoy. you will 
 not regret taking up a ship in the Sirius Sector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wutevar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is a beautifully crafted, simple to pick-up but hard to master space simulator that 
 incorporates RPG as well as action elements in it. 
  
  The premise behind the single-player mode of Freelancer is such: You are Trent, a Bretonnian Freelancer 
 pilot who finds himself bankrupt after a streak of bad luck in a deal-of-a-lifetime you were supposed 
 to make. Sounds simple, right? Well, not quite. The circumstances behind the cruel twist of fate 
 are rather shady and soon enough Trent finds himself along with a few other memorable characters 
 right in the middle of a government conspiracy. The storyline, albeit linear is packed with action, 
 drama and plot progression. It is also augmented by a great cast of memorable characters, all voiced 
 masterfully. Beautifully crafted cutscenes, all rendered using the in-game engine are prominent 
 all throughout the story.
  
  At the start of the game you'll have access to a handful of space vessels (with a few extra, depending 
 on your standings with the various space factions you can align yourself with) All of which have 
 their strengths and weaknesses. For example, the Startracker is a nimble dogfighter that can't 
 carry more than a few light guns while the Defender is larger, slower to maneuver ship that can 
 be outfitted with a turret and missile bay in addition to heavier laser guns. Other vessels such 
 as the Rhino are tailored specifically for Traders, they are slow and bulky but have a huge cargo 
 capacity. Speaking of outfitting your ship, the equipment you can acquire through trading or, alternatively, 
 through scavenging the parts of your deceased adversaries is just as varied in its many parameters 
 so outfitting your ship to create the ultimate starfighter suited for your playstyle can be quite 
 fun.
  
  As you progress the storyline, more ships and equipment become available to you, as well as access 
 to more space sectors. You start your adventure in Liberty Space (That's basically futuristic America... 
 IN SPACE! For you, but you'll eventually move on to the other reaches of space such as Rheinland 
 (Germany) Bretonnia (England) and Kusari (Japan) not in that particular order, by the way. All 
 of them differ from each other by vast selection of different Factions & Corporations prevalent 
 in these territories, as well as visual differences. Bretonnian space is mostly hazy and brown, 
 with vast depleted asteroid fields, dust and gas clouds while Kusari space is light blue, full 
 of exotic looking Gas Giants, Red Dwarfs (Suns) and so on. 
  
  Needless to say the universe of Freelancer is vast. Not EVE-vast, mind you, but it is large and 
 much more personable than the aforementioned example's thanks to the many space stations, visit-able 
 planets, space anomalies, derelict spaceships and NPC traffic fleets such as trade convoys, pirate 
 raiding parties, bounty hunters and navy fleets all patrolling in and out of the many space systems. 
 Once you beat the single-player campaign you can continue playing, because the universe in Freelancer 
 is open-ended. And even though the campaign is quite lengthy, it shows roughly 60% of the universe. 
 The rest you can discover by yourself, including the 'Lost Sleeper Ship Hispania Sector' (yep, 
 you guessed it, This is Spain... IN SPAAAACE!) which is ruled by two rival pirate factions constantly 
 duking it out in the many star-systems of Hispania.
  
  When you've done all that, or just want to ramp up the difficulty the multiplayer is the way to 
 go. See, unlike most games to come out in the past few years Freelancer features a full-blown MMO-like 
 multiplayer mode unlike all those watered-down 'Deathmatch' or CTF clones. Yep, you can undertake 
 missions with friends against NPC-controlled enemeies, or fight against a 'rival clan', or even 
 prey on hapless players who try to make it as Traders and seize their cargo, if that's your idea 
 of fun. Basically everything the single-player has to offer minus the campaign is there to be enjoyed 
 by up to 120 players.
  
  The controls are surprisingly sleek and easy to get used to. The graphics are dated, but by no 
 means ugly or bad. Space still looks great and picturesque, and the space ships are detailed and 
 distinct from each other.
  
  To top it all off, Freelancer is highly mod-able, you'll find mods that re-skin, add or balance 
 space ships, gameplay, graphics and so on.
  
  Nowadays the lobby server has been shut down, so you'll have to use third party software like The 
 All-Seeing Eye or Gamespy Arcade to find servers online, but you'll be pleasantly surprised to 
 find out that the community for Freelancer is still strong after so many years. 
  
  If you're a fan of Action-RPG's and/or Space Sims, and want something different, don't hesitate 
 to pick up Freelancer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madrox221
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  where to begin. freelancer IMO is nothing short of a masterpiece. it is my all time favourite game 
 and i have clocked in over 120 hrs. into it (121 actually) . part of the lasting appeal for me is 
 how open it is. (after campaign) you can go anywhere in over 50 starsystems fly 
  over 30 ships and like the ads say you can in fact choose your destiny, whether it be a smuggler 
 of drugs, police, army, freedom  get a job in insurance! almost 
 every thing in freelancer is spot on.
  the ships engines sound great, there seems to be endless weapons to buy, each planet is unique and 
 the gameplay while easy, is still quite solid. the reason it getsa 9 and not a 10 is because the 
 bar missions do get reaaly repititious and trading the same route gets a bit mind numbing. its best 
 just to explore, find bases and wrecks and just go with the flow. my other lone issue is the outside 
 campaign voice acting. no matter where you are, everyone sounds like john wayne. but these things 
 aside i wouldnt change a thing. it takes a min. of win.98 to run and works best on xp so go out 
 and experience it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudemannxs
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Got this game in the bargain bin for $20. It took me a bit to get the hang of it, as there is good 
 bit to know to pilot a fighter. Far simpler than Freespace 2 though. Once I got the hang of it, 
 it sucked me in. An absolutely incredible game that has a really great single player. I agree that 
 some missions can get repetitive, and much of the background audio gets recycled a lot, but the 
 game play is fun and addictive. One bug I found by accident that helps a lot on missions is if 
 you use mines in the game, they never run out. Use them with your lasers for great increased fire 
 power. 
  
  There are a lot of nice little touches in the game that shows a lot of thought on the designers 
 part. Things like traveling between space systems using jump gates and accelerators make it fast 
 to get around in the game. All the action takes place in space, so when you are on a planet or 
 space station, there's not a whole lot you can do. You can fix your ship, buy/sell weapons; buy/sell 
 ships; go to the bar and get jobs/info; or buy/sell commodities. That's about it. Makes for a more 
 focussed game. Get what you need, and get back out there and blow stuff up! After I finish Freelancer, 
 gonna dust off Freespace 2 and give it a go again. They just don't make 'em like this anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MachuX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Well I have been lieng around in some games... and this is not awesome... its not incredible, its 
 not amazing... Its Freelancer.
  
  For What u think it got the best game in 2003?
  
  Its graphics are out of their age (more then 5 years, note i write this in 2008) and its price 
 value is like "infinito". Its Multiplayer is really... REALLY, REALLY AWESOME ENOUTH TO PLAY THE 
 GAME FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE (until they got a Freelancer 2 lol... :D ) .
  
  And if u like anything like StarWars, Stargate, Deep Space, StarTrek or whatever only search the 
 best mod for u ( I got the Freeworlds 18. XX but getting the 2.0 when reallesed, This is for fans 
 of StarWars) and i have seen other reviews and many that are 8 and down were expecting that they 
 got a real ship and fly tru the universe... But it was still late in for the graphcis and the power 
 engine. And better of all if u get a huge machine with the best of the best for gaing u would thing 
 that this game don't works ( specially with Vista OS) this game is too great and it works XD (Got 
 some friends using it with the mod and the Vista OS) .
  
  You would know that in this game is simply very short in the Story Line and the universe is quite 
 not big... But for that are mods... only get in Lancers Reactor you would know what im talking about 
 (more then 1000 mods working and still with the global server for multiplayer is down multiplayer 
 servers still and will stay up for long time... But Beware if u play this game too much u would 
 have a highly often flashbacks of pwned players or NPCS that u killed.
  
  And u would think that its too easy and its pretty bad... but if u got a great mod then u will 
 see that u wassn't expecting soo much. (When i got THE VOID mod i was thinking that it would be 
 easy too get money with missions but they NOT. Only with a mission levl 8 (becuase in that mod 
 they got like levl 45+) they are really hard...
  
  
  And u would think that im a newbie in writing or telling. Reviews but this game is really awesome 
 for not too say nothing about. My activity in this game would be thinking is like 500 hours only 
 this July. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldaten027
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I will be honest here, I was thinking of not buying this game.
  Okay, okay, okay, please don't flame me for that remark.
  At first when I took on my first missions 
 in "Freelancer" I was amazed that al the game required was one little CD. I mean I remember "Baldur's 
 Gate" had about 6 of those darn things. The people at Digital Anvil really worked hard to cram 
 a bunch of space (literally) onto one little disc. 
  The world of "Freelancer" is just too huge and full of opportunities to be passed up. Although 
 I wish that you could do much more planet-side, it seems rather trite to bring this game down because 
 of that.
  The graphics on the other hand, stand up surprisingly well. The vastness of space and the fluidity 
 of the characters are really something to behold. Again, the planets bring down the graphics again 
 because sometimes they are just too sparse and don't show off the muscle that the game engine has.
 
  The thing that really holds this game together, but makes it satisfying in the end is the gameplay. 
 That darn gameplay that is more addicting than crack itself. I have already spent about 15 hours 
 just on the first two systems, getting assassination jobs, taking out pirates, upgrading my ship, 
 roaming the cosmos, I could go on.
  At the end of the day, you can play other games that can offer instant gratification.... or you 
 could do what were doing and slave away at "Freelancer" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hysteria210
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer is one of the most addictive games I have played. The storyline is very captivating, 
 and makes you want to play it again and again (which is what I did) . The controls are also very 
 easy. This game relies heavily on combat, and the controls for combat couldn't be easier. Your 
 mouse controls your ship, and you click to fire. 
  Game play: You start out as one of the few survivors of a mysterious attack on your station, Freeport 
 7. You then get a job with the LSF, or Liberty Security Force. You work for them and do jobs for 
 them to earn money to afford better ships and weapons. Then you start to notice that other Freeport 
 7 survivors are beginning to disappear. You then recover an artifact from the corpse of a fellow 
 survivor. That artifact has a mysterious power that everyone wants. So you become a wanted criminal, 
 and have to flee the territory of Liberty. You keep this pattern of doing jobs, running, and fighting, 
 all the while discovering more and more about this artifact that you have. 
  I don't want to give away the ending, but the ending is something that makes you want to play the 
 game again and again. After you beat the game, you are free to do whatever you want. You can ally 
 yourself with the criminal factions in each system (my personal favorite) , you can become a trader, 
 an explorer, or an enforcer of the law. 
  This game has entertained me for countless hours. The wonderful game play, and battle encounters 
 that you have are enough to keep you playing this game for many years to come. It's good for almost 
 any age, and it is a must play for anyone interested in space-combat games. I certainly recommend 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkantoxic
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the only space-sim i have ever played and i liked it very very very much.
  Its the vast and endless universe that really impressed me. You can go anywhere and anything, my 
 favorite is trading illegal goods. I really like the third person mode. The storyline is enjoyable 
 unfortunately it ends quickly, but after it ends u can do anything in space. Its impressive ships 
 make the game more thrilling. After i got the ultimate ship called the 'Titan' i felt like i was 
 the ruler of the universe. After u get the ship and the ultimate weapons u can survive in a radioactive 
 area for almost a half-an-hour, u can take up any job and complete it with ease with this ship. I 
 have not yet tried the multi player. The beauty of the universe is another great thing freelancer 
 has to offer. Many space systems to explore and many goods to collect and to sell. As i said u 
 can trade good and take the credits (money) . I like blowing freighters up and taking the lotto its 
 fun, of course that would worsen your reputation and so do not do this all the time. 
  It has a map that displays the space systems, objectives etc. Its third person is what i like, 
 with this mode its easy to see incoming missiles and lasers. i spend more than 100 hours on this 
 game and i could not get this enough of this game unfortunately i deleted this because my system 
 was getting slower. Now i want it again because its really  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre120
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  The only game that I have ever bought, used for every week of a year, worn down the disc to nothing 
 and then went out to buy again. In my personal opinion one of the greatest games of all time. I 
 can gurantee that if you are open to any type of game, you will be hooked on this, from start to 
 finish. The campaign is a very immersive and enjoyable storyline, it's only downside is it that 
 the story ends far too soon, however there are mods which create new stories or add onto the original. 
 This leads onto my next point. The modding community of Freelancer is enormous with some of the 
 top sites being lancers reactor and so on which contain 1000s of mods to keep the game alive and 
 give it fantastic replay value. If your also the kind of person who enjoys completing games in 
 their entirety or just generally exploring, you'll adore this game. Many people have said 'The 
 fun doesn't really start until the story's over' and I agree. once the story is completed you can 
 venture into 40 huge star systems, each with trade routes, planets space stations and many secrets. 
 The multiplayer aspect is very enjoyable, if you like PvP then its for you, if you like roleplay 
 its also for you, the possibilities are endless online, you can trade for money, join a pirate 
 faction by yourself or with friends or even, to a certain degree, create your own faction. Overall 
 Freelancer is a masterpiece that has brightened the lives of many diehard space sim fans and newcomers 
 alike and despite the claims from Microsoft it most certainly deserves a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This is one game I will never forget . . . .you start small and keep growing stronger . . it's 
 like world of warcraft in space with less flash . . the graphics is splendid for it's time and 
 the models are well made . . . . runs smooth in a P4+Geforce 2 machine, yet delivers some innovative 
 experience.
  
  The storymode is long and interesting while you upgrade your ride at every corner . . . after some 
 epic battles, the story ends leaving you FREELANCING! . . this is where the real exploration begins 
 . . you can start exploring the remaining 70% of the galaxies and their secret stash . . . by the 
 time you have one of the top 3 ships of the game, you will keep looking for equipments that make 
 your ship stronger . . there's no denying of the fun at exploring in this game . . the freedom 
 and value is just gr8!
  
  later I started multiiplayer with my cousins which was dramatic . . smooth servers with several 
 players/clans and missions . . you can fight the locals or other online players/clans . . once 
 again you level up slowly and get stronger as you explore deeper . . . . it just one cool game 
 to get addicted to . . . microsoft should release Freelancer 2 based on the same engine IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eufnoc
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  The story line is good, the single player is cool to play with out the mission's but the game really 
 comes in to its own with mods and multiplayer, the fun of joining groups, its even more fun when 
 role-playing, the universe is immense and again mods can make them even bigger, the controls are 
 easy to use, the economy is well thought out just like the npc's are, if your a trader and you 
 piss off the pirates the game is going to really hard for you, same as if your a bounty hunter 
 and you annoy the police.
  
  I think the game's bad points are everything seems to be on the same plain I mean you stand on 
 the edge of the map and everything is on the same level, the npc's voices get repeated after a 
 while which can get annoying and the SP non story missions are all pretty much go and destroy this 
 for your reward.
  
  Oh and there are hidden stuff in the game like ship wreaks and long forgotten artifacts driffing 
 in space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I played Freelancer shortly after it came out, and every several years or so I pick it up again 
 and spend an entire insomniac weekend plowing through this game. I can't explain this behavior, 
 but like clockwork, I am drawn back to play it as though some sort of instinctive urge to return 
 to my early college gaming years. I can't tell you why Freelancer is so fun and addictive, but 
 it's kept me rapt and pleasantly occupied throughout the years, despite the graphics seem more 
 and more aged with each playthrough. Even so, there's something that draws me to this game, and 
 despite it's repetitive nature and numerous flaws, it's easy to get lost in this game. 
  
  Part of what draws me to this game is the fact that it has a remarkably complicated and beautiful 
 world. Flying through a nebula with lightning sparking in the distance, only to find yourself on 
 the edge of a ice field with a starbase on the horizon, the beauty of this game quickly draws you 
 in. Some of my first experiences playing this game were akin to the awe upon my first time seeing 
 Xen on the original Half Life, and while dated, both games still offer similarly breathtaking beauty. 
 In some ways, this game is worth playing simply for the ability to do what can best be described 
 as flying around the hubble photos. There are also some amazing sequences with gas clouds, asteroid 
 belts, and space battles that left me simply in awe, but I was forced to shake it off due to the 
 fact that people were shooting at me. There were times I would simply explore a system, just to 
 see the beauty it had to offer.
  
  The level of detail in the game is also rather impressive, as there is a huge amount of semi-relevant 
 side plot going on. Every starbase has a news channel, and you can get a lot of interesting information 
 ranging from faction wars to life stories to infomercial-esque fictional product information by 
 simply talking to the company reps, drunks, and pilots in the bars. Despite this variation in information 
 offered, the conversations all go the exact same scripted way, as the future apparently is victim 
 to a personality draining neurological condition, a point that occasionally grates on my nerves. 
 Furthermore, there is a complicated faction system with factions ranging from bounty hunters to 
 space police to interstellar garbage men (I kid you not) , and your friendliness with various factions 
 determines the level of information and services you can get from patrons at the bar- and no matter 
 what, the bounty hunters guild always seems to hate you. Even so, the experience of winning over 
 a faction by doing jobs for them and murdering their enemies and competitors is rather akin to 
 a primitive dating sim, starting with them threatening to push you out an airlock and finally resulting 
 in the faction members practically lining up to offer their bodies to you, which is one of the 
 more satisfying, if not time consuming parts of the game*. However, faction allegiances tend to 
 arbitrarily shift with the plot, which is frustrating, but relatively unavoidable, unless you decide 
 to go screw the plot, and do your own thing- a tempting offer at times. Sure, the plot offers advancement 
 in the game, and new systems to explore... But they *like* me here.
  
  Another amazing thing about the game is the seemingly organic and decentralized nature of the universe 
 around you. Many a time, I would simply decide to wander about a system, simply exploring for the 
 sake of it. Most times, I would run into various ships from all number of factions, patrolling, 
 delivering cargo, and raiding. Many times, I'd run into a raid going on, fully independent of me, 
 and simply watch it play out. This actually proves to be a rather interesting experience, watching 
 AI ships duke it out, as given a large enough battle it can be host to some rather spectacular 
 dogfights. However, while doing this it's important to make sure neither faction are particularly 
 aggressive to you, as soon you might find yourself drawn into the fray.
  
  The game itself is a space fighter RPG hybrid, featuring a number of fully customizable ships, 
 a plethora of cargo types, and a large arsenal of weapons to add to your ship. The plot involves 
 faction wars, alien artifacts, and faction wars over alien artifacts. While the main plot is relatively 
 uninspired, the world remains rich and interesting, with massive amounts of backstory and detail 
 to just about anything and everything. Even so, there is little character development, and the 
 few characters that are genuinely interesting are pathetically underaddressed, and the only major 
 character that had any emotional depth gets killed early on. Even so, the plot itself serves as 
 a vehicle to open the way to new systems, each with better ships, more challenging missions, and 
 prettier planets. The difficulty curve can be a bit drastic initially, as a ship that might be 
 considered entirely pimped out in the previous system turns out to be a piece of scrap in the next, 
 which often forces you to immediately get the standard of that system as soon as possible.
  
  The gameplay is also rather enjoyable, as the space combat itself can become very intense at 
 times, especially during plot related battles, which range from painfully easy to nerve searingly 
 difficult. The grinding missions, on the other hand, tend to be annoyingly repetitive, although 
 if underequipped, can actually present a challenge. Still, despite the repetitive nature, I still 
 found the space combat to be dynamic and fun, and if done correctly, you can keep the grinding 
 down to a minimum of 3-5 missions per level, although I preferred to grind until I had the necessary 
 credits to purchase the local military spaceship from the nearest cruiser and pimp it out to the 
 full extent possible. 
  
  Graphics-wise, this game does well with what it has, making characters that look relatively natural, 
 given the technology. The ships all look interesting and realistic, and everything in space is 
 stunningly beautiful. Despite it being a somewhat dated game, I still find much of the space graphics 
 very pleasant to look at, and even more pleasant to play in.
  
  The sound quality is an area where this game shines, as the music, while ambient, is wholly appropriate 
 and suitable, and has a full range from the ambient space music to planet themes to bar techno. 
 The voice acting is also superb, featuring none other than George Takei and John Rhys-Davies as 
 two of the main stars, both giving great performances. 
  
  Overall, this game has survived the years well, and is still worth playing, despite it's repetitive 
 nature and slightly dull storyline. The massive, immersive world and beautiful backdrop draws you 
 in, and the generally fun nature of the game keeps you going till the end. While it can be a bit 
 dull at times, and it is in no way particularly innovative, it's just a solid game.
  
  *They do not offer their bodies to you, sadly.
  P. S.:
  One area I feel a compulsion to address 
 is the general rape of physics in this game. Things to keep in mind while playing Freelancer: A: 
 wormholes have not been proven, and probably do not occur randomly in space. B: You can not fly 
 between planets in a matter of minutes with impulse drive. C: In space, nobody can hear you scream, 
 shoot lasers, or anything like that. D: Planets are not that small, or close together. Space is 
 really big. E: Lasers travel at the speed of light, so it does not make sense to be able to dodge 
 a laser... Tachyon beam. Whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanvig
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Everything about this game is superb. Easy to modify and good multiplayer 
 facility of upto 128 players makes this game the best game ever. This game is not only about fighting. 
 Here only the cleverest shall live. Rather than strength techniques and strategy play a major role. 
 Trading, bribing, piracy and a lot more make this game suit even players who do not like FPSs. 
 More than hundred mods have been developed for this game. Every day more than million users play 
 this game online. Learning curve is about an hour. This may seem longer as there is a lot to learn 
 in this game. Players will not feel that time is passing away Choosing the right weapons, ships 
 and shields play the most vital place in the game. Overall this game just rocks. This game is never 
 ending. One can play this game forever without getting bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigason
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Feeling that this world is too small and want to explore the universe without spend millions of 
 bucks? Then freelancer is the game for you. The graphics, although not the most advanced when its 
 made, still packs a big punch, its just so easy to get distracted by the universe (or the black 
 hole in the border worlds) in a dog fight and get blasted into an average Although the story seems 
 to end abruptly, the universe will still get the layer occupied, as the storyline only features 
 a small portion of available bases systems and ships. There are also secret shipwrecks in almost 
 each system for the player to find, although to get to them, they usually carry high class weapons 
 and valuable (sometimes illegal) goods, and each packs great reward to whoever gets to them.
  
  Furthermore, a number of mods are available for this game, and they add in even more systems 
 and ships, some even battleships. These mods (like discovery freelancer and crossfire) make sure 
 your freelancer disk will not be left in your cd casing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonslashx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game got me from the start because of its freedom and concept. What bugged me was how 
 difficult it actually was if you didn't read any tips from other people telling you to get more 
 money before the next mission. Also what made it so fantastic was the versatility in the ship. 
 Also the world was huge and with a good server the game would have been amazing. If it had been 
 on the 360 or PS3 or somthing the game could dominate everything once the graphics were tuned up 
 and the story line made new. The basic concept should be applied to more games in the future because 
 this game was amazing in every bit of the word in terms of freedom and replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrzej83
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Overall game play is great. You definalty have to be a space game lover to fully enjoy this game. 
 You can do basically what you want. I do suggest to read the news broad casts in the bar as they 
 do provide some good info on the game as you play it. It also provides good news where to find 
 the good missions which let you earn more credits. Game has great selection of ships for the gamers 
 who just want pure distructive power or if you like the more quick and sneaky approach. Multyplayer 
 is good as well but if you play it alone it is hard to defeat the other players, so unless you 
 have a few friends that you can play along it is pretty much useless to play multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asif-rocks
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  The game is a master piece. It was a great experience and i really must say it was really cooooool. 
 I would love to play such games in future. Just a little bit of improvement in graphics, story 
 concept, and some more interesting places should be added. And if the game can be made like GTA, 
 i mean the freeroam style, then i t will be a super hit. Everyone will love it , I BET! Well thats 
 it, I dont have any other word to decribe it. So, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Xodus-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer's overall experiance in the respect of the gameplay is awesome, as there are many different 
 ways to control things and it also makes flying relatively easy to learn within a minute. This 
 story is quite long and descriptive and takes days to complete no matter long you play, including 
 the great plots and the characters. This game came out when I was very young and stuff as I am 
 older today I still love to play it since the day I first bought it. Other feather such as the 
 sound of the game is very good as well, as I haven't heard it skip ones or heard the soundtracks 
 lag. All in all, Freelancer is one of those games that you'll beat and you'll put it away for a 
 few months, and then want to play it again. Thus, you'll pull it out and rediscover all the new 
 odds and ends of this great game. A+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stefancormier
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Only, if only, Microsoft would of had the intelligence to market this amazing game better, it would 
 of sold so many more, and they would of been forced to make a sequel. Now however, Digital Anvil 
 is gone, and the thought of there being a second Freelancer is pretty much a distant memory. I 
 mean there are petitions online to make a second game, but that's a long way away from Microsoft's 
 doors. If anyone has any information on how to make sure that there is a second one made, please 
 let me know or go on Lancersreactor. com and post something. Hopefully they will somehow have a 
 change of heart and want to make a second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer is a massive game of adventure and combat. The games controls are steller. They are 
 so easy to master and use. You can manuver your ship easily with these controls. The combat is 
 fun and can be approached in many different ways. The world you explore is simply massive consisting 
 of a lot of star systems and planets. Its interesting how the colonies of the game are each representing 
 a part of earth they left 800 years ago. The multiplayer can provide endless hours of fun. Its 
 like an mmo in space with fast paced combat. If you love space games and awesome sci fi universes 
 this is also an awesome game in those catagories. You should buy this game now its only like 10 
 dollers on amazon or 20 dollers in the store. But the thing is you get 100+ hours of awesome fun 
 buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  There's nothing better then sitting down at your computer and firing up a well designed space sim 
 that works wonders in the graphic, sound, gameplay and entertainment departments.
  
  This game may be going on 4 years old, but the graphics are still something to marvel at. The atmosphere 
 and design of space, ships, weapons and the cut scenes are well done.
  
  The space battles range from beginner (very easy) to down right hard-core (very hard) . You get 
 the ability to make money during side missions and even during main missions; which you can use 
 to purchase new weapons (laser based guns, missles, torpedos, mines, cruise disruptors and even 
 counter-manuver flares) and new ships to fit your needs. You can fit your ships with upgraded weapons, 
 thrusters and shields to help you combat your enemies.
  
  You don't have to strictly be a warship pilot, you can purchase cargo ships and you can handle 
 freight (there are very many different items you can freight) from one solar system to another. 
 Be sure to land on every planet and base that you can, because many different places give out different 
 prices on products. This way you can find the places that sell things for the least and places 
 that buy them for the most.
  
  My only downfall on this game is the fact that it keeps freezing up on me during mission 7 of the 
 main story and I have yet to find a way around this problem. Sad to say, I have not beaten this 
 game, but I believe I have come as close as I can. Perhaps I have a corrupted file in my saved 
 games or just a corrupted file in the game itself.... I've tried an uninstall and re-install, but 
 that didn't help and I'm too far into the game to want to delete all my saved games and start over. 
 So I leave it as it is, and I consider the game beat in my opinion.
  
  There are a few bugs that I have run across, even though I have installed the official patch 1.1 
 and then I went and installed the unoffical patch 1.4 (which includes all offical patchs that were 
 released, plus extra bugs squashed by modders) .
  
  The unability of me to be able to finish this game is what causes me to score this at an 8.5. Otherwise 
 I would have given it a nine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndru01
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  I played Privateer to death in the early 90s. It really felt like you started scratching out your 
 living in a larger and intriguing universe. If you weren't running contraband past the cops you 
 were bounty hunting the pirates or acting as a frontier mercenary against the tiger-faced aliens 
 (I can't remember their names) . All the while you are piecing together clues that lead towards 
 a hidden secret within a dark corner of the Privateer universe.
  
  Privateer II killed the Privateer franchise stone cold, but Freelancer gave it the kiss of life.
 
  
  Privateer again has that feeling of a large, sprawling universe. The main thing that is missing 
 in Freelancer, though, is the freedom to wander around the gaming universe like you could in Privateer. 
 The biggest negative I have against Freelancer is that it straight-jackets the player into a tight 
 and linear script. There just doesn't seem to be any room to develop a sustainable career as a 
 contraband runner, for example.
  
  The graphics for Freelancer were very good, and the combat was pretty good, too, although I miss 
 some of the excellent weapon upgrades that Privateer offered. That feeling of slow but rewarding 
 progress from earning payments for completed tasks is also here, but the continual travelling between 
 systems is very tedious. I was hopeful about playing Privateer and I wasn't disappointed overall, 
 despite a few small problems with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  The non-interactive demo of Freelancer that was unveiled at E3 1999 was the single most impressive 
 bit of jaw-dropping, drool-inducing pre-release game hype this well-traveled game writer has ever 
 seen. The cinematic flare, sheer scope, massive scale, and promise of an almost unheard-of level 
 of open-ended gameplay were the stuff space-sim nuts pray for.
  
  Naturally, with a game this long in development, the impact of its technical luster has faded significantly. 
 Had it come out a year ago, Freelancer would be leading its genre in terms of visual bedazzlement. 
 As it stands, it still manages to hold its own with other cutting-edge titles, which is a testament 
 of sorts to the vision of its initial design.
  
  Every detail  the ships, explosions, space stations, and planets  looks great, and the game performs 
 admirably well with all effects turned on at high resolutions on the recommended configuration. 
 It has a bold cinematic flair, but its just not as awe-inspiring as Id hoped, which again can 
 probably be attributed mostly to its delayed arrival.
  
  The story and gameplay are akin to Morrowinds in many respects. A central scripted plot serves 
 to lead your character, Edison Trent, through about half of Freelancers known star systems before 
 its done, introducing you to around 20 principal NPCs. Missions range from escorts to running 
 for your life to finding and taking out bases, as well as locating various people and items.
  
  However, you dont have to progress directly from one story mission to the next. In fact, the 
 games leveling-up scheme actually requires you to take time between story objectives to freelance 
 and raise the necessary cash and experience needed to acquire that next, more-powerful fighter 
 ship.
  
  The main story took me only about 13 hours to get through, and then I was free to do whatever I 
 wanted. The free-form play entails exploring the rest of the systems, making a living out of the 
 trade system (buying low, selling high) , becoming a nefarious space pirate, or upholding the law 
 by freelancing for the military and/or police.
  
  Whichever role you choose for yourself, the process of fulfilling it consists of finding and visiting 
 planets and space stations, then going to their bars to drum up business with the patrons, or simply 
 taking a look at the job board for available assignments. While docked, you can also purchase a 
 new ship, repair and upgrade your existing one, and buy or sell commodities.
  
  The missions you choose, fights you join, and cargo you loot all have an effect on your reputation. 
 Theyll win you fast friends and hard enemies  with long memories  among the games numerous 
 factions, which may make it impossible to land on certain bases or planets, as well as hinder your 
 travel in certain sectors.
  
  Unfortunately, while each star system manages to pull off a unique look (Asian, European, American, 
 or alien in theme) , the people you meet are far more one-dimensional. The canned conversation options 
 are extremely limited, and youll say the same lines over and over again and hear the same ones 
 back in return. The missions lack the variety to keep you bent on seeking out new ways to make 
 a space credit.
  
  MAKE A SPACE LIVING
  The prospect of earning more cash and levels to gain access to the games more powerful ships is 
 still alluring. But the freelancing aspect suffers from the lack of any motivating factor. The 
 ability to buy or own property where you could warehouse different ships, or even earning enough 
 dough to buy your own planet, would have greatly enhanced the freelancing, which is the real heart 
 of the game. (It is called Freelancer, after all.) Even the prospect of encountering the odd NPC 
 with a sub-quest or two would have been a wise addition.
  
  Freelancers cooperative multiplayer options help make up for this shortcoming. Being able to hook 
 up with several friends and explore the galaxy together, taking on the higher-level missions and 
 searching for the myriad secrets strewn about the various systems, is great fun. Multiplayer 
 games performed quite well over my DSL connection, with nary a framerate drop or perceptible lag 
 in onscreen action. Of course, you can also host or join a player-versus-player server for some 
 deathmatching action.
  
  The 100-percent mouse-driven control scheme may leave many space-sim grognards flat, as it did 
 me at first  and it still takes some of the edge out of deathmatching for me. Not being able to 
 use my fancy joystick to fly with, as I could with all of original designer Chris Roberts previous 
 space efforts, just seems unnatural. I understand the desire to make the game friendly to new players, 
 but I do miss some of the additional sophisticated control options typically offered in games of 
 this type, including the ability to issue orders to wingmen and to target specific parts of ships.
 
  
  Still, using the mouse makes precision-aiming and movement easier, which is a plus considering 
 all the dense asteroid and debris fields youll have to fly and fight your way through. And its 
 easier to switch between flying and navigating the brilliantly simplified interface using a dedicated 
 mouse-control scheme. Id still like to see joystick support, and the ability to roll your ship 
 is conspicuously absent, but the mouse-driven controls work pretty smoothly overall.
  
  Freelancer suffers from a severe lack of character development in almost every nook and cranny 
 of its design. But it offers an interesting main story, bottomless value for the dollar in terms 
 of sheer open-ended exploration, and a very cool co-op mode. Given the current drought befalling 
 this genre, Freelancer is easy to recommend to space simmers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxCore117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer is definitely one of the most fun and addictive Sci - Fi adventures of all time. It 
 has an excellent single player with a great storyline as you play as Trent, one of the few survivors 
 of a space station that was destroyed by pirates. Left on the planet Manhattan in the New York 
 space system he needs to get a new ship and start making some credits. He decides to work with 
 the LSF (Liberty Security Force) serving under Juni. I won't spoil it any more. Freelancer is set 
 in a MASSIVE Universe with 5 main sectors containing over 40 space systems to explore. Each space 
 system is uniquely designed with its own individual planets and space systems, asteroid belts etc. 
 Whether you choice to be a merchant, escort, soldier, pirate or smuggler your destiny must unfold 
 in this thrilling adventure. In the single player you do have to follow quite a linear path with 
 set objectives you have to complete, but it does give you some freedom in how you make money and 
 what ship you decide to fly. The storyline is well put together and the cut scenes are well made. 
 The multiplayer is what amazed me though. Anyone who buys the Freelancer disc will notice it comes 
 with a program called FLServer installed in the directory. This allows you to make your own server 
 and put it on the internet for other players to join and play together. There is a huge amount 
 of online activity with the serious servers having up to 60 players online at once all serving 
 different causes. Clans can be made online and players will soon asume roles of merchants, and 
 pirates etc. This is just like an MMORPG but obviously free to play online and with the servers 
 run by ordinary people! Online is tremendously fun as Clan wars take place and the PvP is great. 
 There is a MASSIVE range of ship types with light fighter ships to heavy freighter cargo ships 
 which can all be completely customised to with different guns, engines, shields etc. The visuals 
 are good and Freelancer is definitely one of the most memorable games I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  this review doesn't need to be too long. the single player:
  good enough story to keep you wanting to know what will happen next. fun and intense action. the 
 ability to customize, your ship is your baby. and most importantly for fun factor, the single player 
 lets you roam a fair bit and do as you please between particularly important plot points. the sp 
 is fantastic. the multiplayer:
  pure open world fun. the key to the mp is finding ppl to hook up with and either do missions or 
 have pvp battles or just plain explore and trade to make money if thats what you're into. the missions 
 do get repetitious so its the interaction with other ppl that keeps the mp fresh and incredibly 
 enjoyable. overall the mp has immense replay value and can be some of the most fun you've had gaming. 
 so to sum up, don't miss this one. its a definite keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriggerHappy203
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I bought Freelancer because it was cheap and I was waiting for Half Life 2.
  I ended up playing it far more than I've ever played Half Life. Freelancer puts you in the shoes 
 of Edison Trent, freelancer who goes from system to system, looking for anyone who needs a gun-for-hire. 
 He goes to a station called Freeport 7, looking for a deal that would get him a million credits. 
 Just before the deal goes down, someone or something attacks the station, and he is one of the 
 few people to escape.
  
  After that, you can follow the main storyline. And you'll want to. It isn't terribly original, 
 but while playing you'll definitely be compelled to follow it. And there's a very interesting twist 
 about a quarter of the way through.
  
  After you're done with the storyline, you should have a million credits or more, and half of the 
 game's systems mapped out, or less. What then? That's up to you.
  
  You can buy a freighter, and do trade runs through the outer ends of the game's four 'nations,' 
 which started as countries on earth. Liberty, (The US) Bretonia, (Britan) Kusari, (Japan) and Rhineland. 
 (Germany) However, the most interesting ones lie far beyond what the game shows you to start with. 
 These hold the most interesting factions with the most powerful weaponry, giving you carte blanche 
 to venture far out of the safety of the populated inner systems.
  
  However, if there's one hook that will REALLY draw you into Freelancer, it's multiplayer. Basically, 
 multiplayer is every single system in single player (Minus a couple that only have a few objects 
 related to the storyline) minus the storyline, that acts as your own private MMO, assuming you're 
 on a busy server. And there are still plenty. Add in scores of high-quality mods, and the result 
 is a very, VERY immersive, addictive game that will satisfy anyone who has ever enjoyed a sci-fi 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingvaillant
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorites games because the story is good and simple compare to other game. The 
 only disadvantage of the story mode is that it is too much open-ended (There's only a few paths 
 to take) . Beside this, the multi-player mode is well-done. For example you can do quest that you 
 normally do in single player with a group. Trader or fighter? both can make a lot of money. The 
 communication system is simple. The PvP is enough fair. You can choose to ally with a faction if 
 you want which give a lots of possibility in multi-player and sometime a more challenging gameplay. 
 In the game it is easy to know which area contain high level NPC and which one does not. The trade 
 system is simple (no simulated economy so the prices of items never change) . Controls are made 
 for everyone, Graphic are very good (they might look a bit old now but in the past it's was very 
 good quality graphics) , The effects are beautiful. Ships are well designed. The sound is great. 
 The game can be modded without difficulty for those who want some addons or a bit different gameplay. 
 Even if the game is a bit old there is still a lots of players on the servers and most of them 
 are nice. This is a good game to play with a friend and there is no online fees. I really recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Most people complain about how space sims are too hard or complicated. Freelancer solves that.
 
  
  Graphics: This game still has pretty neat effects years after it's release. Graviton affects shields 
 and the particle bounces. Afterburners. Ships explode. Fire catches on damaged ships. Planets look 
 like real planets. Some of the other effects look great.
  
  Gameplay: The game really does a good job on gameplay. Want to be the richest without violence? 
 Buy commodities and research trade routesto sell your cargo at the best price at the particular 
 planet. Want to shoot something? Go ahead shoot whoever you want just don't expect a warm welcome 
 from his/her faction. The targetting system is simple and easy. Trade routes are displayed for 
 easy trading. There's a trade menu for multiplayer so ships can trade cargo or weapons or money. 
 Sounds: Top notch voice acting though later on the voice's are compiled together into sound bytes. 
 Blasting ships and watching the explosion has never been better.
  
  Multiplayer: It really deserves a slot here because of it's excellent idea. Years later and the 
 communtiy is still very active. You can just join a server and have the best ship in a day. The 
 servers are so big it feels like your playing an MMORPG not a space simulator. People talk and 
 help you. Missions can be compelted as groups so the cash is split and it's newbie friendly.
  
  Ships: While they're aren't alot of practical ships (Freighters are somewhat useless at times) . 
 It's still a pretty decent selection and some of them look creative.
  
  Atmosphere: Even in single play I feel like im surrounded by 1000's of people. There are ships 
 ,freighters, and NPC's talking all the time in the game. Actions they do include docking with stations, 
 police scan your cargo for illegal substance , pirates attack freighter carvans, trade gates (warp 
 gates for fast planetary travel) are destroyed suddenly as you get ambushed by pirates. AI: The 
 AI is great enough to prove a challenge at lower and greater levels.
  
  Story: The game's story is intricate and interesting. You really want to know what happens next. 
 Basically your a freelancer who is hired to escort a ship then all hell breaks loose as rival factions 
 and governments come and attack.
  
  
  PLAY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkserpent08
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME, freelancer has to be the best space adventure games i have ever played, it has 
 a great story line and great action, if you have the right graphics card and enough memory, it 
 is a must to run in full graphics, that makes the game a lot better, excellent sprites and light 
 effects in this game, if you love space you'll love this game..
  
  its a little short on what to do after you've beaten the game, it kind of just leaves you off with 
 an open end, actually many open ends, but i think thats due to a product release date dead line 
 of some sort, because im sure the developers wouldnt just leave it off like that 2 areas that arent 
 filled very well..
  
  but there are plenty of things to do once you have beaten the game, such as, becoming a merchant 
 or a bounty hunter, even become part of a criminal society.
  
  In all its a very fun and cheap game, the online gaming experience is excellent too, you just have 
 to find a large server and stay there.
  
  the only thing i think this game sound have been improved on a little more story line behind the 
 Nomad race, its left a bit open at the end.
  
  its not hard to learn how to play the game either, but you dont fully learn how to play the game 
 untill your all done with it, since there are tricks you learn for yourself later on.
  
  Its a good buy, Go try it!! ENJOY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxhell04
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game! The free flying and endless missions leads to an endless game! The story 
 mode starts off very easy but gets ridiculously hard towards the end! Taking on entire fleets all 
 by yourself and just praying the 50 guys shooting at you don't all hit at once! LOL The game is 
 crazy. The battles are enormous and full of action. There are tons of different ships to choose 
 from and tons of weapons to customize them with.
  
  Also there are numerous user submitted upgrades and mods that are off the hook! They totally revamp 
 the game and let you use capital ships and dozens of new weapons.
  
  The game is as long as you want to make it cause there is always something to do. This game will 
 keep you entertained forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilco96
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game for year and then was totally disappointed. Ok, perhaps my expectations 
 were to high. Let's compare the game with Wing Commander. Story: The story of Freelancer maybe 
 average but not better, not nearly as good as the epic storys of WC3 and WC4. Game-play: Lousy 
 missions for sure in freelancer. In many missions many enemies are attacking you at the beginning 
 but you do not have to shoot them. Just fly in circles and use the afterburner as much as possible (gape) 
 and wait for a jump-hole to open. There are really many missions where you can trick the game like 
 this. Further more you can shoot torpedo's as fast as you like. You do not have to lock them on 
 enemies. Overall this game is shooter in space and not a space simulation. ok perhaps i had the 
 wrong expectations but there are enough shallow shooter with average stories out there. Of course 
 most of the have better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CroatianPatriot
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  This game was made in 2003. That was 4 years ago. Since then, I have played it for over 1000 hours... It's 
 the best game ever made!
  When you start the game, you start from scratch. You get the worst ship possible, a little money, 
 and a mission. Then, you need to pass 13 very, very interesting story missions, and buy new ships, 
 weapons, upgrades, visit hundreds of stations, planets etc. After the main storyline is finished, 
 your goal should be to explore the entire galaxy, buy the best ship- Titan, find the best weapons 
 in the wrecks all over the galaxy, and get rich. You can be a pirate, a trader, a smuggler, a bounty 
 hunter, a soldier... Anything you want.
  There are four major houses in Freelancer. Those are the most powerful factions. The Rheinland is 
 something like Germany in the real world, the Liberty is something like the USA, the Kusari is 
 like Japan, the Bretonia is like United Kingdom and Ireland. There should have been one more government, 
 the Hispania, but they became great pirate nations. (The Corsairs and the Outcasts) . The game will 
 probably get boring to you after around 150 hours of playing. You have to go to www. lancersreactor. com 
 and download some mods. They are GREAT, you have Star Wars mods, Star Trek mods, you can change 
 the entire Freelancer universe with them. As I said, I've been playing Freelancer for over 1000 
 hours and it's still not boring, because of the mods. The only bad thing in the game is the music. It's 
 great for the atmosphere, but you should listen to your own music while playing, it's more fun. Just 
 don't turn your music on while you are playing the storyline, because the game has no subtitles... The 
 game is really worth buying. You won't regret if you buy it. Just make sure you buy it when you've 
 got time, because the time flies when you play this magnificent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strutter_uk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up as a budget title after having heard many good things over the years since 
 it's release.
  
  Even by todays standards the space visuals hold up very well, and the playability and story lines 
 are very immersive and intriguing. The 'non' space sections do look a bit flat and plain, but it 
 doesn't detract from the fact this is one hell of a good game with some excellent space effects 
 and a nice control system.
  
  I love the fact you can 'jump' to different parts of the galaxy easily, and all the politics within 
 the game. You can buy new ships, weapons, trade goods. There's so much to do, and it just doesn't 
 get boring at all.
  
  EASILY the best space shooter since X-Wing Alliance in my view.
  
  Love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewellul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  If you like immersive gameplay... playing and actually getting something out of it... and exploring, 
 then you must try Freelancer. Its impossible to describe exactly what it is that makes this such 
 a good game but here the gist. After finishing the exciting single player story-mode, you are left 
 in the middle of where it all began, and you probably think that you've seen everything since you 
 did the story... NOoo! The satisfaction of the game comes from discovering the tricks and twists 
 inside it. You are not spoon fed eveything (like it tells you where the pirate bases are and where 
 to go to get a ship ect...)
  
  The player must use his cunning to find things that are much cooler that what you see in the stroy.. 
 For example... to find the pirate bases you must look at the patrol routes of the pirates and go 
 where they all meet. This is also a good way to find hidden jump holes to their systems and Homebases,
 
  
  You can make friends with the pirates , smuggle and even attack police and army ships. The graphics 
 and background music make Freelancer what it is though.. some systems are so greatly 'painted' 
 that it just makes it feel a lot more real. See for your self and download the demo
  
  ALSO ... there is a cool mod called the void mod for it.... here it is:
  
  http://www. voidserver. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer is as close as you can get to an MMO without actually playing one. The game is one big 
 universe full of hundreds of planets, dozens of systems and a array of choices to keep you busy 
 for months after you have finished the single player story.
  
  The story is very good allowing the single player to come to life, with some of the hardest missions 
 you will find to keep the game fresh and challenging so you never get to bored. While some of the 
 side missions will feel a little similar, you will never get too tired of doing these until the 
 big missions come along to push along the main story of the game in which you must fight your own 
 people and a deadly alien force known as the Nomad.
  
  The gameplay while simple, still requires skill and with solid sounds and nice graphics even for 
 gaming standards 4 years after it was release. The voice acting in top notch and even has a few 
 well known actors in it like George Takei from STAR TREK and John Rhys Davies from Sliders & Lord 
 of the Rings.
  
  The value of the game is a major strength in the game, as when you finish the single player story, 
 you can then carry on and explore the rest of the systems and get new ships, new jobs and make 
 your own life in this virtual world. You can be a pirate, smuggler, Trader or Hero with only a 
 small number of places that you cannot get to so the universe gets even bigger from what you could 
 do before.
  
  You can even go online and make your way in this virtual universe against other people plus there 
 are tons of mods for people to play too, both online and on your own.
  
  My only real complaints are sometimes the navy and police don't do a good job of keeping order 
 which leads too sometimes, one to many attacks from pirates & criminals when your going around 
 the systems. Also sometimes in big battles, the AI seems to only target you especially in the final 
 missions which can become annoying and frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LT_Winters
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is a highly anticipated title that ended up surprising many space combat fans with its 
 design and execution. The developers clearly made it a priority to create an accessible and complete 
 space action game, and they succeeded brilliantly with Freelancer. Armed with a strong story, fantastic 
 visuals, a great presentation and intuitive, yet deep and entertaining gameplay, Freelancer is 
 sure to own a space on any gamers hard drive for months to come. Freelancers accessibility may 
 come as an unpleasant shock to hardcore space combat simulator fans because it does not require 
 nor support a joystick to play, just a mouse and keyboard. Thanks to its unique piloting system, 
 Freelancer allows you to steer your ship simply by moving your mouse and using your keyboard to 
 modulate your speed. This may have already driven fans of Starlancer and Freespace away from this 
 review, but sit tight. The accessibility that Freelancer emphasizes in no way dilutes the gameplay 
 or the experience. The game is remarkably well designed; in five minutes even new players will 
 be flying their ships like experienced pilots, but the combat still has a lot of depth that is 
 only uncovered as you encounter increasingly difficult situations.
  
  The storyline and presentation are a pleasantly surprising part of Freelancers package. As a lone 
 freelance pilot who has ventured from his home to seek riches and adventure, Edison Trent, your 
 character, is caught up in a conspiracy much larger than himself, and he must work together with 
 other compelling characters to unravel this mystery. Complete with several excellent plot twists, 
 the story will keep you guessing and playing well into the games 30+ hour single-player component, 
 which deftly mixes fun, scripted action with the freedom to take missions and make money on your 
 own. The campaign paces itself well as the meat of Freelancers single-player value, putting you 
 through sequences of plot exposition (told both in-flight and through the games great-looking 
 cutscenes) and turns you loose in a steadily expanding universe to do as you please. During this 
 less scripted gameplay, you can take missions, explore different areas of space, and make money 
 through trading. The game has over two dozen different ships, ranging from the light scout fighters 
 that youll likely fly early in the game to bulky, well-armored transports ships with huge cargo 
 capacities that you can use to ply the galaxys trading lanes. Each ship varies on how many and 
 what type of hardpoints that it has. These hardpoints can be used to equip weapons, shield generators, 
 thrusters, missile launchers, countermeasure droppers and more, allowing you to customize the ship 
 to your hearts content. Each ship will also have different armor and speed capabilities, so you 
 can make the choice between a slow, powerful heavy fighter and a speedier scout ship to quickly 
 move throughout the galaxy. Each planet and space station (and there are hundreds of these) is 
 connected by trade lanes that allow you to rapidly transit from one area of interest. In addition, 
 jump gates allow you to move from one solar system to another.
  
  And you will need these traveling amenities, because the game is huge. Four different nations 
 make up Freelancer, each one with several solar systems and over a dozen planets and many more 
 stations. Each faction will also have many different sub factions within it that you can ally yourself 
 with; be aware, however, that doing missions for one faction will often cause another to fire on 
 sight. Raiding the ships of the Xeno League, for example, will cause their escorts to fire at you 
 on sight in the future, so be wary.
  
  The combat uses mouse-and-keyboard controls, where you use your mouse to maneuver and fire primary 
 weapons. Some keyboard controls allow easy use of countermeasures, missiles, mines, and cruise 
 disrupters. Your ships interface allows you to perform many complex tasks, such as docking with 
 a ship or entering formation, by just using your left mouse button to select a target and clicking 
 on the appropriate maneuver button. You can also select weapons and supplies this way as well. 
 Your ship can move at normal speed, use its limited thrusters for a temporary speed boost, or fire 
 up its cruise engines, which take a while to charge up, but allow travel at nearly four times normal 
 speed. The downside is that you cant use weapons in this phase, and you can get shot down with 
 cruise disrupters. The game is obviously very accessible and easy to operate, but that doesnt 
 mean that it sacrifices depth in combat. You will have to make many decisions in the heat of battle, 
 especially when your shields start falling and you have to get evasive. Good timing and aiming 
 with your lasers, missiles, and mines, as well as good decisions in the equipment shop, are the 
 only ways that you will consistently win battles. The Freelancer combat system is comparable to 
 Diablo in that it quickly gets new players into the action with a great interface, provides a fast-paced, 
 fun experience, yet also requires some serious thinking to get through those hairy space battles.
 
  
  The game revolves around completing missions, both scripted into the story and randomly generated. 
 The scripted missions are fantastic in intensity and scope; later in the game, youll be taking 
 part in fleet-on-fleet engagements that not only look great, but represent the games most engaging 
 and complex battles. These often serve as the culmination of several hours of storyline, making 
 them even more satisfying.
  
  The random missions, however, can get a little repetitive as you try to build up your cash reserves 
 and upgrade your ship. Most fall into the kill this group of ships and report back or take out 
 this leader and pick up your reward variety. Later in the game, you can team up with allies to 
 take out space stations and defenses for local factions for big rewards, and this injects some 
 much-needed variety into the freelancing gameplay, in addition to the profitable trading life. 
 The games strong combat system really helps to balance out its disappointing lack of variety in 
 this area. The story presentation is worth noting because of how it immerses you in the game world. 
 Whenever you enter a bar on a planet or station, you can pick up a job, check out the news from 
 that part of the galaxy, hear some gossip, or engage in faction subterfuge. The extra story that 
 you pick up here goes a long way toward making the game feel like a living universe, as does the 
 games atmosphere; each planet and station has its own artistic feel to it, with places such as 
 New London and New Tokyo having appropriately themed visuals to accompany them.
  
  Unfortunately, some of the games much-anticipated ambition got a little lost in translation in 
 several areas. The trading system is static, with trading prices and routes largely staying the 
 same. The story tends to lack the choices that were promised to allow you to make your own adventure. 
 And the much-touted faction system is relatively basic here, with no real depth or consequences 
 to playing loyalties or becoming a true freelancer because the depth in the random missions simply 
 isnt there.
  
  Nevertheless, Freelancer remains an immensely enjoyable gaming experience because the core gameplay 
 is sound. The combat is engaging, the story is good, and the multiplayer is tons of action-packed 
 fun with friends as you team up to face increasingly difficult missions. Even after youre done 
 with the 30+ hour single-player game, Freelancer promises more thrills through multiplayer pirating 
 and ship-to-ship duels with other players and tons of modding possibilities. Simply put, Freelancer 
 is one of the most complete and all-around enjoyable games of the past few years, with great action 
 and enough variety to keep the experience fresh on every level. Both space combat fans and gaming 
 newcomers will find a lot to like in Freelancer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  I say a good game although not the best. There are a lot of things to do in the world in Freelancer. 
 Explore systems belonging either to the
  house corporations like Liberty or criminals such as the outcasts, fighting ships whether a mission 
 or simply what you like to do, trading
  items by buying them from planets, bases, or battleship that sells them for a low place and selling 
 it on places that requires them, mining
  on asteroid fields (although time consuming and can be useless) , or just simply roaming around 
 the systems.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  One of the impressive things in the game. The environment is the most detailed part of the games 
 graphics even if the graphics is set on low.
  Even the asteroid fields, nebula clouds, etc. look richly detailed. It is also nice to see things 
 like small bacterias or microbes moving around in space
  like in the Alaska system. The Characters are well done although are less detailed than its environment. 
 The ships are nicely done although some
  ships like that of Rheinlands are more colored and detailed sometimes. The Planets and their moons 
 though look less detailed and I can even say that their
  atmoshpere: which was supposed to be far from reaching the ground (like in the true world) : are 
 too low and you would be even be close on colliding in either
  the planet or the moon's ground before recieving a warning. Also, they might be somtimes to close 
 to there suns although nevermind those things. At least the graphics
  are one of the impressive features although can be the least.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sounds of 
 the game are nice from firing your laser or solid based weapons up to missiles although faster 
 missiles have different sounds than slower ones.
  The voice acting is even better than the sounds since the characters say them in the right time. 
 The background music is nice. It changes depending on the
  situation although you will here only the best of them when fighting nomads on the last games missions.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The best part of the game. Here, you play as a freelancer who just survived and escaped from the 
 destruction of freeport 7 at the beggining of the game.
  You can either explore, trade or mine, and go on missions. You can buy ships also although the 
 bests ones are mostly found on the main systems of the
  Outcast or Corsairs which are in the border or edge worlds and going there is suicide unless you 
 get enough equipment to survive and get there to buy
  those ships. The game never ends, even if you finish the story and you are free of doing anything 
 on Freelancers universe. Become either a criminal
  or a hero or even just become neutral and trade things. After the story, you also can explore other 
 places as there are lots of other systems unexplored.
  
  I may also want to refer the AI as they are good and will try to attack you from behind especially 
 against strong ships. They can though be sometimes
  stupid like they won't run even if they are close to death. When going on patrols which are on 
 the other side of the son (when facing it) , they just
  head through the sun and won't even avoid causing them to die which is pretty stupid. Even traders 
 on house systems get killed by colliding with a planets
  atmosphere. There can be a lot of things to refer to the AI although at least they are good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCStein
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  The feeling you get when you first get in the cockpit is one of the most awe-inspiring experiences 
 for a video game ever. After the expansive and varied universe created by Digital Anvil, you find 
 that the controls are easily manageable. Next, the music and sound effects hit you because they 
 are nearly perfect for every experience. Granted, the game becomes a little repetitive, but what 
 great game is not in some way. World of Warcraft is known for its repetitive nature, but it is 
 still hailed as the greatest MMORPG. So, what you have is a game that was built in the minds of 
 gamers, partly fueled by media hype and partly by the overactive imaginations of gamers. Freelancer 
 may not be the greatest game of all time, and it may not be the all it was made out to be, but 
 if you look at the game itself, you can see that Freelancer still is better than the 8.3 or 8.4 
 given to it by jaded gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ringworm32
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game was a masterpiece. For its time, the graphics, sound quality are amazing. It has one 
 of the most captivating storylines ever. If you haven't checked out this game, give it a try.
 
  
  It will remain one of my favorites for years to come. It is also endlessly replayable, what with 
 all the mods and the fact that after the story you can continue to do whatever you want in the 
 vast realm of space...
  
  The multiplayer is also very fun. There are many servers all with good admins that will do everything 
 they can to make your experience the best possible.
  
  The revolutionary reputation system is also a plus. You can be friendly with the pirates, but the 
 police will then dislike you and vice versa. And you can change your rep however you want by doing 
 various missions and prowling around hunting pirates or smuggling contreaband or fighting the local 
 law enforcement.
  
  All in all, this is a great game that is worth playing for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_1001
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer in a nut shell: It's like GTA; it plays like GTA; you'll hate it because it's similar 
 to GTA; you'll love it because it's similar to GTA.
  
  I never really heard of this title, except few small praises from my buddies over the years. I 
 accidentally got a copy as a free bonus when I brought a new joystick... bad luck for the joystick, 
 it never left its original packaging.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  As the game title says, you play as a freelancer. You have your own ship, and you can take jobs 
 from various factions in the universe, or you can be your own boss and become miner, trader, pirate, 
 explorer or just a guy with happy trigger finger. Each job comes with rewards, which you can use 
 to buy better weapons and ships. And you actions in the universe affects what people like you and 
 what people hate you. The game features a gigantic galaxy for the player to explore and you can 
 do whatever you want within the universe, similar in a GTA style. Whatever praise we have heard 
 from open ended game similar to GTA has already been said: freedom, exploration, ability to ignore 
 main storyline, non-linear gameplay, etc... I'll skip that and move right to the negatives.
  
  As mentioned earlier, you can become whatever role you want within the game universe provided 
 by Freelancer... except all job description (minus the trader and miner) boils down to blow up enemy 
 ships. You play a cop, blow up criminals ship; you play pirate, blow up trader's ships; you player 
 criminal, blow up cops, etc... The job system is extremely repetitive.
  
  The same with all the bases you visit... every station, every planet you land compose of five sections: 
 The landing pad; the bar, the market, the equipment locker, the ship dealer, even the way people 
 talk is the same. Basically all locations in the universe functions the same regardless their size 
 and location.
  
  But despite the fact that the game's mechanic is repetitive, it is partially offset by the fact 
 that combat unpredictable and fun, because you are not the only one doing the killing in the game. 
 Outside the random missions, you might get ambushed by bandits who want to get even, stumble upon 
 enemy base and stir the hive, or get caught in a large battle between two rival factions in the 
 game. When engaged, the enemies will try to team up and cover each other, setting up traps and 
 use taking covers with objects like asteroids and gas fields, or even run away. Add that with a 
 slick mouse and keyboard control, the combat in Freelancer will most likely keep people on their 
 toes, especially in part of the game universe humans hasn't properly explored yet. Also the game 
 encourages players to visit as much base as possible despite their identical functions and feel. 
 Different bases in the universe offers different equipments for you to find, different people you 
 meet will give you tips and offer to fix your reputations with different factions, and different 
 market has different demands for goods that you can take advantage upon by becoming a trader. Although 
 it's no solution to the repetitive feel of all the bases in the universe, at least it gives the 
 player an incentive to explore as much as possible.
  
  Although the open ended gameplay in Freelancer is not as revolutionary as the GTA when it came 
 out, it does feel more polished and satisfying than the latter because it offers better challenges 
 and better incentive to explore the game world. On the other side, the missions in Freelancer lacks 
 the variety when compared to GTA, but given the fact the GTA missions are close to brain-dead in 
 terms of challenge, I really don't see the trade-off in Freelancer as a minus.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I always hold the view that artists are greater than geeks when it comes to creating 
 beautiful graphics in videogame, and Freelancer is an example of that. Granted, the technology 
 that powers the graphics in Freelancer, in my opinion, is no better than Half-Life with the Hi-Def 
 pack installed, but the amount of details the artists manage to cramp in the game's texture and 
 color is incredible. Each star system in the game feels like it's been ripped right out of NASA 
 headquarter and faithfully reproduced in 3D. If you find yourself in awe of the photos taken by 
 the Hubble telescope, you will not be disappointed by Freelancers graphics. Also, despite the fact 
 that the game is about flying spaceships, the character animations is detailed down to facial expression 
 and it doesn't feel like you are looking at robots. When in combat, you can see ships get ripped 
 the pieces and burn before it's health reached to zero (the same can happen to you, it sucks to 
 lose one of your wings and half of your firepower along the way) . Lasers fire is bright and vibrant, 
 while missiles and torpedoes leave a silver streak before exploding in a blinding flash. Although 
 the graphic as few flaws, such as battleships and space stations is too small (I still can't figure 
 out how it can hold up to eight ships, when one regular spaceship is half of its size) , it just 
 feels right most of the time. Sound/Music:
  
  Most sounds in Freelancer are very standard, like the weapons fire and the engine, etc. But the 
 speech system is very well done in the game. Despite the fact that there is no wingman control 
 in the game, you can hear different radio chatters from all others ships around you, creating the 
 feel that you are not the only one who is alive in the universe. People will chat with reach other 
 for identification, police checking traders for contraband, pirate radio for backup when out gunned 
 by police, traders discussing commodity price, etc. On the other hand, talking with NPC is just 
 terribly boring, since it involves repeating the same five lines over and over. Thankfully you 
 can skip that.
  
  The music in Freelancer is very polished and great on the ear. Each different star system has its 
 own theme, and the game always manage to play the right music at the right situation to get the 
 player in the mood. Excellent indeed.
  
  Story:
  
  Two words: alien conspiracy... the story features great twists and turns, with a final climatic 
 revelation that and puts all pieces together. The cinematic presentations that move the story along 
 are also backed with great acting. The only bad thing I can say about the story is that the ending 
 is too easy and a bit abrupt (to stop alien invasion, press button 1) . But if you are a fan of 
 X-files, you will like the story.
  
  Value:
  
  Open-ended gameplay in Freelancer usually provides high replay value. But if you just can't take 
 the repetitiveness, there are mods all over the internet that provide additional content to spice 
 things up. Very good value.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This game is great if you like games such as the GTA series, and looking for a great story and 
 a healthy dose of challenge. Although the game labels itself as a space sim, I believe that it 
 is a more of a polished version of GTA... in Space Age 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Ask anyone who has played Freelancer -- its so amazingly addictive, refreshing and almost easy to 
 pick up that it will leave you wondering why there is so few similar games in the market.
  I have tried a few Space Simulation games before and after this. Generally they suck because of 
 the controls and also because they claim too much time getting into the game. For instance Edge 
 of Chaos totally sucks due to really bad controls. In Freelancer, you pick up the game quite quickly 
 and get into action. Within the first 15 minutes or so, you are into your first assignment.
  The game's premise is interesting -- as a Freelancer space pilot, you work your way up empowering 
 your ship and strength and fight a conspiracy of space domination. You start with a simple space 
 ship, the controls are simple and run missions -- earn money, or life precious objects from the 
 space or enemies . You trade and equip your ship or buy a new ship or even win a stronger ship. 
 That way you proceed to increasingly difficult levels and fight difficult situations. The missions 
 are designed in such an interesting fashion that you simply can't get enough.
  Though the Freelancer installer comes just with a CD, the game presents a huge universe, which 
 successfully gives you a near feeling of infinity. many space concepts have been accommodated in 
 the game and that gives you a dream space environment. There are hordes of enemies to fight and 
 each time the thrill is different because of different group of enemies require different tactics 
 to defeat. Some require precise navigation skill, some require your speed and some simply your 
 muscle power.
  One of the attractive feature of the game is possession of a higher level ship. You play the whole 
 game twice and you might end up having different super-powered ships that will give you the winning 
 edge. At the final levels, frequent saving is a must.
  The main game, like NFS underground series, is an interwoven of difficulties. But when you are 
 finished with your final mission, you can still play the game -- roaming around the star systems. 
 However once the missions are over, you are unlikely to play it without any objective.
  I bet anyone who likes FPS, in addition to simulation game fans, will definitely love this fantastic 
 game. Alas, they don't make games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19803
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The single player game could have been one of the best. Unfortunatley, it ended up being a little 
 on the short side if you follow just the storyline with a few hours doing your own thing. The storyline 
 is very good though, and could really use a prequel and/or sequel.
  
  The Multiplayer is great.... if you get a good server with good players.
  
  The biggest thing 
 i want to be included is the ability to pilot/ control larger ships such as Battleships and larger 
 freighters than the Dromedary and Humpback.
  
  
  
  
  (and i want Predator to come back so he can fix Vanguard 1) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makensha
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. I just want to make that clear. It is a fun, open-ended experience. A major 
 problem however, is that sometimes, you'll go off of a normal trade route, get in a fight, and 
 next thing you know, you're lost. It also is a bit too free. It has a long but fun tutorial that 
 is a bit linear, but after that, it just dumps you in the world, not really giving you a real objective. 
 Combat is fun, but a bit repetitive. The voicework is nice, with different people requesting help, 
 or other various things. Some of the ships look identical, even if they're different models, and 
 so it can be confusing. But like I said, it's still fun, but you probably won't play daily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer, a space sim, story based, and then open play game that allows the player to be any 
 type of character they would like to be; limited only by ones willingness to engage NPCs to achieve 
 their goals in play. The Freelancer game concept comes from its predecessor, StarLancer. The ideas, 
 game storyline and characters pull from one game to the other. They are stand alone games, but 
 are conceptually similar. Freelancer is simply a well balanced and interesting space sim game. 
 For those that enjoy an environment that you can go about your merry way, in space, and live a 
 sim-life, this is excellent. For those that want combat, and action, it may be a bit too easy. 
 It really depends on you gaming abilities and what you find enjoyable in gaming. The game itself 
 is also excellent in its form on how the ease in which to play, make a fortune, combat and trade 
 is linked together for seamless play.
  
  Created by Digital Anvil for Microsoft, this game is at its core, simple. It operates in an easy 
 to understand format and by far, extremely easy to mod and edit. That ease has opened up an incredibly 
 large and talented modding community for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deyyhayederaned
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is a computer phenomenon like no other, the initial promises on this game were not given 
 and its been scaled down hideously. The Initial promises were a dynamic and uncompromisingly brilliant 
 game universe with an easy to use interface, however most of it has been drawn back massively. 
 The game was originally supposed to be a real scale universe with a huge variation of ships and 
 planets literally the size they would be, however all ships are generally the same. Fighters, Heavy 
 Fighters and Freighters are all that were offered. The only variation between the three ship classes 
 is hull strength and maneuverability, shields and weapons vary in strength and price but are basically 
 used to separate the combat potential of whatever ship you occupy. A major putdown on this game 
 was scale, most planets less than an eighth
  the size of the moon in systems only a few hundred kilometers across are a miserable putdown. The 
 worst quality of this fact of miniaturization is the fact that the Freelancer game engine can support 
 genuinely huge solars and the systems that they are in. Some structures in the game are to scale, 
 but this does mean that ships and stations in relation to planets and suns are anything between 
 slightly to several thousand times larger. Opposed to a realistic and easily possible millions 
 of times difference between planets and ships, this game as such unless your a fanatic things get 
 very slow and repetitive after a veryshort time. This game appears to have retained a measure of 
 popular immortality, thanks to something we can only hope was placed deliberately by the game designers. 
 This wonderful thing being the remarkable ease that even the most empty headed person, can with 
 the right software edit and evolve the Freelancer universe in whatever way that they deem necessary. 
 I myself am not a particularly brilliant person at this but few can say they fly around in a Nomad 
 City that can move planets, well in irony I can move planets and I do have a Nomad City for a ship. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Highs: Graphical style, low system requirements, very cold and alone and isolated in a deserted 
 genre with no civilization in sight ( well, except Civilization, but that doesn't count, different 
 genre) .
  
  Lows: Can get REAL slow and you cant walk away because ANYTHING can kill you for looking away from 
 the DULL DULL monitor, that aside there not much else here except a lack of variety in things to 
 do once the story ends, but hell, that never bothered a Diablo II fan.
  
  RPG fans: This game ain't for you, unless you think you're an RPG fan because you like Diablo, 
 if that's the case I wont argue about what you call yourself here but this game is gold, if you 
 cant find it for less than 80 it's still a steal.
  
  Action fans: Theres plenty here for you, excited fire fights, tense moments flying with your shields 
 eroded away and hoping you can dodge the unlimited bullets till you can get them back up again.
 
  
  Everyone else: If you find it in a bargain bin for 15 or 20 bucks in the future go ahead and risk 
 it, otherwise get your jollies somewhere else. Its not really a space sim, or sim anything for 
 that matter, no puzzles here, you accept a mission you shoot things, end of story.
  
  Full Review:
  
  Freelancer is a decent enough game that feels a little more than incredible 
 because of the barren desert of a genre it occupies. It falls squarely into the market for games 
 where you shoot lots of things, and even lands on the higher end of that. But it comes from the 
 genre that has given, in the past, more freedom to players than they could dream of, and falls 
 on the low end of that barrel. Everything plays like a dream, Freelancer controls smoothly, the 
 graphics move smooth as a dream on minimum spec systems, and the single player campaign challenges 
 and moves at a fast pace.
  
  All the makings of a first rate game in any category, if you dont mind the downsides. Freelancer 
 has enough of them to keep it from really soaring. For everything that it has that makes it special, 
 there are a couple of places that feel like a void. The controls and game-play consistently repeat 
 themselves, even the gimmick missions with goals other than kill everything resemble each other 
 too much. The lack of variety in game play and mission design is felt strongly even in the excellent 
 single player story. And sadly this extends way beyond mission design. However this in itself is 
 not a bad thing for everyone. As an arcade game Freelancer excels, with consistent action and there 
 is always a challenging mission somewhere. Diablo in space would be one way to describe the addictive 
 action game, but it just doesnt quite fit as freelancer is still more complex than that. The audience 
 that the game is targeted at will not appreciate the consistency much. The ships designs vary enough 
 for the single player game, however ten to twenty hours of game time begins to make them look old 
 and tired, with little variety to strive for beyond that.
  
  The price of Freelancer is at the high end of the PC list, and felt a little pricey for the twelve 
 hours the single player provided me with. I am certain there are those who will beat it in ten 
 and a few who should take as long as twenty. When everything gets said and done, whether twelve 
 or twenty hours, the single player missions just frosting the cake of multi player goodness. And 
 boy is there a lot good about the multi player game here. You can even call it revolutionary to 
 some degree, the only reason most people wont is because everyone who has ever played Privateer 
 or the like and a multi player game and enjoyed both has thought how cool they would be together. 
 You will feel more like it was about time you got to play this game than privileged at a new innovation.
 
  
  It took a veteran in the genre to simplify the controls to a basic point and click interface. Yet 
 one more of the innovations that bring Freelancer closer to its potential, as well as making acceptable 
 to the audience that will most likely truly embrace it. Sadly, detriment to that audience, the 
 fast pacing of the story based single player missions fail to extend beyond that. All too much 
 time will be wasted flying to and from the action packed missions and to many petty dangers that 
 keep you from going and getting a drink, reading a book, or in fact doing anything entertaining 
 while waiting to get where youre going. Your trade lane could be disrupted, you could fly into 
 a planet, and you could arrive at your mission way point and get blown away before you get back. 
 I dont need to tell anyone how painful and irritating that can be. Although, multi player can 
 be much more forgiving.
  
  Every game needs a solid long lasting focus, and Freelancers meat and potatoes is its multi player. 
 Beyond the bliss of single handedly going out and blowing away a space station at level eighteen 
 is the bliss of going out and doing it with friends at level ten. Equally fun to assassinating 
 pirates and assaulting stations, escorting a friends freighter full of goods across a three or 
 four system long trade route. At least, it can be when lots of pirates try and stop you. Simply 
 put, Freelancer, like all other good action games, is best when you are busy killing pirates, or 
 police as you see fit.
  
  They whole mix ends up feeling very mediocre. But what are you going to do? Dig up a Pentium 90 
 with Dos 5.0 on it and play Privateer? Microsoft bet no when they picked up Digital Anvil, and 
 I happen to be voting with them on this one. Mediocre or not this game is the second coming of 
 open-ended space sim games. And despite all the negatives, there really is a lot here that makes 
 it worth playing, and even the promise of a sequel. Which wouldnt be a bad thing. So until someone 
 makes a genuine remake of Privateer or simply another game in the same genre that surpasses this, 
 Freelancer is the best game of its kind on the market today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgwutka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is great. The control system lets even noobs learn to play very quickly, but there's still 
 a lot of advanced tactics you can use. The AI is pretty good, weaving around you, dropping mines 
 when you get an their tail, using countermeasures when you fire missles, etc. Graphics are good. 
 I have no tolerance for a few of the other people who give this game high marks in everything but 
 graphics because they're too stupid to realize that Freelancer wasn't made yesterday. In space, 
 everything looks great. vapor trails coming off your wings, your wingmate's wings, the enemy's 
 wings, etc. The models are great. I have only 1 complaint. Nebulae are everywhere. If you just 
 fly out into deep space away from everything, stop, and look around, all you see are nebulae. Realisticly, 
 all you would see would be stars. But it still looks great.
  
  Ssound is okay. The sound effects are good. The generic laser can get a little annoying in the 
 middle of a fight. The speech, in cutscenes, is great. lip-syched, sounds real, everything. Speech, 
 outside of cutscenes, is horrible. They have a generic 1 sound, a generic 2 sound, etc. oh, and 
 theres only 3 different people saying it. Guy, girl, robot. Tthats it. So whenever you dock somewhere 
 you hear something like what happens when you take a recorded conversation, and cut up the words 
 and move them around. Everything is accented wrong. But realisticly, if they didn't do that, then 
 the game would have several hours of speech just for docking procedures. Value is great. This is 
 a game that you play over and over. I've played it around 5 times, and I'm not the kind of person 
 who plays games more than once. There's an infinite amount of things to do, you can go mining, 
 you can go join a pirate group, you can be a trader, you can accept missions from almost every 
 planet and space station, you can go out and pillage wrecks and get rare weapons from them. You 
 can smuggle drugs into the capital planet. (which is highly profitable, by the way) The only thing 
 you can't do is walk around on a planet. Which doesn't matter anyway. I dont have any tolerance 
 for people who say This game sucks because you can't walk around on planets. You know what i say 
 to that? ITS A SPACE SIM. End of discussion
  
  I tilted this game high because... I dont know why. I just did. Its a good game. You should play 
 it. Do yourself a favor. If you see this game anywhere, don't think, just buy it and ask questions 
 later. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I was a HUGE fan of Chris Roberts and Wing Commander back in the day. I loved the books and everything. 
 The whole space sim genre just rocked. Tie Fighter was another great classic. I also loved some 
 of the old resource space resource management games like Master of Orion and Accendancy. I don't 
 have a LOT of patience for them though, I don't like to micro manage TONS of stuff, but customizing 
 and building a fleet in a sci-fi universe was great. Games like Starflight from WAY back in the 
 day fascinate me. I like this rogue starship exploration stuff with the RPG aspects mixed in. Why 
 aren't there more games like this?
  
  So then near the end of Wing Commander's life, there was a game called Privateer, also by Chris 
 Roberts. This seemed to be the perfect mesh of all of the above. I get to customize my ship, and 
 blow s%@# up while bouncing around the universe playing at whatever I want to be: rogue, pirate, 
 bounty hunter, or whatever. I loved it. They made a sequel, but that's all she wrote. They just 
 don't make games like this. They don't even make space shooters much anymore. It even seems hard 
 to find a decent sci-fi RPG. Sci-fi and first person shooters have become inseparable, and I think 
 it's annoying sometimes. Loved Planet's Edge and gold box Buck Roger's from SSI, but no such luck 
 today.
  
  There have been a few stabs. There are space combat-esque games out there, but they feel too console 
 arcadish. They don't have the same flight stick action I loved from Wing Commander and X-Wing/Tie 
 Fighter. There was also Homeworld. I've gotten tired of crazy resource management games over the 
 years though. I don't want THAT much to think about. I don't want a real time strategy game from 
 a first person perspective.
  
  I always check these games though, just hoping it will fit the bill. I was hooked five minutes 
 into the demo. I miss the flight stick action, but it's ok, it has that old school feel, with the 
 RPG aspects all there. The graphics are a bit sucky, but it really plays great, even with the mouse. 
 The biggest problem is that it WAS supposed to be a massive multiplayer game, and you can feel 
 the holes. There are moments where you feel like there is this big universe, that isn't actually 
 that big, because you don't have any good reason to go explore the edges of it. I did like the 
 plot too. It wasn't GREAT, but it was fun. It built up well and had a big finish. Y'all might think 
 it's a little cheesy, but it felt like an epic sci-fi ending and I liked it.
  
  If you like old school space fighters, play this game. If you just like sci-fi and RPG stuff, and 
 want something a little different, you should also play this. If you just want a fun game, this 
 costs about $10 most places now, and it's still great to play. Go get it, and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbulvetr2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game got me hooked the first day I started playing it. In this game you do missions and go 
 around the space universe with jump gates and jump portals. Gameplay is a 9 out of 10 because the 
 controls are simple and its just plain fun. Also the game makes its own NPC always when you enter 
 space. The missions are also tons of fun to. Graphics is a 10. Wow this game has really good graphics. 
 I mean the characters look awsome with these graphics. Sound is a 7 because the sound wasn't great 
 or bad. It was good. Value is a 10 because this game is really worth your money. The tilt is a 
 9 because this game is really worth your time. Really you should get this awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodus95
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I played this game old time ago and it was best game ever. I waited for x-3 renion, darkstar one 
 but thay dissapointed me, i couldnt find that mistery, that pashion. Only in freelancer i could 
 feel that.
  In freelancer you can choose to play in all sides, you can play online, you can discover new unseen 
 spots, seacret bases, aliens. This game is just owesom what can i tell. And many players can play 
 it couse dont need good video car, or procesor. But still graphics is owesom, all systems is not 
 simular like in other games, mistery is so interesting that you can travel from system to system 
 and enjoy experiences from systems.
  Multyplayer was made realy good, many players can play in server and you can be merchant, bounty 
 hunter, pirate what ever you want in here. Modifications were created couse all people loves that 
 game and looking for more games like this one. We are waiting for freelancer 2 with hope.
  We dont need simular games we need just new serie of freelancer!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwray74
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I was discussing various games with a friend of mine, and we somehow ended up discussing a game 
 he was playing called Freelancer, It sounded rather interesting, so I tracked down a copy on eBay, 
 bought it, installed it, played it, and realised this was the game I had been seeking for years. 
 While the storyline was good, what I found to be one of the best parts of the game was the fact 
 you could customize your ship with different weapons. Not only that, but you could also buy different 
 ships. Of course, if you're hostile with a faction in the game (of which there are 46 or so) , there 
 is no way you are going to be able to land on their bases and buy any of their ships or weapons. 
 Note that not all bases sell ships. Also, many factions are allied with others in the game, so 
 if you're hostile with one or more of the factions, chances are you're going to be hostile with 
 the faction's allies as well, or at best, neutral. But where this game really shines is in multiplayer. 
 Even after so many years, there are still people out there running their own servers, allowing 
 people to enjoy fighting against human opponents. Many people have organised themselves into groups 
 called clans, and are often hostile to other clans on the same server. Sometimes clans will ally 
 themselves with other clans, usually if the other clan has the same goals as they do ie police 
 clans will ally or be friendly with other police clans, the same with pirate and criminal clans. 
 All in all, a great game, but if you can, find a server and do some online play, it's worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadelotuz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is just what I have wished for for ages. A game like Elite. Now this game is far from 
 Elite in many ways, but the overall concept, game-play, addictiveness and freedom is there. This 
 is a forgotten genre brought back to life from MS, for old-school fans of the ilk. I think that 
 Freelancer manages to enhance the concept allot, especially the graphics. This is a nice game that's 
 fun to play if you like this kind of game. But it is still really old-school. There are no revolutionary 
 innovations in it, but they have done all the ingredients rather well.
  
  But, they missed one really important thing, the ability to customize and create your own character. 
 People who love to play these kind of games (like Sid Meier's Pirates) , usually also like RPG's 
 or games with some level of freedom. And in these modern days, almost every RPG, sports-game and 
 now even Fighting game has a character design section. And the fact is, that if you dislike the 
 blond dude in this game, you have to soak it, cause you're stuck with him (for better or worse) .
 
  
  Well its a good game overall. But it could have been done better. (but there is no competition 
 in this genre, so its not suprice that its not even better) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maSSacru
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  I bought this game 3 years ago . I wanted to try it beucase i like how the outter space look's 
 like , it seems that i made a great deal beucase the game has almost 4 years since it had been 
 released by microsoft and many of us r still playing it . The game has 13 story mission's and many 
 other mission's for u to pass them . It's almost like an rpg beucase u level up and u can equip 
 u'r space ship with many w3apon's . The story of the game s very well made , but be sure u check 
 the first movies of the game beucase else u will not like this game . Edison Trent is the name 
 of u'r character , u will be on Freeport 7 a space station that will be attacked by someone . U 
 will escape with other survivors and go on planet Manhatan in Liberty system . The rest of the 
 story i'm letting u to discover . The game has more than 40 systems and almost 150 planet's . When 
 u will comlete the story mission's the game will not end . To continue the game u have to explore 
 the space , pass some mission's wich u get from bar's of planet's , or if u r in good relationship's 
 with an army u can join them and help them in their mission's . U can join different army's from 
 Bounty Hunter's , Corsair's , Rogue's to Dragon's , Liberty Security Force's etc . The last thing 
 i want to say is that u will meet robot's and alien's in this great game . Well that's my review 
 i hope it's good without spell problems . Happy playing !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  I got freelancer looking for a good space sim and a good space sim is what i got. Huge space to 
 explore, big game, beautiful graphics, **** upclose.  
 s ss s s s s s s s s s s ssssssssssss ss s s ss s s s s s ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
 ss s ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s sss s s s ss ssss s s s s s s s ss s s s s s s s s s s 
 s s s ss s ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s ss ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s forgive the intrusion but i must know? Where is 
 the mercy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 13, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I was reluctant to buy Freelancer, but after installing it and playing for a few hours, I thought, 
 this game rocks! It is fun not because of the graphics, but because of the gameplay. Not everything 
 is how it should be such as ups and downs in space, and not being able to control your spinning 
 in combat, but the great things it has is open endness, ok cutscenes, many ships which are fully 
 customizable, and the game is cheap now. Also, the game is not very addicting. I beat the game, 
 but as I progressed through it, it did not keep calling back for me to play. But, if you were wondering 
 whether to buy this game and because you enjoy space sims or just shoot em' up games, then this 
 game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Developed by Digital Anvil, Chris Roberts unfortunately left the studio when it was sold to Microsoft. 
 He's the dude behind Privateer, which is THE classic space trading sim. I'm guessing management 
 issues and delays forced Microsoft to dumb down Freelancer, because the resulting game, while fairly 
 well polished, is so simple a rank newbie to the genre (let alone the game) can do well on his 
 first try. On a side note, this game showed me that mouse-driven flight controls can actually be 
 decent - although perhaps a side-effect of the simplistic controls. Still, it makes moving around 
 very easy and responsive, a big plus.
  
  Presentation-wise, there's little to complain about. The controls are simple and accessible, the 
 graphics and cutscenes of high standards, and the music solid. However, beneath the slick exterior 
 is a fairly simple engine. Expectations ran high (Chris Roberts, after all, did have a hand in 
 early on) , and the beautiful opening scene dazzled us. When the game was well underway though, 
 it slowly became apparent that a lot of depth that was expected was just not there; in fact, even 
 less than in Privateer, despite the overall larger game universe.
  
  Far too many games fall into the trap of providing equipment and upgrades that progress along a 
 linear, good - better - best path, and Freelancer is no exception. Sadly this locks players into 
 a certain upgrade path simply because doing otherwise is simply not feasible unless you're just 
 looking for a challenge of doing things differently (just bear in mind you won't be rewarded for 
 it) .
  
  The singleplayer campaign is great, scripted very well. The multiplayer component is fairly solid 
 as well, overall requiring only a couple of patches to smooth over the inevitable release bugs. 
 The game also seems fairly moddable, as many things seem to be scripted. There's a fairly large 
 modding scene for Freelancer, and over the years it's still alive. From additional ships, equipment, 
 and universe changes, it's all there.
  
  Give this game a try if you haven't - simple though it is, it's still quite an enjoyable, if slightly 
 disappointingly shallow ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse_ShinRa
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up about a year after it hit stores. A friend hade it, I watched him play, but 
 didn't look that good to me. Then the clan got into it, so after about week of them playing it. 
 I went and picked it up And I'm 100% happy that I did..
  
  The Gameplay: is good, when you get use to. I played about two hours and I still wasn't that great. 
 Took me max of 5 hour just to get use to it, lol.. I still play this game when I get some free 
 time or I want a break form EQ2 and FFXI.
  
  Graphics: gfx I still think are good to this day. Other may dis agree with me on this part but 
 let them.. Mods are fun, I still play on 2.7TNG, and I want to play the Halogen mod, but I heard 
 MS shut that mod down.. XD..
  
  Story mode: Is great, what more can I say? The only Mission I hated was that race. I failed that 
 mission 3-5 times.. XD.. But when it comes to racing, I suck..
  
  Multiplayer: I love, its nothing but fun. Mods make it more fun though XD..
  
  This game is 
 worth the money. If you haven't played it yet, go pick up. It shoudnt be that much. Its wroth it..
 
  
  This review is short, I know, sorry, but I want to review all my games. And im trying to review 
 10 a week 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goober_billions
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. Great graphics, a whole mess of galactic space ships to choose from, hundreds 
 of different planets, most you can actually land on. Its got its own factions too. You got the 
 Police, which can be your best friend or your worst enemy (My worst enemy) , depending on how you 
 decide is the best way to make cash. Second you got the tradesmen. They transport goods from planet 
 to planet, and you can either help to their destination, or cut them off in the middle of space, 
 blow them and there gaurd up, and take there goods for cash at a nearby planet. It has a storyline 
 that keeps you wanting to play more, and plenty of missios for afterward. And then there are the 
 pirates, who lurk in space the police are too few to patrol. They prey on transports ships and 
 will often find them launching assualts on space stations and all transports in the sector. This 
 game takes you to a different galaxy and it makes you feel like your actually there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matthew_the_Mag
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  It had been out for quite some time now and the mods and downloads can breath new life in this 
 great game it is worth pulling out again.
  
  This is really the game that hooked me on space sims and is still in many ways what i compare the 
 others to when i play or consider buying.
  
  It is like your first car sure it might have had problems and not have been the greatest but mostly 
 it is remembered fondly because of the good times.
  
  I liked the graphics and gameplay in the game and found it was not to hard to get use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer has all the ingredients of traditional space sims such as trading, pirates and non-linear 
 missions. The combat is fast and fun and whilst not very difficult, the game still manages to keep 
 the player interested and coming back for more, pretty decent really considering Freelancer is 
 getting pretty old now.
  
  Online, the game just gets better and better with the addition of third party mods, my favorite 
 being the DS9 mod which adds famous ships from the Star Wars, Star Trek and Babylon 5 universe 
 not to mention some other famous ships from other Sci-fi shows.
  
  Overall, excellent game single-player and even better online, check the bargain bins for this old 
 gem, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer, the work of Microsoft Game Studios and Digital Anvil. A unconventional sequel to StarLancer, 
 where the entire 'universe' is yours to manipulate.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great in Freelancer, and it had to be, the genre depends on the success 
 of all of its games. The only game of that era that could beat it is X2, yet that is far too hard 
 for many to enjoy
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great, but there really is a lack of previous-generation space shooters 
 to compare to.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is brilliant, the music adapts to suit the situation, which too few 
 games attempt to do, even now. It really gives a serene cruise more elegance and atmosphere, and 
 space battles more tense and heated.
  
  Value: Now available on budget, this game is more than worth adding to your collection, even now. 
 There is also a massive modding community, you'll never get bored of extra content 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yahtzee0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and dialog may be weak but the game play makes up for it. I have never played a game 
 that has such a great replay value. My one problem with the game is that it is so hard to get friendly 
 with the bad guys, which have all the fun. The game is very unfair if you do get cozy with the 
 baddies. A must buy for all gamers! 
  Freelancer is a very challenging game and people who have a habit of selling the game at the first 
 sign of trouble should not bother. Be prepared to replay levels again and again untill victory. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devidra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  In Truth - I was shocked at this. 
  
  A Mediocore Storyline, yet the gameplay... was amazing, and addictive. Along with a small cheat 
 that allowed buildings to be destroyed, and invincibility for some, one can be a freelancer, pirate, 
 or plain terrorist destroying space stations and mines. 
  
  I was amazed at how many systems there were in Freelancer - Each with its own detailed map. Over 
 32 Different Areas, from the home system of ther revolutionary Corsairs, the Outcasts, The Earth-mirrors, 
 and even some strange system inhabited by Nomads, Monkeys, and A Droid Planet... strange.
  
  The Views offered by this game are sometimes, amazing. While distances are nothing like real distances 
 (If they were this game would have instantly collapsed) the distances were real enough for such 
 a game. 
  
  I took a screenshot of one place that made me awe - some kind of strange yellow star in a clear 
 cloud of pink gas with beams reflecting everywhere, and Nomads flying around. Omega something, 
 I believe. The system was completely devoid of anything but Nomad fighters, yet it was still amazing. 
 The developers knew how to manipulate computer graphics.
  
  Another amazing place was the asteroid system that had the Black Dwarf Nebula Star - that just 
 was amazing, the compactness of the Star, how realistic it looks, how good it looks. Look for it 
 yourself if interested - careful, corsairs and hessians like to duke it out there.
  
  This Game is Good - a Fun story, but after that and a little exploring it quickly dies out - but 
 the story is long enough to have some fun. The missions offered by the different factions are pointless- 
 simply reflects, so thus deserve no mention and don't truly play a big part except annoying 'levle 
 ups'.
  
  You need a good Computer though, or this will be worthless.
  
  Enjoy the Ride :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I don't think I've ever played a game where I wanted a sequel more than I did at the end of Freelancer. 
 It has something to do with the campaign being a little too short, but mostly it's just because 
 it's a great game. 
  
  Sequel to Starlancer, a pretty good game in itself, Freelancer takes place 800 years after the 
 events of Starlancer and does not disappoint in setting up a background story that helps you get 
 into the game. Humanity now populates the Sirius sector, and is split into four states based on 
 their original countries of origin. The Liberty government from the U. S. of A, Bretonia is derived 
 from Great Britain, Rheinland from Germany, and Kusari from the Far East. 
  
  Tensions are growing between the four states, in particular Rheinland and Kusari, as you start 
 the game, and the news bulletins you can read in the bars, which are also where you find new jobs, 
 keep you up-to-date on the happenings around you. I won't spoil the storyline, but suffice to say 
 you influence the news if you play through the campaign, and won't if you don't. 
  
  As a survivor from a disaster aboard a space station, you start in Liberty space with no ship and 
 few credits. You are offered a ship by the LSF so that you can work jobs for them. After that, 
 the general form of the campaign is that you'll perform a mission, then get set free to work freelancing 
 missions (which you can accept from various bases and planets you land on) to build up your credit 
 supply and get access to better ships and weapons. Once your overall value rises to a certain level, 
 you'll be eligible to do the next campaign mission. At any point, you can stop playing the campaign 
 and go your own way, but I recommend you finish the campaign first because there will be plenty 
 of time to do your own thing later. 
  
  The controls are a little different from what I was used to, but they're very easy once you get 
 used to them (Free Flight is for flying straight ahead, Mouse Flight is for everything else.) . 
 If you've played games with complex controls like the X series or Independence War, then you'll 
 find these much simpler and easier, kind of like Tachyon: The Fringe; while you do have to do some 
 button-pushing, they made some effort to make the control user friendly, and I can honestly say 
 I never got squikked due to confusing controls, which is the ultimate litmus test for a space combat 
 game. The interface when you dock with a ship can be navigated by my (albeit smart) three-year-old 
 sister. 
  
  As for Graphics, they're are great and the game is pretty yet not overly taxing. The ship models 
 don't stand out as stunning, but they're very nice and the variety of designs is good. Capitol 
 ships all look the same, but it's clearly a fighter-centric game. The character models look merely 
 ok, but the cutscenes don't skip, so I didn't really mind. 
  
  Sound is merely good, and I say that because you'll never really have anything to complain about 
 with the battle noises and sounds to do with your ship, but the voice acting is mediocre. The non-campaign 
 dialogue tends to sound disjointed ("Whatcha got?" "Not from around here, are you?" "Uh-huh" "I 
 work for blahblah" ?) , and a few of the characters in the campaign desperately need to be shut 
 up. Your character, Trent, is fine, and so's his LSF liason, but that stupid woman doctor made 
 me want to have the option to betray the alliance and strangle her. 
  The music tends to blend into the background, but I'll be the first to admit that the music in 
 a game doesn't really matter to me, as long as the fast music plays during a fight, I'm good. 
 
  
  When you finish the campaign, I won't lie: the game tends to get old after awhile. Once you beat 
 the campaign, all you can do is fly around and do freelancing missions, and that's significantly 
 less exciting than the last mission of the campaign. Thus, it's a bit of a downer. You can try 
 to mix it up and buy different ships and weapons, which is admittedly cool, but once you get a 
 certain fighter, and you'll know which one I'm talking about when you get it, you tend to want 
 to hold onto it permantently. 
  
  I really wish you could, after the campaign, affect the universe more. It would be fun to join 
 the Liberty Navy and patrol the borders, killing pirates and possibly the a cranky Rheinlander 
 or two, but instead you just get a rating with all the factions. While these do affect YOU, as 
 hostile factions will shoot at you and friendly ones will help you out, it would be fun to actually 
 become part of one of these factions. 
  
  But oh well, that's much ado about small beans. I loved playing Freelancer and my one complaint 
 is that the campaign was short and there wasn't a lot of variety in what you can do after you finish 
 it. However, it's good to keep in mind that other games don't let you do ANYTHING after you finish 
 the campaign; Starlancer, for example. In conclusion, Freelancer is the best time I've had with 
 a space sim till date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  As a fan of Starlancer, i was very interested to see this game released, Very good game play and 
 graphics. Sound good, Story was excellent. 
  
  Though excellent, It could have been even better, with more missions and improved trading it would 
 have been *really* special. 
  
  It is well worth getting and it looks good even though it was released over three years ago now. 
 
  
  Another factor is the mods available, there are lots, I highly recommend when you finish the game 
 the first time that you check out Freelancer TNG. 
  
  I recommend anyone who likes this game to check out Darkstar One which has been billed as what 
 freelancer could have been by some. From the recently released demo I think I might agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  well the first thing I will say is Tachyon : The Fringe used to be my favourite space sim but now 
 Freelancer is in my mind without a doubt better for quite a few reasons read on if you would like 
 to find these reasons out.
  
  1st reason is the character you are can be a villian, a hero or a pirate my 2nd reason is the ships 
 to me are much better because there is more turrets and other weapons my 3rd reason is there is 
 more jobs you can go out and just do certain jobs like kill a certain person that has broken the 
 law.
  
  Freelancers graphics well the graphics when you're in space is great I think I would give a 10 
 but the graphics when you're in one of the city's are horrible no good I think it's like PS1 game 
 when you're in a city but I have given 8 because I had to take all these things into mind.
  
  The gameplay was absolutely great I give that an 8 aswell because the game was really exciting 
 and it is now one of my favourite games in the world but I still don't think it is as good as God 
 Of War.
  
  I give the sound an 8 and value 10 because it is only $8 I thought the game was hard it took me 
 longer than it usually does to complete games 40 to 100 hours to complete doesn't take long to 
 get used to the game about 5 mins and you can play it fine and the is revolutionary please BUY 
 IT PLAY IT LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freelancer-ace
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer was, according to Microsoft, going to revolutionise the Space Combat Sim genre. Despite 
 not living up to it's promise, Freelancer manages to be one of the most immersive games in the 
 space-sim genre to date.
  
  The introductory non-game engine cinematic provides a detailed and well crafted background, (sourced 
 from it's predecessor, Starlancer) . Once beginning the game, the player is immediately immersed 
 within the game's plot. An very well crafted story makes it very easy for the Player to empathise 
 with the PC counterpart. By the end of the plot you feel the same as the character.
  
  The gameplay is good (I have replayed the plot 3 times) , and efter the end of the plot, the games 
 playability extends to over 30hrs past the plot end. However, in the end the game becomes a little 
 tedious, with limited change in the game once the max level of 38 is reached. (Plot end level 19) .
 
  
  The sound in the game is well composed and accurately depicts the emoional stance of each theme 
 (for the plot) and fits the over all genre (un-plot related sound.)
  
  The graphics are well designed (for people who bought the game when it was released) but post 2005 
 are becoming dated (only upon playing other games. While playing the actual game, the graphics 
 are just fine.)
  
  Overall, this game is the best space-sim on the market (closely followed by Freespace 2 and X3: 
 Reunion) and will be worshipped by any fan of the gere. For casual players, Freelancer offers a 
 well rounded game (and with the addition of a few mods, a greatly expanded one) that should keep 
 you playing for some time yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangofett
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I first downloaded the demo and became hooked. Because, at the time I didn't have the funds to 
 go buy the game, I meerely played the demo over and over again. Thats right, I was that hooked. 
 When I finally got the game, I beat it in 3 or 4 days. Not because it was short, because I put 
 off sleeping for one day, and only slept a couple of hours the next. 
  
  The main game is fun, the missions are fairly interresting, but once you beat the game, it isn't 
 over. You can go around the galaxy and get better weapons or a better ship. Unfortunately, by that 
 point you have seen about 1/2 to 3/4 of the galaxy, and that isn't that fun.
  
  Where the game really shines is the multiplayer. Totally free, and about as fun and addicting as 
 a MMOG, and totally free. Get a bunch of friends, form a clan, and start duking it out. There are 
 plenty of servers out there, and many can support 32 to 64 players at once. 
  
  The game is also easily modible. I have modded the game on a few occasions, and there are sites 
 out there that provide hundreds of mods for free, and many servers use mods thereby enhancing the 
 gameplay even futher. 
  
  I got this game when it came out and have been playing it regularly for the past 3 years without 
 ever getting bored of it for more than a couple of weeks at a time. 
  
  All in all, great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgelfand
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  It is my opinion that this is one of the greatest space sims of all time. It has beautiful, colourful 
 graphics, that in my opinion are just fine. Games like the X-Series are all flash, but no substance. 
 But this game, has substance. It has superb voice-acting, George Takei (Star Trek 1960's) , Jennifer 
 Hale (KOTOR) and several other great actors and actresses. The game has a great story and some 
 excellent cut-scenes. The story-line is compelling, and beautifully written. You play Edison Trent, 
 a freelancer, who is one of the few survivors of Freeport 7, a space station destroyed in a mysterious 
 attack. As the story goes on, you travel through dozens of star-systems and are involved in dozens 
 of missions. There are also several interesting twists to the plot, and interesting back-stories 
 to everything. And one of the best-parts of this game is the fact that at any time, you can give 
 up on the mission that you are on, and fly off. But I recommend that you stick to the story. That's 
 one of the main reasons I played this game. It has a great story, but one of the main reasons it 
 got lower reviews was the fact that people had been waiting for this game for years, and at the 
 last moment, several features were removed from the game. But it is still worth it. You can pick 
 up Freelancer at dozens of stores, it cost $29.99 CND and I'm guessing around $20.00 US. You can 
 buy it at Wal-Mart, Zellers, EB-Games and many other retail storys. The fact that this game is 
 still being reviewed, and that people are still talking about it on forums must mean that it made 
 an impact on video games, doesn't it? it's been three years since Freelance came out and we're 
 still talking about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daigleberry
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  When my grandfather first installed a little game called Frontier, Elite II on his Amiga 1200, 
 I was instantly addicted. Unfortunately, it turned out to be a cracked (pirated) version, so it 
 would only let me get so far before random bugs took over and destroyed the game experience.
  
  When I first heard of Freelancer, I thought that I might finally get my chance to make up for 
 those hours wasted on a deep, enthralling, and for it's time, beautifully rendered game. For the 
 most part, Freelancer came very very close. It's mostly for this reason that I score it a 9 overall.
 
  
  I'll start out with the positives: 
  
  1) The combat took a little getting used to, but I found it to be addicting once I got the hang 
 of it. Instead of using a joystick to control flight, and in turn your weapons & turrets, you simply 
 moved the mouse around and your ship's nose followed.
  
  2) The star systems were different enough to keep the scenery fresh for the duration of the single-player 
 missions, and the various race based ships did offer a bit of variety.
  
  3) The graphics were pretty good for it's time, just like Elite.
  
  Now the places I felt it 
 lacked:
  
  1) It's not as "Free" as the name implies. You are forced to follow a story line in order to 'level', 
 and you can't buy most upgrades or better ships until you reach higher levels, so you are forced 
 to follow the storyline. You do get breaks in-between missions to do some actual freelancing, but 
 you can usually only level once before you are then forced to do another mission before you can 
 move on.
  
  2) With the emphasis on guilds and reputations, there weren't any 'neutral' missions as in Elite. 
 (such as outfitting your ship with life support, converting some cargo space into living quarters, 
 and running taxi missions for the rich and famous) . Also, since you are forced to follow the storyline, 
 any acts you do on your own to try and change your reputation will generally be to no avail since 
 the next mission may force you to lose all respect from that particular faction.
  
  Playing this game on a modern machine:
  
  *- You may have some trouble with in-game movies, 
 as the characters lips no longer match the sound coming out of them due to better video card & 
 processor performance. Other than that, it still plays pretty damn well.
  
  Well, that's about it. I know writing a review on this game years after it's release is not very 
 helpful, but it's still worth playing if you've never done so before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer manages to be a good space ship simulater as well as a good MMORPG. In the single player 
 you assume the role of trent, a pilot who can take on any job for the right price. Through the 
 story you complete various missions that are thankfully varied to keep things interesting.
  Though with the good single player the real attracction is the online feature with allows 100 players 
 to be in one server. If you have ever played an MMORPG before you will feel right at home here.
 
  The graphics are very pretty, laser blasts and explosions look very nice.
  As for sound the game is also quite good. The ambiant music is nice to listen to and the voice 
 overs and dialogue are very good too.
  In the end this is a great game for space flight simulator fans as well as anyone who wants somthing 
 to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unshaken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  You get to be who you are, a pirate, naval officer, or just a trader (and a lot more) . It has diverse 
 options and things to buy. The graphics are quite good for a game made in 2001, but the sound in 
 the interviews has some issues. Also, the other people say the same stuff and do the same animated 
 movements, but what really counts is that the game live up to it's title. You are a FreeLancer. 
 Not some pre-made character that has to destroy the evil enemy king or something. It is a great 
 game, worth alot more than what you are paying. You gotta try it out peepz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that i was quite dissapointed in freelancer, enough to make me uninstall the game 
 quite early on.
  i was expecting a space simulation in which you could freely explore the universe and walk around 
 when u landed on planets. no thats not what i got. instead i got a game where you have limited 
 freedom and all your options are by clicking on the interface. so basically all they did was take 
 one of those free space sims that u can play online (where u click and buy and stuff) and they 
 made it look nicer. it doesnt really even look that nice. the only part thats fun is being able 
 to fly your space craft around, but even then, its difficult to quickly and efficiently do things, 
 and the controls are hard.
  if there is any good in it, then it would just have to be that you can upgrade and make money. 
 that would be really the only fun part, but then if thats it, why not just play something like 
 runescape. at least u get freedom there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semplew
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely fantastic, I have been playing it since its release in 2003 and still play 
 it! The graphics are superb for 2003 and even now are still brilliant. The sound is so good and 
 all the other pilots and radio interference and such is really cool and the lasers firing and hitting 
 other ships sounds really realistic. The controls are extremely easy and take seconds to get used 
 too and if you want to play a simple space sim unlike the good but not great space sim "X2 The 
 Threat" then you should definitely get your hands on this mind blowing one. The programming of 
 this game is really written well and it ran perfect on my old computer which I had in 2003 which 
 wasn't great and all the settings were full on! So if people want to play an old classic style 
 space game which is better than "X2 The Threat" and even its elder brother "X3 The Reunion" then 
 definetly play this game. And last but not least this game lives up to Elite and Frontier and that 
 just says how good it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sovjetski_Zeko
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 28, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  When you start the game, you will have to complete 13-14 interesting missions to stop a Nomad invasion 
 of the Sirius sector. After that, you will be able to become a pirate, a trader, a soldier, a smuggler, 
 a bounty hunter, or just a freelancer who works for anyone. The game is very big and you will need 
 around 40 hours of play to find most of the systems and around 80 more to find most of the bases, 
 jumpholes, and ruins. In this game you can do anything. Your main goal is probably to become rich, 
 buy the best ship in the game (TITAN) , to explore the galaxy and to have fun while doing that. There 
 are many factions in the game. You can't formally join them, but you can be in great relations with 
 them. The game will become a little boring after some time, because everything will be the same, 
 so i recommend you to visit WWW. LANCERSREACTOR. COM where you can download thousands of modifications 
 for the game and find solutions for any problems in the game. There are four major houses in Freelancer: 
 The Kusari (something like Japan in the real world) , Liberty (USA in the real world) , Bretonia (United 
 Kingdom in the real world) and Rheinland (Germany in the real world) . All of the other factions are 
 like some in the real world. There is a huge selection of ships, equipment and trade goods in this 
 game. The graphics are great, considering the fact that the game was released in 2003. The gameplay 
 is even better, it's perfect. Sound effects are great, but the music is not, so i recommend you 
 to listen to your own music in the game if you really need it. I have played the original game for 
 170 hours and then i have found the page WWW. LANCERSREACTOR. COM and i have downloaded some mods. With 
 every new mod, i have played the game for 100 more hours. I recommend the game to anyone because 
 it is great. I am a Croatian and i am not a master of English, so i am sorry for any spelling mistakes. This 
 is my first review so, please send me a message and tell me what do you think of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vAProfessor
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok, it could have been one of the best of 2003 but Microsoft screwed up bad. With 
 some tweaking this game could be great and I hope Microsoft comes out with Freelancer 2 and fixes 
 the problems.
  
  It was said to be the Elder Scrolls of space but they FORCE you to play though the story line, 
 and if you don't you can't get out of the first system, buy better ships, or even get a ship to 
 start with. The compleat lack of custimisation is horrible, there is only one city per planet and 
 only three ships on that planet.
  
  I wish, hope, and pray that if Microsoft comes out with Freelancer 2 that they add rpg elements 
 make it more customisible add more ships ACTUAL CITIES ON PLANETS, and allow you to fast travil 
 instead of spending hours going though gates.
  
  This game was almost good.... almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhysicsMagnus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really sure what to expect of this game, I only bought it because I got it in a 2 for 
 10 deal or something. I was to be pleasantly surprised. While not as addictive as something like 
 Escape Velocity nova, this game still demands to played, a lot. The interface is simple and pretty 
 intuative, ditching the standard space sim joystick and using mouse movement instead. Combat is 
 fun and can be quite difficult sometime. The emphasis of the game as a whole is on the figting 
 side of thing, rather than the tedious unavoibable trading of other games of this genre.
  Overall, a good, but not outstanding example of the space sim genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  okay im not a huge fan of rts that dont get straight to thepoint but this one did not get to the 
 point as fast as i wanted it to bu it kept me playing so props of for that now the game play you 
 got a ship and all that stuff the thing that kept me going were the battles they did happen kinda 
 rare on this game but when you got int one that was most of the fun and it basically just like 
 every other rts but nothing wrong with that the graphics i got to say are grogues and i just loved 
 them the osund is goo i liked it with a sorta space them in this game and thats charlie word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Its so awsome because you get to go on 13 story missions. Every system and missions get harder 
 and harder where you are. Then once your done with you story mission you can become a hero, pirate, 
 merchant, smuggler so you decide who you want to be. I have been all of them and my favorite is 
 being a smuggler and a pirate. 
  There are 40 massive star systems. 150 uniqe places to land. Radical new piloting system lets even 
 novices focus on combat. Acoherent virtual economy. Over 3000 trade routes. Huge universe populated 
 by 2000 NPC's from 50 factions.
  Freelancer has all different ships, weapons, sheilds, and everything. You can upgrade your ship 
 every system that you go to. But if you go to criminal bases they have better weapons, and sheilds, 
 but not the greatest ships. 
  I think this game is the best pc game I have ever played and I have played a lot of pc games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I started getting interested in the space sim games after being blown away by "Descent: Freespace 
 -- The Great War," and I can honestly say, "Freelancer" surpasses it with a mindblowing epic storyline, 
 cinematic voice acting, and the freedom to explore an entire universe.
  
  In "Freelancer," you can land on space stations and planets, talk to different factions and learn 
 about their cultures. You can also accept missions and trade with these factions. While this may 
 seem repetitive at first, "Freelancer" utilizes it in such a way that it is not frustrating, but 
 immersive and addicting.
  
  Having no joystick support, you are instead left with a keyboard and a mouse. And I must say, this 
 was is surprisingly more fun. I can now attack my enemies with greater accuracy, making battles 
 more intense. Unlike many games in the genre, "Freelancer" has a very simple interface that is 
 perfect for beginners and less frustrating for the rest of us.
  
  Graphically, "Freelancer" is nothing particularly innovative, but technology and realism is sacrificed 
 for something more important: beauty. If you aren't blown away by the gameplay, you can always 
 stop to enjoy the gorgeous nebulae in the background and the imaginative spaceship designs.
  
  Hands down, "Freelancer" is probably the most addictive game on the market. I can see those 
 who aren't fans of the space sim genre still having a good time playing this game, and a movie-quality 
 storyline -- something that a lot of games could use -- certainly enhances the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrust_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer starts with that a man named Edison Trent just survives an explosion from an attacked 
 space station. So he basically has to go back to the begining. He seeks out a job as a freelancer 
 for an LSF agent in the bar and thats were the adventure starts.
  
  From the moment that you launches from the landing pad you&acute; ll realize that this is a BIG 
 game, very big, the first mission is an escort mission but thats only the start of many missions. 
 After the first one you&acute; ll be able to execute gathering material missions, attack station 
 missions, capture criminals and a lot more. It has quanity. With a total of four gigantic star 
 systems to explore and conquer you&acute; ll have a lot of time ahead of you before you can truly 
 say i&acute; ve played that game through already . Every starsystem has about six to eight system 
 that are very big. They have their own astroidbelts, their own plantets, and even own cooperations. 
 Freelancer has several business cooperations in it that flies around and does their thing, trading 
 goods, patrols certain areas and attacks opposing coporations (especial the hostile cooperations) . 
 Your reputation with these factions will change thrugh out the game and it will directly affect 
 your freedom in the galaxy. Do you want to live like a scundrel and attack every freindly ship 
 that comes in your way and raid it&acute; s cargo. Or do prefer to live a life by the law and hunt 
 down pirates or play bounty hunter and fly deep into the pirates haven and raid their operations.
 
  
  Unfortunately Freelancer has only it&acute; s quanity to rely on. When it comes down to graphic 
 details ,in battle for example, the game feels kind of lame. And the details of the minor missions 
 you&acute; ll take on feels like they could have been a little more then just flying out to an area 
 and clean out every scum you&acute; ll run into. After the mission is done you&acute; ll simply get 
 the credits in your pocket.
  
  The controls of Freelancer is surprisingly well adapted to how the story is developed. With time 
 you&acute; ll learn how easy it can be to outmanouver an simple pirate. But as you&acute; ll fly 
 deeper into trouble along with the story you&acute; ll learn how to fly your ship very well. the 
 controls are close to perfect.
  
  The story line is completely up to you how long it&acute; s going to be but if you play through 
 it as fast as you can it&acute; ll take you about 20-30 hours to complete. After the story is finished 
 you can fly around how much you would like. To short things up; Freelancer is an rather impressive 
 looking spacesimulator game with a massive variety in it&acute; s gameplay. Hoever as soon as you 
 land the graphics and the variety will quickly come short. As long as you stay in space you will 
 have a great time being a merchant, bad ass, cop or just a simple freelancer that&acute; s working 
 with just about all you can think of.
  
  if you in any way interested in space games you should definitely get Freelancer directly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cathalk
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Freedom in games seems to be becomin more and more popular these days, and I'm not surprised... 
 it's great. This is what attracted me to Freelancer the most because just the thought of purchasing 
 your own ship, riggin' it up and takin on dogfighting missions at your won accord, had me creaming 
 my pants. 
  
  Well y'see 'Digital Anvil' have made it difficult for me to be dissapointed with the fact that 
 it's still basically a STORY driven game and you ain't going anywhere till you cleaned up missions 
 that you are called for and you also cannot develop your levels till you have them out of your 
 way.
  
  The reason I'm not dissappointed is because this is still actually a pretty good game with a decent 
 story and some amible characters. I was pulled in and kept playin to see how the whole mess actually 
 turned out.
  
  In the end I did get my Freedom, however there wasn't a lot to come with it... Just some repetitive 
 missions and a vast space to journey through since the story had drained most orignality from the 
 developers adding anything special beyond the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  I think this game is over rated everywhere. Not that I think I'm a better reviewer than everyone 
 but if do not play that game for a while before making a review you could be wrong. First couple 
 of hours are great. Staggering graphics, huge universe, loads of things to do that would give this 
 game a 10. But after a while you find yourself doing the same things over and over. Killing people, 
 smuggling things and upgrading your ship. That's it. The missions are all of the same thing and 
 doing commerce the proper way demand so much jump and times that it is not interesting. Even the 
 story didn't kept me interested in continuing. On the bright side, I must point out that even if 
 the graphics are superb, you don't need a top of the line PC to see it. More developers should 
 pay attention to that kind of thing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfaction_fast
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  freelacner meets pretty much all my standeds when it comes to a space type game, there is lots 
 of weapons, lots of shield classings/shields and there a few things that boost your shield when 
 it runs out and if you dont have any of them you have a life/hud booster, very usefull when its 
 10 Vs you :) .. but if you got the skills you dont need to boost your shields, like me, im very 
 good at the game, but when it comes to online play, shield boosters are pretty much needed.. trust 
 me, if you come up against some one with the same skills as you its abit hard.
  anyway the game is great, the story line is excellent, abit hard at times but its great, the sounds 
 of ships, weapons, voices etc are great.
  my overall score is about 9.5 out of 10..
  have fun with your freelancing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Since im fairly new to wrinting reviews and being a member here on game spot, im trying to review 
 some of my favorit games. And Freelanver is one of them, this game havent been surpassed yet in 
 my opinion other then graphics offcource. The X games which are in the same league as freelancer 
 are very beautifull but way to complex and not that good main story in them. But Freelancer had 
 an awesome main story that i completed 2 times, and a good amount off freedom to do what you want 
 in its vast universe. The controls and interface and so on, is a very importnant part of a game 
 too, and here freelancer also succeds more then its competetors out there. And thats why this game 
 still havent been beaten yet, the great story, great freedom to explore what you want, and ok graphics 
 still makes this game worth a buy to those who want a cool sci fi game here in 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micromickMM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is just one of those games where you don't wont to do anything else besides play it 
 for the 5 years after you buy it, well thats what I did! 
  Freelancer is simply amazing. It has fabulous graphics for its time, stunning game play and very 
 good interactive AI. Once you beat the games storyline you can keep playing with your character, 
 trying to get the best ship, finding the best weapons on wrecks and exploring massive systems not 
 in the storyline. Freelancers online play is just like an MMORPG you would think you would have 
 to pay for, but you don't and you can do missions with you friends. This is the best game on my 
 shelf today and will be for awhile! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marqo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer are the first Space simulation game that manage to blow away my mind. This is a perfect 
 game for everyone that never played this kind of a game. Its easy to learn, easy to trade and fight 
 and the game has a very good graphics and music. The main thing I really loved in freelancer was 
 the exploring, you could cruise around and feel the freedom within you and do whatever whenever.
 
  But there is one thing that brings down the game and that is the trading. The trading are limited 
 and even that the exploring are the main thing for me I think that exploring, fighting and trading 
 have to work together. If one thing ends then will the game do the same (In this case it does but 
 its still a very good game) . 
  
  ;D/Marq
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Like most Microsoft games, Freelancer leaves an impression of careful detail and quality to each 
 part of it. Even in our current time, the graphics are still quite standard and the gameplay is 
 solid.
  
  You'll definitely enjoy it most if you're a fan of this genre but the game offers plenty of variety 
 in its field of gameplay. There are plenty of different ships, planets and areas to explore. There 
 are plenty of secrets on top of that. You may get quickly bored of blowing up ships, especially 
 when you finally grab the top ship, however, interesting add-ons like factions and freelancer missions 
 make the game have even more variety and offer alot of what it can for its field.
  
  The multiplayer mode for this is also, "solid." It has an identical interface to single player 
 except there are no missions, however this is overcome often by things such as mods. People add 
 different ships, space, areas, interface, etc and can make the game far more interesting for old 
 Freelancer players.
  
  This game has excellent replay value if you're a fan of space games though it can get boring if 
 you reach the top too quickly. Though if you're a mod fan you may find yourself pulling this out 
 of your cd stack every now and then to give your favourite freelancer server another visit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6hackmysack9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  It was amazing to be truth full you can do anything be anything fight anything. However this is 
 only if you keep to the storyline I got (what i then thought was really far) and had an insane 
 amount of cash but because I had gone for a detour between missions I could no longer continue 
  . it took me about a week to find out what I had to do and even then it was meaning going back 
 onto an old save (I was very lucky to have) but even then it was a hard job getting back to where 
 I had been and have learnt my lesson and will no longer be a freelancer till the storyline is over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriss1987
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is a very nice space shooter, it has nice graphics and the gameplay is very good. The 
 Single Player mode is nice, basically it's the tutorial for the real game.. Freelancer Multiplayer. 
 Here you can play with your friends, do missions, trade and make money. When you get strong enough 
 you can even attack (enemy) transport ships. And loot and trade for good money.
  
  If you are going to play the game I recommend Pitchblack servers. They are very good and fast. 
 I am on Pitchblack2
  
  I really enjoy this game, So I recommend to people who like this type of games or want to try something 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halotron
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Freelancer this is prehaps the best simulation game I have ever played the game story is astonishing 
 simmilar to halo but uniqe. the game centers around freeport 7 refugee named Trent on the planet 
 mannhaten as the game progresses you move from planet to planet getting random missions from people 
 in the planet bars or from Juni, a mission from Juni lets you pass to the next level. you can also 
 ignore the missions and choose your own path become aliyes with the Rouges and Xenos and fight 
 the Liberty Police or Help Juni and King Hunt down a deadly Assassin.
  The Game also lets you also Mine for rare minirals in asteroid feilds and sell them to planets 
 and space stations.
  the missions from the folk in the bars can also be a good source of income feartuing missions such 
 as Dogfights, Capture, Assassinations, and Bounty Hunting. Becarefull thogh the stronger you have 
 an allince with one party the weaker it is with another (for example the synth food inc. hates 
 the farmers and vicea-versa, help the farmers hurt the synth food industry)
  
  the graphics are almost Halo 2 worthy and the music gives the game atmospere a haunting feel... 
 The diversity of systems is fantastic making it easy to tell where you are ( Liberty is mostly 
 always clear of nebula but Kusari is always coverd in the amazeing "Crows Nebula."
  
  All in all the game is an amazing feat that has not yet been surpassed i give Freelance 10/10 hands 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game is simply the best space shooter I have ever played. The graphics are really good, and 
 the gameplay is simple but good. The story is really good and you have alot of freedom to do what 
 you want in the game, you can accept story missions, side-quests or you can fly around to explore 
 the different systems and planets there are. The game has a huge amount of different ships, weapons, bases 
 and off course enemies. The graphics in the game are great and space seem to go on forever. The 
 planets don't dissapear when you get to them and you have to watch out for the planets atmosphere 
 or you'll be burned. There are alot of different systems that you can visit and each system has 
 new planets and ememies to discover. And after you finish with single playe you can always go on 
 with multiplayer which is really good in the game. I recommend this game to everybody that loves 
 space battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a classic. period. No doubts on my behalf, almost every aspect of it is flawless!
  This game boasts no glitches, hence no patches for it, its perfect, no nasty bugs or anything. 
 The tech team for this game need medals!
  The graphics are fantastic for a 2002 game with a 2003 launch. Lush planets, super high detail 
 rings, vivid backgrounds and coronas from suns and brilliant ship designs will have your mouth 
 dropping even compared to modern games. The lip sync with the characters is fantasic, you can really 
 see the emotions slowing, falls just short of those boasted by HL2.
  The sound is great, but here's the only flaw i've ever found with this game, the sound is stuttery 
 or even missing when using 3D sound set on with some sound cards. Watch out for that, it hampers 
 gameplay. note this is a rare occurnace, likely of happening to you? 1/40.
  The gameplay is great, but sometimes perhaps a little repetitive with the freelance missions from 
 Planet and Space Stations. The campaign missions are excellent however, and really keep you hooked. 
 The gameplay isn't to hard either, and is fun to learn and improve your skills.
  
  Best game of its type, but i feel, a little underappreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitlock34
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  best game i have ever played from the microsoft studios and would like to see freelancer 2 soon. the 
 graphic sound and over all playable choices is very well done. i have e-mailed microsoft and they 
 have said that there is another freelancer in production and can not give me any date for completion 
 or release. it is overall better than the last game they came out with-starlancer. easier to play 
 than the first one. i reaaly don't think that they could do better with the next freelancer but 
 i would like to be proven wrong. if this web site rates it as high as 8,5 then it must be a good 
 game for pc people than any other platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: handag
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is a mixed game of action, strategy and adventure! you better try this game or il kick your 
 butt!!:) it may not look great after viewing the images but once you tried it you must buy it!!!:) 
 
  
  The best mod ever..... The Phoenix RPG server!!!!!!!!!
  
  Background:
  
  800 to 815 AS. Just a short fifteen years.
  
  A lot can happen in fifteen years.
  
  Destruction 
 of Freeport Seven by means still not known.
  
  Invasion of Sirius by an alien species, the nature of which is still known only to a select few, 
 bringing the colonies to the brink of all out-war.
  
  Revolution in Rheinland immediately after the death of Chancellor Niemann.
  
  The Kusari government 
 weakened after years of fruitless battle with Blood Dragons and Golden Chrysanthemums.
  
  ... and a breakaway movement from the Outcasts and Corsairs, the Hispania Liberation Front.
  
 
  
  815 AS marks another year of hard work for some Sirians, and struggle for others. Even as Liberty 
 and Bretonia continue to be icons of stability and prosperity, Rheinland's economy is still precarious, 
 recovering from mismanagement and neglect. Its government contends with Red Hessians which did 
 not join with the Bundschuh, LWB and Unioners in the rebellion to depose the old government. Kusari 
 plays a waiting game. The Shogun has been in power for twenty years and there is no clear successor. 
 The Blood Dragons and Golden Chrysanthemums eagerly await the day he dies.
  
  And in the Omicron systems, the Outcasts and Corsairs are in a full-scale civil war with the Hispania 
 Liberation Front, a group composed of members of both peoples who no longer want to engage in criminal 
 activity and piracy, and agitate for legal recognition of a House of Hispania. They occupy a strange 
 no-man's-land, not officially recognized by either the four Houses, nor the Elders of Crete or 
 the Dons of Malta. The breakthrough by Cryer Pharmaceuticals, rumored to be a Cardamine substitute, 
 has not yet been made official. So Outcast and Corsair loyalist factions fight pitched battles 
 with equally-committed HLF members, while the Houses watch largely from the sidelines. Order, never 
 very much a strong point in the Omicrons, is breaking down as the Elders and Dons no longer maintain 
 absolute unquestioned power over all their people. As a result, the Corsairs and Outcasts have 
 been forced to pull units back towards their home systems in the Omicrons, which are now the front 
 lines in the civil war. The Corsairs have all but withdrawn from the attempted invasion of Bretonia, 
 and as such, the Mollys now have much more freedom than they previously enjoyed, now being the 
 largest Bretonian pirate organization. Similarly, the Outcasts have withdrawn from Liberty, Kusari, 
 and Bretonia space, and their allies; the Rogues, Hackers, and Golden Chrysanthemums, are now dealing 
 with their own internal issues as the sudden lack of the addictive cardamine has weakened them. 
 
  
  Once the floodgates were cracked open just a little bit by people who questioned the status quo, 
 the torrent was not long in following as many others who had harbored misgivings about dealing 
 in drugs for enrichment at the expense of thousands of innocents, or committing acts of piracy 
 and theft to fuel an insane plan to take over Rheinland's star systems, finally found an outlet 
 for those misgivings among people who had seen another way, a better one - and took it.
  
  This is still Sirius, where freelancers still make money. But the winds of change are beginning 
 to upset old friendships and alliances, and enterprising people know that to ride these winds can 
 mean success and wealth, or failure and an escape pod.
  
  This is Phoenix, where a nation will rise again after eight hundred years.
  
  VISIT OUR FORUM 
 AT www. phoenix-rpg. ca/forum and join the server.......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdaine
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  When Freelancer was released in 2003, having slid of an original 2001 release date, it had a lot 
 going against it. The storyline was short and easy. The multiplayer, while revolutionary for its 
 max concurrent players, was hollow and also lacking difficulty. You came away sick of the game 
 after just a week. But then again that was three years ago...
  
  If you liked Freelancer but wanted something more, they've got a mod for that. If you're a Star 
 Wars fan, they've got one of those too. Want to start a 24/7 server with vast amount of control, 
 there's an application that'll do it.
  
  While some may say that three years haven't helped the graphics of Freelancer, the art style itself 
 has held up very well. Everything feels as if it belongs. Nothing is out of place. Sure there's 
 some pixelation in the textures, but its to be expected. If you can't get over minor cosmetic flaws, 
 perhaps you're looking for eye candy and not a game?
  
  Anyway, I don't want to rant long. Nonetheless, the game is a far purchase now than when it was 
 released. The mods have extended the difficulty, the content, and the gameplay.
  
  Freelancer: Freeworlds (Star Wars mod) :
  http://www. phpbber. com/phpbb/index. php? mforum=fwt
 
  
  Freelancer: The Next Generation (not Star Trek, expands original game) :
  http://www. starfyrestudios. com/
  
  Ignore the score I've given the game although it is true. 
 If anything, the score is to reflect my disappointment that another game such as Freelancer has 
 not been released. While the X series is well done (mostly) , it still lacks what set Freelancer 
 apart... multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has been on my hard drive for quite some time. I still load it up and fly around for 
 some space fragging action.
  
  It's just downright fun. No complex control schemes, no frustrations, just really good fragging 
 goodness... in space.
  
  The single player missions are execptionally well done. Voice acting is superb , the musical score 
 is intense, satisfying and heightens the suspense, the story is very interesting. Everytime I play 
 through the game I learn something new I'd missed the previous times. 
  
  After the plot, the fun comes from "fixing your factions" with the various houses and organizations 
 in the galaxy, and saving up for one of the best very heavy fighters that appeals to you and equipping 
 it with the best armanent.
  
  Alz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is the best space simulation ever, grace to his easy to handle controls and great - 
 but short - main story . Hundred of guns, fighters, missile, mines , etc. await to be put in good 
 use in a game that really deserves the freelancing title. You have the chance to use the best weapons 
 against a specific enemy or trade goods from planets to space stations, even that commerce is boring 
 without big freighters like Dromedary . The best feature is the combat system - plain shoot and 
 kill - and the implementation of the mouse who, at least for me, is more suitable in a space simulation. 
 The only really complaint is related to the main story. Microsoft was in to much hurry to release 
 the game, so they spoiled the story making impossible to use against the Nomads level 10 heavy 
 fighters and guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyper2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  The first thing that strikes you about this game is definitely the intro movie! It really got me 
 fired up to start playing this game. However, the most impressive thing for me was how vast the 
 space environment actually was! An amazing 49 systems, all interconnected with jump gates and hidden 
 jump holes. Many dozens of space stations, factions and planets all connected by trade lanes (a 
 very good idea by the way) . The imagination that went into this game was simply fantastic! The 
 graphics and sounds were excellent, and the main storyline was equally engaging, setting us up 
 for an even bigger and better sequel!
  
  As for the down sides, I thought the regular missions (not from the main storyline) were a bit 
 repetitive and got really old really quick. I also thought the main storyline, although fairly 
 long, ended too quickly... I would have liked to use my Titan ship with my Nomad Energy Blasters 
 in the actual main storyline (against all those Reinland Battleships for example... I would have 
 crushed them!) . The fights also become a little ridiculous near the end where you're being fired 
 on from every angle with high energy weapons, and you just have to run your ass off all the time.
 
  
  When it's all said and done, the high points of this game definitely outweigh the low points by 
 far, and Freelancer will definitely be a stepping stone for all future games of this genre... and 
 they'll only get better and better. I can't wait for the sequel to this one, and if they improve 
 on it, it'll be a sure contender for game of the year, of that you can be sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Snake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a space sim for people who don't generally like space sims, easy learning curve and never 
 stops being fun. The story is well paced, with excellent voice acting and music. The Sirius Sector 
 is big, with lots of hidden locations, trade opportunities and political backstory. 
  
  If you're bored by repetitive bar conversations, just hit ESC and immediately find out what you 
 want to know. Members of factions you are friendly with will give the best info, others will offer 
 to sell secrets, and your enemies will make threats. In space, you can hail other ships and get 
 a response. 
  
  Make money by flying missions, mining asteroid fields, piracy, salvaging wrecks, doing trade runs, 
 or just destroying random enemy ships are selling their leftover weapons and commodities.
  
  Spend money on a new ship, better guns, missiles, mines, torpedoes, countermeasures, and shields. 
 
  
  After you master the single player game, go online to a multiplayer server for new challenges. 
 Many servers offer modded versions of the game with tougher combat (especially against other online 
 gamers) , new ships to fly and more places to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gupta_dune
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game it was first of it's kind (space shooting) played and i was really 
 engrossed, so much that I continued playing for about 12 hrs in a single because of the engrossing 
 storyline and fantastic graphics. Also the concept and weapons upgrade fitted my image of an ideal 
 game .
  
  1. Very short learning curve. 
  
  2. Easier than the flight simulation- no intricacy of landing and other things but very immersing 
 as you strategise in trading as well as fighting. 
  
  3. Nice story. 
  
  4. Played the demo and instantaneously made my mind to buy the retail. 
  
  Cons: flight detail 
 not there i. e. landing, taking off; as in flight sims. But it's not a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elveon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer is a futureistic piloting RPG game , RPG in the sence that you can literaly do and go 
 anywhere you want . Freelancer offers an enormous univers LITERALY , you can travel from universe 
 to univers using theStar Gatesthe systems are split up into a international theme , their 
 is a german system , an asian system , american and several other , all containg plants named after 
 states in their countrys , such as planet Frankfurt for germany and Tokyo for China. The main story 
 of freelancer wich involves an ancient alin race that is trying to take back their univers by taking 
 over all of the superpowers in the goverments, the story sets you into the role of Trent a freelancer 
 who lost his ship and all of his oney due to the alien attakers , though he dosent know it at first. 
 The story is amazingly exiting and has its curves and twist , but it blends in seemlessly with 
 the open universe , the story progresse as you do , when you level up a contact calls you for an 
 assighnment wich you can choose to take or not , and you prgress more and more into the story , 
 either way its all up to you . After your done with the game your more than free to load your file 
 and roam around the universe exploring secret and unknown universes , their is also an online stroy 
 mode where you can team up with payers across the world to complet the story with some friends, 
 all in all one of the best games of its kind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindstormpt
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I'll gladly admit my bias, but this is certainly one of the best games I've ever played, and I've 
 played a lot of them.
  
  Freelancer is unlike any other recent game. First, it's a space combat simulator, which seems to 
 be a frozen genre. Then, it's got a story, and a good one for that matter. It all starts with you 
 as a survivor of a destroyed space station, and strange things happening around you, but if you 
 decide to play by the story line, you'll soon find yourself in the middle of an intergalacting 
 conspiration.
  
  Freelancer is one of those games you can just keep playing. I don't usually repeat games, but ha've 
 played the full story mode for the third time recently, this time using the excelent TNG mod. And 
 then there's the freedom: you can just explore, trade and take random missions if that's what you 
 want. But while the multiplayer component is excelent and provides unlimited fun, the SP mode really 
 is the game's essence.
  
  The graphics are good, the sound is good, the controls are great (although it doesn't allow for 
 joystick use, by design) , and above all it's extremely addicting. It ain't hard to play too, though 
 as you approach the end of the game you'll find yourself in some extremely hard battles. If you 
 finished it and are willing to start again - and believe me, you will - TNG is a solution, making 
 the game a lot harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobyneve9999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  
  5 minutes into the opening of Freelancer's story mode and you are caught up in a dogfight with 
 20+ enemy ships, as the wreckage of a transport ship floats around you. You kill them all (completing 
 the tutorial) and are then prompted to meet with your mission commander to select the next mission.... But 
 you don't.... You grab some cardamine (illegal drug) from the wreckage of an outlaw ship, then transport 
 it halfway across the galaxy (meeting with some very.... um... colourful characters) before selling 
 it at a space station, and earning 4000 credits. Welcome to Freelancer, the universe of possibility...... and 
 hell it's fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nambybamby
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  It's dissaponting to work so hard, to get to a certain credit and then when you passed half of 
 a game know that your level isn't advancing and you cannot move on, some kind of a glitch. Staying 
 on the same base taking those same boring missions on that Kyoto base. The game is good... no..... excellent 
 but I cannot stand this dissapointment. The space battle are repetitive, sometimes impossible to 
 pass since the enemy's ship keeps running away while someone else is killing you.
  I like this game, no, you can only like this game if you are good at this, I once lost a battle 
 and hated this game, a while later I played it and was actually good at it! Takes a long time to 
 get from one place to another though. Very cool dissapointment, realistic space, creative ships, 
 and good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I cannot claim to be a sim fan, not because I dont like them but because I dont oen many. In fact 
 the only space sims I have are Freelancer & EVE, if EVE can be called a sim. However, I can hardly 
 call Freelancer a sim either, since its too story driven in my mind to be one.
  
  There is all the groundwork for a great space sim in Freelancer. A large, well populated universe 
 where varying factions patrol space & engage eachother in running skirmishes. There is a large 
 trade netwrok in which dozens of goods can seemingly be bought & sold throughout the galaxy. All 
 this & more lays the groundworks for a very decent space sim, yet there isnt one. The fact remains 
 that despite there being a sim side to Freelancer, the storyline campaign is so integral to advancement 
 that you cant really do without it. This fact means many oppertunites that seem to be available 
 are infact not so. Since you can only own one ship at a time, & the campaign revolves alomst exclusively 
 around conflict: be it against German decendants or alien bdysnatchers; you cant really focus on 
 trade as a main source of income because trade vessels dont make good fighters. Also, despite the 
 possibility to become a pirate or smuggler, the fact that tje story really relies on you being 
 on good terms with the legal authorities (untill it deems it fit to have that authority overrun 
 by aliens & turn against you) means that these avenues arnt really open to you. So although there 
 is a sim in Freelancer, the story serverely limits its accessability.
  
  The story as shown limits the sim experience, but there is a way around this. Since the multiplayer 
 universe is more or less the same one as in the single plater, without the story, you can more 
 fully enjoy & explore the alternative avenues offered in the game. However, through doing this 
 u'll suddenly discover how severely limited the sim side really is. Trade is uninteresting & repetitive, 
 involving you buying & selling thumbnails of a variety of goods. This may be realistic but it sure 
 as hell is dull. Missions, from whatever NPCs offer them, are equally limited. While initially 
 they are fun, added to by the superb flight controls for fighting, they soon become horrendously 
 repetative. Also, since you cant hire NPC protection or form raiding parties with them (I say this 
 because you can but you have to find them floating in space & then just tag along, theres no feeling 
 of teamwork or suchlike) , being a pirate is both incredably hard when you start out, & not really 
 worth the hassle by the time your strong enough to be a pirate. The fact that most pirate factions 
 dont like you is another hinderence. Due to the low numbers of players left playing on the servers, 
 the situation is that space is incredably lonely, & lacking a driving force like a story, you'll 
 soon find yourself bored with the whole experience.
  
  Freelancer I must say is not a bad game. The story is quite good & the fighting controls are both 
 simple & effective. The graphics & music too are quite good, as is the nice touch of being able 
 to signal NPCs, which respond with a little recorded message saying who they are & what theyre 
 doing. However, its no sim. If your looking for a cheap but good space game to fill a few hours 
 then I say get this game. If your looking for a deep space sim that will make you feel like your 
 really there, dont get this game. I havent played other sims like the Xseries but I can tell you 
 they sound much more simlike then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickzelaya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is a futureistic piloting RPG game , RPG in the sence that you can literaly do and go 
 anywhere you want . Freelancer offers an enormous univers LITERALY , you can travel from universe 
 to univers using theStar Gatesthe systems are split up into a international theme , their 
 is a german system , an asian system , american and several other , all containg plants named after 
 states in their countrys , such as planet Frankfurt for germany and Tokyo for China. The main story 
 of freelancer wich involves an ancient alin race that is trying to take back their univers by taking 
 over all of the superpowers in the goverments, the story sets you into the role of Trent a freelancer 
 who lost his ship and all of his oney due to the alien attakers , though he dosent know it at first. 
 The story is amazingly exiting and has its curves and twist , but it blends in seemlessly with 
 the open universe , the story progresse as you do , when you level up a contact calls you for an 
 assighnment wich you can choose to take or not , and you prgress more and more into the story , 
 either way its all up to you . After your done with the game your more than free to load your file 
 and roam around the universe exploring secret and unknown universes , their is also an online stroy 
 mode where you can team up with payers across the world to complet the story with some friends, 
 all in all one of the best games of its kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildarya
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  It a good game because its a space sim and also an action game you fight , collect money and go 
 up. I played more than 30 Hours but I want it more and when it finish ... : (
  One of the best space sim I played easy to learn and play with great story
  I finish the game 
 in about 4 days and its very easy to learn and play and you will love it .
  I recommend it to everyone to play for one time and you will never stop playing.
  I hope the 
 second game comes sooner . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamptech
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, the absolute best story i have ever had the pleasure to play through. Captivating 
 and addictive. Ive played many a space sim and while it has its low points (namely stationary economy) 
 this is the only one i have returned to as many times as i have. Mods make this even more replayable, 
 though foregoing the story is a shame. Excellent graphics and very gratifying sound. SHip textures 
 and backround are amazing. Weak points are weak AI interaction and under developed multiplayer. 
 Even at its peak the multiplayer could have been so much better. The only space sim that i could 
 compare this to is a dumbed down version of the X series. While i love those games their story 
 lines could never be compared. As many times as ive played it, it never stops amazing me how cativating 
 the progressive story can be. With every twist of the plot your thrown into new territories, and 
 often ships. If you havent played it yet, this is a must try for any avid gamer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: synaesthetic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is decent. The best thing about it is that you control your ship in a 3 dimensional setting 
 via a combination of mouse and keyboard. I wish the guys and gals at Interplay had thought of this 
 in time for Decent, Decent 2 and 3. 
  
  Anyway, the game is basically a story of alien artifacts, government corruption and the best part: 
 blowing stuff up. And let's be honest here, that's why you want to play this game, not because 
 of the story. 
  
  And it's unfortunate because this story kind of gets in the way of some pretty fun gameplay. There's 
 some open ended quality to it in that you can decide what side to... well, side with. But after 
 the 5th time you've gone to a bar to solicit a job, you become annoyed with the stilted conversation, 
 the repetitive motion of the characters and you realize that by the 50th let alone 100th time of 
 having to go through the same thing, it's gonna be mighty irritating. 
  
  And that's putting it kindly. 
  
  Nonetheless, once you get some upgrades on your ship and 
 square off against a few rounds of pirates, you get a feel for what makes this game succeed. The 
 space battles are frantic, fun and honestly pit your skill against a formidible opponent instead 
 of having stand up targets that are an afterthought. 
  
  What Freelancer needs more than anything else is this: a sequel. Online, persistant and with a 
 smoother interface. More jobs, more villans, more of a true galaxy feel. While there's some simple 
 commerce in this game, there needs to be a more complex model of making money as well as what you 
 can purchase (imagine being able to purchase a fleet of automated ships that you can assume command 
 of when they're under attack or being able to buy stocks, comoddities, bonds or even to be able 
 to buy housing, luxuries and other status items) . 
  
  There's a lot of potential here in Freelancer and while it's not entirely realized in this game, 
 it's a pretty good start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so its not that revolutionary. Privateer II had the same theme and wasnt much different 
 in its gameplay. Freelancer is still good though given the exploration you could indulge yourself 
 in. The open-ended exploration seems to be emphasized and yes, it is there just as promised. The 
 downside is that its so highly addictive that eventually you realize you are still dealing with 
 a finite program and after hours, days, weeks of gameplay you will still run into the last place 
 you havent visited and then you will have seen it all. The usage of the mouse alone is not a much 
 of an option (then again it is Microsoft) . Still, the game does give people who want that mercenary 
 lifestyle game exactly what they want. The battles are still fun, the strategic side of the game 
 is fun. You get to choose what you want and how youre going to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebest1991
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:36 am PT
Review:  I think that Freelancer is the best game I ever played and believe me i have played lot of games. 
 I think that this game is short I finished it in a week. If were there more missions game would 
 be better. But still it is perfect game. When I got the game I thought that it is an ordinary game, 
 but when I started playing it... The game has 50 systems in which are several planets and dozen 
 space bases. In this game there are many ways you can play I have first finished the game and then 
 explored all systems in game. Then I bought the best ship ( Titan ) and then started fighting for 
 the bad guys. It was fun. You must have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tribble
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  Never has there been a space-combat & trading game with a more streamlined and accessible interface. 
 Add to that great quality graphics for the time (though perhaps uninspired as far as ship/station 
 designs) , decent sound, and an interesting though too short and badly paced single-player story/plotline, 
 and you've got a game that on the surface is quite promising. Unfortunately, once you get done 
 with the aforementioned story, you are faced with a pretty shallow experience. A wealth of mods 
 are available to spice up some aspects of the game, but even with that it still left me wanting 
 more. A dynamic economy would have been a real plus here, as would more variation in different 
 ship's attributes. The best fighter in the game still goes the same speed as the ship you start 
 out with. That's whether you're using normal engines, afterburning, or using your "cruise drive". 
 The frieghters turn much more slowly than the fighters, and that's about as much variation in handling 
 and speed as you get. Basically, the groundwork for what could have been a really awesome, infinitely 
 replayable space game is here, but it's obviously missing the depth of games past like Privateer 
 and Elite. Still, it has virtually no learning curve, and really can be fun for a while. Mods can 
 extend that fun a bit, but at some point you'll just be utterly bored and move on to something 
 more involving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  I like also like the gamplay because you get the chance to become a space pirate and you can also 
 involve yourself in space trading so the same as non-linear gaming. Most of the space sims in the 
 new generation must follow the structure and depth of what freelancer brings. It is really exciting 
 and fun to play. Most of the missions are interesting and every new mission brings a new challenge. 
 This is one of the space adventure/simulation games that i highly recommend. If you want a game 
 with nice graphics and awesome space busting sounds well i feel like im advertising this game right, 
 no im really serious, don't just try this one out its a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenOf_9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  A 'page-turner' story line... Makes you wanna see the plot till the end. But replayability value 
 not that great. Apart from the campaign missions.. you can go about doing your own exploration 
 and trading and after some time... that will feel mundane and repetitive.
  
  Design of the game is just nice... Balanced Graphics ... Espcially during the Jump gates scene... i 
 think the designers had those gamers with lower spec computers in mind. The Sound effects complement 
 every space scene. 
  
  I spent a few weeks just trying to get thru the missions though. A well mixed of easy - difficult 
 missions. Some times, you even need to get a breather... away from the main plot and do some credit 
 hunting to get equipped with the better weapons and ships just to get by the next mission alive. 
 
  
  The trading of commodities is also another strategy you can employ for good credits. Then there 
 is this balance of becoming Trader or Fighter inclined personality. A balance will get you a steady 
 income of credit while keeping you Alive ready for the next big trade.
  
  All in all, when there is a gut feeling that the game is becoming repetitive.. you may well can 
 switch vocation be it doing some trading, exploration or space hunting... just to throw off that 
 repititive scent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izod91
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer is a really good game that can be very addicting. The storyline catches you right from 
 the start, and even if you don't want to follow along, you can break from it and do your own thing. 
 You can be a merchant, smuggler, hero, and about anything else you can imagine. It is so much fun 
 to be able to upgrade your ship to those that pirates use, and find lasers floating around in space 
 rubble.
  
  Though it has a good storyline, there are a few bad things to this game. Here are some:
  
  
 No joystick control.
  
  There is not much you can do in the beginning.
  
  Conversations in bars (places you go to get information and jobs) get really redundant really fast. 
 Sometimes it gets so annoying that I want to throw the computer out the window. 
  
  Jobs can get redundant.
  
  Overall, Freelancer is a really good game, but doesn't deserve a 
 perfect 10. If you have a few bucks to blow and some time on your hands, I highly reccomend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:25 am PT
Review:  Freelancer has quickly become one of my favorite games ever. It is a very open ended, space flight 
 sim with a few RPGish elements to it. The single player weaves an intricate tale of intrigue and 
 suspence, allowing you to explore the massive Sirius Sector as the space ace, Trent.
  
  However, it's the multiplayer that first got me singing this title's praises. This mode simply 
 removes all of the plot related missions from the game and lets you "freelance" your way across 
 the galaxy. It is very easy, with a group of friends, to set up a fine fleet that can hold its 
 own in any scenario: a pirate fleet the rapes the trade lanes of Sirius, a merchant fleet that 
 hauls precious cargo throughout space, a bounty hunting fleet that picks up hits at local bars. 
 There are many options, and you can freely switch from one to the other at will.
  
  This game has been a blast to own and play. I cannot get enough of its marvelous graphics and its 
 simple yet addicting gameplay. This amazing game will provide hours of enjoyment for the single 
 or multiplayer gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnalshadow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  An interesting story line with many twists and turns and some
  small suprises here an there. Although you can just ignore the story and do as you want, but for 
 your first time playing I suggest stick with the story.
  This game also has a lot of replay value to it as it is all by itself. But if you add in some of 
 the created content from the mod community, such as new ships, weapons, systems and etc. Raises 
 the replay value even more.
  
  The main thing I think really missing from the game is gamepad/joystick supported control 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spence-GB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought Freelancer about a year and a half ago, and I have loved it.
  
  Gameplay:
  The innovative mouse and keyboard feature really makes flying a breeze, and it contributes to the 
 game's friendly learning curve. The storyline kept me coming back to the singleplayer, and many 
 times I just wanted to keep playing so that I could reveal the story. The other ships that populate 
 space keep you from feeling like the only one out there. On occasion you'll even exit a trade lane 
 or jump gate to discover a raging battle! Your reputation also affects where you can go and what 
 you can do.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are extremely nice to look at. There are particle effects, glares from 
 the bright suns, atmospheres around planets, and beautiful but sometimes creepy nebulae. Each colony 
 has its own distinct look to the ships, which are detailed and beautiful. The backgrounds in space 
 are awe-inspiring. Sometimes its fun just to sit back and watch space! The cutscenes are rendered 
 with the game engine, but it doesn't really matter because the game looks that good.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds in the game immerse you in the action (although it is a bit unrealistic - 
 you wouldn't hear much in space. It's a good thing, though, because you wouldn't want to play a 
 silent game) . Each kind of nebula makes its own distinct sound, but this is realistic - flying 
 through a nebula would be like flying through a free-standing atmosphere. The music adds a dimension 
 to the gameplay. It can make your adrenaline flow before you even start fighting!
  
  Value:
  I bought Freelancer for $30 - a great price for such an awesome game!
  
  There are 
 only a few drawbacks to this game. First, things can get repetitive. When you talk to bar patrons, 
 they always say one of about 15 things. Your character's talk is also limited. Pilots all sound 
 the same, even though they are from different colonies. It would be nice if they had included more 
 voice clips and responses. Second, the multiplayer isn't very good. You have to come back to the 
 same server if you want to keep your stats, and the huge game space means that you will experience 
 extremely jerky gameplay. Other than those few problems, Freelancer is incredible! If you like 
 action or flight games, you'll love this one. I guarantee you'll keep coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 26, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the coolest space sim ever. It adds a little bit or RPG, Action, and Cool space 
 ships. The story is well done. The only dings I have for this game is the mission descriptors are 
 too similar. The are a great number of ships to choose from and weapons to "pimp" out your ship. 
 Its a great game and i think the nicest thing about this game is it was designed for a keyboard 
 and mouse for play devices. Not everyone can afford the Saitek HOTAS systems for sim flight games. 
 So this makes it enjoyable for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowHawk
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Great game for anyone who loves mods. There is a conversion out there for about ever Sci Fi movie/Tv 
 Series. But lets talk about "The Game" its self. I have one gripe and that there isn't supported 
 joystick control built right into the game. The mouse controls get the job done right, just would 
 have like to seen that. The story is impressive and entertaining. I specially liked how open ended 
 it was in terms of what you could do. Online play is a blast. Cruising around all grouped up shooting 
 baddies or goodies out of the sky. I'm really looking forward to FL 2 if they make one. I give 
 it a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I know this game came out a long time ago but I've played through it several times, marveling at 
 the way it was done right (as opposed to other games in the genre) , and just started multiplayer 
 the other day so... I felt this game deserved ten minutes of my time and an incredible review. 
 Up until Freelancer came out, and afterwards, all other space simulation games either had aweful 
 controls as if someone closed their eyes and randomly selected buttons to do different things, 
 or they only worked if you went and spent more money and bought a joystick (which in my opinion 
 was replaced by the mouse when the mouse first came out) , or they were extremely difficult and 
 you would die in the first 30 seconds off your home planet.
  Needless to say, Freelancer threw in easy controls, utilizing the mouse which comes with every 
 computer, it isn't an extra budget testing device, made the difficulty just right, and created 
 a breathtaking universe. The story is great in the game, the hidden secrets and wrecks are fun 
 to find as well as the weapons and very heavy fighters. Each system has a unique look and is very 
 beautiful. The different systems have different looks and it all feels like a very believable universe.
 
  So, which brings me to the bad stuff. Now, since the game is a 9.5, remember the bad stuff is 
 very minimal and does little to affect the game as a whole. First, the story was kinda short but 
 this isn't a big deal since the game continues afterwards. Secondly, the universe is incredible 
 but not very deep. A lot of display with little substance. I want to be able to do more things 
 such as build bases, destroy bases, perhaps destroy planets, fly around planets in the atmosphere, 
 not above it, etc. The missions needed to be more varied. There were four types that just got repeated 
 over and over again. Also, I would like to see some more depth like being able to "commandeer" 
 other vehicles that you've attacked, not just destroying them. Also, it would be nice to control 
 capital ships or gunboats or the like (without trusting some stranger's mod) .
  Since games like San Andreas came out (blagh, blagh, blagh, there's go the billionth comparison 
 to that game, sorry) , we can expect alot more depth in the games we by, not just run and gun games 
 but real games where you can do whatever you want. But yeah, that is my one thing to nitpick with 
 this game is it limits you slightly. Other than that, it is the BEST space simulation game out 
 there. I tried x2, the Threat, or whatever it is. That game was aweful. Freelancer awesome, all 
 other space simulation games, suck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikthorsen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game in many ways, i shall try to tell you a few of them:
  1. Freelancer have a good story with many twist and turns and a few small suprises, although you 
 can ignore the story and do as you want, but i woulden't recommend that since the story is realy 
 good.
  2. The universe you get to explore isen't big, it is huge! it takens many hours to realize just 
 how mucj there is to see and explore!
  3. The multiplayer functions much like an MMO but ist fast-paced, there are servers that support 
 hundreds of players and many so-called mod servers.
  4. This game also have a lot of replay value, becouse it is a generaly big game but the mod-community 
 have made thousends of new ships, weapons, systems and so on, a good mod site is www. lancersreactor. com
 
  
  So what can i say? Freelancer is amazing, it is an incredible game! Even now in 2005 it still holds 
 up very good. So do yourselv a favor: Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2004 8:47 am PT
Review:  This is a game I was hoping would live up to the legacy of great space "sims" like Freespace (they 
 are more like Rogue squadron with greatly expanded game mechanics then "Simulations", because they 
 are designed first and foremost to be games and for fu) .
  The thing that is great about freespace is the FOCUS on the gameplay, the mechanics of how the 
 ships control, the balanced design of the weapons for both player ships and enemy ships of all 
 types. Freelancer though, is nothing compared to freespace series is soon going to be over 6 years 
 old!
  
  In this game the missions are are stupid and the "lounge" and people you talk to are ridiculous. 
 The game's story is bad but it's workable. The game may be "open ended" but because it's space, 
 the areas are SO large that they take immense amounts of time travelling around, and travelling 
 too long watching your ship and not playing is NOT fun. If people don't enjoy their commutes to 
 work, what on earth makes game designers think travelling with your ship on autopilot, locked into 
 the pre-defined warp paths is?
  
  You can tell that the people who designed this game had no idea what is FUN in these kinds of games. 
 The control of the ship while good, makes fighting really lame, repetitive and tedious because 
 the enemy AI ships are so maneuverable you'll be annoyed rather then pleased. 
  
  On the plus side the games graphics for the most part are pretty good, except for the player ships, 
 almost all the player ships are the ugliest things you've ever seen. Some of the enemy ships and 
 space stations are good looking, and some of the levels and galaxies are fantastic to look at, 
 but high points of some of the games good graphics does not make this game any more entertaining. 
 There is nothing particularly fun in this game to *do* and what is there is a barely passable, 
 amateur and mediocre effort.
  
  This game is the result of a troubled development, and when you are playing it you can see why.
 
  
  This game is similar to freespace from your perspective and ability to move, but it does not FEEL 
 like or PLAY like freespace or freespace 2 at all. Take out the joystick, cool ships, cool weapons, 
 and insert giant galaxies that take forever to travel with tonnes of boring repetitive tasks in 
 between and you have this game in a nutshell.
  
  Most of the game is centered around you doing "missions" to collect enough money to buy your next 
 ship in between doing the main storyline missions that further the game. You dont have to move 
 the storyline forward if you dont want to, and you can just sit around and hunt enemy ships and 
 take missions for money. But what missions there are, are very repetitive and boring. There is 
 no depth in how the game mechanics, missions and enemies were designed, so you end up basically 
 feelig like you're playing "Bots" dumb computer controlled enemy ships that have accuracy so good 
 in the later levels that you will find them impossible to outmaneuver. In fact moving around plays 
 an important role later but it's so forced that it's much more frustrating then fun. In Freespace 
 the enemy ships were just the right difficulty so there was that tension between you and the enemy 
 ships, in this game the computer just gets more godlike in ability as the game progresses which 
 leaves you frustrated, rather then having fun.
  
  The game is OK you can tell that the developers of thi sgame wanted to make this game good, but 
 they lost the vision somewhere along the line and churned out a game that certainly isn't worth 
 anything, even the bargain bin price for this game is highway robbery in that the fun in this game 
 is so absent as that it's not even worth playing. If you're a single player buff, it's worth playing 
 maybe ONCE but you'll have to go through the tediousness of what this game throws at you to get 
 to the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jurobi
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 23, 2004 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This was probably the worst space Sim I ever tried to play. It wouldn't run on my mid-range machine 
 even with Windows XP, but ran on my son's pentium 3-750 with Win-98 and DirectX 8.0. The mouse 
 control was worthless (although we use trackballs instead) and the play (which my son completed 
 in 10 hours (he's 14) ) was linear. For a real open-ended sim, get the original Privateer (with 
 DOSbox and Boxer) or play X2: the Threat (which also has better graphics and acting) . Incidentally, 
 my hand cramped up after three hours and I never played again - just watched my son. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Freelancer, at its core, is a space shooter with a unique control scheme. The story that drives 
 the space combat is extremely strong with a great pace and solid dialogue. It has style and beauty, 
 but the frantic ending is muddled and confusing.
  
  The introduction of the game shows Earth in a constant state of war; torn between two factions, 
 the Alliance and the Coalition. The Alliance, realizing they are on the losing end of the battle, 
 decide to start life anew in a distant galaxy far from Earth. Five ships are christened to send 
 settlers to this new galaxy, each one based on a main populace of the planet. As the introduction 
 closes, you are brought to a current period where your character, Edison Trent, is disembarking 
 from a rescue ship after a perilous journey to the space station Freeport 7. The conspiracy that 
 starts here will put you on a journey of mystery, intrigue and discovery.
  
  Freelancer uses the old Earth is being destroyed plot to explain your current surroundings, but 
 it is used plausibly. As you get into the game, the story grabs you while the flat-out gorgeous 
 visuals leave you stunned.
  
  The space flight in the game is unique and will throw most joystick jockeys for a loop right off 
 the bat since there is no joystick control. All flight is driven by the mouse. Yes, the mouse is 
 your flight control instrument. You press down the right mouse button to move forward while tapping 
 the left button to fire your selected weapons. Moving the mouse around controls the movement of 
 your vessel. While it sounds a bit suspect, but it works surprisingly well. It takes a bit of time 
 to get used to the movements and button clicks, but once you adjust, it offers a fluid flying experience 
 that is unparalleled. 
  
  The exceptionally penned story will envelop you and keep you engrossed throughout your play. It 
 mixes in societal issues, ancient artifacts, war, and aliens. Unfortunately, the pacing at the 
 end of the story seems out of balance. Considering all that has happened to that point, the ending 
 is flat. However, solid dialogue for the main characters keeps the story coming at you, even with 
 its flawed ending.
  
  You will start the game with the first of several main story missions. These missions tend to move 
 the plot forward and provide focus on upcoming events. In between the story, opportunities allow 
 you to complete freelance missions. Missions can be found in the bar of each port or planet that 
 you visit., either from personnel in the bar or from the job board. If you want a break from combat, 
 you can ship goods between ports, or just join random cargo convoys. It is up to you to find the 
 way to meet the monetary requirements to advance the game. Do you choose to spend some of your 
 bank on a new ship that will make combat easier? Or do you conserve money to get to a new level 
 quicker, but at the cost of battle superiority? This is almost perfect until you realize that the 
 missions in-between the story are generic and fit into one of six standard types. 
  
  The games graphics are solid and, for the most part. raise the bar for space flight games. Space 
 has not been revitalized like this since Star Wars made space look real. Planets and their coronas, 
 stars, nebuli all look breathtaking. There are several screens that are begging to be used as wallpaper. 
 Sometimes just flying around to admire the scenery that you missed during combat is fun in and 
 of itself. Each faction has a distict style for their ships. The Liberty States use a bird motif 
 in most of their ship designs while the Rhineland States use a more industrialized look. The character 
 models in the game are good for the time of the games release.
  
  Freelancer's universe is in a constant state of movement, as if it were alive. Flying from one 
 place to another, you will hear over-the-air chatter such as people asking for assistance, or the 
 military scanning for cargo. Spontaneous attacks will occur on space stations and outposts. 
  
  Background sounds you hear while flying through space are soothing and have a new-age sound 
 to them. Voiceovers are a bit of a problem. While most are great, Ian Ziering is flat as the main 
 character, Edison Trent. His voiceover is the biggest problem, because it conveys no sense of energy 
 or effort. When compared to the exceptional work of Jennifer Hale, who breathes life into Junko 
 Zane, a pilot you work for, Ian just sounds very average. No one is expecting the greatest, but 
 without passion in his voiceover, you lose attachment with the story as a participant.
  
  The multiplayer component will maximize the purchase. In multiplayer, you set up your ID and go 
 out and start performing missions. You will interact with real people as well as NPC characters. 
 Hundreds of servers are out there for you to explore and they are as dynamic as the real game. 
 It is a shame that Microsoft basically forgot about this game after its release, because the community 
 that has been built around the game is a testament to the devotion of the community. The community 
 continues to update the game with modifications for graphics, physics and locations. After spending 
 a couple of hours online in the Freelancer universe, it feels as if someone could become a time 
 vortex with the depth of possibilities .
  
  There are a few mistakes that keep this game from hitting .5 past light speed, however. While the 
 story is solid, you are rushed toward the end of it. The final story missions come at you and they 
 fire rapidly, giving you no chance to catch your breath. There were some issues with cut scenes 
 and sound, but it is something that Digital Anvil shold have noticed before it got out the door. 
 Also, a more charismatic lead actor would have done wonders for Edison Trent. The biggest flaw 
 this game has is the difficulty factor. You will cruise through most of this game until the later 
 missions and then the difficulty gets notched up to 11. Your patience may meet its limit during 
 the last two missions.
  
  Freelancer ends up putting together a solid offering that enhances the current space flight games 
 on the market and ties it around a strong story. Multiplayer further inflates the value of the 
 game due to the Freelancer community at large. At $20, this game should be on the shelves of all 
 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2004 3:17 am PT
Review:  I can't think of any single game I've played where both the single and multiplayer modes excelled. 
 So while I have not played this in multiplayer, I will say the single player is spectacular. And 
 yet this replay I did of the single player was my third time after having let dust collect on the 
 disc for almost a year.
  While I cannot remember if I initially played this with the onboard graphics or the FX 5200 PCI, 
 it doesn't matter because neither of them did this game justice. While my 6800GT now is quite the 
 overkill, I did get to revisit plenty of scenery I wasn't able to see in such detail and glory.
 
  Gosh this single player just draws you in deeper and deeper, the storyline was very well written. 
 While some of the voices and areas are repetitive, on the grand scale of things this doesn't detract 
 from the gameplay. That it is such an open universe, I spent probably well over 100 hours playing 
 this my first time. Rumors to be had, alliances to be made, ships and weapons to purchase, goods 
 to trade, a whole slew of new friends and enemies in varying styles... and then a solid storyline 
 intertwined with all of this. It was only after spending countless hours searching all the solar 
 systems did I realize they cut this game rather short. I didn't notice this when the end came, 
 it felt like a good ending except there were no credits nor a definitive ending. Perhaps they rushed 
 things a bit at the end, but again it's only noticeable after spending many more hours perusing 
 the various systems you didn't get to before.
  As of this writing, 11/29/04, I think this is still a very worthwhile purchase. The mouse flight 
 takes a little getting used to, but you're not handicapped using it. There are just so many things 
 to tinker with and so many varying ways to attack the enemy... One can only dream they'll put out 
 a sequel! Until then, you won't be disappointed playing the single player... hours upon hours of 
 enjoyment. The artwork and sounds are pretty good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calsouth
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2004 2:19 am PT
Review:  Just the sheer scope of this game is amazing. There is so much to see and do that its replay value 
 is the greatest you'll find compared to most other games. I still am playing it. I thoroughly enjoy 
 the fact that the universe changes and evolves depending on the choices you make in the game. Career 
 choice is also an added bonus; become what you want and go to where you want. That is the overall 
 premise.
  
  The single player campaign is also pretty addictive, and the storyline (along with some fairly 
 strong voice work) is great. A fun experience that will keep you entertained for a very, very long 
 time.
  
  With it's current price, extreme value, exciting space combat, and epic environments, it's almost 
 like you're ripping off developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 29, 2004 2:33 am PT
Review:  Freelancer claims to do a lot. It claims to allow you to be a pirate, mercenary, anything. Rather, 
 it leads you through an exceedingly linear quest with only a few fun moments throughout.
  
  Gameplay: Freelancer tries, it really does, to have a storyline. That is what ruins it. I bought 
 this game actually believeing the claims on the box. I wanted to have it be the 'morrowind' of 
 space shooters. I wanted to be what i wanted to be, and do what I wanted, and modify my ship insanely. 
 If this is what you want too, you will be sorely disappointed. 
  Freelancer does none of that. Instead, early on it gives you some admitedly good plot points, but 
 then sends you on one of the most linear stories ever created. And it is required, you cant simply 
 do what you want, the entire game consists of doing missions to get money to get a ship to go to 
 the next boring mission, and it is rather useless in general. I will admit again, it does have 
 some good points, hence my 7, or 'good' score.
  
  Flying the ship is fairly easy, and gunning down enemies is very arcade like, it is very, very 
 easy. Again, it is fun at times, so it constitutes a 7 rather than a 6 or 5.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, this game is stunning, your ships look awesome, the cut scenes are great, 
 there is no arguing the graphics are great.
  
  Sound: Um, what sound? The only sound there is is not good, annoying elevator music, but the lasers 
 and weapons sound ok, so 6 -fair-
  
  Value: 20$ or so, its almost worth it..
  
  Tilt: This game was one of the most disappointing games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game at Best Buy, as a result of spontaneous thought. I'd been longing for a great 
 space simulator, that would immerse you in a "free to roam" environment, while allowing for spectacular 
 space battles, and a good economy/character interaction system. Looking at the box of Freelancer, 
 I decided to give it a shot (for it was only $30 at the time) .
  Freelancer lives up, for the most part, to these. It most definitely has an excellently put together 
 single-player, and plenty of sandboxing to do after that offline or online (some mods are tons 
 of fun) . As for space battles, though not as spectacular as I would have imagined. And as for the 
 character interaction, that ideas are great, but I feel a little more effort into character interaction 
 with the economy and other characters would have made this game revolutionary for its genre.
  The gameplay as a whole is entirely immersive and addictive. After playing this game for about 
 a half an hour, I was hooked. All the way until the end, and beyond. The interface is very simple, 
 the flight module is unique and frankly, I liked the mouse scheme better than a joystick. As for 
 the economy, a fluctuating economy would have been better, and, this ties in with sound, more emotion 
 and variety between factions and characters would have made this game PERFECT. Yet, it is still 
 an extremely fun game to play.
  The graphics are great, though not superb nor revolutionary. They still hold their own in the long 
 run. One thing that should be considered for future space genre sims, make the capital ships "CAPITAL" 
 (BIG) . Thats just a minor thing though.
  Sound, this is the weakest part of the game, though it is put together well, and the environment 
 sounds are well done, the voice acting is mundane and repetative. It gets really old really quick. 
 Simple enough.
  Overall, this game is worth a shot for those space junkies out there looking for good storyline 
 and extended gameplay after the single-play campaign; and to those space junkies who are obsessed 
 with the joy and glory of blasting thine sworn enemies in oblivion in the deep black.
  
  Neural Net Addition 16 November, 2005: 1419 Hours.
  I have just downloaded the Tekagi's Treasure 
 mod and it adds sooo much depth, and sooo much replay value that I am worried for my life. If you 
 don't wonder why I say so. Last night I transported 25,000 Koala Bears from a new system to Planet 
 Manhatten in my Interdictor Star Destroyer. That is all I feel I need to say. WOOOOO, so my new 
 score is based off using the mod, which is lame, but it kicks like a mofo.
  Neural Net Log Entry End.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybrid17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 30, 2004 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Oh, yeah, people, Chris Roberts strikes again with his all new Freelancer!! Freelancer is basically 
 a great mix of spacesim & RPG!! The game gives you freedom to fly a huge universe using your keyboard 
 and mouse, as a trader, bounty hunter or a pirate. For those who are wondering "Freelancer" is 
 a sequel to "StarLancer" where you are playing as rookie pilot helping The Western Alliance to 
 overcome Eastern Coalition. The story of "Freelancer" puts you in control of a guy named Trent, 
 who's homebase, Freeport 7 has been mysterioulsy destroyed. Looking for a job as freelancer Trent 
 arrives to Liberty Space Force, ( something like police) who are receiving some disturbing news 
 about alarming developming in the criminal organisationThe Order". After a number of mission 
 you discover a connection between these developements in "The Order" and the destruction of your 
 base. You can also ignore the story and just fly discovering the universe and leveling up and working 
 on your reputation!! The graphics and sound of the game a great!! However the capships in the game 
 aren't looking that terrirfying! They are just some freighters if you compare them with the capships 
 in StarLancer or Freespace 2! That's my only complain!!
  It's great game and Chris Roberts proves one more time that his spacesims are the best!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2004 3:03 am PT
Review:  Freelancer is undoubtably one of the most innovative space sims I have ever seen. It combines crisp 
 graphics with an exciting storyline which is completely optional. Whenever you feel like it, you 
 can break away from the main campaign. After you finish you can still play freelance missions creating 
 a lot of replay value. The world itself is enormous, taking quite some time to get from one edge 
 of known space to the other. There are plenty of hidden systems and aliens to encounter as the 
 campaign won't even take you through all the systems that exist. Voice over in this game is excellent 
 and brings the characters to life. The controls are so easy to use, even a first-timer could easily 
 get into this game. Freelancer opts to use a control scheme similar to that of a first-person shooter 
 game, which makes it incredibly easy to control. It is definitly addictive and extremely fun to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Letham316
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 4, 2004 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Game / General: The main focus of this game is the Single-Player story mode, which is quite good. 
 I felt the cut-scenes and the story-based missions really drew me into the game. However, unlike 
 other games, there's actually something beyond the main story -- the ability to go around freely, 
 take on missions and so on. In the Multi-Player, it's like SP mode, but instead of having the story-based 
 missions, you have the ability to interact with other players, which I found really enjoyable.
 
  
  Unfortunately, after you've played for a while, after so many missions, so many visited systems 
 and so on, you'll notice that the game (outside the main storyline) is a little generic. I've heard 
 people complaining about the limited nature of the MP mode, but a lot of them are basically comparing 
 it to Massively-Multiplayer Online games. With that said, I think a (significantly improved) game 
 like this would be amazing as a MMO game.
  
  Controls: I didn't know what to expect with the interface, and I was unsure at first. But when 
 I got used to the controls (which was pretty quick) , I liked the intuitive interface, which made 
 it really easy to use. So for people who want to play a space-based game but are hopeless at them, 
 they should try this one.
  
  However, there are times when it feels a little too simplified. In the ship, I always imagined 
 there would be things like power allocation (like Starlancer) , but there isn't. Then in "docked" 
 locations, I like the convenience of clicking to go to a specific area and clicking to talk to 
 someone... but the simplicity kinda ruins the feel of being "in the game", which is one of the goals 
 of this type of game.
  
  Graphics: In general, I think this has some good graphics, and great effects, like explosions and 
 stuff. Though I only gave it 8 because there are places where its age shows. Remember, this game 
 started production in 1997 and originally slated for a late-2000 release -- therefore many things 
 like the ship models and cityscapes were made years ago and just look dated now. Simply put, this 
 game took too long (apparently because of problems and setbacks) , but if they released it maybe 
 2001 instead, the graphics would've been considered "ground-breaking".
  
  Sound: I think it's got some good music, and great voice acting for a computer game. It's good 
 to hear all the NPC speech, but it gets a little repetitive after a while. Unfortunately, the sound 
 quality itself is a bit of a let down... as it's only sampled at 22KHz (intead of the usual 44KHz) . 
 Because of this, it gets hard on the ears at times.
  
  
  Overall: If you are looking for a simple action game, I definately recommend this game. However, 
 if you're looking for an in-depth simulation game instead, you might be a little disappointed. 
 Either way, this seems like a fairly unique game, and I suggest you at least try the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Graham
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed feelings when i first heard that the control in Freelancer would be keyboard and mouse 
 only. It did take me a while to get used to when i finally played it but after a while it grew 
 on me. You may think that there is no way a space sim can work with a keyboard and mouse as the 
 main control and i would have agreed until i played this. They just made the controls so slick 
 and functional that any nostalgia of using a joystick is soon forgotten. The menus are easy to 
 get to and the combat feels great, it's also very easy to pick up and precise when dodging lazer 
 fire, mines, torps or whatever else the game throws your way.
  
  The story portion of this game is excellent and it features some very good voice acting that adds 
 to the experience. It has a lot of intrigue and plot twists so it's a while before you know what 
 is going on and who to trust. Later on you find out what is really happening and you reluctantly 
 help save the colonies. One of the things i loved about Trent was the fact he was the reluctant 
 hero, at the start of the game his main concern is money and everything he does is really in his 
 best interests. He is just your average guy down on his luck guy that is thrown into a situation 
 where he needs to be the hero and I like that.
  
  It was actually a long while before i decided to play the single-player game and this was because 
 of it's great multi-player. Here is where the true, choose your path part of the game is and i 
 have spent countless hours online raiding conveys, policing systems and running cargo... both legal 
 and contraband. The alliance system in this game is great and it makes you think about who you 
 want your character to be because it isn't hard to become hostile with a faction if you are against 
 their cause. There are lots of factions and causes to get involved with and all of the bases in 
 the games have written history about the base, it's owners and the other factions that frequent 
 it. You will hear tales of forbiddion love, rumors about missing ships and their loot, locations 
 of hidden jump holes and many other interesting and useful things. All this really helps add depth 
 to what would have just been a great story based action game without it. 
  
  As you would expect in multi-player you can team up with other players and carry out missions, 
 trade runs and cargo raids together. This is fun in itself but what makes it much more enjoable 
 is making people aware of your alliance (either by joining a clan or getting to know them) once 
 they are aware of your alliance they can act accordingly when they encounter you. If you are both 
 criminal type pilots someone with a cargo ship may want to help you collect loot from transports 
 and split profits with you. Then someone who is part of a police clan may come along and try to 
 break up your little party by attacking you, which generally leads to combat and this can be very 
 fun if all parties know each other and have agreed on PVP conduct. Like any game there are people 
 who go after new players that don't have a ship that could stand a chance against their but the 
 vast majority of people i have met in the game have been helpful and friendly.
  
  The graphics in this game are easily the best i have seen in the genre. They are works of art and 
 the systems in this game look simply amazing. It has excellent use of colors, very impressive particle 
 effects and the planets and stations look very nice too. The sound also adds to the atmosphere 
 and the music is top notch. Even though it has impressive graphics it runs well on both my PCs 
 and one of them is near the lower end on the minimum required specs but because it takes advantage 
 of DX 9 technology it looks much better on my newer graphics card.
  
  All in all Freelancer is a great game and there really isn't that many games on the market like 
 it. You don't have to be a fan of the genre to like it but if you are than chances are you will 
 love it. The game does try to be both simulation and action at the same time so it is possible 
 hardcore sim fans will be disappointed that it doesn't have all the features you would expect from 
 a true space sim (X2: The Threat would be your best bet if you are looking for a really in-depth 
 sim) . However if you want an action game with depth, a great story and excellent multi-player than 
 Freelancer is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 9, 2004 4:51 pm PT
Review:  It must be noted right away that the initial first hour of the game is full of deceit. It feels 
 like a new experience for simulation fans, yet a couple of hours later, you get the idea that you've 
 done this several times before. The gameplay is dreadfully repetitive, and new players will often 
 find themselves in tight conditions, since more weathered gamers can make waste of them in seconds. 
 The online component is vast and quite detailed, but it's hard to have fun when there's no one 
 to experience it with. Add the idea of the lack of joystick support, and you are left with an ambitious 
 concept wrecked by poor mission implementation and a messy online mode, and you've got a disaster. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 22, 2004 9:59 am PT
Review:  Freelancer does a lot of things right, the first of which is an involving storyline. You are thrown 
 into the game in the shoes of a Space Trader who's ultimate deal has gone horribly wrong. Finding 
 yourself in the right place at the wrong time, you're ship and money are destroyed as Terrorists 
 oblitterate a deep space instalation. The story takes off from there and doesn't slow down, as 
 you quickly learn all is not as it seems. You'll be duped, double crossed, chased across planetary 
 systems, and thrown into political struggles within the first several missions.
  
  Gameplay is, unfortunately, where Freelancer struggles slightly. The game is fun, but runs off 
 of a quirky mouse driven flight engine that you'll either love or just have to get used to. There 
 are a lot of ships and guns to both pilot and fight, but the missions and opponents all come from 
 a very vanilla mold that will leave you cursing when you get pulled out of hyperspace for the bazillionth 
 time. There are some nice features here however, including a tractor beam to pickup salvage, turreted 
 attacks from a fixed camera view, and a generally entertaining method of using gates to zip through 
 systems quickly; almost an interstellar highway if you will. There are also some nice elements 
 on planets where npc's will remember your character, although this becomes repetitive as well (more 
 on this later) .
  
  Graphically, Freelancer is stunning. Even today, long after it's release, the game is really, really 
 beautiful to look at. Planetary systems are gorgeously rendered, weapons effects look great, and 
 the general look and feel of each system is different. Planetary landings are accompanied by the 
 standard "atmoshphere fly in" animation from other games, but Freelancer does it well. Each system 
 has unique com chatter, and the various governments and factions all look different.
  
  Sound wise, Freelancer is also a hit. Again, ambient tracks, music and sounds are great. Voice 
 acting, the bane of so many games, is really well done here. The NPC's are all fairly likeable, 
 and even somewhat deep at times. You'll grow to love flying around the various areas just for the 
 "shump-thump" of the space lanes.
  
  Freelancer's value is debateable. On one hand, there is a lot to see and do, and the multi-player 
 community has modded the game quite a bit. On the other hand, the game's fairly repetitive nature 
 belies any major reasons to play through the game again. Even different craft play fairly similarly, 
 unless you love to "haul cargo" in a multi-player server. 
  
  All of this leads up to the one major flaw with the game; God I want more. The framework for an 
 incredibly great game is here, and there are even hints of it throughout the game. There are tons 
 of systems, NPC's, ships, weapons, and missions to be had, but the game fails to make the jump 
 into genius where it all comes together. The NPC system is great, but after the 16th representative 
 from New Tokyo greets you in the same way, you'll be skipping the great little cut scene where 
 you shoot the breeze prior to accepting a mission. The planets are all unique in appearance, but 
 the ship yards, bars and commerce merchants all break down in the same way. If Freelancer had managed 
 to add just a little bit more flavor to all of these beautiful locales, the game would have been 
 amazing.
  
  All in all, a solid entry into the space sim genre. I'd reccomend it to anyone who is hooked on 
 these types of games, and I will keep my eyes peeled on the sequel/competition that brings their 
 ideas to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucius_Scipio
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  I just reinstalled the game after having played and completed the storyline after it was first 
 released. The game provides an incredibly fun space shooting adventure that doesn't end with the 
 main story line. The outer-space graphics are still impressive as I consistently get the feeling 
 that I really am in deep space. Many of the battles are intense but not overwhelming. The opportunity 
 to gain cash by different means (bounty hunting, exploring, trading, etc) provides much needed 
 diversity to the game. The voice-overs of the main characters are good although the NPC voice overs 
 get a bit repetitive from time to time. Nevertheless, I find only one annoying aspect to the game: 
 the under developed planets. That is that there isn't alot of variety to NPC's and the places to 
 visit within each planet and/or spacestations are underdeveloped. Just too much repetition. Nevertheless, 
 the game will provide the gamer with a terrific overall space shooter experience. Lots and lots 
 of zones to explore, challenging (but not overwhelming) missions, a very interesting main storyline, 
 cool array of ships, weapons, engines, excellent graphics, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golden_Helmet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2004 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: although not very long its very good. It has its twists and tunrs that any other game 
 has, but despite that its a very good storyline
  
  Gameplay: I love the way the controls are set up. Plain and simple, no complex stuff to mess with, 
 but that also hurts the combat sytsem a bit. All you do is basicly fly towards your opponent holding 
 doen the fire button, and if its not dead you just turn around and go again. When it dies your 
 ship will target the nearest ship, and the same routine goes again, but its still pretty fun, and 
 it has plenty of big battles which are very fun and difficult. I wish i could use my joystick though, 
 makes flying a spaceship more fun, like in the Descent games :)
  
  Graphics: not too bad, i was able to run this game perfectly on a GeForce 2 MX200 and even better 
 on my Radeon 9600 Pro. The graphics look pretty good, but could have been better.
  
  Sound: nothing too interesting here, it plays the same clip when you complete a mission, the same 
 music for when you enter combat, but for certain star systems the music is a bit different. not 
 too bad, not too good.
  
  On-line play: well, its a matter of opinion, theres no storyline, but you can always do lil' sub-missions 
 with freinds, like my favorite, Nomad hunting. you can also do stuff like kill every ship of a 
 certain faction, battle other players, play pirate, do trade runs, mine asteroids, do missions 
 for certain factions, escort people to certain places, and plenty more. In my opinion multiplayer 
 is the best part of Freelancer
  
  Overall: a very good game and i'd recomend it to anyone looking for a decent game (which is prety 
 hard to find nowadays) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2003 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Really good game. The static nature of the universe is more than made up for with the fun and involving 
 campaign storyline. You feel like you are part of this big war that is affecting the whole system, 
 and its not a game where you are responsible for killing everyone against you. You play a very 
 important role in the campaign as an expert fighter, but you meet ALOT of somewhat interesting 
 characters, and it feels like your experiencing a movielike adventure with them. The actual fighting 
 is a little simplistic, because although the different groups of AI fighters have different fighting 
 styles, you see the same pattern of attack within each of these groups, but its still fun because 
 your taking on many fighters. Just stick to the campaign and youll have a blast expecially if your 
 into space combat games, cause the graphics rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedgeski
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 29, 2003 2:30 pm PT
Review:  What a great game. First, the graphics knock your socks off, easily the best in the genre so far, 
 which is no mean feat considering just how long this thing has been in development. Space is huge 
 and beautiful, and the use of some clever trickery gives the planetary systems a massive sense 
 of scale that I havent felt since the original Elite. Combat is fast, colourful, and dynamic; 
 its not quite in the same league as X-Wing in its prime or Freespace 2, but the mouse control 
 option is a terrific innovation and works great in third person. The weapons could use more personality, 
 and the missiles sound like damp squibs (details, albeit important ones) , but overall, with otherwise 
 top quality FX and music, the combat is a success.
  
  The game is let down somewhat by the monotony of the non-story missions, which fall into just two 
 or three categories and quickly get tedious, but the arc missions are exciting and incredibly addictive. 
 The in-engine cinematics show extreme talent, with great animation and awesome camerawork, and 
 the one more mission factor is strong. The story is, ultimately, disappointingly generic, but 
 is aggressively told and keeps the player along for the ride, with excellent characters and superb 
 voice acting.
  
  Overall, if the non-story element had been better, and there had been more tangible goals other 
 than completing the plot, this game would have been a contender for a slot in the top three space 
 combat games ever. As it is, it ultimately stands as an also-ran, but a damn fine one nonetheless.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie2k
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2003 8:49 am PT
Review:  Its been a few years now since the Space Combat genre died. Well it didn't die as such, it just 
 got replaced, as most genres do in the games industry. A few games come out now and again, but 
 its a far cry from the X-Wing/Tie Fighter days of old when you could pick em up ten a penny. 
 But when it was announced that Chris Roberts, the brain behind the massively popular Wing Commander 
 series was moving from Origin to Microsoft, things looked bright for the aging series. Unfortunately, 
 one bad film (Wing Commander) and one disappointing game (Starlancer) later, and we were back where 
 we started. The only hope came in the way of his second project with Microsoft, Freelancer, which 
 was started at the same time. 
  
  Not a lot was known of this title when it was announced, but as the years went on more came to 
 light; an open-ended universe, bounty hunter missions and trading between planets and stations. 
 It seemed that Chris was attempting to try and recreate the success that he had with his space 
 trading hits Privateer and Privateer 2 : The Darkening. After waiting over 6 years, it was finally 
 released to an eagerly awaiting public, but was it worth it?
  
  After the installs finished, and thankfully it only comes on 1 CD, the game opens up. After a couple 
 of nice FMVs from the manufacturer, the main intro starts up in its stunning pre-rendered glory, 
 setting the scene for the story. The game is set 800 years after a bitter conflict, between humans 
 and, would you have it, humans (cant we ever just get on?) , where losers flee earth in a bid to 
 save their necks, and start afresh somewhere else. After settling on a few planets dotted around 
 a system far from the reach of the others, the colonists made their home and started expanding. 
 800 years later, the refugees have formed factions, further expanded by claming more territories 
 for their respective houses and generally prospered. But as human nature dictates, war and conflict 
 is a certainty, and this is where we start off. 
  
  The names Trent, Mr Trent. You start off on Planet Manhattan, in the New York system (nice and 
 original) , with about 500 credits, no ship and no idea what in earth youre meant to be doing. 
 The only thing you can do is pop by the local bar to try and find a job. Thankfully, a job is awaiting 
 you, and luck would have it a ship to boot. After a few more cut scenes, and a quick visit to the 
 Ship Parts shop, youre off on your merry way, into the great unknown.
  The first thing that you need to get to grips with in Freelancer, is the mouse control. Unlike 
 most Space Combat Sims in the past, Freelancer doesnt go for the normal approach of using a Joystick 
 to get you to and fro; it forces you to take control using the mouse. It can take a bit of time 
 to get used to it if you havent tried it in the past, but after a while it makes a great deal 
 of sense as to why they did it. A lot of the controls for the ship are built into your HUD, such 
 as Cruise Mode (Trebles your speed, but takes your weapons off-line) and Dock (Used to land on 
 planets/stations and enter trade lanes or jump gates) . To be honest, the first time I picked it 
 up I had a hell of a time shooting down some ships on my first mission. Too far up, oops, too far 
 down. AARRGGHH!! But like anything in this day and age, practice makes perfect, and after a few 
 more missions, I was shooting em down like flies. The other main difference that stands out from 
 the outset is the lack of a map. When you are in scanning range of another ship, its name appears 
 in your HUD list, and a little arrow around the screen pops up to tell you which way to turn to 
 get it in your forward view. This may seem a pain in some dog fights, but theres normally so much 
 going on on screen, you aint got time to look at the map. 
  
  So, once youve mastered the controls, and got used to the HUD, what is there to do? Well, a heck 
 of a lot to be honest. The first few missions that you have to take on are set. This is just to 
 get you on your feet, and to get the main single player story off the ground. These missions are 
 primarily all based in the initial few Systems that you start in, slowly allowing you to know your 
 way about. Once you complete these jobs you advance a level, allowing you to acquire better ships 
 and more powerful guns. Between the set missions, you can pretty much do anything you like; fly 
 to a station, pop into the local bar and choose a mission, varying from assignations to capturing 
 escape pods. You can fill your cargo hold up with lots of lovely goodies and transport them to 
 some other station or planet to try and sell them for a profit. Or what about dropping in on one 
 of the trade lanes and wait for cargo ships to pass, blow them to bits and tractor in the scattered 
 goods? You can even go mining in an asteroid field if you fancy a change. Whatever you choose to 
 do between missions, the main goal is exploration and acquiring credits. 
  So the games great then? Well, yeah, I love it to bits. But like all games, it does have its down 
 points. After playing other trading games like Privateer and Elite, while playing Freelancer you 
 start to notice little things that should have been added. In Elite, although you had the bounty 
 missions like you do in Freelancer, you dont get any trade missions. Elites job board often offered 
 an opportunity to go to one station, fill your cargo hold up with a certain type of goods, and 
 then transport it back or to somewhere else. Most of the time, this would make a great deal of 
 money for you; multiplying the normal price that the items would be sold at. Also making the route 
 part of the mission, and increasing the number of enemy ships that you meet along the way is missed 
 in Freelancer. Also, in Privateer, if you had a particularly hard mission to do, you could go and 
 hire a Wingman to watch your back, or be hired as one yourself. This always made for a great deal 
 of variation to the jobs, while in Freelancer, apart from the story line missions, its just you 
 vs. the galaxy. 
  
  One of the main selling points that Microsoft used was that you could join one of the factions; 
 be a Bounty Hunter and rid the galaxy of evil. Buy a huge Transporter and join a merchant guild. 
 Sounds great doesnt it. Instead, what you have is a Friendship system. Every time you meet a new 
 faction, be it a local military or a crime syndicate, theyre added to your Player Status list. 
 Its basically a long list of all the factions youve met, and how much they like you. If theyre 
 in the red, they will shoot. If your natural (grey) , you can dock with their stations, and if youre 
 on friendly terms (green) you can buy anything that that station or planet has to offer. As you 
 move about the galaxy, you can find it gets increasingly difficult to fly to certain systems, due 
 to the inhabitants. The only way about this is to befriend them. This can be done in two ways. 
 You can either try to bribe them with a fat wad of cash if you lucky enough to find someone to 
 bribe, or start attacking the enemies of said faction. The only problem is that if you want to 
 befriend one faction, it can effect how other factions see you. So if youre a budding crook, and 
 want to ally yourself with most of the criminal element in the game, you will find all the military 
 that dont get on with them, will start taking pot shots as you fly through their space. 
  
  The graphics in Freelancer are stunning. The flight engine runs incredibly smooth, even on 
 a low spec system. The ships are all modelled very well, with some very nice textures, while the 
 space backgrounds are amazing. If you can see a planet, you can fly to it. If you see a debris 
 field, you can pass through it. Just make sure you can tell the difference between debris and mines. 
 The Sounds are very clear and all conversations are all spoken, while the background music is very 
 atmospheric and moody, matching the mystery and sheer size of the universe.
  
  Although the single player missions can be completed in a good weekend, the need to make money 
 and explore between the set missions extends the game immensely. But it doesnt stop there, oh 
 no.
  
  Did someone say Multiplayer? Although it would have been nice to of been Massively Multiplayer, 
 Freelancers multiplayer aspect allows for up to 128 players in one game at one time; depending 
 on settings of the servers. The set missions are taken away, and there is no limit on what you 
 can buy regarding your Player Level, just what you can afford and if your ship will take the upgrade. 
 The main draw back is that you cant take your beefed up ship to other servers. It has to stay 
 where you started, which can be a shame because it means that if your server isnt online, you 
 need to start a new game. I found it useful to have at least 2 games on the go at the same time 
 on different servers, keeping me from shouting at the screen and banging my head when my server 
 didnt show in the list. But hey, you cant have everything.
  All in all, Freelancer is a bloody great game, very addictive and hard to put down. You can see 
 where all that time and hard work went. Its just a shame that there wasnt that much variety in 
 the off-story missions. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2003 10:13 am PT
Review:  Not what I expected from the descendant of Privateer I & II. If I knew nothing of the ancestory 
 of this game I would really enjoy it and have no problems with it what so ever. Gamplay, graphics, 
 soundtrack are all top notch (which is why I gave it the score I did) . But I do know what it was 
 supposed to be a follow up to ... and it is that knowledge that makes me disappointed in the game. 
 Instead of staying true to the space flight sim controls and model the game was turned into a space 
 "Arcade" (as oppsed to simulation) with a story line. Using the mouse as the controller really 
 caused an inability to "suspend belief" and I just could not get into the game. I realize this 
 was to draw in the younger crowd that really enjoys the "Twitch" games. Another issue I had was 
 with the instant heals doen with the Nanos & Batteries. In the Privateer series (or even in Starlancer) 
 you really had to have some skill in controlling your ship. Not only did you have to concentrate 
 on taking out the enemy but at the same time you had to work on avoiding taking too much damage. 
 any ways good game on its own but could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooseSandwich
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 24, 2003 10:06 am PT
Review:  I played through the demo and found nothing really special. It's not as good as Independence War 
 2: Edge of Chaos. It's just pretty much what you'd expect, done very well. There is nothing to 
 get immersed in personally. It's pretty much; go here, kill everybody, collect the loot, repeat. 
 What really concerns me, and ultimately prevents me from buying the full game, is Microsoft's history 
 of not supporting a game after they've released it. I bought Crimson Skies, which was a brilliant 
 game, and they never supported it post-release. The same with Combat Flight Sim 1 and 2. Has anybody 
 heard of any future plans for Dungeon Siege - not me. With Microsoft it seems to be, shell out 
 your $50, play once, and then discard for a brand new Microsoft game. On the other hand, look at 
 Neverwinter nights. Bioware is supporting that to the max with updates, modules and expansions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blojib
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 17, 2003 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Note: this review is based solely on the single player experience and contains no input on the 
 mp section of the game.
  
  Freelancer is definitely comparable to old school Privateer. Privateer was one of the games that 
 got me into this hobby in the first place. Although that game had only 3 ships and just over 10 
 different weapons, it was fun as hell to play. Freelancer doesn't change much in that formula except 
 to add way more ships, way more weapons and, of course, current graphics technology. 
  
  The graphics are ok, actually. There's nothing ground breaking about it and space doesn't even 
 seem that big. Many space games like Freespace, IWar and even Homeworld emphasized space so well. 
 It felt huge. To me, Freelancer just doesn't quite express the vastness of space well enough. Each 
 system looks like a packet among several others if you catch my drift. 
  
  What really sets this game apart from the others is a great story line. Although it is quite typical, 
 it's still great and has enough charm to it that I think I'll probably play through it one more 
 time. Trent is a character that you can mold how you please. I just wish that the voice acting 
 of the lesser NPC's were a bit better. 
  
  Overall, Freelancer is a game that offers a lot but ultimately, nothing new. Nothing revolutionary, 
 just something nice to settle with while waiting for 'The Next Big Thing'. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
