-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Friday Night 3D Pool
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/fridaynight3dpool/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 7.3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 19 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: AI Factory
Genre: Billiards
Date:     Oct 3, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can't find a discounted copy of Virtual Pool 3 in the nearest discount bin, you may want 
 to look to Friday Night 3D Pool as the next best thing. 

  There was a time when you couldn't swing a cue without hitting a PC pool simulation. Sadly, times 
 have changed in the world of digital pool. Competent and semicompetent games, such as Expert Pool 
 and Ultimate 8-Ball, have come and gone, while the genre's top series, Virtual Pool, crested just 
 after the turn of the millennium (with the comprehensive Virtual Pool 3 Featuring Jeanette Lee) 
 and hasn't been seen since. Into this barren marketplace wades Global Star's Friday Night 3D Pool, 
 which is a budget-priced affair that in many ways looks prettier than anything prior to it but 
 generally sticks to the basics and isn't immune to odd design choices and marginally flawed physics. 
 Still, if you can't find a discounted copy of Virtual Pool 3 in the nearest discount bin, you may 
 want to look to Friday Night 3D Pool as the next best thing.  

          Friday Night 3D Pool's rendering of the pool balls and tables (and the fully operational 
 wall clocks) is both pretty and authentic.     

  Unlike Virtual Pool, Friday Night 3D Pool is rather limited in both scope and options. The game 
 focuses on just three variants of pool table pastimes -- 8-ball, 9-ball, and snooker. It does not 
 offer interactive tutorials, trick shot practice sessions, or customized games. The printed manual -- what 
 little of it there is -- is incredibly pint-sized, though in-game text-based help files are considerably 
 more generous. Multiplayer pool is restricted to two players or two four-player teams huddled around 
 a single computer. Internet or network-based competition is not supported.  

  The game opens in a comparatively innocuous setting, which is a basement-type environment wherein 
 you'll begin your quest. This quest is to meet and beat opponents, accrue points, move up in the 
 rankings, and eventually graduate from your "home room" to the invitation-only club room -- and then 
 move onward to the high-end tournament room. The people you meet will vary wildly, from gap-toothed 
 youngsters, to aged grandmas, to slimy wrong-side-of-the-track types, to (ultimately) hustlers 
 and honed veterans. Each character comes with a personal description and a cartoon photo, which 
 you'll use to gauge his or her level of competence and playing style. As time goes on, you will 
 find that playing styles range from slow and plodding, to fast but inaccurate, to downright deadly, 
 to bizarre, and all things in between.  

  The Friday Night 3D Pool peripheral world is somewhat interactive. When you look around each room, 
 you'll see various hot spots -- light switches, trophy cases, and the like -- that can each be clicked 
 upon to activate certain functions or to gain access to items, such as alternate cues or new table 
 designs you may have won while playing. Unfortunately, movement around the room is stilted and 
 clumsy, which is a problem that intensifies when you begin playing and attempt to look around the 
 table for alternate shot possibilities. This sluggish and cumbersome camera setup is one of the 
 game's most annoying foibles, and it plagues the player from beginning to end and constantly forces 
 him or her to shuffle the mouse furiously just to gain a new perspective on things.  

  Unfortunately, animated opponents are not part of the scenery. Thusly, cues will float mysteriously 
 in the air, as if gripped by unseen adversaries. This portrayal is no different than that of Virtual 
 Pool 3, but three years have passed since that game's release, so it wouldn't be unfair to expect 
 visible players in a pool game this recent.  

          You can't improve your points total using such obvious cheats as the aiming cue, but you 
 can educate yourself about the physics of ball movement.     

  For better or worse, there isn't an overabundance of choices to be made before you first chalk 
 up. You must, of course, select your game type (8-ball, 9-ball, or snooker) and your opponent. 
 You'll also choose from a one-, three-, five-, or nine-game set, and you must decide on the severity 
 of the rules. Granted, the game doesn't allow for all the rule variations you'd find in the real 
 world, but you can opt to call your shots, allow safety plays, and the like. Curiously, Friday 
 Night 3D Pool has just a single difficulty level.  

  However, it does allow you to enlist a number of aids. If you prefer, you can activate the "aiming 
 cue," which is a blatant but helpful and instructive cheat that allows you to see the forthcoming 
 trajectories of the cue and object ball before you shoot. This is nothing new to computer pool, 
 but it is nice to see here. You also have a chance to win a variety of Easter eggs as you play, 
 including several certifiably wild table paint schemes and ball sets. Arguably, the most intriguing 
 Easter egg is the game's upgraded roster of cues. With these little beauties, you'll soon be pocketing 
 shots you'd previously thought impossible. It is important to note that you will not accumulate 
 points or advance your ranking when using the aiming cue guidelines or upgraded cues, nor can you 
 make use of them outside of the low-end home room.     

  Friday Night 3D Pool is not a particularly fast-moving game. When the invariable camera/mouse hassles 
 aren't slowing you down, the drawn-out "thought" processes of your computerized opponents and the 
 curious default camera placements will. Even working your way through the rather archaic menu system 
 takes far more time and mouse clicks than it should. Certainly, Virtual Pool was considerably faster 
 and slicker -- and thereby more compelling.  

          In the early stages of Friday Night 3D Pool, your goal is to school local punks, like Flash 
 Harry, in the finer points of the game.     

  However, Virtual Pool wasn't better-looking. Though Friday Night 3D Pool isn't even remotely close 
 to the current graphical state of the art, it does tend to make old-school pool games look... old-school. 
 It isn't the backgrounds so much, which feature nifty working clocks and jukeboxes that are otherwise 
 forgettably rendered, but it's the actual tables and balls. Accurate, graduated shading plays a 
 big role, as do light-reflective balls and minute table imperfections. Ultimately, the general 
 appearance seems less sterile, more convincing, and grittier than games of the past.  

  Audio is not a strong suit. The musical score is an interesting combination of mysterious ambient 
 electronica and pop-meets-metal, guitar-driven rock, but the six-strong set list gets stale very 
 quickly. The game's sound effects are less impressive. Mixed so quietly (compared to the music) 
 that you must crank the volume just to hear them, the sound effects are minimally allotted, somewhat 
 muffled, and are not overly diverse. However, the spatial sense is quite good, with closing doors 
 and distant barking dogs filtering in from various locations. There is no speech at any point during 
 the game, though smatterings of applause and appropriately triggered oohs and aahs do add flavor 
 in the club and tournament rooms.  

  From a physics standpoint, Friday Night 3D Pool is only fair. Balls do roll in the appropriate 
 direction and seemingly obey the manner and thickness in which they were struck. Even rebounding 
 balls will bounce appropriately. Unfortunately, the physics engine does not always accurately represent 
 velocity. Balls tend to roll a bit farther than the force of the strike would dictate. Worse still, 
 ricocheting balls seem to pick up speed just after the moment of secondary impact. Accordingly, 
 a ball will usually travel fractionally faster  after  it impacts a cushion than it did  before 
  that impact. Though not a serious enough problem to spoil or seriously influence the proceedings, 
 this penchant for excess speed is nevertheless perceptible.  

  The game also ignores the vertical plane. Certainly, you can't pop the cue ball in the air to jump 
 over an opponent's ball. In fact, no ball will ever rise from the table. Veteran pool players know 
 that this is too valuable an asset to be missing from a virtual representation of the sport.  

 
          In Friday Night 3D Pool, you choose your pocket by clicking on flashing ball icons that 
 hover above the table.     

  Generally, your artificially intelligent rivals behave in a fashion that harmonizes smartly with 
 their descriptions and skill levels. Indeed, the game works hard to deliver distinct playing styles 
 and diversity. In this way, Friday Night 3D Pool stays fresh when similar games have already grown 
 stale. Yet the AI is not perfect. Too often your opponent will make a bizarre error on a relatively 
 easy shot, which usually occurs when the game is on the line. Alternatively, poor players will 
 suddenly string together too many successful shots and too many ideal setups for their given abilities. 
 That this sort of thing occurs precisely when it's needed most leads one to believe that the developer 
 put a bit too much emphasis on keeping each game tight. In this respect, an online multiplayer 
 component would have been welcome indeed.  

  Marred by a number of design quirks that needlessly hamper the proceedings, in addition to two 
 noteworthy physics peculiarities, Friday Night 3D Pool is not the evolutionary step forward some 
 might have expected, particularly given the length of time since computer pool's last great milestone. 
 Nevertheless, it's a challenging and generally satisfying exercise that looks quite good and is 
 priced right. Discount bin copies of Virtual Pool 3 aside, Friday Night 3D Pool is currently the 
 most workable solution for those who seek a digitized fix of the time-honored barroom and den pastime. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dpaul01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2003 7:50 am PT
Review:  Another Pool game (yawn?) . Well actually no. I'm a sucker for Pool and have three other Pool/Snooker 
 games already. When I saw the screenshots for this I thought that it looked interesting and maybe 
 the graphics looked a step up. Having got my copy, I am well impressed. This is the first such 
 game where I feel that I am actually watching a real Pool game, not a graphic. This really makes 
 a ton of difference. The whole thing has been put together really well with photo quality lighting 
 and reflections, and a table that looks like it might be baize, with scuffs and chalk marks. The 
 camera viewpoints are cool too, with the viewpoint moving tracking the object ball struck. This 
 feels very natural. If you have zoomed into take a shot and the ball bounces back, you see it come 
 very close with the viewpoint swivelling round as it passes you. I found that this worked very 
 smoothly on my budget Gef4 MX440, but not at high res I'm afraid. I needed to keep this to just 
 1024x768 when using anti-aliasing, which is a pity. The general ball and collision sounds are rich 
 and convincing with some nice ambient touches (did I hear a dog barking in the home??)
  
  How does it play? The controls are intuitive to use. They use a well designed mouse action rather 
 than the rather artificial power meter. This works well and gives a nice feel to playing. Unlike 
 some games you do not get to see a 3D opponents, which is a shame, but the opponents do have mugshots 
 and a detailed descriptions and play styles. This works ok, and I find I play differently against 
 different opponents. The play is smart too. I did not see any dumb shots played. The game has some 
 real tactical depth. I have only had a limited look at the Snooker, but the play looks natural 
 with lots of safety. 
  
  What didn't I like? Well the general environment is ok. The lighting is nice, but the static 2D 
 figures around the bar aren't fooling me! I could also have done with some more on-screen information. 
 I find myself switching to topview after the pool break to count the balls, as I often miss which 
 one went down. The jukebox doesn't have a "shuffle" playback, which I miss. The viewpoint controls 
 are actually quite powerful, allowing the user to swivel around and zoon in and out, but this takes 
 some getting used to. You need this sometimes as the ball can move out of you view during a shot. 
 The playback with its slow-mo option is cool!
  
  In balance this is a good as Computer Pool gets at the moment. This is more than I expected for 
 the price. I have loaded up the program Jukebox with my MP3s and am going to try and fight my way 
 through to the club!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
