-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fritz 8 Deluxe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/fritz8deluxe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 21, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: ChessBase
Genre: Board
Date:     Dec 1, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fritz 8 Deluxe is easily the best chess program for the seasoned chess player. 

  If you ask the average computer owner to recommend a chess program, it's a safe bet that you'll 
 hear the name "Chessmaster" far more than any other. But if you ask someone in the serious chess 
 community to recommend a program, the name that most often comes up is "Fritz." Fritz 8 Deluxe 
 is easily the best chess program for the seasoned chess player, and, if you can work through its 
 occasionally clumsy interface, it may well be the best overall chess program for any pawn pusher. 

          In friend mode, Fritz will adapt its playing style to your strength.     

  There was a time in which you had to choose between chess programs that were accessible, filled 
 with features, and affordable, and those that were clunky, powerful, and extremely expensive. Chessmaster 
 was the standard-bearer for the first category; Fritz and Rebel were the key titles for the latter. 
 But in many ways the two categories have begun to merge. Chessmaster's playing engine is extremely 
 powerful, to the point that pure playing strength is no longer an issue unless you're a grand master, 
 while Fritz has added numerous bells and whistles and is now priced in the mass-market range. But, 
 while just reading the feature sets on the boxes would lead you to believe that Chessmaster and 
 Fritz 8 Deluxe are very similar, there's still a difference between the two. Chessmaster is focused 
 on "fun," with kiddie boards and tutorials, a plethora of fanciful 3D board sets, dozens of "characters" 
 (with photos and biographies) to play against, tutorials that are mostly targeted at beginners 
 and lower-level players, and a generally lighthearted atmosphere. Fritz 8 Deluxe, on the other 
 hand, in spite of its new 3D board sets and chatty AI opponent, is filled with in-depth analysis 
 tools, serious database capabilities, and even tools to allow you to analyze various chess engines' 
 capabilities (Fritz 8 allows you to choose from a variety of playing engines) . When you play Chessmaster, 
 you feel like you're playing a well-done game, while Fritz 8 Deluxe gives you the feeling that 
 you are using a superb set of chess tools and utilities. It will certainly play a great game of 
 chess with you, but that's only the tip of the iceberg.  

          While most of the chess sets in Fritz 8 Deluxe are more practical, some exotic sets are 
 also included.     

  Let's start with the basics: playing chess. Fritz 8 offers a wide variety of playing modes, including 
 every time control you can think of, a blitz mode, several tournament setups, and even a "shuffle" 
 mode in which the back pieces are rearranged in a random manner. You can manually set the playing 
 strength of Fritz, or you can play in "friend mode." Friend mode is a great concept in which the 
 game analyzes your play and adapts its strength to approximately match your playing level. Sparring 
 mode is another innovative concept, in which Fritz plays at a high overall level but at some point 
 in the game will make a tactical mistake, much as a human might do. You can set the level of sparring 
 mode so that the mistake is a glaring gaffe, or something subtler and thus much easier to overlook. 
 Sparring mode also has an option to point the error out to you as you play, or to tell you afterward 
 that you missed an opportunity on a specific move and allow you to search for what you missed. 
 This is a great training mode, since this is the way humans normally play (that is, a good player 
 making a couple of mistakes in the course of an otherwise well-played game) . The one downside to 
 Fritz's chess-playing skills is that it seems that, when you set it to play a weaker game in the 
 normal gameplay modes, it simply plays at a very strong level, but with more random blunders, as 
 opposed to being weaker across the board. One feature that does set Fritz apart from Chessmaster 
 is that in Chessmaster your computer opponent will never resign, while in Fritz 8 you can set the 
 tendency to resign (as well as to accept and offer draws) to as stubborn or as pliant as you like. 

  Fritz 8 lacks the multitude of preset AI opponents that are bundled with Chessmaster, although 
 you can adjust the AI's playing style and strength to create a variety of opponents. However, while 
 all the AI opponents in Chessmaster come with a photo and biography, once you start playing them, 
 there is no feedback and no chatter -- nothing to sustain the illusion that you're playing, say, 
 a 28-year-old barista who plays in a punk band on the weekends. In other words, there's no feeling 
 in Chessmaster that you're playing anything but a computer chess engine once you start a game. 
 Ironically, Fritz 8, the more "serious" of the two chess programs, provides much more personality 
 during gameplay. Fritz 8 will actually talk to you during the course of a game, either through 
 chatlike comments on the screen or aurally, throwing brutal insults, corny jokes, bad imitations, 
 and more at you all through the match. Fritz will greet you by name when you start the program 
 up, and it even has a "memory." So, for instance, if you've made Fritz play black for the last 
 eight games in a row, he may start the next game with a comment like, "You know what boring is? 
 Boring is playing black every single match!" The graphics in Fritz 8 Deluxe are precisely what 
 a good player will want and need. You won't find 100 different styles of Star Wars or Lord of the 
 Rings chess sets, but you will find a number of very nice and, most importantly, very usable 3D 
 sets, as well as some superb 2D sets. Both the 3D and the 2D setups are highly customizable, so 
 without a doubt you will find a set that you enjoy playing with.  

          The online component of Fritz 8 Deluxe alone is worth the price of the game.     

  
 Where Fritz really pulls away from the competition is in its excellent database and analysis tools. 
 While there's not enough room here to go into the details of every tool, the database capabilities 
 are powerful enough that you can import, manipulate, access, and utilize huge databases of games 
 in a very practical manner. Opening books and endgame tables can be imported into Fritz 8 and then 
 used by the game in a variety of ways (for example, you can have Fritz use specific opening books, 
 so that if you want to set up an opening book with all the Sicilian variations to practice against 
 that opening, you can not only have Fritz play from that book, but also set how much it favors 
 certain variations) . Fritz 8 can analyze games that you've played or that you've imported in as 
 much or as little depth as you like. So, you can have it analyze your game and simply search for 
 blunders, or you can have it analyze your game in great depth, providing excellent natural-language 
 feedback and even searching databases to reference other games with similar positions. The database 
 and analysis capabilities are almost unlimited. However, the caveat is that the manual is extremely 
 thin and very lacking (to the point of being misleading in some cases) , and some of the capabilities 
 may require novices to query the company's tech support or ask Fritz aficionados online for explanations. 
 Speaking of the Internet, the purchase of Fritz 8 Deluxe provides you with a complimentary one-year 
 subscription to playchess. com. Not only will you find a world of international playing partners 
 of all skills on this site, but you'll also be immersed in a community of teachers, training modules, 
 tournaments, news, and pretty much everything else related to chess. The purchase price of the 
 game may be justified purely by the wonderful online experience provided at playchess. com.  

  So, Fritz 8 Deluxe may be the best chess program in the world, but is it the best chess program 
 for you? If you just want to learn how to play chess and play an occasional game against the computer, 
 Chessmaster's relative ease of use may make it the better choice. But if you're a moderate to advanced 
 chess player, or have any desire to become one, Fritz 8 Deluxe is the program for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 4, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Very simply put, it is a chess game.
  
  For gameplay, obviously you need to know how to play chess. However, for Fritz 8, you need to know 
 how to play chess extremely well, or have humongous passion for the game, or both. The reason I 
 say this is because the difficulty is extremely hard.
  
  The graphics. Come on, it's a chess game. Sure, you can play the game in 3D, but it doesn't really 
 add anything to the game. It's still the same game of chess.
  
  The sound is cute, at least when playing offline. Fritz actually talks to you, makes jokes, is 
 just a really ridiculous voice that keeps the game fresh. "He" inspires you to play just one more 
 game.
  
  The replay value for chess is endless, because you can never learn everything about the game. However, 
 in terms of a game, it's the same exact game over and over again, so if you don't have a passion 
 for chess, this isn't the game for you.
  
  Oh, and yeah, the interface is pretty darn clunky, when comparing it to Chessmaster 10th Edition. 
 But what is better in Fritz 8 Deluxe is it's free PlayChess. com server. It is awesome. If you want 
 competition anytime, whether it be day or night, the PlayChess. com always delivers. Many grandmasters 
 frequent the hall here, so if you want to watch them play, you can do that as well.
  
  Basically, it's a chess game for those who are good already and would like to improve more upon 
 their game, and those who have a great passion for the game of chess. Any other casual fan of this 
 pastime would be better off sticking to Ubisoft's Chessmaster 10th Edition. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
