-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fritz 9: Play Chess
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/fritz9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Powerful chess engine to challenge even the best players.
 Countless ways to customize your game.
 Game engine will analyze your game to point out weak spots.
 One-year subscription to playchesscom included.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Confusing, dated interface makes it difficult to take advantage of many of the features.
 The game locks up occasionally.
 Instructional videos are brief and aren't especially helpful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 34 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: ChessBase
Genre: Board
Date:     Dec 15, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The strengths of Fritz 9 will likely only appeal to the most advanced chess players. 

  Fritz 9 is the latest version of the superpowered chess engine that was able to defeat Garry Kasparov, 
 one of the world's best players. If that sounds like a challenge you're up to then Fritz 9 won't 
 disappoint. However, if you have anything less than an enthusiast's interest in chess, then you'd 
 be better off playing online for free or picking up the much more accessible Chessmaster 10th Edition. 
 Fritz 9 does have plenty of features that might appeal to the casual chess player, but if that's 
 all you're looking for, then you'll end up missing out on most of what makes Fritz a remarkable 
 program.  

          Fritz 9 is a tough game of chess, but thankfully you can scale the AI to meet your level 
 of skill.     

  Fritz 9 is less a chess game and more a program that lets you meticulously analyze your own abilities 
 as well as those of some of the elite grand masters and other notable players from the past 350 
 years or so. If you refer to chess pieces as "material" and are familiar with opening strategies 
 such as the Queen's Gambit or the Sicilian Defense, then you'll be at home here.  

  Supposedly the Fritz 9 engine is even more "intelligent" than the previous version, although the 
 increase is so incremental that, unless you play at the grand master level, you probably won't 
 be able to perceive much, if any, improvement. However, even if you're unable to fully appreciate 
 the strengths of the Fritz 9 engine's most advanced calculations, you can still scale to the artificial 
 intelligence to match your skill level. There are several modes available, most of which simply 
 alter the AI of your opponent. For example, in friends mode, the program analyzes your level of 
 play and adjusts the opponent's skill to roughly match yours. You can also adjust your opponent's 
 handicap based on a wide variety of parameters. If you want to play against an aggressive opponent 
 who likes to move his queen early and often, you can do so. There are also preset AI opponents 
 that play differently based on these elements. You can play against a drunk, reckless, or "fraidy-cat" 
 opponent, each of which behaves quite differently based on the preset behavior characteristics. 
 The problem is that lower-level opponents seem to make completely arbitrary blunders that clash 
 with their otherwise careful strategies. The result is an opponent that seems to intentionally 
 screw up at random moments rather than make subtly worse decisions throughout the course of a game. 

  That might not make for a natural opponent if you just want a comparable match, but in sparring 
 mode the intentional blunders offer up opportunities to improve your game. In this mode, the AI 
 will play a strong game but will make a serious mistake at a key moment, letting you sharpen your 
 ability to perceive and exploit weak moves that your opponent makes. In addition to sparring mode, 
 there are several other training modes available in Fritz 9. There's an option to play with a chess 
 coach watching, so that every time you make a potentially costly move, you'll be warned and given 
 a hint about why that move isn't advisable. Unfortunately, about a third of the time the coach 
 isn't able to offer any hint beyond the initial objection to your move. Other training modes include 
 an opening-play scenario, which lets you play a game according to a specific opening theory. If 
 you stray from the rules of the selected opening, the coach will chime in and let you know about 
 it. For a more hands-off approach to learning chess, you can watch a series of included videos 
 where chess masters explain the basics of the game as well as a couple of selected openings. The 
 videos are helpful for beginners, but the lessons are a bit too obvious for anyone with even the 
 slightest idea of how to play chess.  

  If you're beyond the level of video tutorials and hand-holding coaches, you can still improve your 
 game by utilizing the strength of the Fritz 9 game engine to analyze any game you play. You can 
 select infinite analysis to have the program go over each and every step of a game to determine 
 where the weakest and strongest moves occurred. In the interest of time, you can simply set the 
 engine to analyze only the blunders that cost the losing player the game. If you prefer, you can 
 load up one of the one million games available in the database to examine blunders, checks, and 
 power moves from previous years. It's the database and analysis features that set Fritz 9 apart 
 from casual chess games.  

  Bear in mind that since you're basically paying for the game engine, everything else is ancillary. 
 The interface in Fritz 9 is functional, but it does nothing to help guide you through the various 
 features of the program. Without previous experience with advanced chess programs, you'll be lost. 
 But, on the other hand, if you've played Fritz 8, you'll be at home here, as not much has changed 
 in terms of presentation. Fritz 9 has several 3D chess sets to choose from, and they all look quite 
 nice, although they also look quite similar to one another. You can play against a couple of fully 
 rendered 3D opponents as well, including the swami Turk and the robotic Mia. The 3D boards and 
 in-depth computer analysis do require a bit more in the way of system resources, however. The game 
 locked up on us a few times while playing on a computer that far exceeded the recommended system 
 requirements.  

          Included with Fritz 9 is a one-year subscription to playchess. com, which is a $35 value 
 in and of itself.     

  There isn't much sound to accompany the game of chess, so in that regard Fritz 9 is spot on. The 
 tinkling of moving pieces matches the material that they're made of, so you will hear a difference 
 when you switch from the wooden sets to the glass. There's also a derisive voice to accompany your 
 opponent, which sounds like a series of outtakes from a Robin Williams movie. As such, it gets 
 annoying rather quickly, but thankfully you can turn the voices off. Also, since Fritz 9 plays 
 in a window, you can listen to your favorite music as you play.  

  Whether or not you enjoy Fritz 9 depends entirely on your level of interest in the game of chess. 
 On the one hand, you have to be a fairly high-level chess player to appreciate Fritz 9's strengths. 
 But, on the other hand, if you're a high-level chess player you've probably already played Fritz 
 8, which really isn't much different. Still, Fritz 9 comes with a one-year subscription to playchess. com, 
 which is a $35 value, and you can play against people all over the world in friendly and ranked 
 games, tournaments, and more. So, if you want to play against one of the strongest chess engines 
 in the world, or if your subscription to playchess. com is just about to run out, then you should 
 definitely pick up Fritz 9. If you just want to play chess every now and then on some novelty boards, 
 you'd probably be better off with Chessmaster.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Death_Dragoon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I have this program at home and love it. It is considered the best chess engine in the Chess Community 
 and is use by commentators at high class USCF rated tournys. YOU WILL LEARN if you buy this program! 
 Its ranged from a patzer, 100 to a grandmaster 2500+ so you will get owned, and learn, from picking 
 the right players to play. I have a USCF rating of 1312 so i am knowledgeable about which programs 
 you can learn from and which programs are complete frauds. And this program is defintlly worth 
 buying if you are wanting to drastically improve your chess. This isn't a program for people just 
 wanting to learn as this program can be very expensive if you buy the newer versions which come 
 out almost every year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  The first thing I have to point out is that the review of this game offered by gamespot is inappropriate. 
 It is obvious that noone who revied this game is a serious chessplayer, and this is what this game 
 is designed for. I will make an analogy. If the average person got behind the wheel of Dale Earnhardt's 
 car and drove it, he'd probably complain that the shifting was too difficult, the seating was uncomfortable, 
 the handling was too stiff, the clutch was too hard, etc.... BECAUSE THAT CAR IS DESIGNED TO DO 
 A JOB THAT 99.9% OF THE PEOPLE OUT THERE ARE NOT TRAINED TO DO. That is exactly what is going on 
 here in this review. The reviewers have taken a highly technical piece of software designed for 
 top-flight competitive analysis, and reviewed it within the context of your average video game. 
 THIS PROGRAM IS NOT INTENDED FOR ANYONE OTHER THAN COMPETITIVE, HIGHLY SKILLED PEOPLE WHO TAKE 
 THEIR CHESS VERY SERIOUSLY.... AND NOT THE AVERAGE VIDEO GAME CROWD. 
  
  Anyone considering purchasing the Fritz series has to understand that this program is a highly 
 specialized, extremely technical, and very powerful piece of chess software designed for competitive 
 players within the rating ranges of 1700 up to Grandmaster. This is not a "user friendly" program 
 for the average player. It is, however, considered at the top levels of competetive chess, to be 
 the best chess engine available for training and analysis. It is the "industry standard", so to 
 speak. One of its very strong features is its compatibility with "Chess Base"; a series of software 
 programs that analyze and train in very specific areas of study (i. e. French Defense, Sicilian 
 Dragon, etc...)
  
  If you are a competition player searching for a technical training tool and dont mind a bit of 
 a learning curve, this program will last you for the rest of your life. If you are a moderate or 
 average player who is looking for a friendly game of chess, try Chessmaster 10th edition. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
