-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Frogger
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/frogger/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 190 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: SCEE
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 30, 1997
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a far cry from the simple chore of helping a frog cross a busythoroughfare, but is it really 
 more satisfying? 

 Ever notice the stuff companies put on the labels of their products to make you think you're getting 
 something new when it's really the same old stuff? You know what I'm talking about - those blurbs 
 that say "cool new look, same great taste," or something equally obvious.  

 And that pretty much sums up Frogger, the remake of the classic from the nascent days of video gaming. 
 Of course, the new Frogger is indeed a far cry from the old one, but if you read the ad copy for 
 the game you'll see that it follows the same time-tested marketing formula used for decades by 
 all sorts of manufacturers of consumer goods. After all, is there really anything special about 
 "dozens of challenging new levels" or "9 unique worlds" in a remake of an old platform game? Of 
 course not - no one's going to rerelease a game the whole world's played ad nauseam and use the 
 same levels, and there's nothing particularly extraordinary about grouping them into worlds, either. 
 And "3-D graphics and cool music" are pretty much de rigueur for any new release, aren't they? 

 That rant might make it sound like Frogger sucks, but that's not the case at all. What it does mean 
 is that the "new and improved" Frogger probably won't convert anyone who didn't care for the old 
 one, and that gamers who liked the first one will groove on this one, too. And what, you ask, about 
 the generation of gamers that's never tried Frogger? Well, I've got a sneaking suspicion that guiding 
 a cute frog to save his offspring - even if it is a 3D frog - somehow won't have quite the same 
 appeal now that it did when MTV first went on the air.  

 Although Hasbro has included a few 2D levels from the original game for old time's sake and created 
 a few extra 2D levels to ease players into the new world of Frogger, the big selling point for 
 the remake is that the action takes place in three dimensions. Platforms moving both horizontally 
 and vertically must be negotiated for Frogger to reach his destination, friendly birds can be mounted 
 for a quick flight to a critical limb of a tree to begin a journey to the ground, and there's even 
 a level where you take Frogger to the slopes for some ski-jumping action.  

 It's a far cry from the simple chore of helping a frog cross a busy thoroughfare, but is it really 
 more satisfying? Certainly the visuals are better - how could they not be - but when compared with 
 what you'll find in other current releases they're not what you'd call inspiring. And often they 
 don't convey a true sense of three-dimensionality: Yes, you move downward through the limbs of 
 a tree, but it doesn't really feel like you're moving down.  

 New power-ups add some spice to the game, but again it's really nothing earth-shattering - Frogger 
 can grab flies and other items with his "heat-seeking tongue" to extend the level timer, score 
 bonus points, earn an extra life, move and jump faster, and light dark passageways.  

 Where Frogger does disappoint is that while Hasbro spiffed up the graphics and gameplay in several 
 categories, it left some of the old video game conventions unchanged. Controlling the little amphibian 
 is tough enough when you're dodging "deadly" enemies like bees, squirrels, and spiders, but Frogger's 
 basic design turns challenges into frustrations. The problem is simple: You wind up covering the 
 same ground over and over again because once you retrieve one of Frogger's offspring you find yourself 
 at the starting line.  

 This is a real drag, especially on levels like "Frogger Goes Skiing"; once you've picked up a couple 
 of little ones you just don't feel like maneuvering past the same obstacles three more times. And 
 that feeling gets even stronger if there's an especially tricky spot to navigate past: After three 
 or four failures at trying to do something you've already accomplished two or three times before, 
 it's likely you'll just toss down the gamepad and walk away - especially if the controls are as 
 glitchy and twitchy on your pad as they were on my Gravis GrIP.  

 Frogger's multiplayer mode pits up to four players in a race to reach flags; local games (same computer) 
 use a split-screen mode, and you can also compete modem-to-modem, over a LAN, and on the Internet. 
 It's a little more fun when the little amphibian you're controlling is outdistancing other frogs, 
 but the problem of repeatedly covering the same ground crops up in this mode, too.   

 But in the end, the biggest problem with Frogger is that it's so very... passive. If you're going 
 to remake Frogger, why not make him a little more proactive in the pursuit of his young - maybe 
 turn that "heat-seeking tongue" into something a little more forceful than a long-reaching bug 
 zapper. And think how much better a multiplayer game would be if you could bump other frogs into 
 pits of lava or into the grinding wheels of machinery!   

 A lot of gamers will pick this one up for the sake of nostalgia, and there's nothing wrong with 
 that. Just remember that it often turns out that the things you thought were so great in your youth 
 sometimes don't stand up so well years down the road - even if they have been given a face-lift. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Hop leap but you can't run. This little frog is your companion on this long journey. Keep his legs 
 strong and ribit. This can be hours of fun if you'll just open your mind and be a kid again. An 
 old classic with some new twists but the foundation is the same. Instead of the chicken why did 
 the frog cross the road. Cause he thought he was faster than that stupid chicken. Enjoy dodging 
 cars and other vehicles on the roadway. Explore the water seen on moving logs as you test your 
 eye and hand coordination. If you go splat then you can try again. Don't give yourself too many 
 lives or I'll tell you you're cheating. I always enjoyed a mind and body challenge after I got 
 over being upset. Usually I got upset because of the stupid things I did (hint) . But don't worry 
 about that. Just like life, you learn from your mistakes and try again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I love Frogger games but I love this frogger game best!
  It is amazing and great fun!
  The story line is Frogger is trying to rescue all his frog friends that are deferent colors! 
 
  There are many extremely cool levels that beat other Frogger games!
  There is the Retro level!
  The Pond level!
  The Beehive level!
  The Gear level!
  The Haunted 
 level!
  The Sewer level!
  The Sky level!
  And the Jungle level!
  And those are all the cool levels!
  And the greatest of them all is the Jungle level!!!
  It 
 has lots of great challenges and obstacles to dodge on your way rescuing the deferent colored frogs! 
 
  This game is the greatest game ever!!!
  It also has an really awesome multiplayer mode!!!
  The computer it works on is a Windows 98 or 
 Windows XP or anything else. And this is a have to have game!!!
  There is absolutely no better better Frogger game than this!!!
  It is a huge amount of fun!!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axelander999
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you about this game... I really love this game!!! Wanna know why? Besides that when 
 I was little this was my favourite game, I grow up with it... The thing I want say is that when 
 I look know at that great game, I remind of me when I was playing multiplayer or even singleplayer... 
 AH! What wonderful memories!!!
  Back then there were a lot of great games for a lot consoles but I was 5 and I just had only a 
 PC, and living in Romania, I never ever heard of Nintendo, Sega or Playstation.
  Being young, I was afraid to play some games, and I loved animals, so I couldn't supported to see 
 Frogger death in a blood bath. I knew that storks eat frogs, so I didn't wanted to see blood. And 
 if I remember, when playing in the cave, there were bats and they bite I saw blood!!! : (
  I liked the game, even though it had some glitches, and a lot if bugs...
  I loved playing the 
 game in multiplayer with my friends. You had 2 modes of game mode. Race and battle. Race says aleardy 
 it's meaning, and in battle mode, one of the players could be an attacker...
  I understand if Gamespot doesn't appreciate the game, so I say goodbye to you, Thank You for reading 
 this review, and don't forget to send requests at my e-mail axelander@yahoo. com or turtle_ninja2005@yahoo. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oekelion
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  He's Back! To get squished! Bwa ha ha ha! Hey, why did the frog cross the road? He didn't! Okay, 
 enough of the Frogger jokes, now for my review. We all know Frogger is back, for crying out loud! 
 He made a lot of games, but still he has to avoid his most lethal weapon, a semi truck! (doesn't 
 get kinda boring once a while?) Yeah... and we still are bored of Pacman, because hey eats dots. 
 So, why is this frog still crossing roads? Because he's stupid! Crossing roads is still not as 
 fun as watching the linoleum curl. You can make funny jokes of this game all you want, but it still 
 won't make this game any more interesting, because the tiring boredom of watching a frog cross 
 the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake888
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Frogger has lost it's touch of gameplay for all gamers. The quality of the sound effects and the 
 backgrounds of the levels really isn't the type of games that other's should play. The difficulty 
 may be a little easy and a little hard, but still this game is a lost cause. I have only made it 
 to the factory level and I got stuck there. Gamers of course will find this boring and I have to 
 say that they are right. Frogger is not worth it. The moment you play the game, it just want to 
 make you quit. The features for this game seem a little weak and that goes for the graphics too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xspboy06x
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I had never played the original Frogger arcade game, though I HAD heard a lot about it. My aunt 
 gave this to me for Christmas one year when I was like 7 or 8 years old, and I loved it! The retro 
 levels were pretty cool. They were very colorful, very creative. Graphics shone (except for Frogger's 
 face, which looked really weird) like a light in a lost world of PC games. While this is not an 
 appealing game unless you've tried it, it's still a pretty neat game. Not the greatest, but not 
 the worst.
  
  Storyline: The storyline is simple. Frogger got squashed by a car and lost his last life in the 
 arcade machines. Then, baby frogs tried to take his place, but they got lost. Now Frogger has been 
 brought back and re-built. He goes in and starts rescuing baby frogs. But now he looks to you and 
 croaks, "Can you help me out?" They present this as a movie at the beginning where Frogger is hopping 
 along in his arcade machine and then he gets flattened. Suddenly the world goes 3-D and Frogger 
 looks around at the speeding cars. He starts to hop away from one, when he suddenly appears on 
 top of a tower. Then he hops to another tower and onto an airplane. He lands next to a baby frog 
 and uses his tongue to make the game logo. Cool.
  
  Gameplay: Simple gameplay, also. You hop through these worlds collecting baby frogs and searching 
 for Frogger's children, which are these very special golden frogs. When you come to the last level 
 complete it and watch the credits. They put something into these credits, to make it much more 
 interesting. I watched it over and over again. Then go back to the last level and hop through it 
 till you get as far back as possible. Then go into the temple (but it only opens if you have collected 
 all 8 of the golden frogs) and super hop onto the pole with the stone frog on it. All the others 
 explode open and hop into a door where they've obviously escaped. Then the last frog gets out, 
 followed by Frogger. They come to a pink frog (whom I suspect is the female frog in the retro levels 
 AND Lillie Frog from the 2nd Frogger game) and start chatting. The pthers start hopping on a practice 
 course, crossing the road and collecting the flags.
  
  Controls: On the PC, Frogger controls well, but on the PlayStation, Frogger's a little more difficult 
 handle. Yeah, the PC version IS the best version.
  
  Zones: The zones are:
  -Retro Zone
  -Lily Pad Zone
  -Leaf Zone
  -Gears Zone
  -Fish Skeleton Zone
  -Bat Zone
 
  -Cloud Zone
  -Cactus Zone
  -Final Zone
  
  Levels: So many of them. Yes, there are a lot. However, some of them are memorable. Frogger Goes 
 Skiing is not only unnesecary, but it's way too dificult. Time Flies in the cloud zone is a very 
 long level and also unnesecary. Another memorable level is Platform Madness. I enjoyed most of 
 the levels like Bow Wow's Revenge and Boulder Ally. I didn't like Big Boulder Ally much. WAY too 
 many boulders. I know it's supposed to be big, but come on...
  
  Multiplayer: The game also offers you a multiplayer mode. This is a very good mode but also somewhat 
 unsatisfying. I expected some better levels for racing in. It might have been nice to have more 
 selection. Multiplayer mode is a nice addition, and it's a pleasent experience, but i expected 
 it to be better.
  
  Final Thoughts: Frogger's back! Great! I'll always love this little guy. I don't have any of his 
 newest merchandise but I'm considering some of his newer games. I think that if they keep the legacy 
 of Frogger going, they're definately worth a shot! Overall, this is a much better version. The 
 PS version cuts down your overall lives. You start with 3 instead of 5. I can live with that, but 
 the PS also shortens how much time you have to get to a baby frog before you lose a life. But, 
 still, Frogger is a great experience on the PS, also. Check out Frogger 2: Swampy's Revenge, also. 
 It's very well done, but not as good as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 5, 2005 12:36 am PT
Review:  This game was a favorite of mine in pizza places with arcade games. I enjoyed trying to get that 
 frog across to the other side. I never played the game enough growing up to learn how to play it, 
 but it always was fun to try.
  The leap from flat to 3D characters was amazing when I first opened the package and played the 
 game. I liked the movie sequence of the frog jumping across the road and on the different levels. 
 The game play I had a little trouble with because of the ability to change directions on accident 
 made me fall into a pit several times. The sound is ok for a video game but might get turned down 
 after a while of playing. There are several different areas you will go to in the game and every 
 place I saw was amazing for this game. If you like arcade games then you will have to try this 
 version of the old game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
