-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: From Dusk Till Dawn
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fromdusktilldawn/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.3, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: GameSquad
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Oct 11, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it features some really interesting new ideas for the horror game genre, its technical problems 
 and overall lack of polish outweigh its few strengths. 

  With last year's horror-themed action-adventure game The Devil Inside, designer Hubert Chardot 
 attempted to reclaim the "survival horror" genre that he arguably started when he created Alone 
 in the Dark -- the game that largely inspired Capcom's hugely successful Resident Evil series. Unfortunately, 
 The Devil Inside, despite having some original ideas and gameplay elements, failed to make much 
 of an impact. Evidently undaunted, Chardot is back again this year with another horror-themed game, 
 From Dusk Till Dawn. And though it features some really interesting new ideas for the genre, its 
 technical problems and overall lack of polish outweigh its few strengths.           From Dusk Till 
 Dawn features some interesting twists to its action...    

  From Dusk Till Dawn shares its title, a battle against a horde of vampires, and its lead character, 
 Seth Gecko, with the 1996 Robert Rodriguez film, but that's about it. The game takes place on a 
 floating prison barge called The Rising Sun, on which Seth Gecko is being held, pending execution. 
 Within the first five minutes of play, vampires overrun the ship, and Gecko is released, bitten 
 by a vampire, and exorcised by the prison's priest. From that point on, it's an almost nonstop 
 gun battle against the undead as Seth attempts to escape.   

  As expressed in the gameplay of From Dusk Till Dawn, the best idea that Chardot has for the future 
 of survival-horror games is the elimination of the simplistic, generally inane collection and item-manipulation 
 puzzles that have become a staple of the genre. Instead, From Dusk Till Dawn's focus is exclusively 
 on combat. In fact, Seth can't even jump, eliminating the possibility of even those types of "puzzles" 
 that rely on fancy footwork. Every element of the game revolves around fighting. Its two subgames, 
 which both occur several times, are a mounted Gatling gun mode, reminiscent of Wizard Works' simple 
 shooter Beachhead 2000, and a sniper mode that's a lot like Virtua Cop and other light-gun games. 
   

  What differentiates this unyielding focus on combat from other pure combat games is From Dusk Till 
 Dawn's other standout concept: the band of survivors. Though it's a staple of zombie and vampire 
 movies, including the game's inspiration, the gradual accumulation of a ragtag group of allies 
 has been effectively absent from the survival-horror genre. Though the game doesn't quite pull 
 it off, it at least makes the attempt. As you make your way through the ship, you'll come across 
 survivors, both singly and in groups. Instead of running away, dying, or disappearing through some 
 other convenient plot contrivance, they're each incorporated into the story and will follow you 
 throughout the rest of the game. Though they come and go as the plot progresses, and though you're 
 sometimes required to go somewhere alone, in a given battle, you may have as many as five or six 
 autonomous characters helping you fight the undead.   

  The game also incorporates the classic horror concept of holing up. Instead of simply and inexorably 
 pressing forward, you and the other survivors will sometimes need to stay put and defend an area 
 from an onslaught. Often, one member of the group will need to perform some action while the rest 
 of you keep him or her safe for a period of time. It's such an effective way to enliven the traditional 
 switch-flipping and valve-turning activities that are a staple of action games, and such a natural 
 fit in a horror-themed game, that it's a wonder it hasn't been implemented more often.   

  Unfortunately, the technical reality of the game doesn't live up to its ambitions. Most importantly, 
 movement is simply off. Everything feels sluggish and a little floaty, as if Seth Gecko were a 
 helium-filled parade float. Control in the Gatling gun mode is especially bad. This is a huge problem 
 for an action game. Crashes to the desktop are also common, as are scripting errors. At one point, 
 a computer-controlled character got stuck performing some action necessary to trigger forward progress, 
 and a saved game from several levels and an hour before had to be reloaded to replay the entire 
 sequence. There were a few other instances like this, so it's an especially good idea to keep a 
 rotating sequence of saved games.           ... but unfortunately, the action itself is problematic. 
    

  The environmental graphics are pretty good. The engine is capable of producing a kind of pastel, 
 soft-edged look that's at least a little different from -- if not more attractive than -- other games. 
 The character models, on the other hand, uniformly border on terrible. Perhaps to permit a large 
 number of characters to appear onscreen at once -- sometimes as many as 10 or 15 -- the models are 
 all simplistic. There are a couple of decent character effects, such as a type of vampire that 
 exhibits the effectively creepy ability to crab-walk across the ceiling and a neat Predator-like 
 camouflage effect, but for the most part, everything has the simple geometry of a felt puppet with 
 a scary face painted on it.   

  The cutscenes and all of the dialogue are completely nonsensical. Sometimes, scenes appear to have 
 no other purpose than to show someone slowly walking across a room, and characters often communicate 
 in a series of unrelated, sarcastic non sequiturs. Here's a transcript of one complete conversation: 
   

  Guy with half-eaten arm: "We have to get to the workshop!"
  Seth: "Why, you want me to fix your problem?"
  Guy with half-eaten arm: "A group of mechanics 
 is trapped down there!"
  Seth: "Pretty interesting, that thing."   

  Seth also has an arsenal of 10-or-so catchphrases that he frequently recites during combat for 
 no real reason. These too -- like the classic "Looks like we're gonna have to play this one tight!" -- often 
 don't make a lot of sense.   

  The storytelling is so incompetent that it eventually becomes sort of charming. However, the same 
 can't be said for the control problems and general lack of technical polish. From Dusk Till Dawn 
 features some great ideas, all subverted by sloppy implementation. Hopefully, some developer will 
 steal the good parts and use them in a better game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OmarKane3450
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game actually had some things going for it, but that's not saying much.
  
  The game takes place after the movie of the same name, and it takes place on an astronomically 
 large prison barge. You also play as Seth Gecko. Not long after the game begins, vampires attack 
 and take over. 
  
  Sadly, despite that interesting little plot detail, the game is just downright poor. The graphics 
 are semi-okay, but the model detail on the character are hideous, and the game is absolutely infested 
 with bugs.
  
  Believe it or not, I actually got hooked on this game for awhile. It actaully had a few good parts, 
 but the whole game just doesn't feel finished for some reason. It feels like I'm playing a game 
 that still needs a few years of work to be completed. 
  
  Also, the game just wasn't scary enough. I really didn't care for the movie because I thought it 
 was kind of stupid. It was too action oriented to be scary. I actually saw some parts in this game 
 that could have made the scare meter rise a little bit, but no attempt was made to do that whatsoever.
 
  
  I'd have to reccommend The Suffering over this. That game kind of uses a similar concept, but it 
 is done much better and there was alot of work put into the game itself. If not The Suffering, 
 then play Bioshock or FEAR instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  George Clooney did a very good job portraying Seth Gecko in the original From Dusk Till Dawn. After 
 watching the movie again on DVD a few months ago, it occurred to me that Seth is very similar to 
 many other action film anti-heroes, but Clooney managed to avoid the smug, knowing Im invincible 
 because Im a fictional character with top billing attitude so common among smart-aleck paladins. 
 Instead, his Seth carried the demeanor of a man quite accustomed to serious scrapes, so a fierce 
 battle against vampiric banditos was just another obstacle. Seths fearlessly businesslike approach 
 to dispatching such implausibly legendary foes is pretty much the only aspect of his character 
 that makes the transition from film to video game; FDTD doesnt try to make the player, as Seth, 
 fear the undead like many other survival horror titles, so the spooky music, surprising jolts, 
 and dark corners are kept to a minimum.
  
  Whats left are some fairly diverse battles  escort missions, key quests, point defense, and one 
 of my favorites, some shooting-gallery style sniping  waged mainly in the cramped bowels of a 
 huge ocean liner-cum-prison ship. FDTDs highest difficulty setting adds some very entertaining 
 resource management to the mix; I never seemed to have enough ammo and health packs -- at least 
 for the first half of the game  so every weapon in my arsenal had a turn at dusting off some bad 
 guys. The verb to dust carries a heightened meaning in FDTD, as well, since Seths re-deadened 
 enemies sift away into nothing through a primitively animated but nonetheless satisfying burst 
 of grey ashes. Another interesting convention that appears in FDTD is the unlimited availability 
 of bullet time, which is very handy for securing those precious headshots to replenish Seths 
 health with some good old-fashioned, Van Helsing-approved staking. Unlike other titles that use 
 slow motion to give the player a fighting chance against overwhelming odds, FDTD sets no limits 
 to the amount of time spent ticking along at four frames per second, so the player could conceivably 
 spend almost the entire game sleepwalking (although I dont recommend doing so, because that would 
 be boring) .
  
  As for my negative experiences with the FDTD, the dialogue was just awful in parts  as Mr. Wolpaw 
 mentioned, Seths exchanges with other characters are often hammy and disjointed, although almost 
 all of them are painless with less than a minute in length. I ran into a few annoying crashes as 
 well as one major game-killing malfunction while I was gallivanting through the topside rec area 
 with Sergeant Rodriguez and friends. Seths two-step gait was more annoying than problematic, but 
 I received a few rough bites and scratches from some attackers while trying to align my stance 
 to properly stake one of their buddies.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed From Dusk Till Dawn for its slow-motion ballet of destruction. Although the 
 smooth white walls of the prison ship were somewhat repetitive, every area was decorated with some 
 nicely oogy corpse bits, blood spatters, wreckage, and other signs of an undead mutiny. The fiends 
 in FDTD were varied enough to call for two or three different weapons in each exchange. Even though 
 Clooneys smooth operator approach to adversity was sadly left behind on the front steps of the 
 TT Twister bar, it was still fun to walk in Seth Geckos shoes for a few evenings. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
