-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Front Office Football 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/frontofficefootball2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  2, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.6, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 22 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Solecismic Software
Genre: Football Management
Date:     Nov 13, 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Online league play and smart little tweaks make this the best game in the history of the Front Office 
 Football series. 

  In almost every way, Front Office Football 2004 is an improvement over its predecessor. Solecismic 
 Software's text-based management sim (only available online at the developer's Web site) enters 
 its fifth season with more than a dozen substantial additions to what's already the most rigorous 
 re-creation of football from head office to huddle. Online league play and smart little tweaks, 
 like contract holdouts and the ability to hire and fire offensive and defensive coordinators, make 
 this the best game in the history of the series. The only lingering issues are dated presentation 
 values and a somewhat obtuse interface. If this game had a bit more personality, it would approach 
 perfection.  

          Just as in past years, the spartan interface gives you full control of teams both in and 
 out of games. There isn't a lot of personality, though the power and accuracy of the simulation 
 remain impressive.     

  As it is, though, the experience is captivating for anyone who grew up wanting to turn Pop Warner 
 dreams into reality. FOF 2004 is a remarkably complete look at running a professional football 
 franchise. You take over the club of your choice and operate it from the top down for as many seasons 
 as you like. Control can be exercised over every aspect of team operations, thus allowing you to 
 interfere  everywhere  ( la Jerry Jones, the current owner/controller of the NFL's Dallas 
 Cowboys) by permitting you to actually call plays, hire coaches, and trade/draft personnel to get 
 the job done on the field.  

  Core gameplay remains virtually unchanged from past seasons, although a number of additions add 
 texture to gameplay that is already deep. Offseasons are a lot more interesting now. Holdouts occur 
 on a fairly frequent basis, so now you have to really look at a player before pulling the trigger 
 on a trade. More than once our dreams of building a contender were shattered by an uppity young 
 quarterback who simply wanted more money than we could afford to pay him. Even rookies occasionally 
 refuse to sign. So you have to look at more than the raw numbers before handing out jerseys and 
 caps on draft day.  

  Signing offensive and defensive coordinators from a limited pool also ratchets up offseason tension. 
 Bidding is fierce for the top coaches, and you can never tell when a team is about to up the ante 
 by offering a top coordinator a head coaching position. Free agency, as a whole, is actually more 
 involved, thanks to a new eight-stage system that walks you through negotiations. This stretches 
 out the bidding process by allowing more teams to get in on the action. Single bids simply aren't 
 enough to get players to sign on the dotted line anymore. Top players get loads of attention, and 
 the ensuing bidding war forces you to carefully look at salary cap issues. Somebody almost always 
 has the cap room and cash to break the bank on the top free agents, so you really can't compete 
 unless you're also willing to go to the wall. This limits the effectiveness of free agency, albeit 
 in a way that mirrors the limited effectiveness of free agency signing in the real NFL, so you 
 can't complain too much.  

  Aside from the odd, smart trade, drafting is the best way to build a team. FOF 2004 emphasizes 
 this by adding a league combine, which is similar to the NFL's vaunted rookie camp, where top draft 
 candidates are put through their paces by running the 40 and so on. It gives you more to consider 
 on draft day. However, the extra numbers don't mean that drafting is without its pitfalls. As noted 
 above, draftees can (and do) hold out for more money. And busts seem to occur more often than in 
 previous editions of the game. A fair number of players just don't turn their projected ratings 
 into reality in "the bigs." This, of course, could also mean that scouting quality is more varied 
 and discretionary this year.  

  Multiplayer moves the game online in its entirety. League play supports up to 32 players, which 
 means that you can run virtual NFLs over the Web. It functions in a similar way to Out of the Park 
 Baseballs 4 and 5 in that you make personnel moves, set playbooks, and so forth before e-mailing 
 a team file to the league commissioner, who then simulates the week's games. It seems nearly flawless 
 in execution so far, although there are a few kinks to work out. For instance, individual teams 
 could use password protection. As it is, you can look up classified information about competitors, 
 like their previous weeks' game plans. Despite the problems, and judging by the Front Office Football 
 Central forums, FOF 2004 online play is getting popular. Leagues always seem to be looking for 
 players, so taking advantage of the multiplayer option is a snap, even if you don't personally 
 know other people who play the game.  

  However, it remains hard to warm up to Front Office Football. The graphics are an antediluvian 
 artifact of the DOS era. Even the main menu backdrop has changed little over the years. Of course, 
 nobody expects a text-based game to come with a lot of visual bells and whistles, but the presentation 
 here remains staid if not unfriendly. Unlike many other sports management sims, Solecismic doesn't 
 walk you through seasons with obvious prompts. Although there are tips about big events, like the 
 start of the free agency period that comes between seasons, you have to delve into the nested menu 
 system to reveal other important news. For example, you're not told on the main screen or by the 
 in-game e-mail system (which is sadly underused) when you've been outbid for a free agent. You 
 have to go in to the free agency menu and look up the player to see if your bid still has a shot. 
 While the cumbersome interface may require too many clicks, it is easy to navigate. It may take 
 longer than necessary to get to your destination, but it is pretty hard to get lost.  

          Along with all the contract-wrangling, you can also call plays. All of your options are 
 fully diagrammed too, thus letting football newbies get accustomed to the gridiron.     

  And like its predecessors, FOF 2004 is as dry as the Gobi Desert. Even though players have been 
 given more personality traits, there is very little personality communicated in the game. E-mails 
 and scouting reports are more like point-form notes from a computer program than notes jotted down 
 by human coaches. Even in trade negotiations, the dialogue is stilted and lifeless. Hearing that 
 "This trade does not bring enough in return, according to your opponent's scouting staff," may 
 tell you all you need to know, but something a little more colorful would be much appreciated. 
 You soon start to miss the more distinctive characters that populate the likes of other management 
 series, like Out of the Park Baseball. They, at least, tell you in no uncertain words when you're 
 making ridiculous trade proposals, like demanding a first-round pick for a broken-down spare part 
 in his late 30s.  

  Still, the great stuff at the heart of Front Office Football 2004 keeps you coming back. Although 
 giving the game a human face would make playing it a much more personable -- even a more realistic -- experience, 
 Solecismic is dead-on with all the core elements of play. There's no better simulation of big-league 
 football.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
