-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Front Office Football: The College Years
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/frontofficefootballtcy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 18, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 17 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Solecismic Software
Genre: Football Management
Date:     Jul 7, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The heart of The College Years lies in its superb depiction of player recruiting. 

 Sports management games have never been given much of a chance in North America. Despite the European 
 success story written by the beloved series of Championship Manager soccer simulations, publishers 
 on this side of the pond won't give the genre the time of day. And while this prejudice might make 
 some sense in light of soccer's continual failure to gain mainstream popularity in the States, 
 it completely ignores a wave of recent games focusing on sports that Americans care about. Football, 
 baseball, basketball, and hockey are all represented by an ever-improving crop of self-published 
 titles that do a remarkable job of depicting the trials and tribulations of running a pro franchise. 
 Perhaps the best current example of this is Front Office Football: The College Years. The latest 
 addition to the award-winning line of pigskin management simulations from Solecismic Software is 
 only be available online from its developer, but it's every bit as challenging and entertaining 
 as you could expect.           The textual play-by-play and a dynamic scoreboard let you "watch" 
 games.    

  A prequel of sorts to Front Office Football, which focused on the NFL, The College Years is a text-only 
 management sim that lets you take the helm of one of 117 college football programs and guide it 
 to the top of the rankings, all the while building your own reputation to the point where you might 
 be offered more prestigious positions with other schools. Instead of dealing with fussy, spoiled 
 pros and their big-money demands, you're now dealing with fussy, spoiled amateurs and their own 
 particular set of quirks. These changes make a huge difference to how the game plays out, with 
 the action at the stadium fading into the background because of pressing demands involving everything 
 from scouting potential freshmen and hiring staff to making sure that your stars keep their grades 
 up and maintain their eligibility. Your involvement in their virtual lives as a coach and surrogate 
 parent is extraordinarily moving, creating a role-playing environment that's appealing even if 
 you're not a football fan.   

  The heart of The College Years lies in its superb depiction of player recruiting. You'll spend 
 more time with this aspect of the game than any other, poring over lists of top prospects from 
 more than 14,000 high schools across the country. This list encompasses hundreds of small towns, 
 giving the game a winning regional flavor that allows you to recognize local schools and perhaps 
 even your own alma mater. During the lengthy downtime between games, you're provided with an allotment 
 of 10 phone calls and eight visit requests with which to buzz attractive players and attempt to 
 gauge their interest in your school. All are ranked in the initial viewing screen with a color-coding 
 system that lets you separate those who might welcome your call from those likely to mutter a quick 
 "No thanks" before hanging up. There are four colors denoting a player's eagerness to consider 
 an offer: green, meaning "give me a call;" blue, meaning "I'll think about it;" red, meaning "Gee, 
 thanks, but I've had my heart set on BYU for years;" and black, meaning "Buzz off, I'm waiting 
 for Oklahoma."           Keep an eye on your players, or they might lose their eligibility.    
 

  The reactions when you do actually establish contact are diverse and realistic. Individual player 
 preference is rated in all sorts of categories, so you're never really sure what sort of response 
 you're going to receive. A local boy who favors distance over academics might have no problem settling 
 for Bowling Green if that means he's just 30 miles from mom and dad. On the other hand, another 
 local boy with his heart set on playing for the best football program in the country might be willing 
 to move from one coast to the other. The same thing works in regard to academics. If your school 
 doesn't measure up to the player's expectations in his chosen major, he may choose to ply his gridiron 
 talents elsewhere. As an added note, it's good to see that Solecismic played academics for a few 
 laughs. It's often not nearly as important to a player as he initially says it is, and many of 
 the purported majors in the game are laugh-out-loud funny. Random number theory and jurisprudence 
 are a couple of the highlights, along with slightly more down-to-earth options such as hotel management 
 and computer game design.    

 Depending on the initial phone call, you can decide to either continue the pursuit or cut your losses 
 and try other avenues. If you opt for the former, you'll find yourself angling for an invitation 
 to visit the player at home, and you'll soon be competing against recruiters from other programs. 
 You can choose to be as up front or as down and dirty as you'd like in these efforts. Get positive 
 feedback and you'll soon be able to throw a scholarship offer on the table, or even a bribe. Of 
 course, if you get caught with any of the underhanded Barry Switzer stuff, your team might be placed 
 on probation and miss a few bowl games. This makes such maneuvering very risky, though you might 
 still find yourself venturing down that path if you're running a lower-tier or even a mid-grade 
 school without much to offer budding NFL stars. Recruiting on behalf of those institutions can 
 be very difficult in The College Years. Even a respectable middle-of-the-road school like Syracuse 
 has trouble finding good young talent willing to suit up for the Orangemen. And it gets even worse 
 if you opt to skip out on the big national institutions and run a program in the fictional Solecismic 
 Eight, a division of small state schools that can be set up in any state.           Recruiting 
 from obscure small towns is a key part of The College Years.    

  Fortunately, it's this sort of challenge that makes The College Years so addicting. Although you 
 will likely start off slow with the game, tinkering with settings and getting comfortable with 
 the text-heavy interface, things pick up when recruiting begins in earnest. Setting targets and 
 going after them is incredibly engaging, so much so that you can easily lose entire evenings to 
 a single season's negotiations. Your "den mother" role is further enhanced after your recruits 
 arrive for their freshman year. The game tracks detailed information about all the players on your 
 squad as they proceed through their college careers, including overall grade point averages, grades 
 in each class, overall happiness, how they spend their time, and even if they've managed to find 
 a steady girlfriend. Keep an eye on all these factors and make adjustments if necessary, as they 
 play an important role in how the player performs. If your star quarterback is spending too much 
 time training, he might lose his academic eligibility. On the other hand, if he spends too much 
 time studying, his football might suffer. And if he devotes too many hours to either, he could 
 lose his girlfriend and grow so miserable that his performance in both areas will drop. Ah, the 
 struggles of the big man on campus.   

  The only drawback to all this is that your team's performance on the field becomes somewhat inconsequential, 
 at least for the first few years of operation, while you attempt to build a powerhouse. Even then, 
 there's so much emphasis on constantly building and rebuilding for the future that it's easy to 
 think of the games as something you have to endure every week in order to get back to recruiting. 
 There is some justification to this belief. In comparison with the deep recruitment system and 
 the monitoring of each player's personal life, the actual football game simulation is rather weak. 
 Although you possess the ability to set the depth charts and extensively alter your team's game 
 plan, it's often effective to just leave these settings on automatic and fire your coaches if you 
 run into trouble. Personality seems to play a bigger role than tactics here. Get stuck with an 
 offensive or a defensive coordinator that roster players (and often potential recruits as well) 
 dislike, and the whole team's performance will plummet.           Hey, whatever works...    

  But the most disappointing aspect of all is that you have no control over anything after the 
 opening kickoff. At that point you're reduced to a mere spectator watching a dynamic scoreboard 
 to see how the players that you recruited are faring each week. This is actually quite well done, 
 complete with interesting play-by-play text and accurate stat accumulation, but it's hardly as 
 engaging as manning the phones and flying from one end of the country to the other in a constant 
 attempt to build a winning program. Seeing the nobody you discovered in a one-horse town in Arkansas 
 turn into a national sensation just isn't as satisfying as bribing him into coming to your school 
 in the first place, mainly because the emphasis of the game isn't on gridiron accomplishments. 
 Even though the desired end result is success between the painted lines, it's secondary to the 
 road you take to get there. The College Years is more about the trip than the destination.   

 
  Unlike its predecessors, Front Office Football: The College Years is more of a sports role-playing 
 game than a hard-core football simulation. That's not a black mark on its overall quality by any 
 means, though it might come as a bit of a surprise to those expecting something a bit more serious 
 in terms of on-field strategizing. Diehards expecting to white-knuckle their way to a top national 
 ranking by guiding their club through every down might be disappointed that the most suspense is 
 generated by attempting to cajole Joe Blow from Sioux City into choosing your school over Texas 
 A&amp; M. On the other hand, they might also be delighted at just how captivating such ostensibly 
 bland pursuits can be, when depicted as attractively as they are here.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
