-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Full Spectrum Warrior
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fullspectrumwarrior/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 779 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 21, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Full Spectrum Warrior is very good overall, and deserves credit for being something other than just 
 another military-themed shooter or strategy game. 

  Full Spectrum Warrior started out as a military training simulation commissioned by the US Army, 
 and only later did publisher THQ and developer Pandemic Studios decide to turn it into a video 
 game about modern squad tactics -- but you'd never know that from playing the game. Full Spectrum 
 Warrior features an innovative design and an effective control scheme, and it convincingly delivers 
 the sights and sounds of modern squad combat in the war-torn Middle East. It may look like a shooter, 
 but it isn't one, since you never actively aim or fire weapons in the game (except for grenades) . 
 The thing is, Full Spectrum Warrior isn't a fully featured strategy game, either, and it relies 
 on a fairly simple, surprisingly abstract gameplay model that has trouble sustaining a rather short 
 campaign (which can be played alone or cooperatively online) . Indeed, the game often ends up feeling 
 like a string of puzzles whose solutions are pretty obvious. Nevertheless, Full Spectrum Warrior 
 is very good overall, and deserves credit for being something other than just another military-themed 
 shooter or strategy game. It's just too bad that it isn't more involving.  

          Throughout Full Spectrum Warrior, you'll guide teams, alpha and bravo, through a series 
 of obstacle-course-style missions.     

  The new PC version of Full Spectrum Warrior is essentially identical to the original Xbox version 
 of the game released several months ago. The differences between the versions are slight. The PC 
 version lacks the Xbox version's hidden US Army mode (an interesting bonus on the Xbox, though 
 mostly just a novelty) , but in exchange, it features a couple of tough new missions that add a 
 good couple of hours to the game's campaign. Strangely, these epilogue missions are playable from 
 the get-go, but the additional content is still welcomed. This version of the game also offers 
 an "authentic" difficulty setting, a hidden feature on the Xbox that makes the game extremely difficult 
 by removing mission save points and most aspects of the heads-up display. The game's cooperative 
 mode doesn't natively support voice chat like it does via the Xbox Live service, though you can 
 easily communicate with your teammate by typing. Full Spectrum Warrior for the PC also features 
 a reconfigured control scheme that lets you play using a mouse and keyboard -- mostly just the mouse -- instead 
 of a gamepad. While the interface is superficially the same as on the Xbox, it's mostly well suited 
 to the PC. Furthermore, the PC version looks stunning -- even better than the superb-looking Xbox 
 game (if you run it on a relatively fast system) . It's also worth noting that this version retails 
 for less than its console counterpart, as PC games usually do.  

  The game begins with an optional MOUT (military operations on urban terrain) training course that 
 effectively familiarizes you with Full Spectrum Warrior's unique fireteam command system, how to 
 use cover, how to lob grenades, how to lay down suppressive fire, how to flush out foes firing 
 from behind cover, and more. These step-by-step training scenarios, like the rest of Full Spectrum 
 Warrior's presentation, are thick with authentic military atmosphere and they establish that each 
 of the men in your eight-man squad is a unique individual with his own personality. You, the player, 
 do not represent a specific character in the game, but your disembodied perspective is always near 
 to whichever of your squad's two fireteams is currently selected, as if you're in the thick of 
 the action right with them. Your line of sight is limited to theirs, and when they run from cover 
 to cover you'll seem to be running right with them, as if you're an embedded video journalist capturing 
 the action on camera. Full Spectrum Warrior gives an outstanding first impression.  

  Perhaps it's a testament to the Army's MOUT training, but ironically, the training scenarios in 
 Full Spectrum Warrior are so comprehensive that they teach you practically everything there is 
 to know about the gameplay, leaving little else for you to learn during the actual campaign. The 
 campaign takes place in the near future in a fictitious setting that's a dead ringer for Iraq. 
 Here's how the gameplay unfolds in a nutshell: Every campaign mission is basically a completely 
 flat, linear obstacle course of sorts in which enemies will routinely pop up and start firing on 
 you using small arms and, occasionally, frag grenades or rocket-propelled grenades. These enemies 
 will typically fire from behind cover, and your men should also always be standing behind cover 
 when not in transit or else they're much more likely to get shot. Taking out entrenched enemies 
 is what Full Spectrum Warrior boils down to, but the process very quickly becomes routine and it 
 ceases to feel risky or dangerous despite the authentic-looking presentation. Also, since the levels 
 are scripted to play out basically the same way each time, with predetermined enemy placements 
 and mostly clear-cut paths to objective points, thwarting enemy ambushes becomes more of a matter 
 of trial and error than skill and planning.  

  The most significant contrivance in Full Spectrum Warrior is that men hiding behind cover are completely 
 invulnerable. For instance, if your team is firing around a corner at a man 10 yards away, who 
 himself is firing with an assault rifle from behind some sandbags, no one is going to get shot, 
 no matter how long you allow the stalemate to drag on and no matter how many bullets seem to nearly 
 hit their mark. The game professes that, when you're behind cover, you're in a safe zone (though, 
 certain types of cover, such as sofas or wooden crates, can't absorb much fire and will realistically 
 fall apart before long) . This aspect of the game may initially come as a surprise, but it's a fair 
 element for Full Spectrum Warrior to impose in the interest of making the player focus on tactics 
 rather than on twitch gameplay. However, the tactical options themselves are fairly limited.  

 
          The game gives a great first impression, but the gameplay starts to become repetitive 
 quickly.     

  So what do you do in a stalemate situation? You may: Toss a frag grenade if you're close enough 
 to the enemy (your men have weak throwing arms, apparently, as you can't send grenades very far) ; 
 fire an M203 grenade (which, for gameplay reasons, flies straight ahead like a rocket whereas the 
 real-world weapon is more like a mortar) ; toss a smoke grenade in front of your foe so that your 
 fireteam may safely advance to a different location; or lay down suppressive fire on your foe, 
 causing him to duck and cover, creating an opportunity for your other fireteam. You have limited 
 use of all these options, though you'll find places to replenish your bullet ammo (but not your 
 grenades) during the course of a mission. You always have two fireteams at your disposal, so in 
 practice, you'll frequently have one engage the enemy in a stalemate while the other creeps up 
 from the side and whacks the enemy where he's exposed. Little shield icons floating over the heads 
 of friends and foes make it perfectly clear whether or not someone is in danger of being shot. 
     

   

  Full Spectrum Warrior may sound like it has a good number of different types of tactical options, 
 but you'll usually be limited to just one or two. For instance, say there's a heavy machine gunner 
 that has one of your fireteams pinned down in a corner, and your GPS map reveals that there's a 
 conveniently placed alleyway that will allow your other fireteam to flank the gunner. Or maybe 
 the only cover between you and the foe is a wrecked car, which gets you just close enough to use 
 a grenade. Simplistic situations like this mean that the tactics in Full Spectrum Warrior are practically 
 taken out of your hands on many occasions. Once you get past the thrilling presentation, you'll 
 likely realize that the gameplay and the level design both tend to be very straightforward, and 
 the result is a forgettable campaign whose few set pieces -- ordering artillery strikes against enemy 
 armor or teaming up with a pair of snipers -- don't overcompensate for the frequent monotony of the 
 action.  

          Entrenched foes are common throughout the game, and flushing them out with grenades is 
 one of the most common ways of dealing with them.     

  As you play, you'll notice that some options seem to be noticeably absent in the context of a game 
 about urban warfare. For instance, you'll see your men riding in various vehicles during cutscenes, 
 but you'll never get to use or control vehicles during actual gameplay. You also can't enter buildings 
 in the game (except in a few specific cases where your mission path takes you through one) , even 
 though you'll always be surrounded by them and you will come across enemies firing at you from 
 windows and balconies. It's not that there are clear-cut ways in which features like this could 
 have been integrated into the game; it's just that the game shows you things that it seems like 
 the game should let you do on your own. Since a lack of variety is one of the most notable shortcomings 
 of Full Spectrum Warrior, these types of things stick out as omissions.  

  For what it's worth, the game controls very well, and it features an elegant and unique interface 
 that's fairly easy to get the hang of. Just as you don't actively fire most weapons in the game, 
 you don't have direct control over your fireteams' movement -- instead you order them to new locations 
 kind of like you would order units in a real-time strategy game. Right-clicking causes an iconic 
 cursor on the ground to appear, representing where your troops will fall in if you order them to 
 move there by left-clicking. When you position the cursor near cover (at a corner, next to a car, 
 and so on) , the cursor will stick and take the shape of the cover object, intuitively informing 
 you that your men will take a fortified position there. The only problem is, since the camera angle 
 is constantly fidgeting behind your fireteam, your cursor will sometimes shift position just as 
 you order your men to advance, which can cause you to accidentally put your squad in harm's way -- all 
 it takes is one wrong step. As you can imagine, this can occasionally be frustrating, and it isn't 
 an issue with the Xbox version's controls. One of the interesting things about Full Spectrum Warrior 
 is that it simulates how battlefield commands aren't executed in real time. Once you order your 
 troops to move or to fire, there's a noticeable lag between the time the team leader issues the 
 order and when the order is actually carried out. This generally works fine with the tactical pacing 
 of the game. However, it leads to some tense situations, like when you're blindsided and need to 
 act quickly if your men are going to survive.  

  The artificial intelligence unfortunately doesn't present an interesting challenge, for the most 
 part. To put a finer point on it, your enemies are too stupid, though that isn't true of your fireteams. 
 The gameplay is designed in such a way so that your fireteams do most of the work without much 
 input from you. Again, you'll manually lob grenades, but when it comes to shooting and keeping 
 your troops' heads behind cover, they'll mostly take care of all that for you. They'll also automatically 
 go prone if they come under fire when left out in the open. If given a regular move order, they 
 won't defend themselves if suddenly confronted by the enemy -- but there's an option to make your 
 men advance cautiously, guns raised, and they'll attack foes on sight when doing this. On the other 
 hand, your enemies often seem brain-dead, and whenever they do something that seems intelligent -- ambush 
 you as you approach or make a strategic retreat, for example -- it's apparently because they're scripted 
 to act that way, and they will probably act that way each time. On many other occasions, you'll 
 see enemies do completely boneheaded things, like stand perfectly still as you send a dozen or 
 more bullets at them from an unguarded flank, or cry out in a panic when you've tossed a grenade 
 at their feet -- but they won't actually run for cover. It's also worth mentioning that you'll never 
 deal with overwhelming enemy odds in Full Spectrum Warrior. Don't expect  Black Hawk Down  here -- the 
 superior numbers will usually be on your side in any given skirmish, at least at the default difficulty 
 setting.  

          The campaign basically involves inching your way forward, picking off one or two enemies 
 at a time.     

  In addition to the aforementioned "authentic" mode, Full Spectrum Warrior offers two different 
 standard difficulty settings, the tougher of which is much less forgiving of tactical errors and 
 oversights. It offers fiercer enemy resistance in greater numbers, as well as far fewer grenades 
 for your squad to use per mission. At the default setting, your men can usually take several hits 
 before going down, whereas they won't be so lucky on the hard mode. Even if a man gets gunned down, 
 he doesn't instantly die; you can have his fireteam pick him up and carry him away to a casevac 
 (casualty evacuation) , where he'll get probed for a second by a medic and then get right back up, 
 fit as a fiddle. If ever you have a second man taken down if one is already unconscious, then it's 
 game over, and you get to resume your progress from the nearest save point. You can't save at any 
 time, but there tend to be several save points in each mission.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  is a really good game. It's presented well, fun, looks good, sounds good, and has a good premise. 
 Converting it from the Xbox to the PC didn't do too much to the gameplay. Aside from adding a couple 
 of levels, making the authentic difficulty level readily available, improved graphics, and changing 
 the controls over from the Xbox to make them easier for PC users (better than the Xbox) , the game 
 is basically exactly the same. It has the same mechanics, ideas, and style. That's a good thing, 
 though for PC audiences that are used to complex RTSs, it might not have quite the same appeal 
 as it did to some console players. And the one thing that all gamers should remember, or realize 
 at least, is that Full Spectrum Warrior is a strategy game, not a shooter. Don't think that you'll 
 be going in and shooting the gun off yourself. This is strictly tactical, no action. That doesn't 
 mean it's bad however, it's actually a very entertaining experience a bit different than what most 
 strategy gamers are used to.
  
  Full Spectrum Warrior is good for a number of reasons, the biggest of which are polish and presentation. 
 From a superficial perspective, a view that I'm intimately familiar with, FSW has a nice face and 
 lovely body. It isn't going to stand toe to toe with any of the giants like DOOM 3 or the upcoming 
 Half-Life 2, but it's impossible to say this game looks bad. You can kinda tell that the game was 
 built with the Xbox in mind, but it transfers well, thanks in part to the lighting bloom effect 
 that's become so popular as of late. It definitely adds a quality to the light that makes the area 
 look a tiny bit more realistic.
  
  Animations for all characters in the game are phenomenal though. They're smooth, they transfer 
 between positions well, and create a sense of realism that FSW needed to be successful. Giving 
 orders to squads sets off a string of detailed animations that look quite lifelike and are a pleasure 
 to watch.
  Not only are the visuals of the actual game very nice, but the way the experience is presented 
 is also well worthy of note. All mission loading screens begin with a nice satellite transmission 
 that zooms in and in and in past atmosphere and into city level and finally on top of your men. 
 This little tidbit sets the scene pretty well and gives players their first glance at the area 
 in which they'll be fighting.
  
  The soldiers in each of the squad also make the game more worth being a part of. They've each got 
 their own personalities and are presented well at the beginning of the campaign. This short intro 
 makes us realize that these are supposed to be like real people to you. You're supposed to want 
 to take care of them and be pissed and upset when they get shot. Personality doesn't take a position 
 over gameplay, but it most definitely adds to the fun. Hearing quibbles and fun little discussions 
 between the soldiers is a great touch that lightens the mood and makes things more intense. When 
 you hear the same guy that just cracked a joke cussing and scared, you'll be more inclined to want 
 to help them out of whatever sticky situation you've gotten them into.
  
  Diving past skin deep takes us a little farther into a game particularly good at handling the squad 
 as a functioning and cooperative group. Obviously, these kinds of fire teams are what make our 
 Army and Marine men and women so effective in combat. As a player, you'll be in command of two 
 marine squads, Alpha and Beta (along with the occasional extras) , running various missions in a 
 fictional country called Zekistan. Controlling these groups in tandem is quite easy and made easier 
 by the inclusion of the mouse over the Xbox controller.
  
  While the controller wasn't really bad, using the mouse is just a lot easier for pinpointing where 
 you'd like your troops to go. The entire game uses a few keystrokes and a lot of mouse, making 
 the experience something that almost any gamer will be able to play. The only problem is that it's 
 still difficult to always get your guys going exactly where you'd like them to go. If you're on 
 one side of a car and you'd like your guys to go on the other side of the car, it's pretty difficult 
 to do that thanks because of the limitation of only being able to move to a place directly in the 
 group you're trying to move's line of sight. The car is there. I know there's another side. Why 
 can't I move there?
  
  It's not like that deficiency detracts in a gigantic way from the gameplay, but occasionally you'll 
 find yourself wondering why there wasn't an easy way to do that as your men get shot for being 
 on the wrong side of cover.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxxter
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome. I find it to be underappreciated. I love every aspect of this, it's 
 so fun to play, so innovative. Co-op is awesome too. 
  I love the way the game works. That you don't get to fire a shot yourself really, and then that 
 firefights are not just something you sweep through, like in most shooters. 
  
  While I've been playing RTS-games like Company of Heroes or C&C, I've sometimes been thinking that 
 they don't really make enough out of the infantry part. Because that's exactly what I like the 
 most! I loved playing with infantry units, but a tank or vehicle could always come busting in, 
 ruining all the fun. So I hungered for some kind of "infantry-only"-game. 
  
  And here it is! 
  I love the level design, the objectives, the voice acting, which really reminds 
 me of the mood in war-movies. It has great actions, and you have to always be careful when moving 
 around. And when you get into a firefight, it's not something you just get out of right away. It 
 takes time. That's what I love. I also like to hear the radio-guy report to me, and tell me that 
 there is a pinned squad I have to go and save. It's all awesome. 
  
  Great game, I love it. You should buy it, if you hunger for infantry-tactics, just like I did. 
 But I see people have mixed reactions here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertJFranck
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  If you have seen movies like The Kingdom (2007) , The Delta Force (1986) , The Road To Guantanamo 
 (2006) and Osama (2003) , then you will probably know what to expect in Full Spectrum Warrior: intense 
 heat, flying bullets, ground-rocking explosions and dozens of insurgents who have sworn to Allah 
 that they are not afraid to die. In Full Spectrum Warrior, you command two squads of four soldiers, 
 Alpha Team and Bravo Team. In each team, there is the Team Leader, Rifleman, Support Gunner and 
 Grenadier. The soldiers of Alpha Team are: Sgt Mendez, Cpl Devereux, Pfc Silverman and Pvt Shehadi. 
 The soldiers of Bravo Team are: Sgt Williams, Pfc Piccoli, Pfc Shimenski and Pfc Ota. Basically, 
 the game is real-time strategy and you move the cursor with the mouse or controller to click where 
 you want the soldiers to move to, except for the fact that you don't have a bird's eye view of 
 the battlefield from above, the camera is on the ground and moves with the squad when the squad 
 moves. Because of the danger of the presence of hell-bent insurgents and their brutality, you have 
 to use cover all the time. You also have to order the one squad to cover the other when you move 
 out of cover. The soldiers can only take about two or three indirect hits before they go down. 
 Once one of your soldiers is down, you have to get to him and provide aid to him immediately. Next 
 the soldier who provided aid will pick up the wounded and sling him over his shoulder. It would 
 then be a good idea to get the wounded soldier to a CASEVAC site as quickly as possible. CASEVAC 
 sites are marked on you map with a + symbol. Once you learn how Full Spectrum Warrior works, you 
 will enjoy it as much as I have. The sequel, Full Spectrum Warrior Ten Hammers, is exactly the 
 same as Full Spectrum Warrior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Well Full Spectrum is a Very Realistic game it totally gives you the feeling of coordinating an 
 group of private army mans into hostile territory and gives you a feeling of our troops in IRAQ 
 ,this game teaches you exacly what to do and not to do during war...
  
  one thing i didn't like was that the camera angles moves slow and it somethimes cannot keep up 
 with my intentions in the game.
  
  If you like Assualt & Recons games this is a must have its very action fullfillment and has a great 
 graffics for the PS2.
  
  Good game !!
  
  Curgamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 25, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I picked up FSW in the jewel case special for 10 bucks, definately worth the investment. Its definately 
 a realistic squad based strategy game. It does have a few things that made me scratch my head though.
 
  
  Gameplay - While I really enjoyed the squad movement, overwatch and coverfire, I didn't like how 
 I couldn't break up my fireteams. I just looked tacky when all 4 soldiers get behind the same dumpster 
 for cover. I like the wounded soldier feature. It really forces you to pay attention to what you 
 are doing. I didn't think the game was all that challenging though. Scenerios could have been a 
 bit tougher.
  
  Graphics - overall, very good but where its weak... it REALLY shows. Given that the U. S. Army made 
 this game, it just boggles the mind that the Bradly AFV looks like poo-poo. It hardly even looks 
 like a Bradly. On top of it, performance wasn't even close to a Bradleys. In one scenerio, it burst 
 into the battlefield to take out enemy armor and fires off 4 missiles like some spastic shooter 
 from Robotech. Hmmm.... not. Bradly use a TOW launcher that fires a single missile and only holds 
 TWO at a time, which is guided by the operator to the target and would have 100% kill ratio against 
 a BMP in the scenerio. However at the point blank range the bradly was at, it may have been unable 
 to use the TOW launcher (its was on the move also, if I'm not mistaken, the bradly must be stationary 
 to use its TOW) and would have used its auto cannon instead. In the case of this scenerio, that 
 would have been more then enough to take out a BMP. If this was made by anyone else I wouldn't 
 have given it a second thought BUT its a game from the U. S. Army. Someone needs to walk across 
 base and go look at a bradly and see what they really look like and how they actually perform. 
 Also, whats with the crows the size of ponies? Those things are HUGE.
  
  Sound - pretty standard. You fire team has some funny stuff to say and curse like sailors
  
 
  Value - at 10 bucks for the jewel case you can't go wrong.
  
  I really enjoyed the game, it could have been a bit tougher. The poor vehicle modelling and inaccuracy 
 by the Army is unforgivable. The AI was very unchallenging. Enemies tended to have tunnel visions 
 and were to easy to flank and kill. They very rarely used any sort of tactic on par with the player. 
 They just stood there and fired straight ahead for the mostpart. They do take cover and do a good 
 job at staying alive but fall just a bit sort of a real change. They do not retreat to other positions 
 or work together very well. They also didn't use grenades or explosives / traps of any sort that 
 I encountered. The AI also never attempted to flank me. Enemy units were happy to hold their position 
 until I got to a flank. I'm nit picking at it a bit, I work for the Army and I'm a combat vet so 
 I see this stuff every day lol. With a ramped up AI and a redo of the vehicles, this game would 
 be excellent. Unfortunately if fell sort.
  Finding anyone in multiplay these days is also an issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game I of the best that I have ever played, its a total of Strategy + Action, and highly 
 addicting too. Little bit boarding in the start after couple of chapters man it get intense really 
 fast and youll start finding corner and alternative routes for your teams.
  
  But all of that comes a sad part?;; taunting its really silly you get only couple of taunt like 
 alpha team go.. go.. go.., bravo lets move out really youll here some of the guys speak but thats 
 about it,
  
  Graphics are excellent but they have a silly walk when you get killed you have little slow motion 
 shot. Overall its a awesome game with excellent story with cool graphics I just loved it I know 
 you will toooo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Not really into the group controlled first person shooter. The only good soldiers you have are 
 the Delta team soldiers.
  
  None of the other soldiers are able to hit the broadside of barn. No matter who you decide to control, 
 the only accurate weapon available would be a grenade. The sound quality is better than the actual 
 gameplay.
  
  This game is a complete let down. Great environmental graphics, but the usability is terrible. 
 At least Ghost Recon 1 was a little smoother for group controls.
  
  THQ needs to have more of a military and gamer brainstorm session in order to develop a better 
 user controlled product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  You know, when this game came out, it was so hyped up. It had so many good reviews, and it said 
 "based on a training aid for the army, so i thought it would be good. The total opposite. This 
 game is so boring, the only reason it's even worth playing are the really cool graphics and the 
 incredible sound mix. Other then that play First To fight. Thats a good game.
  
  ARMY- Ain't Ready to be a Marine Yet
  
  Although First to Fight isn't the best FPS game out 
 there, it certainly is better then FSW, and is a lot more fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 11, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Full Spectrum Warrior was designed off of an engine built by the U. S. military. I haven't seen 
 the version of this game that supposedly trains US soldiers in tactical awareness on the battlefield, 
 but I'm guessing that they went for training simulation style gameplay over your typical run-and-gun 
 method.
  
  That being said, FSW is supposed to be a tactical squad-based shooter. It does what its title suggests 
 in spades. It is extremely tactical, and it is certainly squad-based. What this leads to, though, 
 is a number of encounters in the game that have very limited solutions. Do exactly what the designers 
 intended, or die repeatedly at the hands of your extremely well-trained terrorist counterparts. 
 Their aim is so deadly that they can pick off several members of your squad from fifty yards when 
 you're moving them between two spots of cover a few yards apart over a duration of two seconds.
 
  
  Flank or die.
  
  Much of the time, flanking isn't an option. Sometimes you can get them with a grenade, and sometimes 
 you can't. When frag grenades won't reach, and you're on a street with no roundabout passage, the 
 only thing you can do is smoke the passage and hope you don't get mowed down moving to the next 
 closest cover. It sometimes works.
  
  Not only do your enemies have super aim, they also have the ability to kill your troops without 
 actually hitting them with bullets. Apparently the Army decided that if your guys are in the enemy's 
 sights for a certian period of time at a set distance, you're going down, regardless if he's actually 
 hit you with a single shot yet.
  
  A number of bugs and oddities in the visuals and control scheme further reduce the presentation 
 and playability of the game. The multiplayer coop was playable, but though both of my machines 
 could run it fine in single-player, frame-rates plummeted in the multiplayer mode.
  
  Full Spectrum Warrior certainly had noble aspirations, though it has failed to live up to all but 
 a few of them. It's a fun game for a while, but before long, the only thing you'll see are gameplay 
 linearity issues, and the way the AI can kill you with a barrage of missed shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  With a great title like that it could hardly be easy to mess this game up. I got it when it came 
 out in 2004 and I had to say I was left feeling VERY impressed by the gameplay and the overall 
 game itself. Coming from a strong Tom Clancy background, I looked for this game to give me a shot 
 in the arm as far as the next true successor to the Ghost Recon/Rainbow 6 style of games. Well 
 the game comes pretty darn close to the heights of GR lore and fame but misses BIG time on such 
 things such as basic reality and also damage models. Sound is an issue too (tinny SAW anyone?)
 
  
  With that: NO ONE but NO one can survive fire from a full on BMP-1 by crouching behind a burned 
 out car and also it being 5 feet away from you!!!! Same with any kind of cover such as standing 
 behind a wooden cart which will get you ZERO cover in real life but here you could actually stand 
 behind it for about a minute! Well, cutting this game ALOT of slack- it was touted as being based 
 on a real US Army training tool so the real lesson to teach the player is to always look for suitable 
 (if not always proper) cover in light of enemy fire. I got immersed seeing how well the soldiers 
 covered sectors of fire and never pointed their weapons at another soldier. The voice acting was 
 great with some exceptions. I missed hearing some of the old guys in the new game (Ten Hammers) 
 like Sgt Williams, Pvt. Shehadi and Cpl Picoli. This game focuses on these eight guys mostly and 
 you get used to hearing their chatter which does not annoy but adds alot to this game. Wounded 
 men can get carried back to casevac but not more than one can go down. This is something the original 
 GR lacked but should have had!!!! GR2 had auto-medics. Everyone is a medic! haha
  
  Graphics are smoother in this game it seems than Ten Hammers and look better. Gameplay is not as 
 good and the sound is missing at times (helos with no rotor noise????) the two games are more or 
 less equal but Ten hammers has alot more game features.
  
  All in all, one of my favorite games and a fresh approach to the Tactical Sim genre! Pick it up! 
 OP-FOR, DOWN BABY! DOWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Full Spectrum Warrior is a very difficult game to learn. The graphics are pretty good and the sounds 
 are pretty good but you really have to learn the controls to actually get into the gameplay. After 
 you get used to these controls you can really enjoy this game. For fifty dollars this game is a 
 little bit of a letdown but the twenty dollar price today may be worth it. Full Spectrum Warrior 
 is actually pretty short if you really think about it but certain parts do give you a challenge. 
 This game is also pretty realistic. You have to use tactics to defeat your enemy. Unlike Brother 
 in Arms where you control one character in particular Full Spectrum Warrior requires you to command 
 two and sometimes even three squads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  There's only one word on the whole for FSW amd that's absolutely realistic military game. This 
 game is quite good and you should believe this 'cause I don't really like strategy games. Though 
 it's a strategy game it is very good.
  
  In the game we are assigned with two (and sometimes three) teams Alpha and Bravo with a mission 
 to go and kill a somewhat Laden-like terrorist. One thing I liked the most about the game is it's 
 stunning videos. They are really breathtaking with amazing graphics and quite humorous talks. The 
 graphics in the game are not so fine but they are good. There's just a little prob about lip-syncing 
 which is quite negligible.
  
  The sound in the game is perfect; voices full of confidence, excitement and energetic. Even the 
 in-game comments of recruits is sometimes humorous. 
  
  If there's one major problem the game suffers from then it's one bug which slows down the game 
 and the game plays like a clock; motion in the tick..... after sometime it will move again...... tick. 
 Understand? It's very frustrating, mind you. This happens mainly when we enter a small area like 
 a building or a tunnel. Though sometimes it happens also in outdoors. Except this problem the game 
 is very good.
  
  If you are an army game fan then you should surely try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is the perfect tactical game! first it was a special trainig programm for military forces 
 of US, but by the time the it became a fully playable game.
  The main thing about it is the full and total realism. There is no chance of surviving if your 
 soldier will be just liying in the open field under the fire of enemy!
  Lets talk about the gameplay. You are controling two teams Alfa and Bravo. There are four soldiers 
 in each, one leader, sniper, muchine gunner, and technician. But you will not notice a real difference 
 between them. The controle of them is providing by mouse and keyboard sometimes.
  The pluses of the game are: perfect fit for those who like a realism in war games, not bad sound, 
 graphics.
  But the misuses are also in action. for example soldiers are not so brave as you would like them 
 to be. If there is a fire on them they will be hiding till the moment you will make them shoot. 
 Plus they are not so smart and can stay under the storm fire thinking that they are in safeness.
 
  There are few thing I can add about this game. it is interesting without doubt, but think twice 
 befor buying it! Are you really fond of tactics more then action?
  Tillyaev"Yazon"Tohir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardLau
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 14, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  As I went through the shelves of the nearest GAME shop, I could'nt find any decent games, so I 
 asked the staff what new unique games there are. Obviously I did not want games like Doom 3 with 
 its OMG I am Clint Eastwood I can defeat anybody gameplay. They opened a box full of the latest 
 releases. Oooh. This looks promising. "Full Spectrum Warrior", used by the army for training eh? 
 I had to get it.
  
  After I installed and played the training, I thought, "Hey, mix Conflict Desert Storm with a dash 
 of Brothers in arms and you get Full Spectrum Warrior". Its squad based, looks like a third person 
 shooter... but its a RTS. Storywise you command the 2 squads (Some squads tag along in some missions) 
 in the imaginary Zekistan (Which seems terribly similar to Iraq or Afganistan) where a dictator 
 is sheltering terrorists escaped from the Iraq war.
  
  The gameplay involves a bit of puzzling. Every time you encounter an enemy, you have to eliminate 
 him. Sadly, your men are'nt sharpshooters, so everybody is invincible as long as they are hiding 
 behind something. It may be unrealistic, but it makes the game more challenging. Guess what, you 
 need to flank (Brothers in Arms style) . For those impatient players, you're supplied with an M203 
 grenade launcher and grenades to blow your way through, be these are limited. 
  
  Overrall the game is great, the ai could have been much more improved (The Zekis stay where they 
 are, and only move when scripted to, but don't worry, its a hard game) . BEST OF ALL you can type 
 a cheat to unlock the US Army version. Its does'nt have good details, but its so much better in 
 gameplay. You can modify the enemy, civilian, soldier parameters. Hey, you can even modify your 
 soldier's intelligence and skills. No more invincibility, you can kill, and die behind cover! Much 
 more realistic, but not as good looking.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  well very impressive graphics and very different and nice gameplay. its a combination of strategy 
 and action game. i should say that its a must play. in the begining its little boring but as the 
 action starts its impossible to lose. good graphics, great sound, different gameplay, are its unique 
 features. ithe level of difficulty is gradually increased and is developed in a good way. action 
 game lover will like this gamethe game starts with an action scene and u are in the middle of it. the 
 best part is that u have to control all the players. its a new concept. everything is undr ur control. killing 
 enemy with some proper strategy gives a lot of satisfactio. i will call it a worthplaying game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rifleman14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Cool real time strategy game. Perfect graphic. Best pandemic studios game i think! Its real war 
 game. If u will play this game i sure u will like it! 
  Ahh but on thing - where ( what country) that all happens? Is that country exists? I don`t know, 
 but i know the game is very, very, very, very good!!! 
  I the warrior part two is so good too? I don`t know because i haven`t play yet.
  But i hope it 
 will be more better than this part! So long,,,
  ( This review is s**t i thin, but this is my first so be patient, next time will be better!)
 
  And what mean review?;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Full Spectrum Warrior is based a real-time strategy game commissioned by the U. S. Army to train 
 light Infantry troops in urban combat situations. Soldiers are placed in a tense, hostile, and 
 claustrophobic environment where they must complete a variety of military objectives. Players act 
 as the Squad Leader, providing direction to Alpha and Bravo fire teams. The successful Squad Leader 
 effectively uses cover in the environment and moves his fire teams in a coordinated fashion so 
 they can protect themselves from possible attacks that could come from any direction. Full Spectrum 
 Warrior puts you in the dirt with your men, where danger lurks around every corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The first tactical shooter I played was the original Rainbow Six. I've played all of the follow 
 games in the same series and many others but none of them compared, in my opinion, to the original. 
 That was until now. Full Spectrum Warrior is just plain fun to play! The graphics and sounds are 
 pretty good. The game is a little linear but leaves enough room so you can have several option 
 for each scenereo you encounter. I have to admit that the banter back and forth between the squad 
 mates got pretty annoying. I think the only other complaint that I have is that it started to get 
 repetitive towards the end. Which, in my opinion means the game ended just in time. Any longer 
 my have changed my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0L3N3L
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Full Spectrum Warrior is the by far the best Real Time Strategy and Shoot 'Em Up Mix that has ever 
 hit the PC platform. I am running on a 512MB system and there is absolutely no lag. The graphics 
 are superb. One thing that might be a minus for this game is that you do not actually get to combat 
 in shooting yourself. Yoiu basically just guide your two teams (Alpha and Bravo) around and try 
 to remove terrorists and complete intense missions. This game never gets boring due to the diversity 
 of the levels. The character personalitlies are great. This is a game I strongly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEVSEN
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  I first encountered the game on the Xbox in my local Game Store...
  The dry felling sand blowing in your face mixed with the good blend of music captured my mind for 
 days... I then desided to buy the game as soon as it was released on PC. The pure blend of action 
 and strategic flanking tactics, quickly make me spend hours infront of the computer.
  
  The AI is just perfect. The enemy takes cover, pulls back and lay suppresion fire on your men.
 
  Even though the game isnt the longest i have ever seen i think its worth taking a look at ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15927
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo for PC I just new I had to have this game for the PS2 and when I got it 
 I was not dissapointed at all. This might not be the game for everyone but any military fans out 
 there like I am will love it. It may not be action packed but you would be suprised at something 
 as little as stepping out around a corner in the wrong place can be the end of the game so it keeps 
 you on your toes. Gamespot said there were some frame and graphic issues with the PS2 version but 
 I diden't notice a thing.
  
  Gameplay- The only reason I gave it a 8 is because there isn't really that much you can do. Every 
 thing is basically a repeat of strategy in differnt levels, but it never really got boring.
  
  Graphics- I think this might be the best graphiced game out there for the PS2
  
  Sound- 
 Flawless, just as you would expect from a game like this.
  
  Value- I got it for 15 bucks so I call that a good value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1Hunter66
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The very first thing that must be said is that you CAN'T FIRE A WEAPON. But, the developers of 
 this game have proved that not being able to do this does not make a bad game.
  
  Full Spectrum Warrior (FSW) brings a new style of tactical game play to modern conflict based games. 
 In FSW you lead a fictional squad of U. S. Infantry through one day of conflict in a country named 
 Zekistan. You will need to do everything from patrols to rescue missions. It WILL be intense.
 
  
  The game plays like no other. From a 3-D top down view thing you command your soldiers and their 
 movements. Using real military tactics you must use both 4 man fire teams to move through the urban 
 environment without being killed. Cover will become your greatest ally, because there will be a 
 point in the game where that is the only thing saving you from death and failure. You get a limited 
 supply of frag grenades, smoke grenades, and M203 grenades at your disposal, which you must use 
 only at approiate times in order to complete missions. After all is said and done the whole game 
 is just a non-stop fire fight for your men's lives.
  
  The graphics are up near par. They dont really look bad at all, and the game runs very smooth on 
 machines that meet the requirements. The only thing left to be desired is more options in the menu 
 for more graphical settings.
  
  Sound is not bad, but it could be better. Some things like ambient sound and voice are great, but 
 the weapon sounds and some explosions sound muffled and odd. This however does not make for a bad 
 game. Hopefully in the expansion this is one thing that will be worked on more.
  
  Multiplayer is empty. But, if it wasent empty it would play as a co-op only. Only 2 people, each 
 commanding a fire team, would play through the single player missions again, except now you play 
 with another human. There are no servers though, so i cant really tell you how it plays.
  
  Because this game is so unique it has my great value. I can't really seem to think of any other 
 game that plays like this one does, its just so different its great. FSW really makes you think, 
 and its not a very easy game to play if you can let your mind expand past the way regular FPS games 
 (even though this isnt a FSP) work. You need to not think like you can get into any situation you 
 want because your skills will bail you out. Normally being pinned down in any other game isnt really 
 bad, because your there. In FSW, getting pinned down is a big problem.
  
  If anyone is looking for a new game with a unique style, and a higher than normal difficulty, then 
 i highly reccommend this one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codgamer2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this game, even though I heard it wasnt very good. Well, i had a good surprise. I had 
 a good time! Not another first person, but a little brain work involved. I wont lie though, there 
 are a few problems with the game. Like if you are behind any cover, NO MATTER WHAT you wont be 
 shot. That is except if you are hit by an RPG or grenade. But, the cool thing is if you are behind 
 something like a couch, box, car, or something like that, it will slowly disintegrate in the gun 
 fire. This means, you better move out or the next thing you know is you will be out in the open! 
 Let me go over the main points of the game:
  
  Gameplay- It does have its share of bugs, but it doesnt stop you from having fun. All you really 
 do is need to find a way to flank the enamy in order to eliminate him, but there are things like 
 grenades, your 203 gunner, indirect fire, and things like that yuo can use.
  
  Graphics- This isnt Far Cry, but this game can hold its ground. 
  
  Sound- Pretty darn good. 
 When you order a command and say you are in a tunnel, it would sound different then say you were 
 outside. And I LOVE the sounds of explosions. Very realistic =) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anchor_Man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  Tango, Tango! 
  Bravo move there
  Rat-tat-tat-tat-tat
  Boom!
  Man down, man down! 
  This is the thing I live for while playing Full Spectrum Warrior. At 
 first glance Full Spectrum Warrior is just the same solider game that appears on the game store 
 shelf every month but it goes deeper than just a solider game. This game lets you actually control 
 a team of light infantry soldiers in the U. S. army which contains two four man squads, designated 
 Alpha and Bravo. The first thing you do in Full Spectrum Warrior is a training program that lets 
 you feel the game a little more and introduces you with a small taste of what this game has to 
 offer. Pandemic did a good job in making this game as realistic and gritty as possible, sometimes 
 you feel like you are actually commanding a team of soldiers and are responsible with everyone 
 teammates life. 
  
  Unlike most games if one of your guys is shot down, you can actually order Bravo team for example, 
 to cover for Alpha team, so they can patch up the wounded soldier and take him to a medic to fix 
 him up. The game play is really great, ordering around people can never get boring right? You never 
 really shot down your enemies by yourself, instead just sit back and watch your soldiers do it 
 for you. The sounds are from guns to tanks are pretty good and the military dialogue is very great 
 too. The graphics couldve used an extra polish but its almost perfect. Full Spectrum Warrior 
 is really short (takes at least 10 hours to beat) but a great game to rent over the weekend! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game and one of my favorite on the p. c of all time. It has great graphics and 
 trys something totally different to other war games (medal of honor/delta force etc..........) 
 and it`s because it`s different that it succeds. It requires you to plan out your every move, if 
 you make a mistake (and trust me you will) then you will pay for it, but you learn from your mistakes. If 
 you want something that`s a little new, challenging, good looking and will keep you coming back for 
 more then look no further then full spectrum warrior. I`ve had this game on both the xbox and the 
 p. c and recommend you get it on the p. c, it`s better suited for the p. c and easier to control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 31, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Full Spectrum Warrior provides a very refreshing and unique perspective on realistic, modern, small 
 scale warfare. Normally, this would be the realm of first person shooters. However, these types 
 of games can have a steep learning curve or be very frustrating. Full Spectrum Warrior takes a 
 different approach, and offers a tactics game that requires virtually no skills or reflexes. This 
 idea works very well. It also manages to be authentic, without being overly difficult. Thus, if 
 you have an interest in the subject matter, you should give this game a try.
  
  The game is very simple, so you should pick up and be playing it in no time. You control two fire 
 teams. They do basically two things  move and shoot. About 90% of the game is spent doing some 
 variety of this. You dont control individual soldiers. Rather, you control the teams as a whole, 
 four at a time. The gameplay primarily involves moving your soldiers from one area of cover to 
 another, while finding an advantageous spot to shoot enemies who are also hiding behind cover. 
 Cover almost guarantees that you will be safe. Getting caught in the open is a death sentence, 
 so you also spend a lot of time using one team to cover the advance of another. Sometimes, you 
 have to avoid a well-covered enemy using a machine gun, or even a tank, but most of the gameplay 
 involves move-and-cover in some way or another. The game also has frag grenades and smoke grenades, 
 the former of which doesnt come into play very often. Smoke grenades are useful, and essential 
 in some spots, since they help you traverse open terrain if covering fire is not available. 
  
  If you are behind cover, then you are impossible to hit. Likewise, if an enemy is behind cover, 
 you could empty ten clips into his direction and still not hit him. This feature of the game is 
 essential, because it turns the game into a tactical exercise, and renders your hand-eye coordination 
 irrelevant. This is one way in which the realism of the game falls a bit short. Another way is 
 the way that one of your soldiers can go from completely incapacitated to fully healthy in about 
 ten seconds if you get him to a medic. Both of these contrivances take a little bit of getting 
 used to, but once you do, you wont mind. 
  
  I found one of the little disappointments of this game to be the graphics. The visuals for this 
 game are above average, at best, and highly overrated. The PC version looks better than the X-Box 
 version, but thats not saying much. Its still vastly inferior to the top games out there, like 
 Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, Half-Life 2, Painkiller, and Doom 3 (to name but a few) . Character 
 models and animations are good, but detail level is low everywhere you go, and texture quality 
 is very 2001-like. The buildings, especially, look very mediocre. Games like Half-Life 2 have proven 
 that even run-down, drab areas can look amazing. Full Spectrum Warrior definitely does not. The 
 visuals for this game scream console port!
  
  The audio is the best part of the game. Your squad is loaded with sound bites and commentary. Each 
 of your commands to the troops is barked out inspiringly by the fire team leader. Hearing the team 
 leader order the troops around while they complain about how hot it is one of the things that makes 
 this game so enjoyable. All of your troops are likeable, and they all look and sound different 
 from one another. The music for the game was a nice surprise. There is a low key score that usually 
 picks up and becomes more dramatic when the action starts. The music, voice acting, and style of 
 the game add up to an excellent presentation that almost carries the game. 
  
  The interface and commands system is very easy to pick up and use, but movement is occasionally 
 frustrating when you cant get your guys to move where you want them to go. What keeps this from 
 being a truly great game is its lack of depth and an aggravating reliance on trial-and-error. Full 
 Spectrum Warrior is guilty of repeating the same mechanics too often: Encounter enemy, suppressing 
 fire, flank, kill, repeat. There are a few missions that provide some welcome variety, like one 
 that lets you control a couple of snipers who can hit enemies behind cover. Moments like these 
 will make you wish that they came more often. The biggest problem with Full Spectrum Warrior might 
 be that it is extremely ambush-heavy  a trait made all the more annoying by the fact that it has 
 a checkpoint save system. There are some tactics that you can use to minimize your risk, but ultimately, 
 youre going to get killed the first time that you enter a lot of areas.
  
  The game is extremely short for a strategy game. You can probably complete the main campaign in 
 just over 10 hours. The PC version has a couple of extra levels, but they are very poorly designed 
 and were probably filler that didnt make the original cut. The game is linear and tightly scripted, 
 so you're probably not going to want to replay it all that badly. However, thats not enough of 
 a shortcoming to not recommend the game. Full Spectrum Warrior sets out to immerse you in The 
 Middle East and command a squad of soldiers through the streets in a manner as realistically as 
 possible. It accomplishes its mission well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  This is a game I'm pretty much in complete agreement with the GS review on. It's good, but............. there 
 are some missing elements whose absense are hard to explain. At first blush the game seems different 
 and well developed enough to rate as great, but in the end it's not. The AI isn't (intelligent 
 that is) , there aren't enough enemies to really make you sweat, they don't use height to their 
 advantage (up through mission 3 anyway) , you can't use the buildings either, the missions are very 
 linear, the operational area is almost totally unpopulated (with civilians) , your team all have 
 weak throwing arms, if the game math routines determine you or the enemy are "behind cover" you 
 or they are invulnerable to directed fire, and there aren't that many missions (judged by the number 
 of missions in the mission folder anyway) . Having said all that; I like the game and am disappointed 
 because it could be so much better with just a few additions. I have fast gaming laptop and FSW 
 runs smoothly on it with the eye candy dialed up, but I notice a fair amount of aliasing (I'm not 
 using my 3D chip software to force it) , and some visual distorition on distant objects (I don't 
 get this with any of the other recent games I have) . In the end my best advice is to "let the buyer 
 beware" on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2004 2:15 am PT
Review:  Being released on September 21 of 2004, Full Spectrum had some competition with the whirlwind of 
 games that were released in the later half of the year, but it moves to provide the player with 
 a unique playing experience. Pandemic developed a game where the player doesnt aim each individual 
 gun for their assigned troops or move each individual troop around behind cover. The players role 
 in the game is pushed to a different perspective unlike what you might be used to in other games. 
 Full Spectrum Warrior was a game designed by the military for the military in the way of providing 
 the ability to simulate strategies that soldiers may be able to use in the field.
  
  The player is given the use of two squads being named Alpha and Bravo. In each squad, there are 
 four members with different artilleries at their disposal. These consist of the team leader, the 
 man who issues the orders to the rest of the team, the automatic rifleman, who provides a good 
 dose of suppression fire when other team members are in trouble. Then you have the grenadier who 
 carries a wonderful piece of equipment know as the M203 grenade launcher which can take out cars, 
 groups of terrorists, and if aimed right, an individual terrorist behind a barricade. Rounding 
 out the squad is the rifleman who shoots wherever you direct him, and is also able to give aid 
 to downed soldiers in their time of need. Each squad has each one of these members, but instead 
 of giving the player 8 soldiers who have no identity, Pandemic provides backgrounds and real voices 
 to these characters when theyre in the heat of a gun battle. Youll hear soldiers scream at their 
 team leader if theyre not behind cover, or swear when they commit stupid mistakes, or even taunt 
 a terrorist if they have an open shot to gun him done. Youll find yourself smirking at a few comments 
 that travel out of your speakers or headphones from soldiers ranging in age form 38 to 20 truly 
 showing their ages. Pandemic tries its hardest to make the player feel for each character because 
 like in the army, you never leave men behind. 
  
  As the two squads, the player will travel through 11 missions during different times of day, in 
 different parts of Zekistan, a made up middle-eastern village representing modern day Baghdad. 
 While walking/running/roaming through these missions, youll need to find cover behind old cars, 
 boxes, anything that will help your troops out during intense gunfire. During the game, youre 
 shown how much cover you have, because some cover changes after its been hit with too much gun 
 power such as a wooden box. With these two squads, youll need to find vantage points where one 
 squad will be able to shoot a terrorist behind a barricade while the other squad is drawing his 
 fire. Its all about location in this game of puzzles throughout the rugged streets of Zekistan. 
 Although it may seem with all these puzzles, maneuvering and taking out your targets in different 
 ways would be possible, the way that the levels are set up really give this game a linear feel. 
 Each time through most missions, youll have to maneuver your troops behind the same barriers to 
 escape your enemies gunfire. The linearity in this game may be a turn-off, but the player must 
 realize that this is a great game all through the 11 missions the first time through. While using 
 your squad members and a handy helicopter which helps point out enemies, youll be able to build 
 your skills as a strategist because of the unique playing style. When you give a command to move, 
 the squad moves, not each individual but the whole squad, so this makes the player think about 
 each move they make before jumping into any situation. You have to manually think, How will I 
 get past that sniper on the roof over there, and still keep out of the gunfire coming from that 
 machinegun behind the barrier? These situations will fall upon the player and their troops countless 
 times and youll need to figure how to navigate each one while keeping your troops safe.
  
  Realizing that this game came out this year, 2004, you would assume that it must have good graphics 
 and that assumption is right. Pandemic licenses out the same engine that Painkiller did, the Havok 
 Engine and uses the engine well. The squad members move and look fantastic whether theyre behind 
 a cloud of smoke, or in broad daylight. The weapons used by each member look realistic and are 
 handled realistically. When your team leader switches from his gun to his GPS, a device which shows 
 objectives, he goes through every motion of switching between weapons. The environments around 
 the players squad members look very nice. Everything was detailed in the scenery surrounding the 
 troops and you can tell that the developers took their time giving the player a realistic experience 
 all around. The cutscenes within the game look fantastic also. In the beginning, the player is 
 given a small cinematic before all hell breaks loose and is introduced to their troops in unique 
 way, building upon the relation that the player will thus have with his squad members. One thing 
 that must be said though, more because of the view the player is given in-game than anything, is 
 the ability to move your troops anywhere. Because of your behind the shoulder view, its hard to 
 maneuver your squads to some points I a certain area because of the cover theyre in. Even while 
 using the mouse, it can still be hard navigating your squad to the right place you need to survive 
 a battle. This may have you reloading a save point a few times because of the inability of viewpoints 
 in gun battles.
  
  The sound in the game was done well with the different sounds of gunfire, the grenade launcher, 
 explosions through the game, and the communication between the troops. Time was spent well recording 
 phrases for each squad member and this brings the player closer to the actual game. You feel like 
 theyre actually yelling at you for your good and also your poor choices during combat. Youll 
 definitely let you know if theyre getting shot at without cover. The sounds of some artillery 
 seem to be the same or only slightly different than other weapons, but this is war, and most guns 
 do sound alike Id imagine.
  
  This game is mostly played with the mouse which some people will love and some will hate. I myself 
 found it quite handing not having to search the keyboard for commands to give my squad members 
 while being shot at. It just seems to make the game flow easier and in a more realistically timed 
 sense. Youre given the option of playing co-op with a friend in this game with each person being 
 able to control their own squad. And while this may seem like fun, if youve played through the 
 game already, you will miss the control of knowing where your next move will be, but on the other 
 hand, the strategy involved in only being able to control one squad instead of two will be more 
 challenging. With the PC edition, which was released a few months after Xbox version, the player 
 is given 2 additional levels to move your troops through. With the Xbox version, these levels were 
 an added feature you had to pay for with Xbox live, so definitely a nice bonus for the pc gamers 
 out there. And dont believe these levels are just some rehashes that Pandemic just wanted to develop 
 to make a quick buck from because they can be even more intense than the previous 11 missions youve 
 played through.
  
  Overall, this s a game that strategy gamers will love and the regular gamer will enjoy. I myself 
 am not usually one to try this genre of games but thoroughly enjoyed the 11 plus missions battling 
 through Zekistan with my 8 squad members. The graphics are something to admire and the design and 
 control of your squads is easily done, which should make it easy for new gamers to this genre to 
 pick it up and try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2004 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game because there are no others like it. This is 1 of a kind. It is stratergy 
 but it is like you are really in first person mode. It is not very hard but is really really fun. 
 There are not many things you can actaully do and it does get a bit repetitive but for the time 
 it lasts its really good. The multiplayer mode is not very good but this would be a perfect game 
 for a LAN party because you can each control a team and requires good military tactics, skills 
 and teamwork. This game is actaully used by the US army because of how realistic it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozistyle
Rating: 2.6
Date: Oct 26, 2004 8:51 pm PT
Review:  i can't say nothing for this game. it looked great at the beggining but since the first 5 seconds 
 i was ready to unistall it. then i said "ok, take it easy, lets have a second look at this game". 
 But sadly the more i was playing the more i wanted to go back to the store and i ask for my money 
 back. the style of point and click is very very old and it doesn't match with such games. 
  This game could have been one of the best first person shooters ever but it ended up being (atleast 
 for me) one of the worst ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Major_Pwnage
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2004 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I am obsoloutly in love with this game because it is just too much fun. When you look at the game 
 you think that its a 3rd Person shooter but its not which most of you know already. The game is 
 set somewhere in the Middle Eastern and the game is based around a month ago. The game is happening 
 in September 2004 so its very modern. The game has the most beautiful graphics ive seen for Military 
 games. During the cutscenes and even during the intro for the game the characters feel very realistic 
 and teenage which most of the soldiers in the army are today.
  
  The game doesnt try making this game funny but they somehow made it very entertaining seeing the 
 characters talk to each other. The game is great but not perfect. The AI first of all is pretty 
 good. Your squad mates do what you tell them to do and even watch each others back and sides. However 
 sometimes you'll see them doing something stupid like stay at a corner than seeing an enemy come 
 next to them but they dont shoot until you tell them where to point fire. Even though they listen 
 to you they should at least be able to do that. Another problem is that they listen too good. If 
 you somehow accidently tell them to run somewhere like where the enemy is hiding. They'll just 
 run straight to the enemy and get shot. You kinda wonder why they dont say are you sure you whant 
 us to run there. Another problem is that the speech phrases they say can get repetitive. Even after 
 the first few chapters they'll get annoying. Tactics are important however you dont have to think 
 too much to be able to flank an enemy since their is not much of an open area. Most of the time 
 one of your team will be underfire and you'll spot a little alley and tell the other team to go 
 there. A lot of times its very ridicilous how the soldiers have such bad aim. The enemy will be 
 in the wide open and you'll see your guys shoot but hit nothing. Its somewhat strange seeing that 
 from highly trained US Rangers. Regarding multiplayer. Dont buy this expecting a huge online community 
 because the online community for this game is dead. When you go online you never see a game being 
 hosted. The best ive seen where two servers and one had passoword. After two weeks I only got to 
 play online twice but it was very fun. I enjoyed playing with other people but sadly there arent 
 a lot of people. When you get to play online with somebody its better to get their aim or msn or 
 anything type of instant messaging service to play again with them because there just arent that 
 many people
  
  In conclusion this game feels and is how good it looks. The music gives the game the whole urban 
 middle eastern combat atmosphere. The game has great humor and realism. It would have been a 9 
 if the AI was a bit better or at least more intelligent and even the multiplayer is very fun it 
 just doesnt have the community it should to be able to play online and enjoy it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WALLIX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 8, 2004 1:30 am PT
Review:  I have only played the PC version so I can't comment on the Xbox version. The game itself is put 
 together well. The story is good - not great - but it serves to move things forward. In terms of 
 gameplay the AI on the part of allies is surprisingly good (they will shoot each other when suppressing 
 fire, though, so be careful) , however, the enemy AI is pretty much the same old scripted, "Dummies" 
 that don't offer much of a challenge at all. Like the GameSpot review said, you pretty much do 
 the same thing everytime: Suppress and move your other squad through. Graphics are pretty good 
 offering a nice color pallet and decent (albeit a bit console-ish) textures. The thrill in this 
 game, however, is in the RTS element. 
  
  Although it may look like it - this is no run and gun joint. Each move has to be thought out, corners 
 need to be checked, and you need to keep your troops out of open sight. Most of the time you will 
 have at least two squads to worry about so you'll often have squads on different parts of the map 
 complimenting each others attacks. This can sometimes be tricky and you'll need your GPS to help 
 launch coordinated flanks. Because of the RTS element the game can be a little slow. So if you 
 have a short attention span - heed my warning. Also, there is no quick-save for you PC gamers. 
 However, save points are usually plentiful and I never really had a problem with the lack of quick 
 save. 
  
  The drawbacks of this game are that, even though the game likes to think it's not, it's very linear. 
 You are also permanently confined to the ground. Meaning, that you can't go in buildings and look 
 out windows, no going up ramps - no nothing. It's as flat as flat can be. You are also stuck with 
 pretty much the same armaments and troops throughout. I can't tell you how many times I wish that 
 a new weapon would be made available or SOMETHING... but, no, it's the same old same old from top 
 to bottom. There is one shining moment in the game where you take control of a couple of Army Rangers 
 that are equipped with laser-sighted rifles. Now THAT'S what I'm talking about! It's almost as 
 if the developers saw the redundancy of it all and threw these guys in for a level to break it 
 up. 
  
  This is what I meant by the game having potential. I imagine being able to control all different 
 divisions of the US Army, Marines, etc. How about a water level for the SEALS? How about a jungle 
 level for the Rangers? All with different weapons and opportunites. It would be cool to raid buildings, 
 too, a la Rainbow Six. The locales are pretty much the same place in this version; buildings and 
 sand - and more buildings and sand. 
  
  So, despite these short comings it is definitely worth a buy for $35 (no more than that, though) . 
 I was enthralled and couldn't wait to get home from work to play it every day. If you are especially 
 into the minutia of how a military unit moves than you'll get an extra thrill out of this game. 
 Overall, a great, solid game. Full Spectrum Warrior II should smoke this if, in fact, there is 
 going to be one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ant88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 2, 2004 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Full Spectrum warrior on PC is one of the best RTS I've ever played. Insted of looking at little 
 maps and moving tiny units ,you control 2 units of 4 men. The action is intense and the learning 
 curve in my eyes is less than a half hour. Truly one of the best. The graffics are great and the 
 voice acting is actually believable. I hghlt recommend it to even non RTS players. The game moves 
 along fairly quickly and the missions are broken down it sub missions. I have only finished 2 chapters 
 but I am totally into the game play. I haven't really found any glitches to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 345143
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 26, 2004 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good.. even though.. i am a FPS gamer.. generally i don't play much rpg or stratagey but.. 
 somehow when downloading the demo and playin this game.. i actually got into it .. and yet taking 
 a break from the FPS genre is something is should do.. apart from all the controls are a bit confusing.. 
 and yet the game does remind me of the Ghost Recon series, and the Conflict desert storm series 
 as well. 
  
  yet apart neither is this game a 3rd or 1st person shooter.. it's got a good quality side to it.. 
 problems that should have been addressd or at least fixed.. u have no snipers on the team for bravo 
 or alpha... and also people don't seem to be taking advantage of the Co-Op part which i think brings 
 it's retail value to a good high level.. cuz playing co-op with this game would be alot of fun.. 
 but until a month from now i'll see but for u to read this ... well give it a shot if ur one of 
 the kind of guys or gals that likes a variety and gives things a open minded chance.
  
  sincerly, 
  SNIPER-X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 25, 2004 8:17 am PT
Review:  Full Spectrum Warrior, has some good points, and some bad ones as well. A few good ones are, interactive 
 enviorements, uniqe gameplay (doesn't mean its the best) , good graphics, and as intense as it can 
 get with this type of gameplay. Some bad points, would be that its very repeatative, difficult, 
 and I get wicked motion sickness from the camera. I like the game because its realistic, and very 
 much the first of its kind, whether for the good or the bad, its new none the less. Some times 
 I get annoyed though, like Ill be pinned down, and Im fireing at the enemy, but they shoot maybe 
 to realistic, and I can hit everything but the target, so then I think well maybe, I should get 
 closer, I throw a smoke grenade, and run to nearest cover, but yeah, my support got shot, and I 
 couldn't rescue him on time. So its very hard, maybe you just need to be very patient, Im not sure, 
 its a pretty good game, I wouldn't recommend it to just anyone especially hardcore FPS only gamers, 
 I think they would be dissappointed, if your into military shooters, but want something realistic, 
 then I guess you can say this is the game for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
