-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Full Spectrum Warrior: Ten Hammers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/fullspectrumwarriortenhammers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lengthier campaign.
 Great graphics, sound, and presentation.
 Improved control mechanics for movement and shooting.
 Adversarial multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Feels an awful lot like the first game.
 Control still feels limiting.
 Uneven artificial intelligence.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 381 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 4, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ten Hammers maintains a great presentation and adds some minor control tweaks, but overall you're 
 left with a strategy experience that feels very familiar if you played the first game. 

  When the original Full Spectrum Warrior was released in 2004, it was billed as a realistic military 
 simulator developed for the US Army to teach squad tactics. As a commercial game, it had its own 
 charm with its unique control systems and nice presentation, but ultimately the gameplay felt a 
 little shallow and the control scheme overly restrictive. The sequel, Full Spectrum Warrior: Ten 
 Hammers, offers some minor tweaks to the design as well as a new adversarial multiplayer mode. 
 In spite of these changes, Ten Hammers, for better or for worse, feels like very familiar territory. 

          The country of Zekistan once again needs your help to quell civil unrest.     

  Ten 
 Hammers once again puts you in control of infantry fireteams trying to restore order in the fictional 
 country of Zekistan. From the environments in the game, which range from dusty towns to docks in 
 a swampy area, it's pretty safe to assume that Zekistan represents a stereotypical, war-torn state 
 in Central Asia or the Middle East. These environments are generally well detailed, with numerous 
 buildings, wrecked cars, and other bits of debris strewn about that not only breathe life into 
 the world, but also serve as useful cover. Certain portions of the environment (like oxcarts, cars, 
 and boxes) are destructible, which also factors into the gameplay. The detail extends into the 
 character models, which animate smoothly when they run, move into and out of cover, and open fire. 
 Ten Hammers' 12-mission campaign is split up into four chapters, each of which has a lengthy cutscene 
 to tell the game's story as you switch back and forth between a British and American unit. Unfortunately, 
 the writing and voice acting in these chapters is pretty cheesy.  

  You'll control more than just infantry in Ten Hammers -- many missions will let you take control 
 of an armored vehicle or specialized infantry, like an indigenous scout, as a third unit. In the 
 case of the armored vehicle, you'll have many of the same movement and precision fire options as 
 you do with a regular fireteam. These Bradley vehicles are great for eliminating infantry with 
 small arms, but they're very vulnerable to RPG fire. The indigenous scout can be useful as an extra 
 set of eyes, as he can spot enemies from far off without arousing suspicion.  

  As in the original game, you don't directly move any characters in Ten Hammers. Instead, you issue 
 orders to (usually) a pair of four-man fireteams using a context-sensitive cursor. You point and 
 click the cursor at a spot on the ground. A delay ensues, which simulates the time delay for the 
 sergeant to order his fireteam, at which point they'll run to the spot you designated. The trick 
 is to always move your teams from one piece of cover to another, while the other team covers them. 
 The cursor will snap to any piece of nearby cover, like low walls and corners, which makes it easy 
 and convenient to set your teams up in ideal places. You'll still set up fire sectors by pointing 
 your troops in a general direction. Ten Hammers offers a new interface feature that lets you designate 
 a move point for one team from the perspective of a different fireteam. This feature makes it even 
 easier to execute the bounding overwatch maneuvers that are so key to keeping your men safe from 
 enemy fire while moving. There's another new feature that lets you easily split your four-man teams 
 up into pairs, so you can perform more-complicated maneuvers. However, it's not always to your 
 advantage to split up your teams. Since the volume of fire you can pour on an entrenched enemy 
 determines their level of suppression (and thus, their ability to accurately shoot back at you) , 
 splitting your teams into pairs can be disadvantageous at times. The flexibility is nice, though. 

  The other main difference in control between Ten Hammers and the original game is precision fire 
 mode. In the first Full Spectrum Warrior, there was no way to take control of individual soldiers 
 and fire their guns. The only weapons you could aim manually were smoke and frag grenades, and 
 M203 rounds, which is still the case in Ten Hammers. However, in this game, you can take individual 
 control of one of your fireteam members to aim and shoot at entrenched enemies. Doing so with different 
 members of your fireteam yields different results. The team leader and rifleman can shoot at and 
 eliminate an enemy when he pops his head up from under cover, much like a sniper. The automatic 
 rifleman can lay down a withering hail of suppressive fire with his machine gun to keep an enemy 
 pinned down -- this drains his ammo very quickly, however. The grenadier fires his underslung grenade 
 launcher, which is great for eliminating two or more nearby enemies, or for getting at targets 
 inside a window. This isn't much different from calling for a grenade launcher strike in the first 
 game, but this time your grenadier doesn't have to step out from behind cover to shoot. Unfortunately, 
 there are many cases where firing from behind a wall that's too high, or firing from a window, 
 will result in the grenadier blowing himself and the rest of the team up, which can be very annoying. 
 It's worth mentioning though, that precision fire mode isn't the same as aiming the crosshair and 
 shooting the gun yourself. What you're doing is holding the cursor over an enemy, and after second 
 or so, a red dot will pop up that indicates you're ready to fire. Hit the button, and a split second 
 later, your man will shoot. If the enemy isn't completely out of sight, he'll die. It's effective 
 enough, but it feels like a strange compromise between the first game, and just giving you the 
 ability to shoot the gun yourself. It's almost as if the designers still wanted to keep a thin 
 layer of abstraction there to maintain the idea that this is a tactical game, not a shooter.  

 
  Despite the tweaks in interface, the campaign in Ten Hammers ends up feeling a lot like the first 
 game. You'll sweep through areas infested with enemies, eliminating them through suppression and 
 flanking maneuvers, or in many cases, just using precision fire mode, which trivializes many encounters. 
 This time there are buildings that you can get into and garrison for an elevated fighting position, 
 which is another slight improvement over the first game. But for the most part, you're still killing 
 all the insurgents you can find on a given level while moving through a linear-feeling map that 
 offers a few wide-open expanses for tactical maneuvering. The AI-controlled enemies are not quite 
 an improvement from the first game. They're definitely more active, though, as they move around 
 a lot. However, this behavior seems inexplicably random. Sure, they'll smartly run from a thrown 
 grenade, unless they're being suppressed. Sometimes they'll even flank you. But they'll often run 
 away from a perfectly good bit of cover to another piece, just for the sake of it, and get gunned 
 down as they're doing it. Sometimes they'll run straight at and past your position, and your squad 
 will somehow miss while shooting at that enemy who's running into point-blank range. These lapses 
 in AI are frustrating when they happen.  

  The game still does a great job at conveying the chaos of a pitched battle. The staccato report 
 from automatic-weapon fire is nice and sharp, and you'll even hear muffled shots being fired in 
 the background that do not correspond with your fire or shots from the enemy -- this gives the ambience 
 of being a small part of a larger conflict. You'll also hear quite a bit of cursing from men who 
 are under your control, which ramps up along with some dynamic music as the shooting begins. If, 
 for some reason you're opposed to excessive cussing, this game is probably not for you. But given 
 that you're playing a war game where enemies vaporize into a red mist when a grenade goes off near 
 them, cussing's probably not going to be the foremost concern on your mind.  

          Despite minor control tweaks, Ten Hammers feels a lot like the previous game.     

 
  The campaign should keep you occupied for about 10 to 12 hours, and once you're done with that, 
 you can increase the difficulty, which forces you to be even more careful about your maneuvering. 
 A new adversarial mode, playable for up to eight players over system link or online, is available. 
 This mode is somewhat similar to the squad-maneuvering multiplayer in Brothers in Arms, as you'll 
 still be controlling your troops in the same way as in the single-player game. But this time around, 
 the two sides are not symmetric. The American troops move in fireteams and have better weaponry, 
 along with the ability to heal wounded units at captured medical stations. The insurgent side moves 
 around as single units, but has the advantage of numbers and the ability to recruit more from NPC 
 civilians on the map. These matches provide an interesting complement to the single-player game, 
 but given the limitations in control, it's not necessarily that compelling to play, as battles 
 can boil down to who spots whom first. The two player coop mode from the original game also returns 
 here, and allows you to play most of the campaign missions with you and a friend each controlling 
 a fire team.  

  Full Spectrum Warrior: Ten Hammers provides some interesting control upgrades, as well as a longer 
 campaign, plus an adversarial multiplayer mode to play online. However, the overall feel of the 
 game is still very similar to the original, which should please those who liked the first one, 
 but may turn off those who are looking for a bigger leap. Controls that are still overly abstract 
 and unwieldy at times, as well as uneven AI, make for a product that ends up being much more interesting 
 as a design idea than as an actual game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  takes the premise of the first game's two-team dynamic, deepens the controls, and offers a "full 
 spectrum" of additional moves, abilities and modes. You can now command another team without having 
 to switch back and forth and you can split teams into pairs. You can scout, ascend into two-story 
 buildings, call in air strikes, control tanks, and experience three military groups as their stories 
 revolve, Pulp Fiction-style, around a central narrative. For Xbox, Pandemic added in System Link 
 support, and for all three systems there are online co-op modes, adversarial head-to-head games 
 and objective-based online missions for up to eight on Xbox, six on PC, and four on PS2. 
  So, you ask, why is it we're not feeling so overwhelmed by this deeper sequel? Somewhere down the 
 line, FSW: Ten Hammers lost us. The game's nature is still rock-solid and hardcore. But it's just 
 not as fun as it once was. It's partially due to the complexity of the controls, even though we're 
 thankful there are more options. They never evolved into faster, more streamlined, or friendlier 
 controls. It's partially due to the notion that you still never directly shoot anything. This is 
 inherent in the game's design, but in a game with so much shooting, the disconnected action takes 
 its toll. It's also due to the game's repetitive mission design, the language and dialog, and the 
 story, which proves useless and ineffective. That's not to say FSW: Ten Hammers doesn't have its 
 high points, because it does. The smarter AI, multiplayer options, deeper controls and the ton-o'-fun 
 tanks are all worthwhile additions. You'll just have to plod through an enormous amount of repetitive, 
 less-than-fun gaming to get to all those.
  
  The story of Ten Hammers, which refers to the bottleneck bridge you have to control to win the 
 game, follows UN Coalition forces Alpha and Bravo teams, with returning soldiers from the first 
 title. The game consists of 12 hefty levels, three missions in four chapters. Gamers start their 
 trek into the mountainous region of Khardiman, a hilly area north of the fictitious Zekistan. In 
 each chapter, the game tells the same story from a different angle using military squads from different 
 countries. So, you'll know the outcome of the story in the beginning, but you won't know how it 
 all played out unless you beat it. On all three systems, the graphics are slightly advanced over 
 the past games, but not by much. FSW: Ten Hammers still looks best on Xbox and PC, each system 
 providing more power for crisper textures and more vibrant lighting. You also may notice a change 
 in the game's palette. The color scheme is no longer filled with the sandy, orange, and yellow 
 from the first game. There are more greens, browns, and blues. Unfortunately, Ten Hammers looks 
 less polished than its predecessor. You'll regularly see seam lines, collision detection issues 
 amongst soldiers, and aliasing among other things.
  
  Using the same puppet-like mechanic from the first title, Pandemic has added a substantial amount 
 of variation to the sequel's feature list. First, you've got precision fire. Now you can lift up 
 a gun, aim from right behind a soldier's head and pull off head shots using both the team leader's 
 rifle and the grenadier's M203 grenade launcher (the other two team members also offer this feature, 
 but they're not as fun as the TL and Grenadier) . The risk's reward is that you also become more 
 vulnerable to enemy fire. You can shoot through any hole in cover material (the metal works of 
 a turreted gun, or through the window of a car, for instance) and grenade launchers deliver punishing 
 precision targeting too. Additional storage for grenades means you'll throw more of them, farther, 
 and with more flexibility around awkward objects.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Realistic squad-based tactical simulation, derived (allegedly) from a combat simulator used to 
 train real US Army officers. Or at least that's what THQ wants you to believe. 
  
  Yep, I had a very high expectations for this game. After the first Full Spectrum Warrior was released 
 in 2004, along comes the sequel, better, longer and featuring stuff that (on paper) should make 
 the game even more fun and "challenging". This time, the enemy AI comes slightly improved, meaning 
 the enemies won't take cover behind the boxes that aren't there anymore, and perform other idiotic 
 suicidal stunts, such as running straight at your firing line, things that were common in the previous 
 installment of this electronic wonder boy. Knowing that, you would assume that the AI of your squad 
 mates has been improved as well. Wrong, my dear reader. Your men are about as smart as the fried 
 chickens in McDonald's. When you give them the order to cover (for example, upon stumbling on an 
 enemy that just popped out from behind the corner) , they'll just stand in one place and stare at 
 the wall. If they're running from one cover to another, and the enemy pops out right in front of 
 them, they'll simply ignore him and keep on running until they reach their destination, allowing 
 the bad guy to shoot them in the back. If you order the "hot" movement (when they're supposed to 
 move slowly, covering each other in all 4 directions) from one place to another, they'll often 
 ignore the enemies as well. Or fail to notice them, altou you can see them very clearly. Or simply 
 shoot and miss. The game is entirely scripted, so they may pop am enemy in a certain place, if 
 the game allows you to. Yes, it's very obvious, from the way enemies appear on the windows sometimes, 
 wide exposed for you to shoot in a certain place where the game wants you to shoot them. So much 
 for "realism".
  
  I'm not going to even mention the story, since it's just the same old annoying crap you are bombarded 
 with in just about every military-themed game lately. The good and honorable US Army arrives to 
 the stereotypical Middle-Eastern country to liberate the poor people from the evil terrorists' 
 oppression. Even in the opening cutsceenes you can see a goody-goody sergeant talking about his 
 life being meaningless, and how he joined the army in order to make the world a better place. Pure 
 propaganda. Maybe a hidden recruitment commercial for the army? Makes me wanna puke. Ah well... 
 
  
  Anyway, the whole game is presented to you in a series of cutsceenes that look just like news footages. 
 Even as you play, the camera follows your squad like a real camera should, giving you the role 
 of an invisible squad leader. It's also restricted to what the actual commander can possibly see, 
 forcing you to take a careful peek behind every corner, and planning your movement carefully. That 
 is kind of cool... The controls are a bit diffcult to learn and customize, since the game uses 
 the default keyboard-mouse setup. But most of the time you only need a few basic commands, which 
 makes the controls fairly effective. It's just that is so darn difficult to learn what's what, 
 and separate the things you really need from completely useless keyboard shortcuts. All thanks 
 to the horrible tutorial which never clearly tells you what you actually need to do. Do you need 
 only to press the left mouse button or hold it? It only shows you a picture of mouse and tells 
 you "fire", and assumes you're gonna figure it out. It also forces you to learn some pretty advanced 
 commands (that the game is so much bragging about) before you even learned the basics. And fails 
 to even mention some less fancy, and far more useful commands. It's just abysmal...
  
  But even tough the tutorial is horrible, the actual controls and camera are very good, and react 
 well to your commands. Once you learn the controls, you won't have any trouble with it and will 
 start to enjoy the game, at least for a short while. Well, the missions aren't very interesting, 
 of course, and all revolve around the same concept - go from point A to point B and kill everyone. 
 Pick up a wounded, maybe bust a sniper position with a mortar strike... Well, what can you expect? 
 This is supposed to be a realistic game, you can't expect a boss fight with cyber assassin Saddam 
 Hussein carrying a minigun. Sometimes you get to command a vehicle, such as Bradley, or call an 
 airstrike, or mortar barrage. That was actually pretty fun. Unfortunately, it happens rarely in 
 the game. Most of the time you'll be crawling through dull streets, taking obvious cover and shooting 
 evil terrorists in the same old repetitive way. 
  
  Yes, my friend, after a few missions, you realize that, despite the flashy presentation, this is 
 a very dull game. You take cover, enemy pops out of nowhere, takes cover, you can either flush 
 him out with a grenade or take a careful pot shot and hope your rifleman gets him. That's right, 
 you can only ORDER someone to shoot, you can never actually pull the trigger yourself. Despite 
 the fact that your opponent's standing behind the partial cover with his head and half of his back 
 exposed, he stays miraculously unharmed by your hail of bullets. It's either grenade or pot shot, 
 nothing else... Of course, in the previous game, your squad would become an impregnable fortress 
 after finding good cover. This time, a factor of randomness is here to gun down your mate even 
 if you're shooting from behind a perfect cover, which feels completely out of place and unfair. 
 Enemies hitting you from an impossible positions in a few spots in the game are also something 
 to worry about. Maybe a bug or something. Probably not. Even tough your men are all wearing helmets 
 and body armor, one bullet always means an instant incapacitation. It makes no difference if he 
 gets hit in a toe, or right between the eyes. You have to hurl him back to the medevac, which takes 
 about 5 to 10 minutes. That's right, this is a "realistic" game, so forget about medkits. 
  
  But the game still could've been good and less frustrating. If only there was a proper save 
 system involved. This way you're sentenced to mere checkpoins, which are always too few and too 
 far in between. It's so damn punishing, and for no reason at all, except to make the game more 
 "challenging". I mean, are the programmers insane? Do they seriously think that making the game 
 rediculously difficult would make it more appealing? For a masochists, maybe... 
  
  As for the "tactical" side of this game, you can just forget about it. The game is so heavily scripted 
 it all comes down to simple trial and error routine. A street that was peaceful a moment ago, and 
 apparently safe, becomes an inferno after your squad moves a few meters forward. Enemies just pop 
 out of nowhere and start blasting. Even if you scout ahead, the enemies don't move until you do. 
 It's simply stupid. Once I had to deal with a sniper. So I had half of my team cover me and lay 
 a suppressive fire, while other half ran towards the building in order to lob a hand grenade through 
 the window and kill the bad guy. You know, a thing that would be actually... TACTICAL. But nooo, 
 your badass marines can't seem to throw a grenade more than a few meters away, or into the air, 
 so it only left me with the good old pot shot order. Yep, I tried to lob a 203 grenade, and managed 
 to get it right into the room where the sniper was. He survived. I mean, really... COME ON! I could 
 go on forever with examples such as this, of how you could deal with a situation in a tactical 
 way, and how the game actually lets you deal with the same situation in an idiotic, unrealistic 
 way that often puts your men or vehicles at risk. The programmers obviously don't know a first 
 thing about squad tactics, urban warfare, or even weapons. A 203 grenade flies in a straight line 
 in this game, like an RPG. Your men don't seem to have any plastic explosives or AT weapons to 
 deal with, let's say, enemy vehicles or pillboxes. A standard equipment in the real world. Enough 
 said?
  
  So underneath the flashy presentation, profanity, and civilians getting killed in a crossfire (which 
 is all the realism you can get here) , this is a very shallow, repetitive game with horrible AI 
 and brain-dead mission design. You may enjoy it for a few mission, as I have, but you will soon 
 learn how to despise it. 
  
  Avoid this game at all costs! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Well it's hard to describe, it's not a first person shooter (although one may quickly take the 
 first person perspective for a moment if needed) . I guess tactical shooter is the term but this 
 game employs the action in sort of a flying third person command view. Before I forget, the soundtrack 
 to this game is quite well done.... the storyline itself could be a bit better but it doesn't take 
 away anything as it is.
  
  The whole game is impressive, there are plenty of reviews about it already... I just wanted to state 
 that I was quite impressed with the controls. It take a bit to get the hang of controlling everything 
 but once learned, I found it quite intuitive and surprisingly easy... and this is no small accomplishment 
 considering the two squads can split into a pair of 2 man squads.... then the fun really begins; 
 4 two-man teams, all able to be individually controlled to do a multitude of combat actions.... lay 
 down cover fire, move forward, drag or grab injured team members, toss some smoke, frag some poor 
 fool.... you get the idea. And let's not forget, all of this while being able to control the movement 
 cautiousness... and hey, while you're at it, pop into any one of the 8 soldiers immediately to manually 
 take a snipe shot or shoot a grenade with more precision.
  
  A few stability issues, nothing major...... tutorial is forced on you so keep a save game right 
 after it so you can take another run after beating the game. A few improvements could be in there, 
 options-wise... but all in all, I'm dying for more of this exact style of tactical shooter.... are 
 there any others like this?? I haven't found one yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Verga_del_Brujo
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 7, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I like tactical military games with a little more to think and plan better than just jumping like 
 a rabbit with a smg and or just gather a horde to destroy enemy's base.
  I thought that this one looks good enough for me. But then I played it, and I found it very frustrating, 
 specially because of the AI problems.
  1- Your soldiers rarely kill someone if you are not guiding them with precision fire or with a 
 fire zone even if they are receiving fire.
  2- The enemies run out of cover to a next cover closest to you when your team are shooting at them. 
 The worst part is that your team have aiming problems and the enemy can reach that cover.
  3- You can have 8 good guys firing at 1 baddie with the all fire option, and he can still return 
 fire. You try precision fire and the baddie kills your rifleman or team leader.
  4- Your granadier is quite dumb and sometimes when he fires from behind a sandbag or a pile of 
 tyres he can kill the whole team even if you pointed with the precision fire at a balcony.
  Design.
  1- Sometimes you can see the guerrilla guys spawn out of nowhere, like they teleported 
 from somewhere else.
  2- You do not have much room to manouver with your teams in some missions, thus you depend a lot 
 on precision fire.
  3- Since you have two teams and you can still split them into two more, you have to be in four 
 places at the same time guiding your soldiers fire because you cannot trust them to find the target 
 on their own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoo333
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  If you want real world tactics then this game is the most best out there.
  
  if you hate first person shooters that leaves you no room for planning and taking into consideration 
 cover, this is your game. sure, it will take time to learn the game mechanics, its well worth it. 
 i challenge anyone to find a better game out there. its in a league of its own. graphics are awesome. 
 you feel like your in a real battle. now i know what our boys may feel when in battle. buy this 
 game and spread the word for other to get into it. its really a fun game. go out there and buy 
 it now. Gen. Solomon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  I would write a bad review on this game like I've done with other games in the past but Doctor_kaz 
 hit it right on the head.
  
  Graphics didn't improve at all from the first game. If they did I can't see it.
  
  Gameplay 
 is awful cover no longer works covering fire doesn't work your soldiers don't work. I never had 
 to goback to the casevac so many times in one mission.
  
  Only one person who did voiceovers from the first game is here. Oh and who at Pandemic did research 
 on the US army? One of the army's modos is leave no one behind where several times lines are written 
 where commanders and soldiers in the game say to the effect of leave him it's a waste of time to 
 go bring him back. Flaky bad AI horrid turrning speed for the camera and just all around bad gaming 
 Avoid this one like a plague
  
  Ok so I changed my mind I did write a bad review. this game deserves every bit of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campbell2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  its amazing graphic and everything the command the game play it is just amazing, the game is pretty 
 much unique of its game play and great combination of both graphic and sound, its a very good combat 
 simulation for people that are tried of none sense shooting games but want to go more to the tactical 
 side, but the regroup to refill ammo thing is just too not realistic but then again personally 
 i would have failed lots missons if they dont have that feature in, but im having some problem 
 with the game, i have just gotten a new pc and i installed the game on to the computer and it will 
 not run, there is always a message that tells me video adapter is not supported and i have installed 
 directx 9c that was provided from the disk and i have a intel extrem graphic 2 as my graphic card 
 would appreciated if someone could help me out thanks, and full spectrum warrior rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onenumcat
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  I liked this game. I thought it was similar to 'Brothers in Arms'. Difficult but fun, entertaining 
 and very playable!! I have heard some complain that the controls are too hard to master. I suggest 
 playing the tutorial several times and there is a mini-tutorial option everytime you fail. Check 
 it out. Don't bother playing unless you're serious!! Squad based game, but sometimes you control 
 two squads and a tank. Realistic ammo supplies and wounded. You can heal the wounded but only if 
 you carry them to the Medivac unit. Squads can be split in two, four men to a squad, so sometimes 
 you might actually control 5 units actions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Back in the days of the original Full Spectrum Warrior, things were simple. The game was just plain 
 annoying. It had an attractive feeling, which intensified the obvious oversights in gameplay and 
 realism. I can excuse FSW for its shortcomings, since at the time it was the new kid on the block.
 
  
  Ten Hammers, on the other hand, has no excuse for keeping around almost everything that held the 
 first game back, yet it does. The mathematical system for determining bullet hits is for the most 
 part unchanged from the first game. On the plus side, it's significantly easier for your troops 
 to hit enemies while they dart between cover. In the original it was very rare for your soldiers 
 to score a kill from anything but the easiest of angles. Since the bullet-system remains otherwise 
 quite unchanged from its prequel, this means that you can expect to be mowed down from long range 
 without ever actually being hit by a bullet. This is supposed to be a game, after all, though this 
 element of the two games seems utterly determined to defeat that good game feeling.
  
  Some notable improvements have been made in other aspects of the game, though. For instance, you 
 can now issue commands to your squads without having to tell them to halt first. This means that 
 you can be setting up for your next move even while your squad is moving. The previous game didn't 
 allow this. Additionally, you can issue orders to one squad while you're viewing the other squad. 
 This makes bounding significantly easier, though this feature seems to replace the original game's 
 built-in "overwatch" ability, where two members of your squad provided cover fire for the other 
 two as they moved. The same thing can be accomplished in Ten Hammers, though it will take a few 
 more button clicks to do so.
  
  Point fire is also dramatically improved in the second iteration of the series, now that your soldiers 
 will actually shoot at things outside the arbitrary ring that designates their "fire sector." In 
 Ten Hammers, this ring acts as a priority zone, and your soldiers will target enemies within it 
 before others. A notable loss from the first game is the ability to give individual fire sectors 
 to each member of your squad. It's not often that this feature would actually be vital in the game, 
 but I don't see why it had to be removed, seemingly an exercise in tactical restriction.
  
  One of the features Ten Hammers introduces you'll be using all the time - the ability to split 
 each of your squads into two two-man "buddy groups." This is an indispensable asset to your endless 
 mission of "fix 'em and flank 'em." In combination with much better level design, this allows you 
 to attack the enemy from twice as many angles as before, without requiring the use of more troops. 
 Honestly, in the first game, two of the members of your fire team were just sitting there idly 
 for most of the time anyway.
  
  Bringing many of these features into one intelligible interface, Ten Hammers introduces a console-inspired 
 menu system, not dissimilar to that found in Battlefield 2, the game where the radial pop-up menu 
 became wildly popular. The system for issuing orders to selected and unselected squads, and furthermore 
 selected and unselected buddy-teams of selected and unselected squads (that phrase has probably 
 lost all meaning to you) is surprisingly logical and intuitive. It will undoubtedly take even the 
 most avid gamer a few levels before the true utility of the interface is fully realized. It combines 
 a very large number of possible combinations of squads and sub-squads compounded with different 
 move-orders into an easily navigable HUD item.
  
  When all is said and done, though, Ten Hammers isn't really all that much different from the previous 
 Full Spectrum Warrior. It's different enough to warrant interest from fans of the first game, though 
 not different enough to offer a new experience to those only casually interested in the tactical 
 military simulation genre (not to confuse this game with a tactical military shooter, because a 
 shooter it is certainly not) . If you haven't played FSW, Ten Hammers is certainly a good place 
 to start, because it is an improvement over its predecessor in nearly every aspect. Its main downfall 
 is that it's not improvement enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  When Full Spectrum Warrior was released ages ago, it totally rocked. Instead of being the triggerman 
 for the Army, youre instead commanding infantry to do your dirty work for you. It was hard, the 
 battles intensebut in the end, you won, leading your team to victory ONLY to find out that the 
 ending sucked and hinted at a sequel
  
  Well, the sequel is here but it isnt exactly the same. Truth is, the years havent exactly been 
 kind to Full Spectrum Warrior. Its not the graphics (on the PC and Xbox it looks pretty fine though 
 NEVER touch the PS2 version EVER!) or the sound, its the gameplay. To be honest, Ten Hammers not 
 only contains the same gameplay as the first game, it even expands upon it. It allows you to split 
 teams up into 2 two man groups, lets you direct vehicleseven enter buildings (rare though) and 
 flank the enemy. Hell, it even has a coherent story this time around. Why then doesnt it live 
 up to its name?
  
  To be honest, I have no idea. It seems to be missing the spark that made the first game so unique. 
 It really feels as if youre playing the second half of the first game, not a totally new sequel. 
 To drive home that fact, there are even returning characters from the first game. It all looks 
 (and feels) the same. The same drab surroundings, the same sounding radio chatterthe same everything.
 
  
  Im getting ahead of myself hereSome of you may not have even heard or played Full Spectrum Warrior 
 before so heres a lowdown of the game. In Ten Hammers, you control a group of 4 man squads, depending 
 on the mission you may be commanding up to 4 such squads at the same time. Unlike other games though, 
 thats all youll be doingcommanding. You wont be firing at enemy positions, lobbing a grenade 
 to clear some enemies out or even firing a tank gun. Instead youll be the one directing where 
 fire goes. Youll command where you want your squads to move to, how you want them to move, which 
 direction you want them to look at while theyre movingthat sort of thing. Its a very tough game 
 though since its based on realistic damage models. Take a bullet to the head and its bye bye 
 soldier but a glancing shot to the legs or arms and your trooper will carry on trucking. Sadly, 
 the amount of injury doesnt seem to impact his performance. Even with a sliver of health remaining, 
 the soldier will run, shoot and do all the other things his healthier teammates can do.
  
  New to this edition is the ability to control vehicles. These sections break up the monotony of 
 the game but vehicles arent the ultimate answer to everything. Hell, more than the squads, you 
 need to be extra careful when you have a tank at your command. Enemies with RPGs will pop out of 
 the woodwork a ton of times and before you know it, your tank will be off to the junkyard. Sure, 
 the vehicles are packing tremendous firepower but the RPGs used by the enemies tend to do extraordinarily 
 large amounts of damage
  
  Another new maneuver you can do is the ability to enter buildings. Most buildings in the game are 
 just for show but a select few (usually the taller ones) can be entered giving you the high ground 
 advantage to take down enemies from. Its not as cool as it sounds though. Theres only one possible 
 opening to fire from and your squad NEVER fires together. Rather, its just one lone soldier whos 
 doing the dirty work. As such, even the simplest task of killing an enemy out in the open may take 
 awhile due the atrocious aim of your men. To be honest, EVERYBODY in the game cant aim worth a 
 damn. Your enemies cant seem to hit you and you cant seem to hit your enemies. If you and your 
 foes are behind cover (as is in 90%) of the game, expect to watch an obscene amount of bullets 
 flying that hit nothing.
  
  The AI sorely needs work, especially the enemy. A ton of times therell blindly run right up to 
 my teams, not bothering to hide. Then once near my guys, theyll abruptly stop and run away. Of 
 course, they rarely have time to run back but you can see the point Im trying to make, no? Friendly 
 AI too can be too strict at times. Sometimes the dumb asses in my squad will keep firing into a 
 sector even when its clear of enemies, even when I didnt order them to lay down suppressing fire. 
 Did I say the AI cant aim? I did? Nevermind, it serves to drive home the fact again.
  
  All the missions in Ten Hammers are one thingrepetitive. At the beginning, you wont feel it but 
 as the game drags on, youll be getting dj vu. Thats partly because of the games structure. 
 Youll constantly be switching perspective throughout the missions, viewing the events of what 
 you did previously from a new angle. Thats where the dj vu comes in. After having cleared a 
 stage, I sure as hell didnt want to replay it from another viewpoint! Hell, I just wanted to get 
 moving with the story.
  
  The surroundings too dont help matter much. All of the areas tend to look similar after awhilebuilding 
 after building painted in brown or dark brown or light brown can do that to you. Imagine seeing 
 that stage after stage. Not a pretty sight, eh? Still, the game does tend to vary its color palette, 
 its just not enough. Youll see some other colors, maybe green from trees or blue from water but 
 those are soon gone to be replaced by your favourite color, brown! In spite of that, the characters 
 and backgrounds ARE nicely done though. Theres pretty good detail being done, especially on the 
 guys you control. The environments though are kinda amateurish though. Clipping, seams and other 
 graphical niggles abound in the game, stuff that wasnt even an issue in the first game.
  
  One thing Ten Hammers has in abundance is swearing. Everything under the sun will come out in radio 
 chatter. Its pretty funny to hear but a lot of them a repeated too many times and lose their humor 
 after awhile. Gunfire and blasts are nicely done though.
  
  Ten Hammers is worth playing as it is but its becoming stagnant and the new ideas dont do really 
 that much. Maybe a sequel will introduce more flexibility to the series and really liven things 
 up again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  I liked the first Full Spectrum Warrior. It was a very cool tactical/strategy game that implemented 
 its unique ideas very well. The sequel, Full Spectrum Warrior: Ten Hammers is terrible. It's positively 
 awful. This is the worst sequel that I have played since Deus Ex: Invisible War, and the most unenjoyable 
 game that I have played in at least a couple of years. It's an irritating, unplaytested, frustrating, 
 trial-and-error-ridden mess. I had to quit on the second level of the game because I hated it so 
 much.
  
  In order to explain why this game sucks so miserably, I have to explain what made the first game 
 special. The foundation of the game was a simple process of "use cover, engage enemies, flank, 
 and kill." You couldn't hit anybody behind cover, but you couldn't be hit behind cover either. 
 By suppressing enemies, you could then move to another spot behind cover and kill him. It was simple 
 and somewhat repetitive, but it worked. The pacing of the game was pretty slow, and you could always 
 take time to plan your next move. It was a great way to experience urban combat tactics without 
 having to rely on shooter twitch skills.
  
  Ten Hammers completely destroys this game mechanic. It has so many problems, I don't know where 
 to begin. 
  
  The first problem is a simple one. Covering fire no longer works. Enemies often freely run into 
 and out of your covering fire areas without getting shot. They often do this to flank you. In the 
 first game, when you engaged an enemy, it tied him down. In this game, it does -- nothing. Often, 
 enemies will run out from behind cover and then run around behind you and kill you while your helpless, 
 retarded squad sits there and does nothing. Who's the idiot that thought of this gameplay "iimprovement"? 
 It completely makes the game impossible. Time after time, while playing this game, my squad would 
 be engaging an enemy behind cover, and that enemy would run out of cover, flank me, and shoot all 
 of my guys while they stood there helpless, and I sat there irritated.
  
  But wait, it gets better! Not only can enemies freely run into and out of cover without you killing 
 them, but cover no longer works for you. Yes, you read that right. Cover does not keep you safe 
 anymore. Once, I ran to a corner and my team leader poked his head out -- he got shot immediately 
 by a guy at the end of the street he was looking down (this never happened in the first game) . 
 Another time, I positoned my squad behind a garbage dumpster in a square formation to fire at a 
 guy who was behind cover straight ahead of me. The enemy proceeded to pick off two of my guys (this 
 also never happened in the first game) . This happened time after time after time. Apparently, Middle 
 Eastern terrorists are elite snipers and American soliders shoot like Stevie Wonder.
  
  But wait, it gets better! Not only can enemies kill you behind cover, and not only can they leave 
 cover to run up right next to you, but they also run out on your exposed flanks at scripted times 
 and shoot at you while you're moving between cover points. Yes, enemies are very mobile. Time after 
 time, you'll be moving down a clear street to a cover point, and an enemy will jump out (according 
 to a script) from behind a building and kill two of your squad mates immediately.
  
  Enemies also respawn infinitely at certain points in the game where the developers wanted to force 
 you down a certain path. You can kill enemies with your team leaders sharpshooting ability, but 
 if Pandemic wanted you to kill them by flanking them, then new enemies will spawn in their place. 
 If you cleverly kill a guy with a grenade, another guy might spawn to take his place because you 
 didn't do it the "right" way. This happens time and time again in the game. I can't tell you how 
 many times I killed a guy, and then got killed by his replacement as I advanced on the position. 
 Apparently, terrorists also have secret cloning machines that magically get turned off when you 
 approach enemy positions from a certain direction.
  
  But wait, it gets even better! This game also uses a checkpoint save system. This wouldn't be bad 
 by itself, but since the game is so poorly designed, sadistic, punishing, and frustrating, the 
 checkpoint save system makes it unplayable. Time after time, your squad gets killed by some guy 
 who runs past your clueless soldiers and shoots all of them from behind, causing you to replay 
 the last fifteen minutes.
  
  The game gives you a "danger" indicator at the bottom of the screen, but it's competely worthless. 
 By the time it turns red, it's too late. It's impossible to react to anything quickly in this game, 
 because the control scheme is made for slow-paced, tactical advances. It takes over five seconds 
 to issue any meaningful order. If you want guys to move, you have to right click, rotate the camera 
 around until you find the spot you want, and then position the icons on the screen to find the 
 right place. It works well for a strategy game, but it's horrible for a more action-oriented game, 
 which is what it seems like Ten Hammers is trying to be. If a guy runs in on your flank while you're 
 moving or positioned somewhere, you might as well reload your saved game right there. By the time 
 you give them another move order to a safe cover point, he has already killed three of your guys. 
 
  
  Full Spectrum Warrior: Ten Hammers is riddled with some of the worst design decisions that I have 
 ever encountered. Pandemic filled the game with enemies who move around the area like flies but 
 forgot to give you any friendly AI or controls to counter them. Your troops are basically unintelligent 
 monkeys who won't return fire at a guy who is five feet away from them, nor will they run for cover 
 if a guy appears out of nowhere. A single guy pops up on your flank and your game is over, and 
 there are no tools to prevent this from happening. Pandemic tried to turn this game into a more 
 action-oriented one, and it fails miserably. This game was obviously not play tested. A single 
 play test would have exposed how the game doesn't work.
  
  Graphics-wise, Ten Hammers looks like a typical X-Box port. Which is to say that it basically looks 
 like crap. This is a very mediocre-looking game with ugly, low detail, low res texture environments 
 and nowhere near the quality of the look of a game like Half-Life 2 or Oblivion. The game has the 
 ugly menu screens that characterize console ports too. The only redeeming quality of the graphics 
 is that your squad-mates look pretty good, and they have a lot of great motion-captured animations.
 
  
  After enjoying the first game, I can't overemphasize how bad this sequel is. Pandemic completely 
 ruined Ten Hammers with a bucketload of terrible design decisions. The game is no longer a clever 
 urban warfare tactical simulation. It's a frustrating exercise in watching your dumb, helpless 
 squad get picked off by sharp-shooting terrorists no matter what tactics you take. You can't rely 
 on cover, you can't fix enemies by engaging them, and you can't react quickly to what your enemies 
 do. Ten Hammers is an action game with the control scheme of a tactical one. The result is a complete 
 disaster. I encourage you to read some of my other reviews on Gamespot to see that I almost never 
 give scores this low. I can't get my money back, but hopefully, I can make up for it by convincing 
 you not to buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plalm
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm in the military and I've gotta say we use the SAME tactics. I like the unique style in which 
 this fire-team based game plays. Unfortunately with the ne mega hits coming out, I'd wait and save 
 my money and get something better. The graphic details leave a little more to be desired. It honestly 
 looks like this game should have been released in 2003 to 2004. I have SLI and it really seems 
 like overkill. I like the sound quality and attention to detail this game has, but again if you 
 want a game to brag about, this isn't it. Pretty much qualified as Substance with no Flash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahger
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  So far, FULL SPECTRUM WARRIOR: TEN HAMMERS has both met my optimistic expectations while simultaneouly 
 confirming some of my worst fears. At times, its simulation of small-unit infantry combat in urban 
 terrain is genuinely impressive. When the game is not tripping over its design and implementation 
 glitches, it's a compelling recreation of the kind of fire-and-maneuver tactics required for a 
 disciplined and competently commanded squad of Ranger-types to survive and prevail in urban conditions 
 against a numerically superior and more mobile insurgent militia. Think of the block-to-block tactical 
 withdrawal by the Rangers in BLACK HAWK DOWN. You can build up a satisfying rhythm, deploying your 
 teams to fix, flank and finish, moving decisively but only under bounding overwatch and utilising 
 maximum firepower from solid cover with minimal exposure of your own team to enemy fire. So far, 
 so good. The new commands are mainly terrific. Gone is the stalemating that resulted from combatants 
 firing fruitlessly at each other from impregnable cover with all maneuver options exhausted; a 
 fairly harmonious combination of individual targeting, "Hot" and "Scout" maneuver options that 
 actually work tactically, better grenade /M-203 implementation (with more of them available, mercifully) , 
 plentiful smoke and the ability to subdivide teams makes the gameplay faster and more decisive.
 
  
  Unfortunately the negative aspects of the experience cannot be ignored. Most are inherent in the 
 game's rigidity and the in the obvious limitations of its engine. Some mission phases can be teeth-grindingly 
 frustrating when the game does not play fair: RPGs sometimes seem capable of flying around corners 
 after being aimed with no apparent line-of-sight between operator and target, player-controlled 
 teams are often three full seconds slower in their reaction to a threat than the player himself 
 is and there is absolutely no close to mid-range combat modelled, so you may as well take your 
 hands off the keyboard and hope for the best if you get much closer than the medium-range tactical 
 arena modelled by FSW's engine. I do not mind the game being difficult (it is) but I object when 
 a combination of dodgy mission design/implementation and glitchiness conspires to kill my guys 
 repeatedly, forcing me to replay great chunks of a mission again and again because the replay system, 
 while much better than the original game's, still doles out save points somewhat reluctantly. Other 
 glitches include soldier abilities -- like the team-leader's sharpshooter option -- that are sometimes 
 inexplicably unavailable, odd interface issues, poor documentation (although they try hard) and, 
 above all, unfair line-of-sight and lethality as wielded by the enemy AI. Several times my squad 
 has been decimated by an RPG that they were way too slow to spot, slower still to react to and 
 slow as mollasses to avoid, considering it trails smoke and spends two full seconds in flight. 
 The gameplay is essentially a combination of geometry problems (flanking, angles, cover) requiring 
 considerable patience to overcome a system of maneuver that can become very stiff and inflexible 
 at times. On the one hand it's tactically sound always to look before you leap but a little iffier 
 when you are being cautious not because it's appropriate but in order to anticipate and accomodate 
 yourself to AI or gameplay eccentricities. Gameplay is stately, undynamic, methodical and sometimes 
 quite satisfying once you adapt to its pace. 
  
  All this underlines the fact that TEN HAMMERS is a very specialised game, limited by its own engine 
 and by budget. Lacking polish or glamour, it's more of a geeked-out RTS-third-person shooter hybrid 
 than a mass entertainment but it will satisfy those with genuine interest in squad-level tactics 
 in hostile urban terrain. Its engine does one thing very well (simulate mid-range, small-unit MOUT) 
 most of the time, but not when the design and/or execution takes a big brain-dump and starts trying 
 the patience of a player who has been lulled into a false sense of security by the gratification 
 the game provides when is does actually deliver on its promise, which is about seventy percent 
 of the time.
  
  With the dreadful decline of the Rainbow Six franchise, I'm just grateful for any genuinely tactical 
 combat simulation out there and this, for all its faults, is that. The designers are obviously 
 dedicated and knowlegeable and they have squeezed every bit of flexibility and potential that they 
 could out of this engine. When it works, it's great. The AI is improved significantly but, again, 
 it's at the mercy of an overall concept/implementation that sometimes works and sometimes doesn't. 
 Production values like sound, visuals and voice acting are fine for what is a non mass-appeal game 
 whose principal platform is the console. I'm appreciative that, if it's a port for the PC, it's 
 been ported so intelligently. I'd recommend it to hardcore, grown-up tac-gamers with patience and 
 a willingness not to become too frustrated by the glitches in order to appreciate TEN HAMMERS' 
 genuine virtues. But even this hardcore, grown-up tac-gamer is likely to put it aside when GHOST 
 RECON: ADVANCED WARFIGHTER comes out for the PC, if it's half as good as it threatens to be, that 
 is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Full Spectrum Warrior , when it first came out I bought and played the game (still do occasionally 
 too) I thought different than the rest . It was a solid tactical squad quasi shooter but did have 
 its problems. Alot had to do with the low grenades and M203 ammo the soldiers would be able to 
 carry with them (two apiece??) and the fact that someone had infinite protection from RPG's, BMP's, 
 and AK fire if you just got behind a refrigerator! Well needless to say that is quite ridiculous 
 but the game was still one of my favorites. The look and feel (not the sound-which disappeared 
 at times! WTH?) was damn good and I loved the squad-play.
  
  FSW: Ten Hammers comes about 2 years after the original and takes place some time after the initial 
 invasion of the fictional ZEK-istan. Some of your former fireteam soldiers are back (Sgt Mendes, 
 Devereux, although not alot of guys) but this time the soldiers are mostly anonymous who do not 
 do alot of chattering this time around. I missed that but you get over it. The controls are similar 
 to the last game with some nice added features: You can now take control of armor (Bradley IFV's 
 and take over the gunner on a .50 cal of a Humvee) , you can also take more then 2 casualties plus 
 you can Drag a man if he goes down, casevac is still here but it makes more sense because you get 
 a new replacement instead of a downed guy getting healed in like 5 seconds, you can split your 
 fire team of four into buddy-teams of two apiece, call in airstrikes, and the best part-you can 
 have your soldiers home in and focus their fire to pinpoint fire on the enemy. This carries risk 
 too though as you are more susceptible to enemy fire. That said, hugging the corners is NOT as 
 safe as it used to be! You can hit the enemy better but he can hit YOU better too! I love controlling 
 the Bradley in this game. You can have it fire and move and this time they allowed the Brad to 
 fire its 25mm chain gun and also the co-ax gun at enemy. Only problem is this sucker is vulnerable 
 to RPG fire so you better scan the rooftops!
  
  This game introduces indoor and also the concept of getting the higher ground, from which to be 
 able to flank the enemy.
  
  I enjoy this game-the graphics seem alot less defined this time around though. They took the best 
 aspects of the original but listened to the fans (I guess) and added some much needed gameplay tweaks, 
 if you will.
  
  More like Full Spectrum Warrior version 2.1! Ha ha.
  
  Buy it today!
  
  THAT would be a kill! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatmojo0069
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Great game! I like the tactical aspects and the visuals look very amazing! It looks way better 
 than the first game. I can't believe some reviewers say that the visuals look the same as the first 
 game! It's way more complex and detailed. The art direction is very impressive. Very unique looking 
 environments. Each level has their own look and feel which is good. It's not just the same ole 
 abandoned city levels all looking like its dusty. Gameplaywise, it was very tough to play at times, 
 much harder than the original. Multiplay gameplay on certain levels were hard to get use to. Some 
 of the maps didn't make any sense. Besides some difficult maps, the overall multiplay experience 
 was enjoyable. It's definitely not a game for just any joe shmoe gamer to pick up and play. The 
 learning curve is quite difficult due to all the breaking down of squads and new sub commands implemented 
 in this sequel. It is a very tough game but enjoyable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_zebra
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  the good: mutiplayer rocks, the gameplay is new a good and its challenging
  the bad: its a little too hard, some guys in the squad dont really do anything and sometimes the 
 enemy will kill u150yrds behinde cove and ur guys cant hit them 30yrds away in open but overall 
 i would reccommend this game. and just to make the review as long as it has to be the multiplayer 
 is good but ive only played co-op and not alot of people are online yet so i hpoe to see some more 
 people online so if u have this game dont get discouraged if theres not alot of people yet. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
