-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Full Throttle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/fullthrottle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 1,278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 30, 1995 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Featuring a superb story that borrows from the cult films Easy Rider and MadMax, Full Throttle is 
 arguably LucasArts' finest graphic adventure creation. 

 Featuring a superb story that borrows from the cult films Easy Rider and Mad Max, Full Throttle 
 is arguably LucasArts' finest graphic adventure creation. While the graphics are only slightly 
 better than they were in Sam &amp; Max Hit the Road and Day of the Tentacle (the company's latest 
 additions to this category) , Full Throttle does feature 3-D rendered objects on its familiar jagged 
 and blocky screens.  

 The engaging, film-quality script unfolds with the confidence and grace of its square-jawed main 
 character, Ben. All the ingredients of a great story are here: murder, deception, greed, lust, 
 unrequited love, honor, and of course, motorcycles. Surprisingly, despite all these elements, the 
 plot doesn't ever seem forced or melodramatic; it just flows. Even in the face of adversity, Ben's 
 gravel-voiced one-liners supply laugh-out-loud comedy that Schwarzenegger and Van Damme would envy. 
 And while the game easily could have depicted biker gangs as a motley group of violent, remorseless 
 criminals, it presents a clan of honorable loners who talk tough but don't hurt anyone without 
 a really good reason.   

 Fitting into this tidy world of cause and effect are the game's logical, challenging puzzles. No 
 great leaps in puzzle design were made from LucasArts' earlier adventure products, which usually 
 involved finding and using specific items in the right place at the right time. Still, these puzzles 
 are well-integrated, drawing you into the tale, rather than making you step back from the character 
 and the story.  

 Although Full Throttle is as close to a perfect graphic adventure game as I've seen, it still has 
 a few flaws. One section, where you drive your hog through a canyon and join an action-packed beat-em-up 
 fest involving other biker gangs, uses a scaled-down version of the Rebel Assault game technology. 
 Even with unlimited tries, an action sequence that requires twitch reflexes and mouse-eye coordination 
 seems out of place in an adventure game that otherwise relies on your wits.   

 The second flaw, inherited from the company's earlier games, is the hunt-and-click problem. In a 
 number of locations, the secret to discovering a hot-spot on the screen lies in clicking around 
 aimlessly until you discover an unmarked hot-spot. Rather than measuring your deductive reasoning 
 skills, this tactic tests your patience for mashing the mouse button.   

 Although many gamers have criticized this title as being too short, Full Throttle's amusing story 
 and well-developed characters make this shortcoming easy to overlook. I am eagerly awaiting a sequel. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DragonMaster909
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  Full Throttle is an instant classic! 
  I was first introduced to this game when I salvaged, from my friend, a box of cds and dvds that 
 he was throwing out. What a find! How unfortunate that so many modern gamers don't know that such 
 a treasure like Full Throttle exists. Simple almost minimalistic in style and play this game delivers 
 fun and enjoyment for all levels of gamers. The art and cinematics of the game is old school but 
 still well presented and fits perfectly with the broken-down/futuristic world of motorcycles, biker 
 gangs, political intrigue (and the usual star wars in game jokes and references) presented inside 
 the game. Uncomplicated puzzles and game-play will allow players to beat the game in less than 
 5 hours but every minute is enjoyable and satisfying. Sound usually takes a back seat in older 
 games as well but surprisingly the voice acting and sound effects are high in quality in this game. 
 I was reading more about this game and I was sad to discover that they canceled the projects for 
 what I think would be a very promising sequel Full Throttle: Hell on Wheels. But Don't take my 
 word for it, buy the game yourself and wait for a ride with a speed setting of "Full Throttle!" 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorturingNurse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  Full throttle is a point and click adventure designed by the legendary Tim Schafer (Day of the 
 Tentacle, Grim Fandango, Psychonauts) and published by Lucas Arts. 
  
  The game takes place in a not so distant future where Motor Cycles and Biker Gang's rule the high 
 way, you play as a Ben the protagonist of the game and also the leader of the Biker Gang 'The Polecats'. 
 I wont spoil the story for you but through out the you meet maniacal characters who you interact 
 with. As well as a point and click there are also mini-games that you have to participate in to 
 progress through the story such as escaping from a vicious Biker Gang who uncannily resemble character's 
 from Star Wars and while riding through the desolate high way's occasionally you will stumble into 
 a Biker in which you will have to kill by using the arrow keys and mouse, similar to Road Rash.
 
  
  Overall this is my favorite adventure published by Lucas Arts, This game is a must for anyone interested 
 in a unique story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gosova
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  full throttle has a nice memories on its time .and still amazing game.
  so go play full throttle you will love the game very much . nice graphics, nice story , tough bikers 
 , you will like ben very much.
  
  some people were waiting full throttle 2 from 1995. and when lucasarts said they will release it 
 in 2003, they didn't release it they canceled the game :) it was a shock for all full throttle 
 fans. play full throttle you will be one of the fans directly. its worth buying the game. well 
 i hope lucasarts will think of the game again.
  
  the game is comedy also, you will like the characters and their voices roy conrad (the voice of 
 ben) did the best voice acting. and you wont a find a voice better than roy's voice.
  
  voice acting 10/10
  game style 10/10
  game story 10/10
  game ending 10/10 
  
  you wont 
 find better than that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elosolipa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  If you think about adventure games, the first think that comes to mind is FULL THROTTLE. Why? Cause 
 it was the AG icon of the 90's and the biggest success of Lucas Arts excluding Star Wars and Monkey 
 Island games. It has all you can wait for this genre. A very good plot, a lot of things to resolve 
 until going to the next maps, a normal difficulty (not excessive I mean) and most of all, an OST. 
 I think it was one of the first games to have one. It has really good graphics too if you keep 
 in mind that age's games style. One of it's better points is that you can learn about all character's 
 history and feel some empathy with their personalities. All the time you could find a lot of funny 
 situations and it never makes you going one side of the map to another without a purpose. Most 
 of all acquire sympathy to this genre due this. With a relative large playing time it keeps you 
 sticked to the screen for hours and you would play it again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateoPotato94
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Full Throttle: Awsome adventure story about a biker, Ben, and his quest to get his life back! he 
 fights guys on others motorcycles!!! He punches guys!!!! HE EVEN GETS LIT ON  
 yes fire. this is all in full throttle... you'll have to get it..... it's got the best graphic for 
 any game back in it's day! it's funny and action packed with a sweet story line!! They almost made 
 a second but canceled it sadly do to oh! we don't think the players will think it will have fullfilled 
 their needs/wants of a sequel!!!! I personally doubt that... anything would be good for the best 
 motorcycle based game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Full throttle, what can I say about the game? Yet another prized jewel from the good old day of 
 DOS graphical adventures. You're ben, a motorcycle man who ends up getting involved with some rather 
 snake-like characters, but I can't really divulge too much of the story without giving everything 
 away.
  
  Put simply, the gameplay is unique and enjoyable, unlike any other adventure game out there. An 
 underappreciated jewel from the past, it has brilliant voice acting, plenty of comedy, and plenty 
 of kickin butt.
  
  It's a short game but well, well worth it. Gamespot has a movie version of it if you can't find 
 a copy. I highly reccomend this little baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashaf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  They stop doing this genre of gaming long ago, don`t know why lucasarts stop doing games, but they 
 surely should bring it back! Full Throttle is no doubt one of the best of it`s dead genre, but 
 just because it`s old doesn`t mean you shouldn`t play it. There will probably be some problem if 
 you try to run it directly from it's original search, must use something like scumm or a DOS virtual 
 machine like DOS-BOX, but once you got rid of the problems it's all fun down the road. The graphics 
 are still up to date, since it's a cartoonish like game, looks good and fun to watch.
  The best of all, ANY, and I mean ANY of todays computers can run Full Throttle, don't bother about 
 game specs or anything like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  I discovered this game 10 years after it was originally released in 1995. By that time in 2005, 
 I was used to the Lucasarts adventure game interfaceand I was expecting this game to be something 
 like Monkey Island on the wheels. But each time I played a Lucasarts classic, each time that immensely 
 surprised me. Full Throttle is no exception.
  As usual Lucasarts did a fantastic graphics jobdespite it was made to be played in DOS mode. It 
 goes to show that the art direction of all these adventure games were really excellent.
  This game combines action, suspense, thrill, humour and even a bit of a love affair. Given this 
 ingredients, it could easily be translated into a movie.
  The desert setting where our Harley Davidson riding wayward hero Ben starts to play the game sets 
 the mood of this game from the beginning. All the characters of this game are as awkward as they 
 can be, which goes perfectly well with the desert setting. The puzzles are generally not very tough, 
 but some of them claim quite some time to figure out.
  The voice acting of Ben is excellent and the dialogues are very funny. As Ben you are expected 
 to beat criminal bikers, steal gasoline to run your bike and sneak into Harleys bike manufacturing 
 factory. The game itself is not very longbut its after-effect feeling remains fresh for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I remeber playing this game when I was a kid and not knowing what to do. Now that I am 
 older, wiser and smarter, I played though it a many ,many times. The story is set at some unspecified 
 point in the future. Most cars are hovercrafts, trucks are heavily armed for protection from outlaw 
 biker gangs and there's one last remaining American motorcycle manufacturer, Corley Motors. You 
 are this guy named Ben and you have to save your motorcyle company. At the begining of the game 
 there is a long introductory sequence with Ripburger is just explaining how he'd like to hire a 
 biker gang to come to the upcoming Corley Motors shareholder meeting - to demonstrate how the company 
 is close to its customers . The another gang shows up and beats him up. So what to do now? well 
 you go out there and take revenge. For the Puzzles in the game I found them to be easy or of medium 
 difficulty. So I was done in under ten hours. There are many dangerous situations Ben can get into, 
 he will never die. He's amazingly tough really - if he loses a bike fight, he just gets up, starts 
 his bike and goes on as if nothing had ever happened. Not even scratched or bruised. There are 
 also several timed sequences, especially near the end. If Ben doesn't manage to do what he has 
 to do in time, he'll die (usually in a big explosion) and the scene will start over. Graphics: 
 The Graphics are very good at the time. They are even nice to look at today. They are almost T. V 
 quality esspcially during the cut scenes. Sound: The sound and soundtrack is not bad either. The 
 voice acting is well done and the the sound effects are well done too. The only thing is that the 
 sound track is pretty streotypical with the whole biker gang thing.
  
  Value: The replay value of this game is quite good. You can play this over and over again and not 
 get board of it. Well thats what I found anyways.
  
  All in all this is a very good adventure game wtih a little action put in to it. It's definatly 
 a game worth buying and investing time in to. I would highly recommend this game to every gamer 
 and to every adventure gamer. I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: physicalos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Lucas arts has definitely made this their best game. Yes, out of all the 
 Star Wars games, and other adventure games, I think Full Throttle is the best. This game proves 
 that a well, constructed story can really help a game be more fun. The only problem is that it 
 is too short... but if it were longer, they would have to change the story or make it more drawn 
 out, which probably wouldn't work, because that game seems perfectly paced as it is.
  
  Length, however is not something that really matters so much with a game this good, because this 
 game will be with you probably for the rest of your life as an amazing memory. Okay, maybe that's 
 going too far, but it is an will always be an amazing memory for me.
  
  Above all, I sincerely believe that this is a game that will fully satisfy any adventure game fan.
 
  
  P. S.
  Please, Lucas Arts, I beg you... too make a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rand_nets
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Great, even fantastic game! And the story is absolutely beautiful! There is but one disappointment 
 - it's way too short, especially if you're replaying it. But the characters, the vast landscape 
 and the wheels of your motorcycle! Have you listened to the sound of this masterpiece? I've replayed 
 it just recently and I can't help but mention that it is still one of the best especially since 
 with today's polygons and 3D-eveything noone cares anymore for such detailed and beautiful animations.
 
  I've started dreaming about having a bike after finishing this game not mentioning that I was 
 dazed for days!
  Anyway, if there is still anyone alive who hasn't played this game, you'd better do it or you'll 
 miss the best adventure story from Lucas Arts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Lucas Arts had a lot of hit and misses when it comes to this type of game. This one was a definite 
 hit. The characters are very likeable. This is a true adventure game in every sense. A lot of thinking 
 involved not shoot first and let god sort them out kind of game. The puzzles are not too hard but 
 still difficult enough to keep you guessing what is next.
  Playing this game is like watching a full length feature cartoon. Too bad once your finished the 
 game it doesnt play from beginning to end as a movie. If you want to see how an adventure game 
 thats complete entertainment here is a game for you. You might just want to take a drive down 
 Historic Route 66 .If you think this is a shoot out with some acting then look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayvenwynd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Bikers, Motorcycles and exploding Bunnies! What more could you ask for. LucasArts amazes in this 
 innovative cartoon action game. You assume the role of Ben, a tough biker gang leader. The story 
 starts as the biker game just happens to pass (and ride over) the vehicle of owner of the last 
 motorcycle maker in the country, Malcolm Corley. The plot is that Corley Motors, second-in-command 
 is plotting a take over and will stop at nothing. He just needs a scapegoat. Enter the PoleCats. 
 
  The plot is a straight lined one, but fun nonetheless. You can pretty much know what's going on 
 in the story, but it's really the side things in the game that you should pay attention to. The 
 music, dialgue, the graphics are what make the game truly spectacular. You can talk to people several 
 times and get different responses. Plus, Luke Skywalker.... errr.... Mark Hamill is several voices 
 in the game. 
  I really enjoyed that game, and still play it from time to time. The only complaint I would have 
 to make is that you can complete the game in less them two hours. But, if you're on a time restrained 
 budget, then this isn't a problem. I play it to see what kinda extras are in it. The biker haiku 
 section rules. But, you have to finish the game to see that. Incentive enough. LucasArts makers 
 are really messed up in that section.
  
  (scores are either rounded up or down depending how high the score. I. E. 8.5 will equal 9, 8.25 
 will equal 8)
  Gameplay: The point and click system is pretty easy to master, but some parts of the game there 
 are hidden placed that you have to point and guess. (8.25/10)
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing for the graphics cards of the time. I am biased at this though, 
 because I love cratoon graphics games. (10/10)
  Sound: The Gone Jackels did the music, and did an excellent job. The music mixes perfectly with 
 the game, and everything fits. Plus , Chitins, Whiskey and Skirt is possible the best video game 
 song EVER! (10/10)
  Value: Unfortunetly, the game is short, and once you beat it, there are no more suprises. It's 
 fun to walk around after beating to read signs, look at pictures, throw bunnies into truck fans, 
 and such, but there is only so much that can be done after the game has been beaten. (6.75/10)
 
  Reviewer's Tilt: I REALLY liked this game so my tilt is as high as I can get it. Generally, I 
 won't write a review that doesn't have a low tilt. (10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 14, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I remember for about 7 years I bought this game. It was awesome. The graphics were a bit dissapointing 
 since there were FPS at that time that had much better graphics. But the rest just pwned.
  
  The soundtrack is awesome because it ROCK! Great hits and fit really well into the game.
 
  
  The storyline is what makes you play this game. The storlyline is so addictive, that you really 
 want to keep playing, however, the game is very hard because theres alot of things you need to 
 do and alot of mysteries to solve which can cause you to get braindamage -lOl-
  
  For that time, I think it was one of the greatest games back then, I really loved that game. Just 
 wish they could make another episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twocars
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Where to begin? 
  
  Back in the good old days, 1995 to be precise, Lucasarts were the kings of adventure-gaming. The 
 Monkey Island series, Day of the Tentacle, Sam and Max etc were all great proof as to why they 
 had attained this position. 
  
  Yet, in 1995 they reached their pinnacle as a developer of point and click adventure games, and 
 raised the bar once again.
  
  Full Throttle.
  
  Long before McG named his sequel to Charlie's Angels, these two words combined, represented the 
 most intriguing gameplay experience I had ever had. Many people today speak of some games as "interactive 
 movies" and ask us to look into the future. I say, look back. There are some gems there.
  Full Throttle is one of them. The story is as engaging as could be. 
  
  You are Ben. Leader 
 of the coolest motorcycle-gang in history. The Polecats. One day, while out cruising with your 
 crew, you happen to run over a limo and everything suddenly changes. Being asked to escort a couple 
 of execs to a share-holders meeting, you politely decline and get knocked down with a 2-by-4. They 
 set up your crew, destroy your bike, frame you for murder, all in the good spirit of profit. Yet 
 they forgot one thing:
  
  You are Ben, leader of the Polecats!
  
  So what makes this so great? By the sound of it, it could be a really cheesy B-movie. Think about 
 it, what is Star Wars (which I love) ? It's a B-movie, yet has a lot of good qualities. So many, 
 in fact, that you can forgive some of the less impressive aspects. The same can be said about Full 
 Throttle. First of all, the game is fairly short. If you know exactly what to do, we speak less 
 than an hour of gameplay. Yet, you have one hell of a time while doing it. Looking back, the length 
 might be the only fault this game suffers from.
  
  The rest is insanely well done. The music. Composed by The Gone Jackals, and by the sound and lyrics, 
 made specifically for the game. This might be wrong, but in that case, what a coincidence! The 
 opening song, "Legacy", is classic! 
  
  The voice acting? Top notch! I honestly have to say that this game has the best acting I have heard 
 in a game so far. The only contenders are the MGS games. Other than that, there is just no competition. 
 
  
  Graphics. Now, I am not going to try to convince you that the visuals are all that, especially 
 by todays' standards. Yet, 11 years ago, when I was released, I was the king of the hill. You know 
 what, it still looks good, its age taken into consideration. 
  
  Gameplay. Point-and-click. Easy to understand, easy to play. The interface is well done, and in 
 the same spirit as the rest of the game. The puzzles are just right, often what you would expect, 
 had this been reality. Steering your bike with the mouse, while bashing away at a member of one 
 of the other gangs, is pure gaming bliss!
  
  Conclusion:
  
  A classic! If you are into adventure games, you owe it to yourself to play Full Throttle. If you 
 have played it before, play it again. You might have forgotten how great it actually is. This is 
 the only game I replay at least once a year!
  
  Score: 
  
  9.6 of 10
  
  CCH
  
  PS. For all you Star Wars fans out there, Mark Hamill is in this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  FULL THROTTLE (1995) 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 7/7
  Fun Element: 7/7
  Camera: 7/7
  Traditionality: 7/7
 
  Atmosphere: 7/7
  MPAA Rating: 6/7
  Plot: 7/7
  Music: 7/7
  Originality: 7/7
  Likeability: 7/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 9.6/10
  
  Genre: Classic PC Point-And-Click 
 Motorbike Action Adventure
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every year
  
  + : amazingly original and deeply moral story, funny 
 jokes and characters, legendary memorable characters, the ultimate classic arm/foot/mouth/eyes 
 point-and-click controller, logical and smart puzzles, you can ride the motorbike, awesome 2D graphics 
 for year 1995, fully audible with great cast including Mark Hamill, amazing music background, breathtaking 
 atmosphere
  
  - : a bit too short, you need ScummVM to play it under Windows XP
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsierfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This review just need three words: GO BUY IT! I mean, only if you don't have it. This is a Lucas 
 Arts adventure, so look no further. But wait, it's a Tim Schafter's adventure game published by 
 Lucas Arts.
  This game recreated the whole adventure concept and gave us something that we'll never forget. 
 So just stand up and find someone who has the game and underappreciate it, than buy it from him.
 
  And if you've never played that game, and can't find it, I hope someone have mercy on your soul.
 
  If that isn't the thing for you, just remember that the age of adventures has come and gone, enjoy 
 while you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  Why can't adventure games be like this? Why can't more adventure games figure out how to make puzzles 
 interesting or even plausible and related to the plot?
  
  Full Throttle (FT) is probably one of the last adventure games I have played before the PC became 
 dominated with me-too Doom clones. As adventure games stepped in the 3D world, it started to work 
 less and the stories and characters were no longer enjoyable. Aside from The Longest Journey, FT 
 is a great adventure game that turns out to be a great ride - something you don't hear often about 
 adventure games. Most adventure games are slow with alot of walking and pointing at objects. FT 
 does away with the so-called adventure taboos that most designers talk about by taking the action-oriented 
 route in storytelling. In some cases, the story is hilarious and the characters become favorites 
 in a short time. While games like Kings Quest and Leisure Suit Larry are adventure games that concentrate 
 on exploration and scenery, FT says "screw this" and just puts you right in the thick of a gang 
 vs. gang war. It is probably one of the reasons why the game was so short yet so satisfying. FT 
 also takes away some of the nuances of adventure games' stupid deaths such as dying from touching 
 something. In FT, it just pulls out some hilarious animation sequences that you won't get from 
 other adventure games. The game plays like a movie and the more you play the more you get drawn 
 into the story. Ben, the main character, is a kick-ass bike rider that makes the whole game enjoyable 
 from beginning to end. The game has alot of eazy puzzles but the puzzles themselves are hilarious 
 and just too damn funny. 
  
  Full Throttle is one of the few animated adventure games I really enjoyed and if you look at my 
 collection, I really don't like too many adventure games. They're slow and hard to come back to. 
 Very few adventure games are ever added onto my strict collection of games but I believe that this 
 is one game you should find and add to your collection. It is short but it is very very entertaining. 
 It's a good game that's worth revisiting after a year or so. I just really wish the game was much 
 longer. Here's praying for Tim to do Full Throttle 2!
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Heavy metal soundtrack. Asphalt. Futurist motorbikes. Old school bikers.
  Big motorbike company which is about to become in something else.
  First time I played this game 
 was back in the 90s. I had more hair. I was the typical,  
 owner of a 350cc Yamaha. I would not back to those days anymore. But who can tell you now you were 
 taking bad decisions. Wind and asphalt were my mantra, my only religion.
  Well, if you know what I am talking about, all this things are included in this game. Very well 
 included. And it also tells a very good story.
  However, and here comes my confession about the only game by Tim Schafer which made feel sad about 
 the unplayability, this is not the usual graphic adventure ... or it is. But Day of the Tentacle, 
 the rest of Mr. Schafer's games get frustrating at some point. Well usually it happens once, you 
 go ahead and don' t remember those moments anymore. Full Throttle has got plenty of those moments. 
 When I say plenty I mean it. That stupid car crash contest was one of the most frustrating moments 
 I have witness in a game I liked. It sounds to me as because of this game was short they wanted 
 to give you something to be able to say that you are not able to finish it below 20 h.
  All this said just for the final part of the game, this game is worth finishing it. Asphalt and 
 trouble, ha, ha... Brrooooooooooooooommmmmmmm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  This was the first of these types of games I had played and what a way to start! Being introduced 
 to one of the best in the genre probably spoiled me though.
  
  The voice cast was top notch, not forgetting the indomitable presence of Mark Hamil playing the 
 main villain of the story, exhibiting his usual mastery of voice acting (which at the time was 
 rather surprising to me) . As a biker for a motorcycle enthusiast gang in the not to distant future, 
 you find yourself framed for the murder of one of the greatest motorcycle makers ever made and 
 you must try and uncover the true conspiracy behind it, leading you on an adventure filled with 
 humorous character, and futuristic intrigue driven by motorcycles and rough characters.
  
  The detail and style of the animation was very suitable for a mixture of old and futuristic, with 
 western style bars, bad ass bikers, and floating limos with no wheels.
  
  The interaction was what tied all this game together, allowing the user to really explore the universe 
 which the game took place and have some fun, although the game in the end, like most games of this 
 genre, was rather linear.
  
  The music was very suited to this game, and considering the company behind it, I would expect no 
 less.
  
  In the end I enjoyed this game immensely, and although I was disappointed to see Lucas Arts can 
 the sequel, it isn't the same Lucas Arts as it was back when this genre was all the rage, and neither 
 was the game, giving up the lush animated sprites for boring polygons. But maybe someday they'll 
 wise up and we'll see a real sequel to this masterful adventure story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feyregy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  One of the best games i have ever seen! Just following the game line, doing everything u have 2 
 do. and just image the world! its amazing! the puzzles are good, the bikes are nice! this game 
 is just one of the best games i have ever seen my whole life!! ohw my **** god, hm mm, still now 
 at a hundred words? strange lol, this is just a **** great game, u got to play this one! ohw my 
 god, i got too have 100 words, lol! one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. 
 lol, lol, hundred!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aletof2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  1995 and Full Throttlecomes to us, envolving game play, excellent graphics for the time it was 
 built. The story is just excellent, featuring lots of characters, weapons and c hallenges throughout 
 the game. The game is just excellent; unbelievable that those guys at Lucasarts could do this kind 
 of game 10 years ago. Unfortunatedly yhe game is really easy, making the player finish the game 
 in about 45 min. Well, those 45 min of course can be achieved after passing the game about 20 times 
 and skipping the videos, but the first time you play it is a challenge.
  
  BUY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sven55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Adventure games have traditionally been cumbersome to play, forcing the gamer to make 
 all of his/her moves using a slow and tacky command interface on the bottom portion of the screen. 
 Full Throttle cleans it all up with a simple, unobtrusive, four-command interface - either a graphic 
 pops up when you click an object that lets you choose what to do, or you can just highlight the 
 object and hit the corresponding command key. Simple.
  
  Graphics: Very stylized; almost like a comic book. Animations aren't extremely smooth (nor is the 
 framerate) , but the art is fantastic.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is PHENOMENAL, even for small-time supporting characters. Soundtrack provided 
 by the Gone Jackals is fairly nice to hear.
  
  Value: If you play Full Throttle straight through, no nonsense, it's a pretty short game. But you 
 won't want to play it that way. The game is so outstadningly well-written you'll want to thoroughly 
 explore every area, say every possible line to each character, triggler every cutscene, and treasure 
 every joke (and there are A LOT of them) thrown in just for the sake of making gamers laugh.
  
  Tilt: As with every Tim Schaefer game, the real joy of the adventure is the story, the humor, 
 the characters - in summary, the outstanding quality of the writing, something most of the sexy, 
 big-budget new titles lack. YOU WILL LAUGH constantly playing this game, which alone makes the 
 game well worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Full Throttle what can I say except it is the ultimate in Adventure gaming. The story is awesome, 
 the puzzles are hard, but doable, and the voice acting is awesome. It has humor, suspense, drama, 
 action, and everything else a good adventure game should have. The story was a nice change from 
 all the knight and shining armor adventure games. The rought and gritty characters are well developed 
 and the cartoon graphics really fit into the feel of the game quite nicely. The only thing that 
 i would change to the game is make it longer. It is a short game, you can easily beat it in a day 
 or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuruXia
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  Ok Full Throttle, where to start?
  
  Lets get this across, Full Throttle is a Lucasarts adventure similar to Day of the Tentacle, Sam 
 and Max, or Grim Fandango. There is very little 'action' but it actually requires you to think 
 (wow what a concept!) .
  
  Puzzles are plentiful, and may take a little while to beat, but are very rewarding; Aren't TOO 
 difficult, as to thwart you from playing onward, but hard enough to make you want to complete the 
 next one.
  
  Now being that this game is a MORE than a few years old (yes im exaggerating MORE) , the graphics 
 are obviously dated, but are holding their ground quite well against the test of time. The animation 
 is very smooth, and the art and backgrounds are both extremely nice.
  
  The sound department deserves MAJOR props for Full Throttle. The voice acting is terrific, the 
 soundtrack is rockin', and the sound effects are accurate and crisp.
  
  The storyline is Top-Notch (involving bikers, industry, murder, betrayal, and greed, *ooh fun!*) , 
 and the setting is very Tough-Biker style. Expect to be talking to a lot of scumbags, grease monkeys, 
 and bartenders (woo hoo!) . Many fully animated cutscenes will keep you 105% interested in the story 
 at all times.
  
  BUT! To top the whole package, the game is downright hilarious. TONS of one liners are thrown in 
 everywhere, and there will be a few memorable moments you will probably never forget (Box of Bunnies. 
 . .) .
  
  All in all, this is an extremely under-appreciated classic that you should definitely play, and 
 hey! Its 10 years old, so being that its probably about $3 on ebay, you have no excuse not to go 
 out and buy it right now. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 4, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Full Throttle is perhaps one of the best thinking games ever created. Lucas Arts did very well, 
 and I think this game became revolutionary for Puzzle/Thinking games. The storyline is unique in 
 a way that it didn't get any of its ideas from another game. Every cutscenes is full of exploding 
 action and intensity.
  
  Gameplay- You can move around, look, kick, punch, or talk in any area you are in. You have to really 
 think to get past certain areas and to obtain valuable items.
  
  Graphics- Very good, very artistic. The graphics does not get in the way of the game; in fact, 
 its what makes this game so awesome!
  
  Sound- The sound of choppers and harleys starting their engines is amazing. The sound effects and 
 music is perfect. The music is so awesome it will make you piss in your pants.
  
  Value- This is the worst part of the game because once you beat it, there really is no point in 
 playing it again because there aren't any more difficulty levels. You can play the game again to 
 find out more funny and interesting stuff throughout the game, but that's pretty much it.
  
  If you like adventure/thinking games, this one will blow you away. The difficulty is equivalent 
 to Shadows of Darkness or Dr. Brain, but its a little easier than Quest 64. I know this game is 
 old, but you definitely need to play this game no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2004 4:00 am PT
Review:  Stylish, involving, powerful, addictive, and cool are the best adjectives to describe Full Throttle. 
 You play Ben, the badarse biker leader of the PoleCats, a biker gang, though as nails. Imagine 
 a redneck world full of color and great animated, varied characters of all sorts, and your main 
 character being the best of them all. LucasArts at its best. A classic like no other. You will 
 almost feel your chopper's tires burning asphalt as you cruise through this handrawn, nostalgic 
 and great title. The only flaw is that it's too sweet, too short. Otherwise, this is as good as 
 handrawn GAdventures can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlameKiller316
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2004 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The is a great Lucas Arts point and click game. Or you can call it a RPG. If u like adventure/RPG 
 games, then you will probably like this game. The Graphics in this game are Great. Looks like a 
 movie kind of. The cutscenes and cinematics are Excellent 2. The sounds in this game are pretty 
 good, but they could be a little better. The music -- I really don't like this kind of music, it 
 sounds like country music and fade music. That's the kind of music I don't like. The Game Play 
 is Fantastic. You can decide 2 Talk or lick things, looks at things, grab or pull things, or you 
 can kick things. I would consider this game as a RPG, so this is 1 of my favorite PC games. The 
 good things I like about this game -- I love the graphics and cutscenes, The bad things -- I don't 
 like the music and I think the sounds could be a little better, and this game gets so hard at times! 
 I highly recommend this game 2 people who luv Adventure/RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 21, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I know what you're all thinking... "Come on, a game about biker gangs?" While it may seem like 
 bizarre subject matter, Lucas Arts showed us once again why they are the undisputed masters of 
 the graphic adventure. Great characters, environments, and a hero that just wouldn't quite are 
 just some of the great elements of this game.
  
  Full Throttle starts off with a bang, specifically your front tire bouncing off the hood of some 
 corporate stiff's limo :D In the ensuing minutes, you'll be introduced to the game's hero (The 
 gravelly voiced, tough talking Ben) , and the scum sucking villain behind the game's sinister plot 
 (the perfectly imaged Adrian Ripburger) . The polish and pacing that really drop you into the driver's 
 seat (no pun intended) stay throughout the game. FT is never boring.
  
  Gameplay wise, FT has a lot of standard adventure fare. The game's simple mouse driven interface 
 is easy to deal with, and there are a lot of great puzzles, fights, and traps to navigate through. 
 While nothing is ground breaking here, it's all really, really well done. The evil "Pixel Hunt" 
 that plagued so many of these types of games is blessedly absent, and all of the puzzles actually 
 make sense. Gas tank empty? Looks like you need to siphon some gas. Need nightvision? Knock out 
 the guy wearing it. Wind up bunnies? lol, I can't tell you on that one...
  
  Graphically speaking, Full Throttle looks good. The animation style is perfect for the gritty environment 
 of the game. Bikers look tough, Ben looks even tougher, and the villains look appropriately dumb/evil 
 at times. The game takes place in a near/alternate futre where clearly some kind of economic ruin 
 is present. Cops have hover cars, bikes have wheels, and the best way to kick ass is with your 
 hands. The American West/Midwest of this future is dingy, weathered, and looks great. Special credit 
 really goes to the camera work/direction of the game. There are some really great dramatic close 
 ups of the action that suck you right in.
  
  Sound, so awful in so many games, is simply awesome. The voice acting is absolutely fantastic, 
 and Ben's voice is tough enough to hammer nails in with. The soundtrack, successful enough to be 
 sold seperately by Lucas Arts, is the kind of blue collar rock one would expect to find in the 
 company of a biker gang.
  
  Replay really isn't that hot, as with most graphic adventures, but the game is funny enough to 
 deserve another play every now and then...
  
  ... which brings me to the next important point. Full Throttle is fun!! The game is well written, 
 has awesome pacing, puzzles that are fun to figure out, and enough humorous moments to keep it 
 light. Ben is one of the most kick ass characters ever to grace gaming, and is a great hero. 
 
  
  Full Throttle will keep any adventure game fan happy, and is a great introduction to the genre 
 for the novice. Despite it's age, I'd reccomend this without hesitation to practically anyone based 
 on it's unique style and overall fun factor. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
