-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fury
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/fury/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Elemental charge mechanic is interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Chaotic action is too fast for its own good.
 Only three arena modes.
 Bloated selection of redundant skills.
 Terrible game performance and frequent lag.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 4.3, 423 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gamecock Media Group
Developer: Auran
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Oct 16, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
True to its title, this fantasy action game will make you furious. 

  Fury is what Guild Wars would be like if it got fat and addicted to amphetamines. On one hand, 
 it's got a chaotic action element that is so fast-paced you feel out of control. On the other, 
 it's got a bloated selection of spells and skills -- some useful, some imbalanced, some pointless. 
 Add an awkward interface, a myriad of technical issues, and a glorified game lobby masquerading 
 as a fantasy world, and you've got an online fiasco without much of a future.  

           Text. It's what makes action games awesome.      

  Fury pretends to be a massively 
 multiplayer role-playing game, a disguise it pulls off pretty well when you first start playing. 
 You choose some physical characteristics for your avatar while listening to some nonsensical weirdness 
 regarding "The Fade" (for the right effect, deepen your voice and say it melodramatically) . After 
 a useless tutorial gives you some basic clues on how the game functions, you choose one of eight 
 archetypes and are thrust into a confusing gameworld that initially looks like any other MMO. In 
 actuality, the "world" is a single, swollen game lobby where you spend your time shopping for equipment 
 and purchasing abilities before heading into a player-versus-player arena.  

  The first problem? There are only three basic ways to experience the action. Bloodbath mode is 
 typical deathmatch; elimination pits two teams of four players against each other in a best-of-three 
 team deathmatch; and vortex is like capture the flag, only there are multiple flags (or crystals, 
 in this case) . To play, you can either group up in advance or join a queue on your own. Either 
 way, you'll have to wait for the game to match you or your group up with other players. If you're 
 playing vortex or elimination, you will usually need to wait only a few minutes. Bloodbath, on 
 the other hand, has so few players that as of this writing, there is only a single match held every 
 hour. And when you do manage to get into a match, you're usually facing the same group of people, 
 many of whom will team up and work together to slaughter unsuspecting newcomers.  

  You can equip up to 24 different skills before heading into battle. It's an insane number of powers 
 to handle at one time in the breakneck arenas, and proof that more is not better (more to come 
 on this subject) . Combine all the spell-juggling with superfast movement and zippy spell-recharge 
 times, and you get an absolute mess. Battles are complete anarchy, with players scurrying around 
 like Speedy Gonzales and casting a flurry of spells. It's apparently supposed to be fun, but it's 
 simply too much. Fast pacing is one thing; movement speed so rapid you can't keep track of what's 
 going on is something else entirely.  

  To make matters worse, targeting a player means you will automatically face him or her as you run 
 around clicking your mouse or hitting your hotkeys like a maniac. Many of the arenas are fairly 
 cluttered, so the automated target facing might get you stuck against walls, or at the very least 
 cause you to lose your bearings. Now, imagine doing all of this when your screen is constantly 
 muddled with immovable interface elements, big spell-description windows that open arbitrarily 
 when you cast, and combat text flying everywhere. It's a disaster. Of course, you can turn off 
 combat text, but it's everything or nothing, so if you want to see just your own results without 
 dealing with the fluttering text of everyone else's combat results, you are out of luck.  

  In Fury's defense, there's a great idea behind the way skills are used. Your spells either generate 
 or use elemental charges, rather than the typical mana you see in most fantasy games. In order 
 to use your more powerful spells, which use charges, you must cast the ones that generate charges 
 first. For example, if you want to cast wild impact, which uses four nature charges, you must first 
 cast a weaker spell like defender's dart, which generates two nature charges each time it's cast. 
 It's a neat scheme, but it's completely wasted on Fury's bizarre combat model, which gives you 
 no time or inclination to enjoy its intricacies.  

  As if to make up for the chintzy number of gameplay modes, the game overloads you with what seems 
 like a zillion different skills, separated by class, element, and school. You aren't limited to 
 spells of your own archetype; in fact, by spending the essence you earn during battle, you can 
 earn spells in pretty much any discipline. You can also save various character builds and switch 
 between them easily, so if you want to be a healer in one battle and switch to a tank in the next, 
 you can.  

  This is where the bloat comes in. Fury has so many skills that many of them seem obsolete. A lot 
 of skills have almost the same effects as other ones, with minor variations (slightly more damage, 
 slightly lower chance to hit, and so on) . Furthermore, you earn them by taking on trials, which 
 amount to nothing more than a progressive list of abilities you purchase with the essence you earn 
 in battle. Why do the trials in a single school have to be scattered among dozens of NPCs? Why 
 does there need to be a whole instanced area for them? It certainly doesn't help that the loading 
 time to get to that area is so long that not only do you have time to make a sandwich, you actually 
 have time to bake the bread you make it with.  

           Even more text = even more awesome.      

  That's just one of many examples of Fury's 
 technical problems. It's based on the Unreal 3 engine, but considering several gorgeous games (BioShock, 
 anyone? Gears of War?) have been based on that engine, it's surprising that Fury doesn't look that 
 great. And it runs terribly, even on a system capable of running other modern games without a hitch. 
 On several test PCs, the game could not maintain a stable frame rate, even with most visual effects 
 at minimum settings. Online lag caused even more issues. Often, we would enter an arena only to 
 find we had already died, since our character somehow managed to make it in before we could actually 
 view the battle. Other times, the lag was so bad we couldn't tell if other players were casting 
 teleporting spells on us. Other problems include unresponsive NPC vendors, occasional desktop crashes, 
 and frequent game server downtimes. There were also major problems with the sound, though a recent 
 patch did seem to clear up some of the issues we initially had with dropped sound effects. Bugs 
 can't explain away the dinky spell noises, however, or the terrible voice acting you have to deal 
 with during your first few hours with the game.  

  We could go on. We could tell you about the terrible inventory window that doesn't let you sort 
 items or easily compare them. We could tell you about the questionable subscription model that 
 rewards people who pay a monthly fee with more battle loot, the ability to sell items via in-game 
 auction, in-game voice chat privileges, and free gold. Who needs a gold farmer when the developer 
 offers its own gold-selling service? Suffice it to say, Fury is aimed at a hardcore community that's 
 been playing since the game's beta stages and isn't likely to grow. If you're not one of them, 
 you'd best keep this one at arm's length.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hayner225
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:37 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game. I was lookig for one really good MMORPG thaty I didn't have to 
 pay for like World of Warcraft and I found Fury. I installed and it says I can pay to get more 
 features. That's just rediculous. I tried to play the game and there are no levels just different 
 weapons. I have seen better free MMORPG's. Instant Messager is a better game than that and it is 
 only a chat room! When I got the game there was a huge number of players on so I thought I would 
 give the game a try. I took one step. 2 minutes later and still nothing is happening. Then finally 
 I can take another step. It would take 24 hours to make 10 steps. The game isn't worth a cent. 
 Don't you just hate it when the game says, pay for more benefits? because that's just how the game 
 is. Otherwise you won't have a good time. You pay and then what? $30 on a game that's worth what 
 again? That's right. $0.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abedeuss
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  I've played Fury since second closed beta. It was pretty good after first two hours, but my pc 
 was too slow for a better gameplay.
  
  Then I noticed that game won't be free. That is, you can play for free, but you are really inferior 
 to people paying for the game. But from beginning...
  
  First thing you'll notice is.. lag. Very, very laggy. It doesn't matter if your computer meets 
 requirements or it's high-end. You WILL lag like hell. Why? Graphics are hideous. I can give at 
 least 10 games with better textures that don't lag so much. Bah, they are 2-3 years old, as opposed 
 to Fury.
  
  During beta's I noticed one thing - a lot of useless spells and skills. You can try to use combos, 
 but mashing 2-3 buttons all the time makes more sense. Game is pretty fast, but you have to care 
 only about facing the direction of your opponent (s) .
  
  Second - waiting time is really big. Then, when you join and you are new to game/don't pay monthly 
 fee (meaning you have inferior equipment) , you'll notice everyone kills you after 2-3 seconds (not 
 counting lagging around place) . The best chance for you to attack someone is waiting when 2-3 people 
 fight with each other and you try to attack them from behind. Otherwise, wait for one person to 
 survive and finish him off.
  
  Another bad thing - healers have VERY hard time playing. Actually anything can outdamage your heal 
 in few hits, so it's no point in healing yourself or other people.
  
  The damage and charges system is pretty creative, but it just supports mindless spamming of skills. 
 Spam few times a fireball to cast better fireball, start spamming again, cast better fireball and 
 so on.
  
  Nothing to say about sound - effects maybe are nice, but nothing like Guild Wars or Neverwinter 
 Nights music. You'll probably end up listening to your playlist in background, but then prepare 
 for massive FPS drop...
  
  Oh, and don't think there is any thinking in this game. Just get better equip, kill people to get 
 better equip, use better equip to kill people faster, kill faster to get better equip. Rinse and 
 repeat.
  
  If you enjoy being slaughtered and then, after a week of two of game, slaughtering people, mindless 
 spamming and lagging yourself to death (or you have an uber PC) , play this game, why not. Just 
 treat it as a free-to-pay game, and even then it's pretty weak.
  
  Oh, and game weights a lot for crappy graphics. Why? I think that creators would be better off 
 buying Unreal Engine and using it to make prettier, smoother and lighter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veger77503
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Well I started in Beta with the rest of you players . It was fun to fight players your level and 
 earn skills. Then the problems started players learned the engine and so many players learned Faster 
 connections rocked. Also macros worked. This was a grimm day. Instead of Balance they created Chaos. 
 Next came the Armor/Weapons/Items. The truth is most player want to play something they feel is 
 fun to play and Wear what looks good and wield what intimidates. My best set of armor looked god 
 aweful so I never wore it. Also instead of making Armor or Weapon where you pick design then have 
 craft it hoping for a Killer Item they cheesed that up also. Over all great concept poorly done. 
 I could see this being sold and modified and make tones of money if they 1 pay attention to the 
 fikle consumer. 2 understand you have to have PvE in a PvP game (Even if colosum events like Roman 
 days) I played it in Beta it was great after their refactioning of the Armor / Weapons see ya. 
 No More money from I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xequtra
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  With the height of the astronomical peak being set by a game known as WoW, or World of Warcraft, 
 an Australian company known for their Trainz series attempts to break apart the lead of the WoW 
 factor.
  
  Fury is an MMO PvP where players choose to specialise in Earth, Water, Air or Fire elements and 
 whether they are ranged or CQC fighters, not forgetting the choice of whether they can be a male 
 or female character, giving a total of 16 possible combinations, but what this lacks is the ability 
 to have a unique look. Fun were where games allow you to look off-putting yet very identifiable 
 in public without having a big fat sign on the top of your head telling everyone who you are.
 
  
  Buttons quickly resemble as a MMORPG array but is much as a faster pace than your hunting parties 
 as like any other MMORPGs, but the only hunting in the game which players may engage in is the 
 four different types of PvP modes, Stanley knifing exploring down to the bare essentials in exploring. 
 Great for those who hates impossible missions where the grind can last to over half a day only 
 to discover that it would of just taken just an hour if it was done another way, but that's the 
 whole fun of a game and the satisfaction that you've been pwnd by the game and illogical thinking 
 than constantly being slaughtered by someone who's all mighty god within the game.
  
  The tutorial system within the game is an absolute slaughter to those who are new to the game style, 
 those with a good background in MMORPGs may be able to pick up this game fairly quickly. For the 
 new players, understanding this game is as reading another language and getting what in the jibberish 
 it is talking about, so unfortunately, it may take over half a day to understand how some things 
 work, also forgetting how to teach players to do stuff like... communicating to one another, that's 
 how stupid it really is, not even a Communication to Other Players Tutorial 101 within the tutorial. 
 The only help players may get with the game is via the instruction manual, but that is still very 
 unhelpful as it feels like it is worded in another language, as via How to Play the Damn Game 101. 
 More disturbingly, new players to the game are matched with outside of tutorial players, not allowing 
 an equal and fair chance of tasting victory to the new players.
  
  The four types of PvP within Fury includes Deathmatch, Bloodbath and Carnage.
  In Deathmatch, 
 players are given the choice of 1v1 or team v team (max of 4 players) deathmatches have one side 
 against other and it is a fight to the death with the last side left standing to be announced the 
 winner. It is fun to some respects, but this mode is greatly imbalanced if there is a novice player 
 going up against the king of deathmatches, greatly upsetting both players in the respect of balance, 
 challenge and understanding of the game.
  Bloodbath is a Free for All fight with the player with the most points at the end of the timelimit 
 being declared the winner, but this is greatly imbalanced by what type of account the players are 
 playing with due to maximum hit points given to the different type of accounts, free accounts given 
 about 2000HP and bought accounts given 5000HP, giving near to no chance of victory to free accounts.
 
  Finally, Carnage is whereby characters kill the NPCs running within the arena, collecting as many 
 tokens as possible and taking them back to the capture point before someone kills you, resulting 
 in the loss of all of those collected tokens. The team with the most collected tokens at the end 
 of the time limit is declared the winner, though there is a massive problem with players not knowing 
 which side they are suppose to return at the end of a hunt and running for their lives.
  
  Players are given eight sets of armour and weaponry at the start of the game, allowing for a change 
 in class or ability half-way through playing the game, but upon selecting some of the purchasable 
 abilities for the classes, such as the a ranged fire class character, it does not create a warm 
 and fuzzy feeling inside to defect to another class due to the amount of time and effort dealt 
 just to get to a good level. To some players, wishing to having try out another character only 
 to have realised after selling off a lot of their armour and weaponry for that class, the momentary 
 sign of "I just screwed myself over beyond sideways" would undoubtedly just pop up for money greedy 
 people.
  
  There is suppose to be a narrative within the game, as explained in the opening, but this is quickly 
 washed out due to the amount of text within the game and no exactly understanding the need to know 
 about the story, with the narrative gone and quite pointless past the tutorial with quick two-liners 
 to try and cosmetically fill in the narrative, even though it never did actually exist in the first 
 place, almost thanking the illiterate and/or lazy people for skipping past the story.
  
  Especially designed for the lazier people, players are given the choice to purchase all the skills 
 in a certain class using real world cash value, but this greatly defeats the purpose of learning 
 about the game and destroys some of the fun in the grind, though the ability to purchase an account 
 to gain an advantage over other players is possible.
  
  With a virus status being labelled on the game by the company that made the game due to the massive 
 grave it dug for the developer, unfortunately, this game will not topple over the WoW factor, as 
 the only WOW about the game is how much of a grave it dug for the developers. Sorry, but it isn't 
 worth any effort playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Jackman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Fury is a really diffrent game. The tutorial in the beginning isn't that big and you have to explore 
 a lot. I don't think they did good on this but if you find out everything, you got an awesome game. 
 
  
  I don't understand why Gamespot gave this game a 4.5. It's terribly low for this game. Let's review 
 the Gamespot review:
  * Chaotic action is too fast for its own good 
  - If you don't like chaos leave it but this game is about keeping your head cool in the heat of 
 combat. Play Unreal Tournament for example, that's more chaotic!
  * Only three arena modes 
  - They already added one.
  * Bloated selection of redundant skills 
 
  - This is a tiny bit of truth, but there are tremendous loads of skills. I only use around 10% 
 of my skills, wich comes down at around 7 skills.
  * Terrible game performance and frequent lag.
  - In the beginning: Yes I had some lag but this 
 was due my ancient videocard. I tuned down the graphics a bit and now everything is fine.
  
  Fury is a great multiplayer and less hardcore then games such as World of Warcraft where you 
 need to have very good items to compete. Also in Fury you need good equipment but you get it a 
 lot faster.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZwOrb
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  the game has gone to alot of changes.... good changes
  1. you die less fast (it was needed :P)
  2. Its free or you can pay for it (but not monthly)
 
  3. WTF it looks good...
  4. what bad frames etc? update your drivers kthx?
  5. the chaos is good... have you ever seen a war without chaos....?
  6. there is a new gametype 
 carnage
  7. alot more folks are playing it now...
  8. the skills are balanced now
  
  and wtf is up with the whine about text in the damn review =/ ever seen an mmo without alot of 
 text jeez... seam like the reviewer got owned quite a few times b4 he wrote this and started to 
 blame everything else beside his noobness, yes the game is hard not all games can be easy =/
  
  Just download the game and see for yourself because the review by gamespot this time is based 
 on opinions not facts.... Now im off to play fury, hope to see you there soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  All i have to say is that the gamespot review for this is a load of crap. A lie. When they say 
 it has 'frequent lags' i think they mean there interent is slow. They should seriously get a faster 
 speed. I really pisses me off that whoever reviwed this game was doing to make it look bad. No, 
 this game is not as bad as they say. It is an averyage game. A 6.5 it deserves. 
  
  If you like fast killing and quick action, this game is a must buy for you. It is cheap at most 
 shops and provides free online play plus upgrades for people who want to take there online play 
 to the extreme. Although, unless you are addicted to this game, i dont advise you pay as the normal 
 online play is good enough and a fair deal. 
  
  The main problem with this game is that it has justt no tutorial, well the thing they call a tutorial 
 isnt really one. It shows how to attack, block mage and range. Nothing else. Its then up to you 
 to find out everything else for youself. Even i dont know everything yet.
  
  Buy it if you want, but dont listen to gamespot people talk crap about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkas2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Fury is a MMO game based on oriental combat and mysticism, where for every element there is (Fire, Water, Nature, and 
 Air) there are two archetype classes. The fire element is the dps archetype with the destroyer and 
 invoker classes. The water element is more of a combo of moderate melee and minor healing abilities. For 
 every element there is, there are two classes, one melee oriented and one spellcasting oriented. But, 
 there are archetypes but you can customize your avatar (character) to your liking. Say you want 
 to be a melee fighter with some healing abilities, complete the element's trials and you will be 
 able to purchase some basic abilities from that person. So, whoever you want to be, whether a melee 
 class, spell class, or a hybrid. Fury gives you that choice and still makes it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Well I really wanted to get this game. It looked to me from what I saw, so I decided I would go 
 and look at some reviews. To say at the least I was a bit shocked to see the low reviews it was 
 getting. I was then a little turned off on the idea of buying the game. However, against my better 
 judgement I bought the game anyway.
  I loaded it up, and at first I thought I had wasted my money. The game was weird for me at first. 
 I didn't like the class I picked. They were very weak and I just kept dying. I couldn't tell what 
 I was doing.
  I was about to turn it off and wish I hadn't wasted my money. However, against my better judgement 
 yet again I decided to keep going. 
  First good thing about this game. You can change your class whenever you want. So if you hate your 
 class then you can change it.
  I changed my class and loved my new class. I built them up and I got them to perfecting.
  Second 
 good thing about this game. You can fully customize your guy. No not looks customizable but fighting 
 customize. You can be a warrior and steal be able to heal unlike WoW. You can be focused on Fire 
 spells but still have ice spells and warrior attacks. It is great.
  Now the graphics do leave alot to be desired. The game is buggy at parts, but patches can fix it. 
 So far they have done a good job at it. There is a pretty solid community of players in the game, and 
 all of the fight types are fun. It is an overall enjoyable game. You just have to give it time. 
 And not pick the Oracle class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -owenG-
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Fury is a MMO Player vs. player combat focused game developed by Australian based studio, Auran. 
 The gameplay is rushed pointless and ugly. The art style is just plain boring and un-original like 
 a chinese cartoon aswell as the interface which looks like it was designed by pre-schoolers.. This 
 game makes me wonder if there even is a Quality Assurance department in Auran studios. Or a Design 
 department too. Seriously, why make an MMO when WoW is just going to dominate the market. Aparently 
 the spent a lot of money on this game but i dont know how, maybe the design of the box art which 
 is the only positive i can mention about Fury. This game compares to a pre-alpha stage tech demo 
 on the ps1. what a load of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evivrus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  this is a delightful change from other mmo's such as WoW or Guild wars as it is fully pvp and instead 
 of having to play 4 hours b4 u get to the fun part of playing with mates in PVP action u just delve 
 right in. little lag with a great set of mechanics and my favorite part is that there is a strong 
 element like in wow and guild wars of how u have to group to complete further in the game but you 
 done have to sit around 4 hours w8ing 4 other people who want to do the same instance and one u 
 finally have that group it has a high chance of just exploding with and overload of crap players 
 or just falling apart strait away. this its just strait in strait out and the best part you can 
 do something in like 5 mins rather than having to take hours to complete something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxman150
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  The game was made with the idea for pvping not as a mmorpg. Also no matter how much you have played 
 or not played you still have a chance to beat anyone so there is not much of a time requirement. 
 And the biggest plus its FREE TO PLAY! They are changing the makeup of the game as well with the 
 patches you get a free content update. so make your own judgement and try the game. Oh and I almost 
 forgot if you do want to get ahead in the game you can purchase items and abilities. as said before 
 please make your own judgement alot of people that are pissed at this game are ex-WOW players and 
 they were expecting a WOW type game, but that is not what the game creators intended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khraiven
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I enjoy most gamespot reviews, but clearly the reviewer had no respect for the type of game he 
 was reviewing. While the game certainly doesnt feel "mature" with its many flaws, the core of the 
 game does very good at what the designers set out to accomplish.
  
  WHAT THE GAME IS:
  
  You log in, you "queue" for battles, you fight (with friends/teams, or solo) in an extremely 
 fast-paced action environment with small goals, you get rewarded for successes in the form of equipment, 
 and you get ranked. You then repeat this. While it may seem repetitive, and in a sense it is, the 
 game is soley built for players to fight amongst one another in a fun environment. There is no 
 "grinding" or "pve" as with any other MMO (including GW, which has no place in this pure pvp market 
 segment) .
  
  
  APPEAL:
  
  No worries of time investment here. Unlike other MMOG's, you log in whenever you feel like it, 
 fight for however long (be in 30 mins or 5 hours) , and log out. This game is extremely casual friendly, 
 which most games dont have a hope of accomplishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeerixsan
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Well my experience with Fury has been nothing but complete and total frustration. It took four 
 installation attempts for it to properly install and update. After finally getting it on it worked 
 a few time and then stopped working due (was unable to interact with any NPC) . 
  
  The Fury tech support is even better. They made me so furious. Never had the same tech working 
 my ticket so I would end up being told the same thing over again or just some complete bs. Shortly 
 after my problem stated above the game went down for me for two weeks because it would not patch. 
 Finally works now, no thanks to the techs. Albeit it is now patching in full german. 
  
  Over all I feel like this was a complete waste of $50 and dealing with the lying SOB's at my local 
 Game Stop. Just wait on this one, maybe it will get better in the future. It was interesting to 
 play while it worked but my bad experiences with this game fully override any sense of joy from 
 this dust collector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birottemike
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  For a game that had so much hype one could wonder what exactly where they doing in the time in 
 between ads. The combat system is the most convoluted p. o. s. interface since ever. Its like trying 
 to play a fighting game on a ddr pad. 
  
  And seriously whats up with ALL The spells being rehash of other spells. Everyone who gives this 
 above a 6 hasn't played the game or is on pcp. There is constant lag, constant framerate issues, 
 and a lack of any kind of motivation to try and play this game. 
  
  For something thats supposed to be based on action you spend a HUGE amount of time trying to learn 
 how to play this p. o. s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Try as I might, I still cannot seem to log in when there are servers running. Every time I start 
 the game up, I create my character only to be sent to the server selection screen where ALL of 
 the servers are apparently down. I would like to give this game a fare review, but how can I when 
 it is not playable?
  
  My first impression of the voice acting (the stuff you see in the intro and when creating the character) 
 is that I felt like I was at a MacDonalds where when you just pull up to the order speaker you 
 are immediately rushed into ordering, "may I take your order? How may I help you? Are you going 
 to order?" The annoying narration as well as the robot sounding chick that pokes and prods you 
 to make selections makes it seem like they want to rush you through the character creation process, 
 "don't worry about how your character looks, you can change your looks at any time." "Please select 
 a realm......... please select a realm......... please select a realm......" 
  
  The graphics weren't that great either, however, I did not get to see the in-game graphics because 
 the servers are always down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackcat2000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Fury This game is every bit as bad as the reviewers say. Is it seriously buggy? Hell yes it is. 
 Is it a glorified lobby masquerading as a game world? Yep. However, the reviewers have not given 
 Fury the time of day and have brushed over the real strengths of this game. This game gives what 
 other MMOs make you waste months to get to: PvP. Fast paced PvP. This PvP is NOT hard to get into. 
 It is different from the norm. You dont spend hours upon hours in ridiculous groups that you dont 
 want to be in because you need to get an item so that youre not steam rolled in PvP. Everything 
 you do in this game pertains to PvP. You dont spend over 2 minutes fighting someone unless youre 
 evenly matched. Youre in the fight: Generate your charges, execute you attacks, or use your counter 
 attacks. You can have 23 skills (not 24, your chosen weapon takes up a skill slot.) A fight with 
 an opponent can be less than 15 seconds. You think this is too fast? How fast can you kill someone 
 in an Unreal, Team Fortress or Battlefield game? This is not a game where you can make a sandwich 
 while fighting. You dont use all 23 skills at once as the reviewers seem to be saying. Youre 
 using maybe 7 of them in a fight. You need those other skills for firing off super abilities, buffing 
 your character or performing counters to debuffs that can be applied to you on the battlefield. 
 What Auran has done here is gone out of the box on how PvP can be in an online Fantasy setting. 
 Dont let Gamespot or anyone else dissuade you from a game that you can actually have fun with. 
 Youre not pigeon holed into doing crap damage because youre a healer, or being a wuss to melee 
 as a mage. Its all dependent about what YOU the player do in a fight.
  
  However, it's not all sunshine and happy bunnies. Until you get the hang on the fighting system 
 you will be throttled a lot. However, just like when they make a FPS with a new twist, you can 
 definitely pick up Furys combat. The game has issues but it definitely is not worthy of the low 
 score its been given.. This is one of the only PvP fantasy multiplayer games that RESPECTS the 
 players time. You dont have to inch along like molasses going up hill. BAM! Youre in PvP. You 
 live, you fight, you own, you get owned. But you do so in a few minutes rather then a few hours. 
 This game is not 100% complete. It has issues that need to be addressed (just like all MMOs do 
 when they start out) , but if you give it half a chance you will be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmraven
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I played Fury for more than 100 hours trying to like the game however it really falls short. It 
 is fun to play in places and allows a wide range of character customization. The area it falls 
 short in is balance. In order to be competitive you really need to make a cookie cutter character 
 that does not allow for enough originality. What I mean by cookie cutter is that everyone else 
 playing that class has the same was to deal damage or heal ect. So if you are playing a damage 
 per second character (Tank) you have this in your character action bar and if your a (Healer) you 
 have this or a Ranged (Oracle) you have this... Oh and while the armor you can create is fun and 
 interesting it does not measure up to the armor you get for pre-ordering the game so if you didn't 
 do that your behind already. Adding to this they also have available a Unlock All Abilities feature 
 that cost you some extra money. The UAA combined with the pre-order armor makes this game unplayable 
 for your average gamer who didn't get all that stuff. True after getting beat a bunch of times 
 and sticking with it for about a month you could unlock all the skills but I'll bet that a visit 
 to the dentist will be in order with all that teeth grinding along the way not to mention your 
 hands will probably be gnarled due to all the key mashing or mouse clicking that will be required.
 
  
  Now thats not to say you can't try to be original with your character, I'm just saying it wont 
 be competitive.
  
  In my Opinion this game is not worth playing in its present unbalanced state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbla
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game had so much potential, but unfortunately the many technical issues and bloated skill 
 system have made this a game that only a very few people will find enjoyable. And unfortunately, 
 a PvP game with a small number of players is not fun at all. Unless the developers make this game 
 more approachable and enjoyable by a much larger demographic, then it will be doomed to fail in 
 short order. I wish the game was better, I really do, but it just isn't.
  
  The development team does seem to sincerely want to make the game better and is very responsive 
 to its customers. Before buying this game, I'd wait at least 2 or 3 months and see if it's still 
 around and better (couldn't get much worse) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnnyuk1963
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  I got bored with playing world of warcraft. So i had a go at beta testing fury.
  Right from the off It was very poor. People just running around with no real interaction at all.
 
  
  The interface and inventory systems are just terrible. its very time consuming trying to find out 
 what gear in your backpack is best to equip. And the whole item systemlacks cohesion.
  
  Combat is simplistic and unrewarding. Its just a one or two button mashing fest. At least in wow 
 there is a strategy system in place.
  
  The graphics are quite nice. But not really as mind blowing as they should be, given todays machines 
 graphics ability.
  
  All in all this is one mmo that you need to avoid like the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf505
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  First off, I will start by saying that I hate people that rate games after only a few hours of 
 gameplay. I think most games take longer than that to get a feel for. that being said, this review 
 is based on three hours of continuous play. Why only three hours? i simply couldn't take any more. 
 Luckily I played this on a friend's computer, cause it sure was not worth what he paid.
  
  When you first pop the game in, you have a little hope. Could this be a decent mmo fantasy game. 
 it only takes a little while longer to recieve your answer... a clear and overwhelming no.
  
  The graphics are great... if this game was developed in 1998. For a 2007 game, however, they 
 are poor. What makes it really frustrating is that the gameplay is so chaotic, that the poor graphics 
 make it really difficult. the sound is average. it does not add to or take away from the game. 
 the gamplay is poor. The reason for this is that most of the concepts in the game were poorly conceived. 
 The magic system in the game is broken, and the combat is boring.
  
  For those of you that are looking for the next great MMO, a good followup to games like guild wars... then 
 keep looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggy887766
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  For starters i think the concept of this new genre of gaming is great, however i just don't think 
 auran nailed it. Not having to do all those boring quests and spend countless hours grinding is 
 awesome. The fact that you have only so many skill points to equip skills, weapons, and armor really 
 balances it out. The only downside i see is the when you first start. When you start you have almost 
 no skills to your name and practically nothing to use. So obviously when you go into a quere you 
 get destroyed in the matches countless times. If you can make it past your tiresome noob days then 
 you will find that it is quite a good game. It's great that even if you don't do so great, you 
 still get points. As for everyone saying the game play is to fast, i would have to agree partially. 
 At times you are running around just trying to find someone and at other times you are running 
 around just trying to get away from a 5+ person battle. Most of the time if you are off on your 
 own you will find someone and then get double teamed. As i said Auran has the right idea, but they 
 just didn't make it solid enough for most everyone. I understand how people love it and how people 
 hate it and why there are such varied reviews. In the end it's all up to you. ++for no monthly 
 fees, lots of skills, essence and equip point system
  
  --for horrible to start playing and get lvl up, sometimes can be to fast, lots of DT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Blademaster
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I knew something was strange after I watched the most boring intro sequence to an MMO to date. 
 I mean cmon... if even the narrator sounds like he is dying of boredom, something has to be up. 
 Unfortunatly, I was right. Ok, as you should know this game is all PVP, no story or PvE of any 
 kind. That being said, you'd expect the PVP to be amazing... I mean, since thats all the game is 
 supposed to have going for it. But... it's not. You start off, build your toon, and select your 
 arch-type. I saw dual-wielding blades and thought, That sounds fun! Yea, but apparently there is 
 no normal attack at all. Just skills. That pretty much renders 2 swords useless. All of your attacks 
 are skills only, and you get sooo many skills that you can never find the right one you need for 
 any particular moment. Battles are hectic, with horrible frame rates, and it really annoying when 
 you rubber-band all over the place, even on the lower settings! Geez, I can play Crysis fine on 
 my computer, and yet this game gives me problems? Gimme a break, its the game servers, and its 
 really annoying. Overall the game is boring, chaotic, and pretty much lame for a PvP based MMO. 
 If you wanna play it download the trial that they are desperatly using to get people interested 
 (a useless effort) . If you already bought this game...... I'm sorry for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _KyO_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all to the gamespot reviewer, learn how to play a true pvp game before you review it please. 
 You talk of all this clutter building up on your screen and such fast paced play, it makes me think 
 that you have never even played PVP in WoW and done well at it. You click your skills first of 
 all, for this pace (I will admit is an extreme to the spectrum of gameplay) is horribly wrong. I 
 can tell you the people who actually know what they are doing do not click, they set up their skills 
 in a way that they can hit 1-6 or 7 and an additional key on the fly. You think 24 is a lot? Firstly 
 in order to balance your skills to your armor points you shouldn't even really have 24 skills that 
 you use constantly. Maybe 6-7 that you really enjoy and a few for special occasions and your buffs. 
 Thats it. As to the 24 themselves, you should have seen my UI for WoW. I had atleast 48 different 
 skills on my toolbar at one time. True I didn't use all of them, but if you practice and get to 
 know the game you can easily tell where they all are.
  
  As to the game itself, yes it does have some bugs, the biggest being a memory leak that they are 
 trying to work on. The load times and occasional random lag? All have been attributed to this memory 
 leak. If you talked to the developers and were active in the community you would see that. You 
 wrote the review during a time when there was one game of bloodbath an hour? A lot has changed. 
 More and more people are getting into the game and learning to play it right. You have to keep 
 in mind, this is a brand new game, EVERY GAME UPON RELEASE HAS BUGS. Especially games that have 
 only an online element. You also have to keep in mind Auran is a company that has never branced 
 off into this type of game first of all, let alone one with this scale of online play. They are 
 doing very well at it. Don't compare this game to WoW, they have blizzard as a dev who have been 
 doing online games for years.
  
  This game has some downfalls, don't think I am reviewing this from an overzealous fan perspective. 
 Yes the memory leak is a problem, yes the time between matches can get boring (find some friends 
 gamespot reviewer) , yes the community is a little wonky, yes the wait times to get into a match 
 can be hard to sit through. It doesn't make it a bad game. It makes it a game for some people, 
 maybe those with patience to understand it better. Or those who know how to multi-task.
  
  Bloodbath match times are a problem yes, but first of all you are facing a limited community with 
 a very very progressive matchmaking system. Don't believe me? Read http://forums. auran. com/fury/forum/showthread. php? t=4106 
 and see how much the matchmaking system is looking at. With a player base as large as, say Halo, 
 you would always feel right in place with everyone in your match.
  
  I ask you this gamespot reviewer... What kind of a computer are you running to play this game? 
 It certainly doesn't help that the loading time to get to that area is so long that not only do 
 you have time to make a sandwich, you actually have time to bake the bread you make it with. That 
 must be a what? Pentium 3? I load between Sanctum and the instanced skill areas in 15 seconds maximum. 
 Either you won the championship for making sandwiches are your eating dough. You died before you 
 loaded did you? Usually I as well as 95% of the people in the match are waiting for the gates to 
 open! I play on almost max settings and get at lowest 20fps. And it looks great while I am kicking 
 peoples asses.
  
  I played the beta for ONE weekend. During one of the Fury Challenges GAMESPOT WAS ADVERTISING. 
 Three days and I loved it. Look into the story you will see why you go through different people 
 to get new abilities. Read what Auran is saying and you will understand its pay mechanic. Many 
 many popular games give you the ability to pay for privileges. You don't have to. You can if you 
 want to either support Auran or get ahead of the crowd.
  
  If you can understand how to play a game like Fury you will have a lot of fun. Bottom Line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacfulwind
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  First the install went well enough ,then it began. You must open an account first before playing 
 ok I'll go with that sure. At that point we find an option to pay a fee for more stuff in game 
 or an advanced avatar or not to pay a fee ,now mind you we haven't even played the game yet. Then 
 we have to patch the install 60 ,megs later. I get to start the game Oh no wait the graphic go 
 to low rez on a p4 3.02ghz 512 meg video card ,I play WOW, GW ,C&amp; C3, in high rez, but not this 
 game OH NO. We get to make a avatar now in low rez and there low rez is really low ,compared to 
 todays games. The choices for avatars are limited to say the least . To make a long story short 
 it is a mess and should not of been released . I dont even want to go into the game play ,lag, drops 
 to desktop, load times. Read the review on gamespot it is dead on except for the 4.5 thats way to 
 high ,I guess they were being nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ascension101
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has so many problems it can only be compared to the disgrace of Sin, the review by gamespot 
 is spot on nothing else needs be said, it had potentional but failed to deliver, it most badly 
 designed pvp systems ive ever seen in my entire gaming career.
  
  The ones who do like it are gonna lie to people just to get more numbers, but trust the reviewers 
 they are telling you the truth the game is actually not even that fun you get into it a little 
 while then when you meet those who pay and have advantages game is just boring it builds are imbalanced 
 towards one another certain ones own everything else, it really is a mess like reviewer said.
 
  
  I would save your money and buy one other titles coming out than waste it on this horriable game 
 which makes australia look bad since it was hyped up so much and failed to deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tick660
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Fury is an MMO that consists of a few PvP game types and a bunch of classes that really aren't 
 all that much different. After about 20 minutes of tutorials, the developers decided that it would 
 be a grand idea to toss the player in with an extremely vague idea of how the game works and what 
 to do.
  
  All 3 of the game types are poorly designed, and nearly every battle relies on trying to control 
 a spastic avatar who is flying around and colliding with every conceivable object in a 300 yard 
 radius. The arena game play is entertaining the first 100 times or so if you can even stand to 
 play more than 1 or 2 games every few hours, because the load time is completely sickening! After 
 your first few games you will be convinced that there is more to the game than just the poorly 
 designed arenas, but the real disappointment of it is: THERE IS NOTHING ELSE.
  
  Its hard to believe that this game could actually be sent to retail with all the bugs, terrible 
 load times, and the overwhelming feeling that your are playing a game with NO POLISH to be found 
 ANYWHERE. If you can survive the frustrations that will befall you within the first few hours, 
 including load times that convince me that there are Playstation one games that could keep me playing 
 in longer stints than this, then you w...... Oh screw it, JUST STAY AWAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2kizzle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  An excellent game, with a solid core and great designers. Its a shame not many people know about 
 this game, and perhaps it was released slightly early, but pick up a copy now and get good before 
 the competitions start. If you're thinking about buying this game, i highly recommend it.
  
  I spend a few hours a day online, and when you mix it up with CS and TF, it is an elite pvp 
 game that you can just load up, play for a little bit, then close and get on with the rest of your 
 day.
  
  One of my favourites for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptNoodles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The basis of Fury is to be in a fast-paced PvP environment, promising no grinding, or anything 
 of the sort. In reality, Auran doesn't come up to it's agreement on not having any sort of grinding, 
 because at the end of the day, you're just killing people over and over for your gear, which is 
 the idea of grinding. I believe that MMORPGs of all kind will never get rid of a grind, if they 
 did, the game would have no substance, or playability. Anyways, back to Fury. Put grinding aside, 
 this game has fast-paced, and fun PvP. There are a few features that seemed unnecessary and frustrating, 
 like the fact that you can't hold 'charges' outside of battle, making some high-charge, non-attack 
 skills useless, as you would be focusing on attacking while in battle. The little details of this 
 game is where it's beauty shines, like the slight leaning of the character model while you turn, 
 instead of just turning around, or the gleam off a character's helmet as he walked through a bright 
 area. Speaking of graphics, this game definitely delivers, the only problem being that, a lot of 
 people that I have met don't have the requirements for running the game in it's beauty-mode. I 
 have tried the low-spec renderer, which is like turning all the graphics down, and it looks like 
 the textures were ripped from an old PS1 game. Unfortunately for the people with rigs that run 
 the in between, there is no setting for that, just very good looking, and very crap looking. The 
 music is the same fantasy-orchestral mix of things, showing no innovativeness in the music themes. 
 This made me turn it off and listen to my own battle themes. Overall, this game is good, don't 
 get me wrong, but the small flaws, and unfinished promises make this game almost average, comparing 
 with other MMOs that also have a PvE counter-part to it. You either will like this game, or hate 
 it, and it all depends on if you like the fast-paced PvP nature of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is something way out there, its unique and shines where other games failed horribly. 
 After 2 years of Guild Wars and 1 year of WoW i stumbled across this. This game is something you 
 must experience for yourself, no one can tell you how good or bad it is. Heres a little non-biased 
 review i made for you guys.
  
  Gameplay- Its not deep, because there is no story line, but on a decent computer it is fast, fun 
 and action packed. Another thing id like to point out is how every single match feels rewarding 
 ,win or lose. Your character becomes more powerful and this goes from a button masher to a stratigic 
 Action game in no time. From box design, to the manual, ot everything inside the actual game, i 
 can feel the effort, which isnt a feeling i get with most games these days.
  
  Graphics- On a good computer the graphics are nice, shiney textures and great spell effects make 
 it plain fun to watch. A nice touch of ragdoll effects are cool too. But no these are not the greatest 
 graphics you can find, and on a older system they will be bad. But they are good enough for an 
 RPG.
  
  Sound- Most music and sound effects found in the game are good, some squishy sounds make by spells 
 will sometimes sound out dated but overall the sound is good enough to be enjoyable and keep you 
 in the game
  
  OVERALL-
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is crisp and fresh with room for improvement, you can tell alot of effort was put into 
 this game.
  9/10
  
  Graphics
  
  Nice overall, most things look great and perform well. Besides the insane PC req. the graphics 
 on maxed out settings are just good enough for todays gamers. Some people expected more.
  
  7.5/10
  
  Sound-
  
  Mostly amazing music and sound effects, except for a few. The sound 
 quality is fine and enjoyable in the game.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killfest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Great game if you like MMO's, PVP or just want another fast paced multiplayer game. Very easy to 
 get to a higher level. Doesn't take long to get into the game.... Just a fun overall game despite 
 the bugs it had at launch. I definantly give this game a try because it is so much fun and very 
 addicting once you get started. The armor isnt hard to get and the classes are very innovative 
 and cool. Its fun to have a main class that you play but play others just for fun as well. If you 
 are woried about the bugs give it a few weeks and the team will have it good to go. Also, its free 
 to play so you dont have to worry about those monthly fees like in other mmos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rburnett123
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I made a huge mistake in purchasing Fury without having participated in the beta -- if I did, I 
 would have avoided the game like the plague. Fury is incredibly boring:
  
  1) There are three competitive events. 4v4 Team Elimination, 4+4 v 4+4 capture the flag, and a 
 once an hour bloodbath with 24-32 players.
  
  2) You will spend a huge amount of time just waiting in the queue to fight. Typical wait time right 
 now, with everybody on just one server, is 5-10 minutes for a 5-10 minute battle. You will likely 
 spend as much time waiting, with nothing to do, while you wait to fight. You cannot even adjust 
 your skills or gear while waiting in the queue!!!
  
  3) The world is empty. While there are numerous NPC's (*WAY* too many that serve no purpose other 
 than to make the world look bigger) you will rarely see more than 5-10 players outside of a fight. 
 Due to lag issues they have yet to resolve, global chat is disabled and 20-30 players are in any 
 given instance. E M P T Y.
  
  I had hopes that Fury would tide me over until next year's MMO's -- dream on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valyndir
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  As a starting note, while I haven't been exposed to Fury for quite as long as some may deem appropriate 
 to review, I feel this could provide a nice primer for anyone possibly considering the game. I'll 
 start with the pros, graphics, music, gameplay and variety. I'm not sure if this would occur to 
 everyone, but on starting the game the resolution defaulted to 800x600, not very promising especially 
 since I was forced to design my avatar under these blocky settings. However, once you are in game 
 and can play with the settings, Fury provides a marvelously designed world using the Unreal engine 
 which looks good and also seems very scalable even for lower end systems. Sound, when it did occur, 
 was quite nice, in this instance I'm speaking only of the music, which fits the setting and seems 
 very appropriate with eerie instrumentals and orchestral nuances. The gameplay is quick and appealing 
 for anyone into the PvP scene and while it could use some fluidity to the movements, it generally 
 provides a solid experience. There can be at times a bit of waiting, nothing extreme, but entering 
 an arena requires talking to a battlemaster, much in the way you would do with WoW, and awaiting 
 a group. Finally variety, which Fury does provide in its classes, its moves and its combat venues. 
 One of the first decisions you can make is the type of discipline you would like to follow, be 
 it Growth (nature) , Life, Death, and a few others, then you choose either to be the physical manifestation 
 of said discipline or the spiritual, the differences being in attack types and roles. Once you 
 have selected your disciplines and such, you are not limited in what abilities you can take to 
 a huge extent, but using competing forces of elements can play against you.
  
  Now for the cons, sound, interface and stability being the most glaring right now. The sound in 
 Fury is far from dramatic or dynamic, leaving much to be desired. Essentially, the sound effects 
 are somewhat thin and lackluster, providing no real feeling of hitting hard or using a devestating 
 blow. There also seemed to be a lack of music in the actual fighting stages, something which may 
 not bother some, but detracted from my experience. And now we come to stability, a glaring issue 
 that brings this game down more than anything else. While I realize this is a brand new game, I 
 also feel the need to point out that a few weeks ago, they were hosting tournaments so something 
 must have been working properly. While I have yet to be disconnected in an actually battle, I have 
 been plenty of times outside of it, after roughly 5 to 10 minutes I can expect the game to crash 
 and a generic error message to tell me I have disconnected by the server, all while holding a good 
 ping and running a fast machine. You can also visit the technical support boards of the website 
 to get an idea of the others having a plethora of issue with getting the game to run. The interface 
 is something that could use reworking as well, following a long and exceeding dull tutorial, it 
 still left me with questions as to how some of the more advanced additions worked, it spent far 
 to much time on the basics that any gamer should pick up on quickly. As well, while strictly cosmetic, 
 the black bar extending from the hotkeys is intrusive and really not necessary, all it does is 
 cover a good portion of the environment.
  
  All in all Fury has potential if they continue to work on at a... furious ( I'm sorry...) pace, by 
 clearing out stability issues, reworking the sound a bit and maybe doing some work with the interface. 
 In the end, if this game weren't $55 (C$) I would say pick it up, but as it is right now, it's 
 a bit to pricey to warrant the faults; Especially when factoring in the optional payment packages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bell
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  I originally gave this game a good review, but with the updates, they killed what was originally 
 good about it... The game is dependent on a good sized population, and there is hardly anyone playing 
 now. Which is too bad because the game had promise at first. It had some great ideas that I hope 
 are taken and put into another game (for example, the whole "charges" mechanic is different and 
 worked remarkably well...) 
  
  If you want to try it out now, be prepared for long wait times to get into matches. This used to 
 be a good fast paced PvP-only game, but the developers slowed it down a bit and tried to throw 
 some PvE in... 
  
  The original battles - 4v4, Vortex, Deatnmatch were good and should have been improved upon before 
 adding more battle types -- by adding more, people were more spread out and then the population 
 disbanded to other games. Plus, the company that made the game filed for Bankruptcy in December 
 of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I've seen the typical MMO Fighting systems that are automated where you click to engaged and punch 
 keys tied into special abilities. To name a few of the majors... World of Warcraft, Everquest and 
 Guild Wars.
  Lately I've been reading up on Fury and checking out videos which have said about it's fighting 
 system, and now I've only just started to get my feet wet. Instead of Automated combat Fury let's 
 you Button Mash the crap out of you adversaries, btw one of the promo videos show the classes look 
 a lot like Mortal Kombat... Mind you Midway's hopes of making MK The First MMO Button Masher just 
 got flushed because Auran beat them to it with Fury.
  Another thing... Being an Aussie and finding out Fury is an Australian Made MMO... OH YEAH!
  
 This game is so fast-paced with it's PVP action that it doesn't waste time Muck-Assin' Around .
 
  What I really love about Fury is that it caters for both Fanatics and Weekend Warriors alike with 
 it's range of membership plans.
  
  If you're looking to get into an action-packed MMO that doesn't waste mucking around...
  
  
 Fury is the ticket! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamby119
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  for those who love fast-paced, competitive pvp, FURY's the game for you. off the bat, ur going 
 to be a noob, no getting past that. but this doesnt matter to much, becasue u'll have plenty of 
 time to get better by fighting other noobs. after a couple hours of matches, u should have alot 
 of abilities and some pretty good equipment up ur sleeve. by now u should have worked out the basic 
 mechanics and gotten urself some knowledge of how the abilities and the whole system works, and 
 u wont have to slave anymore. this is where all the fun starts, it becomes a sport here, like CS; Source 
 crossed with an rpg. the grapics are really great if u have maxxed settings, and the armor and 
 worlds are very well designed. the game is fast paced, with little button mashing involved, except 
 for the start. would reccommend this to anyone that likes fps, pvp or pve and just a challenge. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
