-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fury 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fury3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 8.0 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 123 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Action
Date:     Aug 31, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've ever played 3DRealms' shareware favorite Terminal Velocity, you'llbe quick to recognize 
 that Fury3 is nothing more than warmed-over TV. 

 If you've ever played 3DRealms' shareware favorite Terminal Velocity (TV) , you'll be quick to recognize 
 that Fury3 is nothing more than warmed-over TV, released as one of the first titles designed with 
 Win95's 32-bit abilities in mind. So let me quickly get the brief comparison out of the way.  

 
 The big difference between Fury3 and Terminal Velocity is that Fury3 runs in Windows. Installation 
 is much easier, and you are dealing with the familiar Windows interface. There are slight changes 
 in the worlds, new Star Wars-type enemies, and varied cockpit perspectives but, in general, Fury3 
 is not any faster, more colorful or more exciting than Terminal Velocity. For those who have never 
 played either of these titles, let me make clear that Fury3 is still fast, colorful, and exciting 
 enough to ensure a white-knuckled, high-adrenaline,  kind of gameplay 
 experience. Note that slowdown will occur with 486/66 machines. The game features a first-person, 
 3-D point of view which puts you right in the middle of a futuristic battle zone, with nothing 
 less than the future of the world at stake. The graphics are extremely impressive, giving you the 
 sensation of speeding along just above the ground, weaving through tight, underground passageways, 
 or soaring up through the cloud layer. Explosions and flying debris highlight the combat sequences. 
 Power-ups and hidden passageways are all available to help you on your journey.  

 You're not going to get a lot of extended play value from Fury3. Despite the vastness of the worlds, 
 which allows you to fly around and look for hidden tunnels and powerups, there is not enough variety 
 from level to level, or even from enemy to enemy, to keep a hard-core shooter fan interested beyond 
 the first couple of worlds. If you just need a quick fix of high-speed flying and blasting, though, 
 Fury3 is a great way to pass some time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 8
  Sounds 8
  Value 6
  Tilt 7
  
  Windows 95 was a definite improvement from the good ole Windows 3.1. GUI comes to play and for 
 gamers its like Christmas arrived early as installation of games is considerably easier 
 than typing a trillion commands just to run a game in DOS. The bigger advantage was that Windows 
 95 is now a 32bit system hence welcoming to the age of 32bit.
  
  On a personal note, Windows 95 was the first ever PC for me. During 1990  1994, I refer 
 this period as the dark age of gaming. I rarely played any PC games as I thought 
 it became too complicated (comparing to the 80s its a noticeable difference) however I did 
 spend considerable amount of time playing traditional pen and paper RPGs.
  
  Well, bearing in mind the mass fan-fair of advertising Windows 95 (and how couldnt anyone 
 forget the ad when Bill Gates used the original Doom for his Windows 95 promotion) I bought my 
 first PC and bundled as a package came Fury 3. The game that promised to utilised all the 32bit 
 power of Windows 95.
  
  The principle of the game is to save eight planets from the occupation of the Bions; which are 
 genetically modified soldiers originally assist the Coalition (us) during the IP Wars (corny I 
 know) . Of course power got the better of the Bions therefore declared war against The Coalition 
 after the IP Wars hence strategically took over eight planets. You, being a member of the Terran 
 Council of Peace, its your mission to stop the Bions  by eliminating them by any 
 means (I guess approaching the situation diplomatically is out of the question) .
  
  On the surface, Fury 3 is surely a chaotic game. Its definitely fast, furious and downright 
 aggressive. All viewed comparable to a FPS however you will be attacked from six different angles; 
 another words, its an arcade flight simulation with the feel of a FPS. You also will be 
 constantly bombarded with Bion crafts of all sorts and if thats not enough, land forces 
 will lobby their arsenal as well. Each stage will be a certain number of objectives to complete 
 and once fulfilled, fly into a jump zone to your next destination.
  
  Then rinse and repeat until the game ends.
  
  This style of game play will be exciting at first 
 as you will be zooming throughout the vast landscapes however very soon it will get tiresome. Thank 
 goodness though that your fighter plane can take some considerable damage before exploding and 
 there are ample of power ups and ammo caches if you decide to go exploring. Youll also have 
 the option to auto-level your plane (however there will be a good chance that youll fly 
 up-side down) and does support joystick, keyboard/mouse combo. Besides the mass advertisement on 
 the box stating Fury 3 is best played using the Microsoft Sidewinder joystick (the marketing never 
 ends) I used the keyboard/mouse option without any remorse. 
  
  To those who knows the game Terminal Velocity will notice very similarities between these two games. 
 The graphical engine is quite impressive for its time however I really cannot see many improvements 
 between Terminal Velocity and Fury 3. As advertised, the game promises 32bit power however in the 
 graphics department, not much. Of course if you view the game beyond 640 x 480 resolution, it will 
 start becoming a pixilated mess. Take note that the game is after all made in 1995. That said, 
 the explosions are quite nice (and there will be plenty) and the Bion crafts themselves are reasonably 
 detailed. The landscapes are the highlights as you will notice that the lands themselves are vast 
 and varied between the planets with jam-packed of buildings, domes, cranes, trees etc and of course 
 the Bions.
  
  I feel the true 32bit arrives from the sounds. Games back then didnt really ulitised stereo 
 sounds as midi files are definitely the talk of the town (as they are small in file size and do 
 actually sound wonderful) . Typical PC storage wasnt exactly immense (I remember mine was 
 2GB and that was huge) however the compression data for the musical scores for Fury 3 deserves 
 a mention. The scores themselves can be played back on a conventional CD player using the Fury 
 3 CD and the beats themselves are quite suitable for the planets you about to explore. Very up 
 beating and will definitely get you going for that extra personal boost to constantly blast those 
 Bions out of the skies. Other sounds are worth mentioning as well as you can hear the whoosh 
 of the Bion crafts zooming pass you from left to right (or vice versa) , explosions all around you 
 and the never-ending gun fire.
  
  As usual, depending on the style of game play will dictate the length of the game (and of course 
 how often you hit the reload screen) . For an average go-getta it can take within the ten hours 
 range. For me it took and basing on the medium settings approximately eleven hours as I literally 
 explored every nook-and-cranny (including locating all the underground tunnels) that my radar can 
 pick up. This includes destroying every piece of landmark (besides plants and seaweeds as they 
 have negative impact on your overall score) . The only replay value youll get from this game 
 is playing it on a higher difficulty.
  
  Fury 3 was definitely a showcase to display the power of Windows 95. Windows 95 (like any other 
 operating systems that Microsoft developed) wasnt initially a big seller. Considering PC 
 games are making its mark due to the successful sales of Doom, Myst et al and the consoles market 
 still producing 16bit platform games (and the odd RPG or strategy titles) in addition to the many, 
 many FPS clones, Fury 3 was definitely an uplifting approach. Gone are the DOS command prompts 
 of installing games as Fury 3 incorporates self-installation as it was a welcoming approach to 
 PC gaming. Its like viewing Vista with DX10 is for Fury 3 and its simplistic navigation 
 and installation. The game itself is sure a blast to play as there will be firefights from all 
 angles though it can really exhaust you but I guess thats why they call it Fury 3. As the 
 manual states Can you say Fury to the Power of Three? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertymandude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is old, but I still enjoy playing it. I lost my CD a long time ago so I'm not really 
 sure how I would actually get the game back. There are 8 or 7 worlds (don't remember which) . You 
 fly a ship and just really go around shooting stuff. The worlds are large and If you go off track 
 it is easy to get lost but there's never a boring moment. All of the different world vary greatly 
 from the last. Overall this is a rally enjoyable game. If you search fury 3 download on google 
 you can get the demo from a couple of places. You can get the demo from here  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticDynamite
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Fury3 is the kind of flight shooter you want to play over and over again. Blasting through countless 
 enemies on different worlds has never felt so exhilarating and fun, and despite some ugly graphics, 
 you will simply want to play it over and over again.
  
  The game is set in the year 2032, after a long and bloody conflict known as the Bion Wars, in which 
 the Coalition of Independent Planets fought against their own robotic super-soldiers called the 
 Bions. The Bions were ordered for dismantlement after the war. But some survived and established 
 a base on the planet Fury. They quickly grew and seized seven other planets whose resources will 
 help them conquer the galaxy. You are a Coalition councilor, and your job is to destroy all Bion 
 presence in these systems.
  
  Most of the weapons you get are a lot of fun to use, even though there are only seven. You start 
 out with your never-ending Servo-Kinetic laser which you can use to blast through countless enemy 
 ships and robots, and as you destroy things, you collect more weapons, just like in any old-school 
 flight shooter.
  
  The excitement never ends as you blast through eight worlds and twenty-four levels in total. Plenty 
 of enemies are to be found in every twist and turn.
  
  Some of the graphics, though, are a bit ugly, even for a game of its time, with bit-mapped textures 
 in many areas. Some explosions are also a bit ugly. But overall, the graphics aren't too bad.
 
  
  The soundtrack is nice, with memorable tracks here and there, and what isn't memorable won't make 
 your ears bleed. Some of the sound effects are a bit repetitive, and some are re-used with different 
 weapons. But overall, the sound is good for a game of its time.
  
  Overall, this is definitely worth checking out. Go buy it on eBay or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimpsatemywife
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  When I was 5 years old, my dad brought home the coolest thing. A shiny, brand new computer with 
 Windows 95. I really looked up to my dad for buying it, and for being able to use it, he even showed 
 me how to use it (though I totally didn't get it.) 
  
  When I turned about 6 we would go and play this game every night. I would sit on my dad's lap and 
 tell him where all the power-ups where and when an enemy was sneaking up on him. He was so cool, 
 I loved him so much and I wanted to be just like him. He would let me shoot, but he would control 
 the ship because my hands were to small to fit the controller (which, even now, i can hardly get 
 my hands on) . For some strange reason we couldn't seem to beat the first boss, so we tried for 
 literally months. But we finally did it. It was great being with my dad, so doing that first mission 
 hundreds of times really didn't matter to me. 
  
  Sadly, that was the last video game my dad ever played with me. You see, my dad loved to run marathons 
 ever since he was in college. He would always run places and always had tons of energy. But when 
 I was 5 he tore a ligament in his knee. He could no longer run and had to take some painful surgery 
 so he would play Fury3 with me. But soon after playing the game he found that he wasn't as young 
 as he thought, and he had developed arthritis in his hands. I was devastated that he could no longer 
 play with me.
  
  Thankfully, today he is getting better at conquering his arthritis with the help of medication. 
 I found this game and the old joystick and I even found our old computer buried in the garage. 
 And I hope one day he'll be well enough to play with me again. This is the most perfect game ever. 
 If you ever find this, buy it, and share it with a friend or two. And believe me, this game is 
 like fine wine, it only gets better with age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Fury 3 is a great flight/sci-fi shooter. Though the AI could be stupid they are tough opponents 
 anyway. I forgot the story of the game but i believe that you are a piolet who goes around saving 
 planets. There are many weapons in this game like lazers, missiles, some star thingies that kill 
 opponents behind you and a mini nuke. Your enemies are usually just enemy air crafts but there 
 are robots on the ground and this hovering thing that shoots green lazers at you. Gameplay is extremely 
 fun, especially dog fights, graphics are actually not that bad. The sound has only one soundtrack 
 but i like the sounds the weapons make. Value? I don't know i got it for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldenboy467
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 29, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game review. If figured my first game review should be on one of the first games 
 I ever played. When I was growing up, I begged my mother to buy me a gaming system to no avail. 
 Finally, at the age of 15, I was able convince my mother to buy me Fury 3 for our new Pentium 120 
 PC. I fell in love with that game. Mainly because it was the only game I owned.
  
  I have played through the game two or three times and still find that the gameplay is quite enjoyable. 
 My biggest knock on the gameplay is that on the hardest setting, the enemies continually get more 
 difficult until they become unbeatable. After a few minutes, even the weakest enemies take 0 damage 
 from your weapons. Fighting difficult enemies is fun, but fighting permanently invincible enemies 
 is the worst idea in the history of bad ideas.
  
  I still own the game, but since my current computer has a newer version of the Windows OS, the 
 game will no longer run properly on my machine. Too bad, so sad. Someday, I hope to play this game 
 again to be able to relive fond memories of my childhood.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2004 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Fury3 is quite honestly a nice renamed version of Terminal Velocity. I had downloaded the TV demo 
 and liked playing it but couldnt find the retail version of it until Fury 3 came out, published 
 by Microsoft.
  
  Like a lot of PC games I bought back in the day I didnt have the top of the line hardware to fully 
 support them. I think I was running a Matrox card with a Pentium I at 133 Mhz.
  
  The game itself looked beautiful. There were all these open environments to explore with some pretty 
 cool enemies (albeit easy ones) . The ground textures left a little to be desired, but you forgot 
 all that while exploring twisting passageways on different planets. Im not sure if there was any 
 plot, but it wasnt terribly necessary. By todays standards the game is quite ugly, but back in 
 95 I had a great time with it.
  
  I recommend picking it up if you liked StarFox on the Super Nintendo. Same style, but more graceful 
 on Windows.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
