-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: G-NOME
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/gnome/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 7.4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 74 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 7th Level
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Feb 28, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
G-NOME doesn't fully live up to its potential. 

 First shown to the press back in July of 1994, G-NOME has finally made it to store shelves - and 
 as with most games that are hyped early and often, the end result is a mixed bag. The good news 
 is that G-NOME has several unique (and pretty cool) features that you won't find in any other mech 
 game; the bad news is that muddy control, graphics glitches, and a sparse manual keep it from being 
 the best it can be.  

 Let's start with the good stuff. The single-player game is well structured, taking you through four 
 sets of missions in graphically distinct locales. Once you head out on missions with teammates, 
 you have a nice degree of control over their actions - you can order them to attack or occupy enemy 
 craft and buildings, come to your defense, and even jump inside your vehicle for a ride.   

 Because there are four races in the game, you get a good variety of HAWCs (Heavy Armor Weapons 
 Chassis) and weapons, including tanks and a camera-mounted missile you guide with the joystick. 
 Best of all, you can leave your own vehicle and jump into the enemy's abandoned mechs and laser 
 turrets, take him out with his own weapons, then hop back in your own HAWC and use his IFF (Identify 
 Friend or Foe) code to avoid detection. The title has a full complement of multiplayer options, 
 including TCP/IP and IPX support - it should be an instant classic.  

 But G-NOME doesn't fully live up to its potential. Using a Microsoft Sidewinder 3D Pro (which a 
 7th Level tech support person said was a great choice for this game) , the control was disappointingly 
 sluggish and muddy. Tying to keep the HAWC's torso trained on the enemy while circling him - a 
 basic maneuver - was nearly impossible, even when the graphics detail was reduced to zero to ensure 
 the best possible frame rate.  

 There are other control problems, too. Whether using the keyboard or joystick, the Stop (zero throttle) 
 command never seemed to work; the HAWC just kept moving along even though the computer said it 
 was stopping. Once you do get stopped, the slightest left/right movement will kick the throttle 
 on again. Other commands - such as Move Forward or Move Backward, which are supposed to set you 
 at half throttle in the appropriate direction - also seemed to function inadequately. Of all the 
 control issues, the most maddening was that when you leave your HAWC and head out on foot, you 
 fire in the direction you're running instead of the one you're facing - even though the crosshair 
 is always in the center of your field of vision. Are these weapons built into the belt buckle or 
 something?  

 Then there are the graphics. While they're certainly more colorful and detailed than what you'll 
 find in MechWarrior 2, that detail comes at a price: big pixels and warping terrain. Ground terrain 
 is amazingly pixelated, looking like something from at least a year or two ago, and if you view 
 HAWC from the outside you'll often see the earth and surrounding hills warp and bend. Fortunately, 
 enemy vehicles fare better visually - and that's usually what your eyes will be focused on anyway. 

 G-NOME is more frustrating than fun, but "sluggish control" is a somewhat subjective gripe. Players 
 with little tolerance for frustration will probably want to avoid G-NOME, but those who can master 
 the controls will find the other problems easily overlooked.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  G-NOME is a great unique game to play if you are looking to try new things. The game istelf is 
 both a first-person shooter and a mech simulation. First I'll say something about the graphics, 
 well they aren't the best, but then again, what do you expect from a 1996 video game. The sounds 
 doesn't exactly work right and there is no detectable music. The game is really in need of a patch. 
 There are no videos that work, not even the credits, except the Union Intelligence Agency thing 
 logo that loads up. Alright now lets get on to the game itself. Being a multiplayer gamer, I never 
 really finished the single player campaign (that plus I couldn't) , the mission objectives are often 
 unclear and its almost as if 7th Level tried making the game impossible. However after about 50 
 times trying a mission, you finally get it. Your ai allies are pretty stupid and can hardly hold 
 their own in a fight. Often the only way to be a mission, is by pure strategy, going in guns ablazing 
 doesn't quite work. Next I'll review the multiplayer, they put a lot of work into this it seems, 
 it even has MPlayer support, the only problem is MPlayer cancelled support for the game (well that 
 and MPlayer doesn't exist any more) . However you can still play via TCP/IP if you know the server's 
 IP address (or via IPX, serial, and modem) . Trivia is played on the server before the game starts, 
 however I don't know how to answer the questions, and they are very hard questions (sometimes) . 
 One need not worry, there is a option for AI play if you don't have enough players in a multiplayer 
 game, or would like to try skirmish. There are 3 game types (can't think of their names off the 
 top of my head, sorry) and 2 game options (deathmatch and cooperative) . This game is definatly 
 worth giving a shot, it's fun and addictive, I know my review may sound negative, but thats just 
 because it is in serious need of a patch, it's like 7th Level got half way through making it and 
 said "screw it, our company will merger with Pulse Entertainment next year and form P7 Solutions 
 anyway" (which actually did happen) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OptimusShr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  G-Nome came and went in 1997 never being noticed by many. While I admit that the game could have 
 been better, it is still pretty well done and unique.
  
  The graphics are a mix. The mountains warp slightly and the ground is very pixelated but the HAWCs 
 and structures look good and have some nice detailing. Although I will admit most of your focus 
 will be on enemy HAWCs and buildings so it you may not pay much attention to the environment.
 
  
  The controls could have been better, I had to remap a lot of the keys to find a control scheme 
 I found comfortable. Once you find a comfortable control scheme however you will be piloting your 
 HAWC like an expert
  
  The four races each have their own unique environment and design style. While the races each have 
 their own versions of many of the different structures each race has their own unique colors and 
 architecture so they stand out.
  
  The HAWCs all have different designs and like the structures are very unique and stand out well. 
 The HAWCs all have their own strengths and weaknesses. Some have better shield and energy reserves 
 while others have better speed and weapons. Each HAWC can carry four weapons although most do not 
 carry four different weapons. You can steal HAWCs by ejecting and using one of your weapons to 
 take a new one if yours is too damaged. You will have a display in your cockpit which will show 
 your shield strength and which areas are damaged. Damaged parts show up on the HAWC as well which 
 is a nice detail.
  
  There are many missions and you will have many different objectives throughout the game. However 
 many of these missions have long stretches where you are simply moving with no action on screen. 
 While this is not necessarily a bad thing and it makes sense with the story, the long stints of 
 no action may have turned off many.
  
  The voice acting is good and the sound effects are nice. While many of the sounds are reused with 
 the various weapons they all sound good and work well with the weapons used. The voice actors all 
 do a good job and none of them phone it in and do a good job.
  
  Overall while the game is enjoyable overall and is one of my favorites it is not without its flaws. 
 I would love to see this game get remade and be done even better than before. It may never happen 
 but I can always dream that this entertaining game can be made even better than it was before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi34
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The game G Nome is great. I don't even see a problem with it. In 1997, this game hit the stores 
 and I got this with my 95 and got used to it very well in just 3 months. There are some flaws though: 
 the first one is that the graphics are Nintendo 64 caliber graphics however, but they are pretty 
 distracting though. Another flaw is that the controling is pretty sick. You have to press + to 
 move and - to stop. The battling is pretty cool, but expect to get mad for a few seconds, because 
 the gameplay is quite hard, but like I said, you are going to get used to the hardcore of the gameplay. 
 So in other terms, you should try your best in each stage. The music is brillient and comfortable 
 with the whole game. It's almost like you're actually playing something like Medal of Honor or 
 Call of Duty. For the most part, G-Nome is a little tough, but you get used to it very well and 
 the gameplay is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSGD2003
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  1997 came and went, and so did G-NOME. It was a mech game, back when mechs where still where cool. 
 It wasn't fast like quake, released the year before, but rather slow and methodical. This most 
 likely turned off many players. The basic plot, is that you control a mech (which you actually 
 can get out off) , and tries to save the world. The is definitely best in multiplayer, even though 
 the single-player missions are fun in their own right. But the best fun is to be had fighting your 
 best friends. 
  
  The graphics are a definite downside to this game, which objects looked fine, to other that are 
 completely pixilated. The audio is quite better, but not perfect, I did like the soundtrack, however. 
 So, all-in-all, a game best suited for multiplayer, for people not turned off by the slow nature 
 of the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
