-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gabriel Knight 3: Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/gabrielknight3bloodotsbotd/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 426 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 5, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has several problems that will dampen the experience for all but the most die-hard fans of the 
 series. 

 Gabriel Knight 3: Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned continues the story of Gabriel Knight, 
 a private detective who is also the sole descendent of a family of monster hunters. Each of the 
 two previous episodes was a traditional adventure game with its own visual style. The first, Sins 
 of the Fathers, featured hand-drawn 2D artwork, while the second, The Beast Within, was one of 
 the only good games to use full-motion video during the glut of FMV games in the mid-'90s. The 
 newest chapter once again switches engines to tell a tale of supernatural horror, but it has several 
 problems that will dampen the experience for all but the most die-hard fans of the series.  

 Gabriel Knight is the creation of gaming-industry auteur Jane Jensen. For this third installment, 
 she has done extensive research into the history and mythology of Rennes-le-Chateau, a village 
 in the Languedoc region of France and the focal point of many occult mysteries. The game weaves 
 the Knights Templar, the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, revisionist Catholic heresy, kidnapping, 
 and vampirism into its complex plot, which results in a cross between Umberto Eco's Foucault's 
 Pendulum and an Agatha Christie whodunit. Jensen has obviously done her homework, and the connections 
 she makes between historical fact and speculative legend are fascinating.  

 Unfortunately, a collection of intriguing theories does not necessarily result in a compelling story. 
 While the ideas that provide the basis for the plot are excellent, the dialogue and voice acting 
 are not. Gabriel Knight himself is a thoroughly unlikable character, thanks in large part to a 
 terrible acting job by Tim Curry. His fake accent and overly dramatic delivery are almost unbearable 
 and will make you appreciate the option to replace the spoken words with subtitles. The dialogue 
 itself is also partially to blame, as it's occasionally bad enough to sink even lower than the 
 bad speech. The script is filled with supposedly funny lines and double entendres that are painfully 
 witless.  

 As in the previous installment of the Gabriel Knight series, you also assume the role of Gabriel's 
 assistant, Grace Nakimura, at certain points in the game. Her speech is delivered more convincingly, 
 but sometimes it's just as poorly written as Gabriel's. Both characters' response to any situation, 
 no matter how grim, is relentless sarcasm, which would be hard to take in a two-hour movie, much 
 less a 60-hour game. A complete lack of suspense further undermines the story. The plot moves forward 
 at a leisurely pace: Although a baby has been kidnapped, a few murders have occurred, and vampires 
 are afoot, these events never seem particularly dangerous or urgent. This is partly due to Gabriel 
 and Grace being so glib, but it can also be attributed to the game's graphics.  

 Gabriel Knight 3 is the first in the series to feature a fully 3D engine. It's serviceable in terms 
 of drawing geometry but seems to be missing any kind of complex lighting effects. As a result, 
 every scene is flatly lit and utterly lacking in atmosphere. While the environments are accurately 
 modeled and based on actual locations, the uniform lighting and blurry texture mapping make the 
 game feel more like a simulated architectural walk-through than an occult mystery. In fact, the 
 full-motion video of The Beast Within would have actually been more suitable than Gabriel Knight 
 3's graphics engine.  

 The game is structured as a series of sequences that take place across three days of investigation. 
 Certain actions must be taken to advance the story to the next sequence. Early on, the game forces 
 you to solve some puzzles that are ludicrous even when measured against some of the genre's weakest 
 examples. Fortunately, the puzzles generally get better as the story progresses. For example, Grace 
 must solve a series of 12 riddles later in the game by scanning physical evidence into a laptop 
 computer, researching esoteric topics in an occult database, and then analyzing her findings with 
 the help of some translation and mapping software. These riddles make up the bulk of the middle 
 and later sections of the game, and while some of them are pretty difficult, they at least make 
 sense in retrospect.  

 By the time you've finally finished the game, you won't necessarily be eager to start over again. 
 But if you are so inclined, Gabriel Knight 3 actually has a lot of replay value. Many scenes and 
 items are entirely optional, and scenes can play out in several different ways depending on what 
 you've witnessed and what objects you've collected. Solving the game with a perfect score will 
 definitely take more than a few attempts.  

 As a whodunit, Gabriel Knight 3 is a letdown. The identity of the villain becomes evident early 
 in the game. It's more of a whydunit, and the "why" is the most interesting part of the story. 
 It's a traditional adventure with some excellent plot elements, interesting challenges, poorly 
 written dialogue, and below-average acting. The 3D engine is more of a gimmick than a true improvement, 
 and along with the dialogue, it actually manages to detract from the sort of atmosphere that a 
 compelling, interactive horror story needs. At one point in the game, a character angrily tells 
 Gabriel Knight to "Shut the hell up." It's a shame that this minor player is the cast member you'll 
 be rooting for.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ExMachinaXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game 
 Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game 
 Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game 
 Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game 
 Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game 
 Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game 
 Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game 
 Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game
  Great game Great game Great game Great game Great game
  Great game Great game Great game Great 
 game Great game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The third of the series game - Adventure ....
  A dark travel this time in France, the game continues 
  as Gabriel is more powerfull in his faith 
 than ever :D
  
  In the start he guard a babe, that has king's blood hmmm ...
  Strange visitors in the night come and take the kid 
  from the hands of Gabriel, the shadow hunter 
 runs to 
  catch them in a train ... something hit him hard ... 
  So you weak up in a village by the name of 
  Renele chateu ....
  
  You will soon discover 
 that your quest is of high importance 
  cause its not only the small child, but something more !!!
  
  Your faith will come infront 
 something powerfull 
  that you can never imagine, something that if you dont 
  prevent it soon, it will bring even the end of the world ... :D
  
  Joker out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugyzajbl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  GK3. it was long way back in 1999 when I got a demo from a friend. he said YOU GOT TO TRY THIS 
 DEMO. ITS SOMETHING YOU HAVENT SEEN BEFORE. And he was reight. i played that demo (wich was long 
 abouth 15 minutes of playing max ) 4 or 5 times just that day.
  soon came the day when i got my own copy of the game. it still is the only game i have ever bought. 
 and i have never regraded it. along with the boughed copy came a comic to. the comic was insted 
 of an intro movie. and I still sometimes read that 10 page short comic just for fun:) . The game 
 looked awsome as i tought. characters were amazing for 1999. indor locations were awsome to. just 
 the outdoor locations were a little out of dat. but the graphics never was the strongest part of 
 GK3. it was the story. the story just blew me away. THE STORY OF GK3 IS BETTER THEN IN MOST MOVIES. 
 i have played thig game in past 8 years abouth 10 times from start to finish. its not a game that 
 you just play trough its a game that you have to take tame to play it. it has so meny things you 
 will miss if you play it fast. you can missaround 25% of the stori and conections in it.. youl 
 still understand all of it but if you play it slow and theral you the final picture gets so much 
 clearer in the end. you receve so much more information, conactions and relationships between characters... 
 its just an amazing game. and the puzzles. the game has one of the best puzzles ever made. not 
 just in the game world but in common world. its named La Serpent Rouge. its a bunch of old ridles 
 that are suposed to reveal location of underground copy of solomons temple (at least thats what 
 it reveals in the game) . it realy is an amazing game. and i was wandering why is its score only 
 6,7. adventure games ar all abouth the story. adventure games are like an interactive book. or 
 interactive film. how come broken sword 3 got 8,1 and GK3 only 6,7? dont get me wrong BS3 is a 
 good game to i just played it lest week and while i was playing BS3 i gor reminded on GK3 on many 
 ocasions. the climbing on the balcony was done in GK3 8 years ago. that ridle i the temple in congo 
 i thik. well it was done in the GK3 befor. and many other things reminded me on GK3. even the main 
 protagonists (Stobbarts) voice reminded me on the actor that lented his voice to Gabriel in KG1 
 and GK3 Tim Curry. even stobbarts face and hairare almost identical to Gabriels. in my opinion 
 GK3 is way better game and deserves way better score then BS3 for instance. and if you gave BS3 
 8,1 then GK3 should have 9,1 and should be marked as one of the mest games ever couse that is what 
 it deserves. shure there wount be GK4 but the partial reason for that may also be yours 6,7. pease 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woweeman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  For some reason many people seem to slam this game for being too hard, slow and boring, but it's 
 not true this is one of the finest story driven adventure games i've played. This is the third 
 and dare i say it best in the triology, don't get me wrong i loved the other 3, but this just has 
 something special. By todays standards the graphics arn't that great, but they do look good, and 
 yes the game has some head scrathing puzzles, but the control interface is easy to use, and after 
 a long thought all the puzzle can be done (only once did I have to use a walkthough, but that was 
 down to a puzzle translating Latin) , the fun thing with this game now is that it seems Dan Brown 
 ripped certain elements out of it to write The Da Vinci Code. Everytime I get bored of the new 
 games coming out I go back to replaying this classic. If you love adventure games that are brilliantly 
 written, and you fancy a real adult challange then this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buffytvs79
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Sorry Gamespot, but you've got it wrong.
  
  This game is one of my favorite games of all time. It is a joy to play. Sure the graphics aren't 
 the best ever, and maybe the game would have looked better in 2d, not 3d.. but regardless, Jane 
 Jensen wrote a MAGNIFICENT story that makes this game more like a blockbuster movie or a thrilling 
 novel. The gameplay is very fun, aside from some graphical glitches and bugs, but I didn't really 
 mind them. There is a lot of witty humor incorporated in the dialogue, and the sound effects, music 
 and voice acting is top notch.
  
  Though it may not be a technical achievement like Oblivion or Half Life, Gabriel Knight 3 has THE 
 BEST STORY I have ever seen in a computer game. GK 1 and 2 are also WONDERFUL, and I highly recommend 
 them to anyone who enjoys an engrossing adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasgarett
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  This game is all what a traditional adventure game should look like.
  I believe this is the only game, wher I liked playing the action elements at the end. It gave me 
 a sense of achievement.
  
  Downside --The graphics are a little tardy but apart from that everything's so good.
  
  Nobody 
 can beat Jane, when it comes to tell a story and she does it with spunk, wit and intelligence.
 
  
  No wonder Gabriel Knight is one of the most celebrated adventure gaming characters of all times.
 
  
  My advice --Immerse yourself in this game. It isn't didfficult, excepting the freemasonry handshake.
 
  
  It is a wonderful piece of storytelling with some arresting piece of literature.
  This game was the precurssor of the Da Vinci Code. You get hints of the conspiracy from this story.
 
  
  You want to feel like a hero after playing an adventure game ----check it out.
  You solve a mystery; you unravel your legacy and you come close to god and the soundtrack ---its 
 just awesome!!!!!! Play it ----any adventure gamer worth his salt shouldn't keep away from this 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilouuuu2004
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game really seemed interesting, and like areally good idea. I mean, a mistery, horror adventure 
 with 3d graphics and spoken dialogue. What could be better? Many things to be honest. It's a real 
 shame that this game ever got released, as it made no good to adventure legacy and probably helped 
 to sink it. 
  
  The graphics are really bad, although you can't say by the screen shots. What makes them so bad 
 is that they are so slooow. Going from one place to another is so boring and Gabriel really gets 
 on the nerves with his slow walk and stupid voice and dialogues. He is made from just a few polygons 
 and really looks bad. I really, really liked much more the first Gabriel Knight which was in 2d 
 and although I never played the second FMV game, it seems much better than this one. It shows that 
 some games are much better when they're not in 3d. If you want a 3d adventure game get Escape from 
 Monkey Island or Grim Fandango. Don't get this game. It really sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2004 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Gabriel Knight 3 was the first GK game to be made in 3D and was the last in the series. It was 
 also one of the most difficult games I have played in quite some time. 
  
  Graphically the game is passable with some clipping but overall, it was okay. The control system 
 needs some work. I always would screw up the view at some point or move the wrong way. Mild problem, 
 that can be fixed. 
  
  The story is fantastic as always. Mixing Vampires, Demon ceremonies, the Holy Grail among other 
 topics, Jane Jensen again proves that she is one of, if not the best writer in the gaming industry. 
 Games that need a good story, get this woman on board.
  
  The real problem in this game is the puzzles. They can be insanely difficult at times. I will admit 
 that I had to get a hint guide to get some of the mapping items done. And the process to make a 
 fake mustasche was non-logical. Those are just some of the crazy puzzles in this game.
  
  I would say, get a hint guide before playing this and you will surely enjoy it. The ending left 
 me a little pissed (I won't give it away, but longtime fans of the game will either like it or 
 hate it) .
  
  The saddest thing about this game is that there will most likely never be another one release and 
 that is a shame for future gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2004 7:48 pm PT
Review:  If you like a good mystery novel then you should jump right into GK series because they all are 
 great. If you missed these games I would highly recommend picking them up and curling up with a 
 cup of your favorite poison. Turn off the lights and enjoy a wonderful jolt to the senses. The 
 writing in GK games are what makes the games such an enjoyable play. All of these games could have 
 easily been ported over to a paperback novel. As with all of the Sierra adventure games GK is a 
 true classic and deserves a place on your hard drive. Enjoy! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
