-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Galactic Civilizations II: Dark Avatar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/galacticcivilizations2darkavatar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New features provide even more strategic breadth and depth.
 excellent artificial intelligence has been tuned to be even better.
 easy ability to mod and customize provides a plethora of user-made add-ons.
 dramatic new campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer.
 diplomacy could use a little more depth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.2, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Stardock
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Feb 14, 2007

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new features in Dark Avatar elevate the already superb Galactic Civilizations II to the title 
 of undisputed best turn-based space strategy game on the PC. 

  Galactic Civilizations II: Dread Lords was on most strategy-game-of-the-year awards lists in 2006, 
 garnering praise from many as the best space-based "4X" (exploring, expanding, exploiting, exterminating) 
 game ever released for the PC. That's a tough act to follow, yet somehow Stardock has managed to 
 produce an add-on package that elevates the game to an even higher level of strategy gaming excellence. 
 Dark Avatar accomplishes this via subtle tweaks in a wide range of existing features combined with 
 some totally new elements that significantly expand the depth and breadth of an already excellent 
 game.  

          A Drengin fleet looking for trouble.     

  Many of the improvements can be termed "minor," yet they have a significant impact. The graphics 
 in Dread Lords were fine, but Dark Avatar improves the quality of the visuals in just about every 
 aspect of the game. The ships in particular are noticeably more detailed, and a slew of new parts 
 in the ship designer provide you with the ability to reproduce anything from the U. S. S. Enterprise 
 to a flying milk truck. Users have already posted some incredible home-brew ships on the Internet. 
 Weapon effects and resulting explosions have also been improved. The technology-tree interface 
 has undergone a graphics face-lift that results in a much easier-to-use presentation of the branching 
 technology pathways, although it can still take a little work to determine precisely what techs 
 are required to build a certain type of ship. These and many other tweaks and improvements on existing 
 features are what you might expect in an add-on to an already superb game.  

  But Dark Avatar introduces some completely new features that create fresh challenges and options. 
 One of the most profound changes is the nature of planets. In Dread Lords, all planets could be 
 colonized by every civilization, which resulted in an early game rush to grab every planet possible, 
 with an emphasis on the richest worlds. The best strategy was always to focus on being first to 
 the planets. Dark Avatar's universe is more realistically hostile, with planets having a variety 
 of environments, many of them uninhabitable to most civilizations unless they either natively possess 
 the capability to prosper in that environment or spend the considerable time and resources to develop 
 the technology to render the world livable. Planets exhibit a wide variety of environments; thus, 
 your choice of what to research is critical: You may spend weeks developing the capability to tame 
 a radioactive world, only to find that there is only one radioactive planet but three prime planets 
 that require aquatic capabilities. If you're a civilization with the native ability to populate 
 a certain type of hostile planet, you'll have to debate the value of trading that valuable capability 
 against keeping it to yourself. Building a civilization of planets is a much more complex and challenging 
 undertaking than in Dread Lords.  

          You can create and completely customize new races.     

  Espionage now requires you 
 to develop agents, which takes time and money. Once you have an active agent, you can place it 
 on an opponent's planet and foil your opponent's attempts to build planetary upgrades at the same 
 time that your agent gathers intelligence. You will also need agents to engage in counterespionage 
 to nullify enemy agents placed on your planets. This results in little cat-and-mouse games as you 
 and your foes try to spy on each other as long as possible before your agents are caught and eliminated. 
 Unfortunately, there don't appear to be any negative consequence to having an agent caught spying; 
 we never received any messages from an opposing civilization protesting our espionage on its planet. 

  Two more major additions are superabilities, which are native to specific races, and mega-events, 
 which are unpredictable events that can have a galaxywide impact. Superabilities give each race 
 a more distinct feel and require that you take each race's unique capabilities into account as 
 you deal with them. For example, if you attack a race with the superorganizer ability, you'll find 
 that every race of the same ethical alignment will come to its aid. If you play as the Drath, with 
 their supermanipulator ability, you will be able to more easily get other races to go to war against 
 each other. Superdiplomat races can cut much better deals with other civilizations than normal 
 races. Mega-events typically change the overall balance of the galaxy, with such events as universal 
 plagues, civil wars, outbreaks of pirates, and much more. Mega-events can completely change the 
 course of the game, which can be a blessing or a curse, depending upon how well you're doing. Both 
 superabilities and mega-events have a profound impact on the game; thus, in the ''have it your 
 way'' philosophy of Galactic Civilizations II, both can be toggled on or off.  

  The customizability and respect that the game shows you by allowing every aspect to be toggled, 
 tweaked, or, in some cases, completely modified, have been beefed up even more in Dark Avatar. 
 Now you can play as any race (and two new races have been included) , and you can design a completely 
 new race. You can tailor every aspect of the new race, from how it thinks, what its priorities 
 are, and its abilities, to its appearance and custom ship styles. Want to play against the Borg? 
 Or would you rather play as Hitler's great-great-great-great grandson? You can design them into 
 the game. An enterprising user has already designed a Shodan opponent (the evil entity from the 
 classic System Shock) . The possibilities are practically endless.  

  Speaking of new races, the new campaign is built around a very interesting premise. It's the bad 
 guys against the  really  bad guys. The Drengin Empire has always represented evil in the Galactic 
 Civilizations II universe, but now a clan within the Drengin, the Korath, has begun to break away 
 and impose its own will on the galaxy. While the Drengin are content to merely enslave everyone 
 that they can conquer, the Korath are happy with nothing less than complete extermination. In addition, 
 there is something even more sinister occurring within the Korath race. Your role, as the commander 
 of the Drengin, is to unravel the mystery of what is going on within this renegade race and prevent 
 it from exterminating all of those potential slaves. The campaign is very well designed, as well 
 as a good way for beginners to start and learn the mechanics of the game while being drawn into 
 an engrossing drama.  

          Asteroid belts can now be mined to provide valuable resources.     

  The artificial 
 intelligence has always been a highlight of Galactic Civilizations II, so it is downright scary 
 that it has been further refined and improved in Dark Avatar. It was already intelligent enough 
 to make you feel as if you were playing against human players rather than hard-coded AI. So the 
 improvements are subtle, such as how well your opponents design their ships for particular situations 
 and how they handle negotiations in technology trading. Speaking of race negotiations, you now 
 have the option of establishing research and economic treaties. These can be unilateral or bilateral 
 treaties. Diplomacy is still a bit simple when compared to Space Empires V, but it's extremely 
 well designed.  

  Dark Avatar is technically a "mere" expansion to Galactic Civilizations II: Dread Lords, but the 
 added features are so profound that it feels like a new and even better game. The incredible range 
 of options and now the ability to create completely new races ensure that you can create any type 
 of game that you happen to be in the mood for, from a race between reasonable civilizations in 
 a tiny galaxy to an epic space opera between good and evil in a massive universe, with a mythos 
 made of stock races or customized to create Kirk's U. S. S. Enterprise versus Darth Vader. If you 
 had any doubt about whether Galactic Civilizations II was the best 4X space game on the PC, Dark 
 Avatar will crush those doubts like the Korath wiping the last vestiges of life from a helpless 
 planet. This is a must-buy for any owner of Dread Lords and highly recommended for any strategy 
 gaming fan.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: spamin76
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Empire building games, to me at least, have never been about campaigns. Each game is a fresh start 
 for me to try new things and win or lose by them. The campaign portion of this expansion is not 
 something I am ever going to touch, so there is some ok additions to the core gameplay to make 
 each race feel a little more distinct, but in the end you are playing basically the same game you 
 have been playing, against the same AI (still a good challenge, but not even close to playing against 
 or with another human being) .
  
  If you want a good single player game, this expansion offers some extra features (not a ton, but 
 a decent amount) but if you want a more social gaming experience you can pass on this and subsequent 
 galactic civ titltes until they decide that they want to support multiplayer.
  
  Now I am just going to have to sit and wait for Civilization 5... or maybe some other 4X surprise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  Ever wonder what it would be like to run your own civilization? In space I might add? Well that's 
 what Stardock has done for us, they have basically taken Civilization's, and put in space, with 
 very positive results I might add, this is by far the most addicting turn-based strategy game I 
 have ever played in my life, far exceeding, possibly surpassing the Civilization games.
  
  The game starts you off at the character screen where you choose the race you want to be, ranging 
 from the standard Terrans (humans) , to the Altarians, all the way to the Drengin empire, each with 
 there own personalities, and unique race trees. After you choose your empire, you decide what traits 
 you want to upgrade through the bonus points system which lets you enhance your civilizations ability, 
 for example, if I gave four points to the economy, then my economy will be 40% stronger then before.
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty basic, you start off has a lone civilization who is ready to expand through 
 the cosmos, at start, you are the Imperial, guiding your race into the universe. You have to be 
 smart with every move you do, speeding your way through this game won't help, this is no real-time 
 strategy, you have to plan what you want and what your strategies are going to be, rushing in isn't 
 smart unless you have every race on your side. You have to worry about 5 things in this game, economy 
 (which is huge part of the game, and by far the most difficult to stabalize) , culture (also hard 
 unless you are smart with your research) , social order in your planets, diplomacy, and war.
  
  Planets in the game are broken down into separate catagories, there are the Terrain Planets, 
 then there are the unique planets, the Terrain planets are the normal ones, earth-like planets 
 that anyone can occupy without doing research. Unique planets are the planets that have research 
 attached to colonize them, for example, Radioactive planets need to be countered with radioactive 
 reflectors. Each planet has a number, so Planet X has 10 beside it, meaning there are 10 slots 
 that can be used for your empire, may it be a bank to help your economy, social centers for your 
 approval, or a culture exchange center to spread your influence. There are unique buildings that 
 can be used to stimulate your whole empire, but these mine as well be like the Tower of Giza in 
 Civilizations.
  
  Economy is the biggest part of the game, earning x amount of credits (in the billions) every turn, 
 now every planet you colonize takes up a certain amount of maintenance, bigger planets require 
 more money, but its hard to maintain unless you done the appropriate research to get the economy 
 stimulated. Economy has to be managed effectively to run an empire well, applying it to the right 
 things such as military and social, or research networks, depending on your empires needs.
  
  Social plays out like your happiness in Civilizations, the lower this is, the less likely that 
 your people will stay with you. This meter is shown on every planet, for example, if it says 40% 
 approval, that means soon there will be a revolt if you do not act quickly to the epidemic, to 
 counter this, entertainment networks, stadiums may be built to entertain your people, this mechanic 
 plays off of the economy, so again, if this thing is low, then your tax income rate from your people 
 will come to a halt.
  
  Research and War play out exactly how Civilization did it, but a couple of tricks keep it refreshing 
 and tidy. Research is broken to the social, diplomatic, military, logistics, and culture sections, 
 each with its long list of items to research, but every race has its own unique tree of research, 
 making the races unique to one another, making it a different play through everytime your play 
 the game. War is almost exactly like Civilization but 3 things make it completely different, one 
 being that you can create fleets with multiple ships of different types with in them, making them 
 more lethal combat, one other being that you can completely customize your stats and your ships 
 to make a versatile war machine, and the invasion mechinic. The invasion is like rolling dice, 
 you have to roll at the right moment to get the highest number, this number stops both you and 
 the AI's, and its a chance of who will win the invasion, this mechinic is hard to master, so don't 
 worry if you loose alot, because I did to.
  
  The AI is anything but bad, they are the smartest things in the game, they will make smart decisions, 
 they know there way around, they taunt you, they will do anything they want, and they will do it 
 smart, almost better then you most of the time. The only problem is that I found them to be too 
 good, even on Beginner, so I would start on low difficulties before escalating to normal.
  
  Graphics and sound are nothing special, nothing to talk about, the music however makes the 
 game feel great, its both relaxing, and triumphant at the same time, suiting the situation in both 
 cases, if this game has a downfall, it will both keep you up all night, and that it has no multiplayer, 
 but if it did, games would take days.
  
  This expansion fixed most of the problems that persisted in Dread Lords, although they were small, 
 they were somewhat noticable. The Graphics have had a noticable enhancement, memory fixes, interface 
 has had some upgrades, but the most noticable enhancement to the game is the fact that the research 
 options have been overhauled. When I mean overhaul, they redid some of the descriptions, and took 
 out a couple of the technologies.
  
  Overall, this expansion is worth a buy, if you are both patient with the game, and don't mind spending 
 every waking minute in the games universe, its definately a thinking mans game so be prepared for 
 a challenge when you walk into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations II: Dark Avatar, being an expansion, needs no in depth introduction. Despite 
 being only an expansion, though; Dark Avatar comes packed with a lot of tweaks, and new features 
 to keep players interested, and fixes a lot of the problems with the original Dread Lords.
  
  There's a campaign, but like the Dread Lords campaign it's barely worth noting. The standard 
 game was the meat of GC II, and it remains so in DA. Dark Avatar increases the initial Galaxy customization 
 by quite a bit. You can set the amount of minor races, there's now asteroids, mega-events, custom 
 races for opponents, "super abilities", and every race has its own unique ship set.
  
  Customizing your opponents was a nice touch, and a feature that I felt should have been in the 
 original game. Essentially it works a lot like the custom player race selection in the vanilla 
 game, but there's an extra "personality" tab that allows you to customize how the AI acts. This 
 is a nice touch, and lets you create a galaxy made up entirely of custom races if you so choose 
 (though the stock races will still be referenced in events, and research news reports) .
  
  Once the game begins there's plenty of new features that make the game less "rush-centric". I loved 
 the original GalCiv II, don't get me wrong, but most of the time the game's outcome was decided 
 in the first ten minutes. Dark Avatar fixes this by introducing "planet types", most habitable 
 planets in the galaxy can't be colonized until you do some research. Even if you do fall behind 
 while going at your own pace things can be easily turned around in your favor with "mega-events". 
 These large galaxy-wide events can really hurt some of the bigger Empires, this can also hurt you 
 of course if you're doing well. There's nothing quite like having your people start tearing each 
 other apart once a Galactic Civil War spreads throughout your planets allowing the improved AI 
 of the other Empire leaders to take advantage of the chaos that comes with the carnage.
  
  Two other major features. One is asteroids, essentially asteroids are just another way of generating 
 resources for your civilization via asteroid mining colonies. These can generate quite a bit of 
 extra revenue for your Empire - provided you can keep them under your control. Mining operations 
 are very easily swayed to other factions. Another major feature is the revamped espionage system. 
 In the vanilla game all you did was assign a weekly espionage spending amount to the other major 
 races in your foreign policy. In Dark Avatar all you have to do is assign money into one espionage 
 budget, and every few weeks you'll get a new agent. You can assign up to four agents to each major 
 race, bringing your espionage level with that race up a notch. My favorite part about the new espionage 
 system is the way you can sabotage the efficiency of other civilizations' structures. Say you want 
 to lower the research rate of an enemy Empire, all you have to do is assign a free agent to one 
 of the most efficient research laboratories in your target's possession. I loved this myself, it 
 made swaying other planets to my side much easier. These agents can actually be "nullified" (politically 
 correct way of saying executed?) by agents belonging to that civilization, though.
  
  I'd say that Dark Avatar is a must have purchase if you enjoyed Galactic Civilizations II: Dread 
 Lords. It adds more depth, and tweaks the game so you don't have to rush out to find as many habitable 
 planets as possible in the first five minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't say that this game is necessarily hard it's just that the computer can throw at you 
 a lot of different stuff and if you can't do some micromanaging, you're going to be losing (or 
 in my case, quitting the game and starting a new game) quite often. 
  
  One point I loved about the game was the random events. There are a myriad of events, some good 
 and some bad. Let's just say that some of the events parody our "culture" and anyone with a sense 
 of humor would get a couple of chuckles.
  
  I also really liked some of the race designs. Especially the Snathi, an evil sentient squirrel 
 race hell bent on killing everything.
  
  In the introduction I compared this game to Alpha Centauri. AC was easy because the enemy AI wasn't 
 so sly. In GC: DA, the AI always goes for your most closest most vulnerable infrastructure (even 
 at normal level) and quite often they ally with each other to gang up on you if you're not careful. 
 They also pass laws (through the galactic united nations) that often times can really mess you 
 up. But if you weedle, give gifts, and play a underhanded game you'd usually come out on top in 
 a 9 nation gigantic map. The very sly AI compounded with some bad random events can easily wipe 
 you out (but that rarely happens and you can also disable super events) .
  
  Overall this game's selling point is it's dastardly devious AI, it's large number of tech fields, 
 and it's customizable gameplay.
  
  It's definitely worth $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curseofpoopdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Though I am not a fan of turn-based strategy games, I am now addicted to this game. After receiving 
 a demo for this game i found my self playing more and more, even after the game auto-timed me out. 
 I then continued to play that demo for 3 weeks, until i finally bought the full version. Thats 
 right ladies and gents, 3 weeks of playing a demo, thats just how much I love this game. The AI 
 in this game is incredible and the game-play is quick and easy to understand. The ship design program 
 is very well done and provides many options, though sometimes it feels like the ship you want to 
 build is just out of reach. The planet management system is very well done, the spreadsheet options 
 make it quick and easy to make adjustments to your growing empire. Now dont get me wrong, this 
 game does have its flaws. If you dont have friends to play this game with, the AI can be strange 
 and is only good for a warfare or alliance victory. Despite these minor flaws, i would recommend 
 this to anyone who likes strategy games.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  I've long been a fan of the space combat sim, space strategy, and just any space game in general. 
 This stems greatly from my years as a Star Wars fanatic. This was closely followed by Babylon 5, 
 and most recently Battlestar Galactica. Needless to say, these genres don't get much love. In fact, 
 anyone who loves games that take them across solar systems and galaxy will tell you that everyone 
 now a days is hooked on the fantasy genre.
  
  But in a world devoid of any life on these subjects, this game truly shines as a masterpiece. In 
 many ways GC II is just a sandbox. Sure there is a campaign mode, but it never really drew me in. 
 Where it really shines is setting up massive galaxies for you to conquer and control. The basic 
 game systems are easy to learn, but difficult to master, and can leave you addicted.
  
  The crowing jewel here is the customization. Everything from your empire's name, to their ships, 
 right down to your racial bonuses is customizable. Never since Space Empire's 3 has a game accomplished 
 this as succesfully. Ship customization is a joy and can be one of the most fun parts of the game. 
 It is a thrill to watch the new destroyers you just built go toe to toe with your enemy's battleships. 
 I am completely addicted to this game and continue to go back to it time and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePower69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations 2 : DA is one of those games you dont hear much about. Which is unfortunate 
 because it really is one of the best Turn based strategy games ive ever played. Its a game that 
 starts out like most TBS games however it distinguishes itself by adding extra depth and a brilliant 
 AI. 
  
  Although the lore and the characters weren't as epic as some of the big name games out there , 
 the game play is where this game shines. Essentially your goal is to conquer a galaxy but this 
 can be done by many means. You can with with a strong economy , you can use diplomacy to convert 
 the galaxy to your power , you can research ascension resulting in a win and if all else doesn't 
 appeal to you just take the direct approach and annihilate the enemy. 
  
  The games offers the ability to customise various ships. Most ships will be used for combat be 
 it fighting or defense. There are other ships however like trade freights which are used for tradeing 
 , and constructors which are used to build star bases. Having such a diverse range of ships and 
 the ability to customise there weapons , armor , engines and many extra attachments, you can also 
 change the actual shape design of your ships adding even more depth.
  
  A great thing about this game is that the AI (computer players) are not idiots. They are not easy 
 to exploit past the easy difficulty setting. It really makes the game worth playing not only for 
 a challenge but it really is a sense of good beating the computer in a game where the AI isn't 
 brain dead. 
  
  All in all this game is great and i recommend it to any fan of TBS games. So what are you waiting 
 for? go get it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dauragon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Ever since playing MOO2 (Master of Orion 2) back when I was a little big kid, and after being disappointed 
 in MOO3, I have been waiting for a turn based strategy game featuring galactic domination with 
 numerous races and tons of options. I recommend this game to anyone who hasn't switched on over 
 to the RTS fan boys who think down on all TBS. The downfall to this game is the lack of multi player. 
 I was a bit disappointed that I couldn't even LAN this game, unless I overlooked something. Hopefully 
 in the next expansion there will be a multi player feature added, if not it'll just replace MOO2 
 for me, but wont take me to my computer when I feel like playing a video game. If you're a console 
 gamer and used to online multi player, you might want to stick to your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Galactic Civilization fan for a long time, and Dark Avatar has only increased my loyalty 
 to the series. If I could find three bad things to say about the game, one of them would be that 
 once you get Dark Avatar, you will be hard pressed to go back to playing GS II: Dreadlords. This 
 version is much more fun, well thought out and challenging.
  
  As with most empire building games (space or otherwise) you start out with your initial planet 
 and must grow from there. Expansion is like any gold rush... find the best planets, get there as 
 fast as you can, stake your claim and do it all over again. There are a number of planets that 
 are uninhabitable till you research the tech to live on them, (toxic, radioactive, etc.) , and that 
 adds a dimension of future-planning that isn't present in a lot of strategy games.
  
  I have played seven or eight sandbox games (there is a scenario game you can choose) so far and 
 while I pretty much stick to a lay low and build up strategy, the AI has forced my hand a time 
 or two into playing a defensive military game before I'm ready. That said, I still think it is 
 pretty easy to avoid conflict if you want to, despite the nasty races which inhabit the galaxy.
 
  
  One of the best features of the game are random events that really can shake up the game. For example, 
 during one game a mysterious faction came along and took over 6 of my planets, not to metion 6 
 of all the other AI's planets. Suddenly there was a new force to be reckoned with in the galaxy 
 and the leading powers had lost some of their strength. There is a lot of beefing in the various 
 GS reviews about no multiplayer. Well, waaah. You know there is no multiplayer going into the game, 
 so why gripe about it? The AI is pretty darn clever and presents enough of a challenge.
  
  Finally, Stardock supports this game 100%, meaning there are frequent updates, patches, tweaks 
 and other nice things they do to make gameplay more enjoyable. They have a library full of player-created 
 ship designs, symbols and other bells and whistles that enhance gameplay. I've never gotten bored 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishtari23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  + Strategic depth
  + Great graphics for a strategy game
  + Good replay value
  + Fun and interesting customization options, especially the ships
  + Some good new stuff
  
 
  - No multi player
  - Steep learning curve
  - Lack of information in-game, most notable in the tech tree
  - Tech tree is improved but still 
 lacking
  - The new things doesn't change so much
  
  The expansion to Galactic Civilizations II is great, mostly because the core game is so good. The 
 new things include spies that you place o specific buildings to hamper the production and asteroid 
 fields that can be mined for resources. There is also a bunch of new races and other minor changes. 
 There is also a new single player campaign but the meat of the game is still in the custom games.
 
  
  If you loved Galactic Civilizations II and want more of the same get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I was one of the beta testers of this game, so I have been able to watch it grow from a unstable 
 but still highly addictive expansion pack to a unstable highly addictive expansion pack. Yes after 
 releasing in February this game still has that unstable factor. For that I have to knock it down 
 a few notches, but thankfully this games high points more then make up or a few crashes here and 
 there.
  
  I thought the base game was one of the greatest turn based games around. That revolved mostly around 
 the fact that the A. I. was almost scary smart. It would make stupid mistakes, but those mistakes 
 were often fixed with patches. Here with Dark Avatar we have even more of that. Add in new ship 
 models, condensed tech tree, new single player campaign, new races, can create new enemies, mining 
 asteroids, and the list goes on. One of the most important chances involve planet classes. You 
 have to research new tech to gain the ability to colonize a planet. This can extend the race to 
 expand much further into the game then before. Super events are another big change. You have the 
 option to turn them off, but if you leave them on things will happen. Things that could, and probably 
 will change the pace of the entire game. You might be on top of the galaxy, then a super event 
 comes, and you are knocking on deaths door. They could work to your advantage, or they might not. 
 This can undermine the game, and destroy the fun. But you can turn it off so it can't really be 
 seen as a negative aspect. There is no online play but this game would be bad for online play anyway. 
 The games would just take too long. As before the developers are still patching the game. New updates 
 are constantly rolling in. This could drastically change the game in the long run. The Good:
  same game play, too many little improvements to mention here.
  
  The Bad:
  The game is just 
 a little too unstable.
  
  I love this game. I just hope that they will patch it again, and remove the instability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phuyem
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  You must spent our to build your economic with routine task. To build your army, you must do alot 
 of thing (upgrade techno ... ) waiting for money rasing slowly. And it is hard to get in combat.
 
  
  The battle happens quickly and quietly, you dont have time to enjoy your victory. Battles in Galactic 
 is inconvenient and not attractive. There are no hot key (short cut key) , you must use mouse all 
 the time.
  It is very difficult to understand this game.
  
  I think author should spent more effort on battle field (graphic, tactice ....) . Just think about 
 the simple turn based game like Hero, it is easy to understand, fast to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: it009x9281
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I didn't think you could add anything to an already great game, i was wrong different types of planets 
 that need to be researched so you can colonize, asteroids that can be mined, more custom options 
 and a super ability for each civ.
  I had to digital download the expansion to play and i didn't get a manual but it was pretty easy 
 to pick up.
  The game does have heavy support always when i go to star dock there is an update there so i need 
 to endlessly search out updates for the game.
  In the game i found it more of a challenge and im glad they have add the minor races which i love 
 to destroy and trade with i even found a race of evil care bears which i thought was pretty funny 
 but the strange thing i found the minor races cam become superpowers but i dont mind more fun for 
 me.
  Anyway a great expansion and when a game is this good i wonder what/if Galciv 3 will look like. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeanorKurufinve
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  To tell the truth I had been thinking for quite a long time: to buy or not to buy. I'm no fan of 
 the series and the genre but... at least for the few next weeks I'll become one:)
  The review itself:
  
  Gameplay - classical turn-based strategy gameplay (which, to my mind, 
 is the best) plus ship-building and race-creation. Liked it very much, especially the ship-building 
 part (of those 20 to 40 hours at least one third was spent in the shipyard:) . The only minor minus 
 is that you can get only benefits when making your own race, there are no disadvantages as it was 
 in Master of Orion (the best in the genre without any doubt) . But as I said it is only a minor 
 defect and its only the matter of my taste so eventually: 10.
  
  Graphics - not to much and just enough. I'm glad that my computer is able to handle it (Civ 4 was 
 almost to much for it :) , as are many other players across the world. This is a turn-based strategy 
 and the graphics is not the the core of the game here! Accept a few tweaks the graphics is what 
 it must be: 9
  
  Sound - the music was perfect and that is enough for me to give it 10 points.
  
  Value - worth 
 the money, worth the time - worth playing; but what is there to say, there are other games worth 
 playing: 9
  
  Tilt - sorry, Im just no fan of the genre:) 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rommel1942
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game does hold the tradition of excellence set by its predecessor, and the game play is highly 
 addictive, but simple. The story is great, and you get involved deeply right from the get go. That 
 being said, there is a few problems with the game. Unless you design the custom game differently, 
 technology is gained so quickly, by the time you build any new ships, they're obsolete! That God, 
 you can upgrade the ships, or this would be a lost cause. Also, it's had to design custom ships 
 for this same reason: they become obsolete quickly. Also, it is a long time before one can actually 
 conquer a planet because you needed to research a certain tech first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Pros: overall strategic AI; highly customizable sandbox mode; the new campaign; early colonization 
 phase; nice graphical touches; new strategies to (re) develop.
  Middle ground: diplomacy; late game challenge.
  Cons: some may find boring the lack of distance 
 &amp; discovery on smaller maps, and unbalanced the variable AI expansionism on huge maps; CTD 
 on crowded maps.
  
  Stardock dropped the skinny to bring this excellent sequel to GalCiv II: Dread Lords. Very few 
 features from the latter were kept unscathed, thus enhancing the overall experience onto one of 
 the most accomplished TBS game in recent memory, arguably the best 4x space empire title since 
 the legendary Master of Orion II ( 1996 ) . Though the uber megalomaniac atmospherics of MoO//MoOII 
 remain unmatched, most of the basics were elegantly revamped in GalCivII for quite an efficient, 
 modern coating provided in Dark Avatar along a stronger AI.
  
  We could speak all day about the various little things that may seem innocuous at altering the 
 gameplay taken alone; but the sum of all their parts- bringing a noticeable change of pace - just 
 enhance the strategic experience, enticing enough for the veterans and yet, perhaps, steeping a 
 bit the learning curve for the newcomers. We're talking about the new features in DA, nicely overtuning 
 the existing engine: mining the asteroids; two new races; improved strategic and tactical AI ( 
 better economics/military/domestic management ) ; a new campaign, improved upon various fan requests; 
 ''new'' treaties that should have been implemented way before - better late than never but they're 
 still based on what's been made 10 years ago ( economic &amp; research treaties) ; tons of options 
 and tweaks made to set up a sandbox game, including various AI abilities; and, not the least, a 
 vastly revamped colonization phase namely by the addition of new environmental requirements to 
 colonize specific planets, again not entirely stranger to some MoO types: Aquatic, Barren, Heavy 
 G, Radioactive, Toxic. The trick resides at which one or two the player must ( or musn't ) choose 
 to research their pricey techs in the early game ( at the expense of other tech branches ) . Before 
 the update 1.50x3 (.072) , it was possible to barter these terraforming techs with the AI rivals; 
 now the player must most likely research them alone in order to keep ( some ) of the faster AI 
 expansionism at the higher difficulty levels. Oh and they expand fast.........
  
  Though the early game has been remarkably redesigned, some players may want to try the Rare settings 
 on larger maps to get some sense of discovery a real galaxy should offer. Otherwise, on most settings 
 - particularly Abundant planets on medium to small maps- we have a total absence of said discovery, 
 not to mention very close star systems assembled like dominos for a close neighborhood. Heck, even 
 some ''outer'' planets SEEM to be closer to an adjacent star than their own sun. During the first 
 DA updates, the developers wanted to put even more of them when choosing Abundant settings and 
 there we have, so close altogether like suburban districts we can travel at a ludicrous speed. 
 This is intentional, which is good for early warmongers but at the expense of galactic feelings........
 
  
  Though the simplistic, yet efficient combat system seems to keep the same facelift at a first glance, 
 in fact a dramatic recalculation on when ships fire each turn has been made - for the best. Two 
 things to keep in mind for the average player: 1) Capital ships are more powerful ( more space 
 ) but exponentionally pricey; 2) the recalc during ship combat often spur mixed results ( more 
 casualties for the human player ) , then here too a change of strategy may be helpful ( the right 
 defense according to the immediate enemy's offense more handy than ever ) .
  
  Economy management has become very tight now. No more 100000 BCs each turn in the late game. Almost 
 any economic feature has been tweaked for much less income past mid-game, from trade to government 
 type. Players must maximize starbases and facilities in order to muster decent fleets, because 
 decent fleets mean a lot of military maintenance. If not, then a lack of income ( thus military 
 ) will definitely stifle the expansion and ups the ante of aggressive AIs declaring wars when you're 
 not ready. It could be very frustrating to lower below 100 % the spending rate, but now it can 
 happen a couple of times during a long game if somehow the income takes a drop.
  
  Some players may find that the AI rivals, often the Torians and the Krynn, have a tendency to expand 
 incredibly fast next to some others, leading to an uneven balance even if they're all set to the 
 same level. The result with 8-9 rivals: often, two very large AI empires ( twice-three times the 
 human player) , some decent and two very weak. In second thought, some other players may even prefer 
 this kind of set up refreshing enough for warmongering, alliances and backstabbing. It may be purposefully 
 coded this way by the developers, yet with recent updates the empire generations during the early 
 phase seem to be more evenly tweaked. As ways to cope the still high pace of even the slowest AI 
 expansion at Painful + difficulties, there are many tradeoffs in this game to use skillfully as 
 countermeasures before an incoming success in the later stages of a campaign, among others the 
 diplomatic ability to nigh constantly coerce AIs to wage wars between themselves ( even without 
 the Drath's Super Manipulator ability ) , thus keeping them at bay for the most part when you're 
 still weaker - barring you're not awaiting too long building your own forces after the mass of 
 colony ships have been sent away. Weak planets outside the sphere of influence can be assimilated 
 too.
  
  As you can guess, these are only some of many other reworked features you will encounter in Dark 
 Avartar, to be used thoughtfully for building your galactic empire. They do not necessarily upgrade 
 the late game challenge once the path to victory has been clearly paved - unless some Mega Event 
 really affects you deeper than the AIs but it seems many, not all but a majority of them galactic 
 events have dramatic consequences on them too. Anyway, you can toggle on or off said Events in 
 the set up.
  
  Now, the technical side for a strategy title this deep doesn't disappoint either, including new 
 explosions, graphical details namely on ship parts, starbases plus various cosmetic updates rendering 
 the whole engine more vivid, and quite pleasant to the eyes of a TBS addict. Said engine can even 
 be powermonger on huge maps fully loaded, that may lead to some memory leaks and CTDs regardless 
 your high end machine. There are occasional typo errors ( mistaps in descriptions ) , yet for the 
 rest a great deal of testing and polish has been made to refine the visual style.
  
  TBS developers scarcely invest time for a state of the art sound engineering, and Stardock stick 
 to that motto in a professional manner. Like its prequels, Dark Avatar has an average audio palette 
 regarding the sound effects, the ''lasers'' are still a bit retro, though this time they seem to 
 have been coded with less irritating distortion. Fortunately, we can rely on the excellent musical 
 score, in fact being nothing short than superb. But please, forgive the rec quality of the intro 
 movie's voiceover.....
  
  As of writing this review, the latest update was 1.50x3 (.072) and Stardock was already working 
 on 1.6. Needless to say, the team continues to heavily support the franchise, tweaking Dark Avatar 
 and the AI abilities....... for a tougher experience at higher settings on almost every level. For 
 the rest, just don't let a Korathi Eruptor fry your ships along the way! This is the penultimate 
 epitome of the ''one more turn'' syndrome in space, still evolving and leading the niche sub genre 
 recently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Since Dark Avatar is the expansion pack to Galactic Civilizations 2 I make make this review short 
 and sweet on the account that you probably have the core game and know what it is all about. But 
 for those that do not, GA2: DA is a turn based strategy/empire building game where you choose a 
 race and then decide how you will become the dominant force in the galaxy. You can win by 3 different 
 ways, a cultural victory,, technological viictory, and the ever popular military victory. During 
 the game you will be doing most of the stuff you might a imagine you would have to do if you were 
 in charge, controlling tax rates, conducting diplomacy with other civs, improving your planets 
 with social projects,... ect. Another thing you can do that is optional is build ships from scratch 
 using the tech you have researched in the game. These can be permanently added to the game as ships 
 that that race can use in future game sessions that you play either with, or against them. Ship 
 building can be pretty time consuming but it is worth it, especially if like being creative. There 
 are also included default ships for every race, but the stuff you can build on your own has the 
 capability to be much more powerful.
  So, what's new to DA?
  Well for starters the story-based campaign that picks up right where the core game ended. other 
 new things include a few new races, lots of new ship parts for building, a modified tech tree, 
 random super events, new types of worlds, asteroid field mining plus probably a few I am forgetting.
 
  To break it down as simply as possible if you enjoyed GA2 you will almost certainly be happy with 
 the expansion because all it does is add more and improve on the that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred6655
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilization: Dark Avatar is one of the best turn-based strategy I have come across in 
 a long time. It is fun, has great graphics and it is quite fast action considering it is turn based. 
 I think the crowning achievement for the game was the tech tree. It is long and innovative and 
 realistic. Unlike other strategy games were it takes seconds to research a technology and it was 
 always the same speed. Galactic Civilizations 2 takes weeks to research one technology. It is the 
 same for all of the building aspects. The only problem is near the end of some games, there tend 
 to be two superpowers who dominate the map, which is annoying. Overall this game is fantastic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Man_1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  There's absolutely no doubt about it tthat Dark Avatar is packed with juicy mouth watering additions 
 to make you believe it's a complete sequel. Just have fun, don't let anyone spoil your fun and... 
 remember that there is always a different approach to winning the game. Even some of the game's 
 best strategists admit that there's always a different approach even to their own ways that earn 
 them maximum metaverse points.
  
  The metaverse is an online scoring board where you play a game and submit your score after which 
 it sends specific data back to Stardock in order to keep players in check / keep the metaverse 
 fair for all.
  
  10/10 So say we all :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of galactic civ, and wasn't sure if buying this upgrade was worth it. I disagree 
 with some reviewers that this has so many new options that it's like playing a totally new game, 
 it has pretty much the same feel as the previous. However, I do like the new features, like asteroid 
 fields, and while I gave up on playing the previous game's campaign, I'm enjoying Dark Avatar's. 
 The game has some slight installation problems on my machine and it wouldn't auto-set itself to 
 the correct video settings (I have a pretty new machine) , but tech support ( I contacted my email) 
 was pretty prompt and responsive and they fixed my problem. I'm enjoying playing it and recommend 
 it to anyone who likes strategy games like CIV. Dark Avatar is definitely the best installment 
 of the Galactic Civ series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EbonDrake
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  It just galls me when someone calls it the best turn-based space strategy game , or declares that 
 MOO is dead . It may well be the best of current 4X space games, but is still just a shadow of 
 MOO2. It still lacks any semblance of tactical combat, the tech trees are still simplistic and 
 generic, and the races still feel similar despite the new customization options.
  
  This IS a good game, and I have enjoyed it. However, a simple update and enhancement to MOO2 would 
 trump it soundly. Why oh why did we have to suffer the ignominy of MOO3?
  
  Enjoy the game for what it is, but don't believe the inflated hype. For example, the completely 
 new feature making planet inhabitability a function of race or technology is actually lifted directly 
 from the original Master of Orion. It's a good thing, but just further emphasizes the lack of progress 
 in this genre since MOO2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chompolario2
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Although a very good game, it is really no more than a cheap copy of master of orion. Those who 
 knows master of orion and played this game, knows what am i talking about. after few hours of play, 
 strategic becomes repetitive, its just research for a greater number in weapon bonus. There are 
 only 3 diferent tipes of weapons and it is little important the diferences between them, only important 
 thing is the best number. That is not strategic, im am sory but i did not find this game intereseting 
 has every magazine review says. Magazines got payed, so they don't know what they are talking about. 
 I know, listen to my advise: if you played master of orion, keep playing it, this game is neither 
 worst or better than it.
  
  Oh, and last thing, campaign mode offers a small number of missions, and there are very little 
 variables among them. You could just always play same strategy (ex: pointing towards evil and destroying 
 enemies ) that it will always work. This game is neither origineal neither offers decent variability 
 among posible different strategies one could take ( and by that i mean they could develop way much 
 more the weapon and shields system) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaytrix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Master of Orion 3 hurt my soul. MOO2 was clearly one of the best games ever. To see it's good name 
 butchered by an ugly, unplayable waste of bits spoiled me for the space 4X genre. It's for that 
 reason alone I took so long to buy this wonderful game.
  
  This review is specific to those who may be unfamiliar with GC2, not so much about GC: DA. I actually 
 just purchased the gold edition, but I wanted to create a review here where there is more traffic. 
 Rather than the standard review format, I am going to provide a list of gameplay reasons why GCII 
 is the best 4X game ever, in hopes that you buy a copy. I want the makers to earn a great deal 
 of money so that they make GC3.
  
  1. You can actually win a game through many methods. Unlike Civ4, a conquest victory is achievable, 
 as is a cultural, scientific or political. It's not just a space race.
  
  2. The game does an amazing job of allowing you to make strategic decisions, while automating the 
 mundane. When you research a new farm upgrade, your planets will start working on upgrading their 
 farms if they aren't building something. Likewise, you can refit every ship of a certain type at 
 once, and for a very reasonable amount. No more wondering what to do with all the longbowmen in 
 the 20th century.
  
  3. You can literally waste hours in the powerful ship construction screen, fulfilling any inner 
 space geek fantasies you possess. I couldn't believe how much time I spent making my ships look 
 good.
  
  4. The AI is great. Everyone who said that already is right on the money.
  
  5. No inane copy protection of any sort. Please show the market that a lack of copy protection 
 does not hurt sales.
  
  I should list more, but I am running out of space. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porphyrous
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Nearly nobody on this big blue Earth knows the origins of Galactic Civilizations. Very few people 
 know that Stardock established itself in the early '90s as the preeminent publisher of software 
 for the IBM OS/2 operating system, and that GalCiv, in its two OS/2 versions, established the depth 
 and complexity of strategy games that was not to arrive on Windows for another 5 years. At that 
 time, Stardock stated that they would never release GalCiv on a Windows OS until it evolved to 
 the point where it could do GalCiv justice.
  
  Flash forward to 5 years later, when Windows XP demonstrated that a Windows operating system could 
 do the heavy lifting necessary, and just as promised, Stardock (still publishing the Object Desktop 
 that was their flagship OS/2 product, but now publishing it on Windows platforms) made good on 
 their word by finally releasing Galactic Civilizations on Windows -- 10 years after its original 
 debut.
  
  Windows fans probably never heard this story. They may, in fact, have never even heard of the operating 
 system that faced a Betamax-like conundrum: technically superior to every available PC operating 
 system, but marketed so ineptly that it couldn't even get Creative Labs to continue supporting 
 Soundblaster audio cards for it.
  
  The original Galactic Civilizations, released in 1994 shortly after the debut of OS/2 Warp (version 
 3) , and the original Galactic Civilizations II, released in 1996, set the standard for turn-based 
 strategy games that only the game that inspired it, Civilization, could even come close to accomplishing. 
 When OS/2 finally died after the cancellation of version 5 in 1998, so did the Galactic Civilizations 
 franchise.
  
  10 years later, it returned, to the same glowing reviews that marked its OS/2 lifetime. And now, 
 12 years on, Galactic Civilization II: Dark Avatar, arrives on Windows XP. Can it finally challenge 
 the all-time greatest TBS game, Civilization IV, for the top spot. That's a damn tall order, but 
 GCII: DA comes dangerously close. It looks gorgeous, it presents a challenge to all human players, 
 and it demonstrates exquisite imagination in providing its space races -- in colonization, in technology 
 research, and in warfare. Although the sheer complexity of the modeling and AI could have resulted 
 in an impenetrable game like Master of Orion III, the user interface simplifies your view of this, 
 and while this compromises some space realities, like 3D existence, the compromises make sense 
 to anyone who has played this type of game before, especially the Civilization franchise. Military, 
 diplomatic, and technological options abound for expansion and domination.
  
  This was all well and good even in the 2004 version, but the ante was upped considerably, first 
 with GalCiv II, and then with the Dark Avatar pack. The visuals are improved almost to the point 
 where some companies might try to sell it to you as Version 3. The user interface customizability 
 introduced in GalCiv II persists, which really is what makes the GalCiv franchise so viable in 
 the long term. You can say the same of the available victory conditions, which are as wide as Civ 
 IV's -- military, diplomatic, or anything in between.
  
  The one thing that has always set GalCiv apart -- and the thing that kept it off Windows for so 
 long -- was its AI. Simply put, it doesn't cheat. Baffling, but true. We all are familiar with 
 the lengths to which empires in Civ IV will put improbable coups of accomplishment out of its nether 
 orifices, but whatever other cussing GCII inspires, it won't be you cheated . Its AI is a work 
 of art, a true accomplishment in AI technology, I would even be so bold to state. It plays by the 
 same rules you have to face, and it still beats your butt.
  
  The Ship Designer is even deeper than in GCII, if that's possible, yet still a manageable feature 
 of the game. As pointed out in the official GameSpot review, the game's planets have changed to 
 be much more realistic. It makes sense that there are planets inhospitable to humans, and now that 
 distinction is pushed home in requiring many more techs to support alien world colonization, which 
 really makes you think about, pick and choose, and strategize when it comes to selecting technologies 
 to pursue. Superabilities give specific advantages and disadvantages to playable species, and megaevents 
 can really turn your game on its head. This sort of thing has never been an issue in Civilization, 
 but you might remember something like this from the SimCity franchise, where natural disasters, 
 alien encounters, and Godzilla-like monsters could lay waste to your painstakingly designed utopian 
 metropolis. Again, this lends more realism, and less predictability, to the game, and enhances 
 its replayability.
  
  Once upon a time, I would tell you that no game would ever match the scope, depth, and playability 
 of the Civilization franchise. Stardock, in its second life as a Windows publisher, has accomplished 
 just that. Galactic Civilizations II: Dark Avatar, is at least Civilization IV's equal. Sid Meier, 
 meet Brad Wardell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I loved GC II: DL so mcuh when it first game out, despite a few nagging flaws. Not only does Dark 
 Avatar add a ton of new content, it essentially burns those flaws right out of the gameplay. I 
 realize this game/genre is more specialized than saaaay Warcraft, but for those who love or can 
 learn to love a truly grand space sim, this is IT. The graphics are not up to GoW standards of 
 course, but they are shockingly good in a game as huge and varied as GCII. It's important to note 
 that a gold edition is there which unites Galactic Civilizations II Dreadlords and Dark Avatar 
 into one package... which is really what it is. Think of Dark Avatar as a must have addon to GC 
 II. Mining asteroids and buffed up diplomacy is just a taste of what DA brings to the table. Stardock 
 hit a bullseye with this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_rudis
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Stardock changed and added alot of new strategic options with this expansion, it's not just one 
 of those expansions that adds a race. The change to colonizing world (having to learn a tech to 
 unlock certain worlds) is great... also are the addition of being able to create your own opponents 
 (similar to how you could create your own custom race in Dread Lords) .
  
  Now spying has to be micromanaged down to individual placement of spies. When placed these spies 
 are destructive, no option to simply just spy or steal techs. It's really annoying to use spies 
 and they are 100% necessary now. I'm sure Stardock will improve this once more feedback comes in, 
 just like they did with Dread Lord.
  
  Other downer is that there is still no multiplayer. It was mentioned that the ground work is laid 
 to add multiplayer functionality, I just hope it's true.
  
  An update to the above:
  
  Spying has not been fixed at all. Still mandatory, unexciting, micromanaging, and no fun.
  
 
  Also the devs at Stardock have made it prefectly clear that they will never, ever add multiplayer. 
 That little blurb about laying the ground work for multiplayer was a complete tease. If you even 
 try to bring up the idea of multiplayer on their forums the DEVS will flame you. I will not support 
 Stardock products anymore. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
