-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Galactic Civilizations II: Dread Lords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/galacticcivilizations2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Extremely customizable gameplay provides superb replayability.
 The best AI in strategy gaming.
 Very cool ship designer that significantly contributes to gameplay.
 Truly viable variable victory conditions.
 Will keep you up all night playing &quot;just one more turn&quot;.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer.
 Tech tree could use more information on new techs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.7, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 4,209 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Stardock
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Feb 21, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Galactic Civilizations II is a strategy gamer's dream, boasting a rare mix of depth, customizability, 
 humor, and replayability. 

  Great games are always more than the sum of their feature sets, and Galactic Civilizations II is 
 a great game. Galactic Civilizations II does indeed boast a very impressive list of cool features, 
 but it also has that extra "something" that separates pretty good games from Hall of Fame material. 
 In the case of Galactic Civilizations II, an epic spacestrategy game set in space, that extra element 
 is a design that is clearly focused on catering to the desires of the player, rather than on trying 
 to stuff the designer's preferences down your throat. From installation to end game, it is clear 
 that this is not only one of the best turn-based strategy games to grace a PC, but one in which 
 the player is treated like royalty.  

          The galaxy is filled with an odd assortment of characters.     

  The first sign of 
 this is during installation. There is no copy protection and no need to have the CD in the tray 
 to play, and you don't even have to enter the serial number during the install (a blessing to those 
 of us who want to reinstall a game in the future or install it on a notebook but can't ever seem 
 to track down the serial number) . This is quite convenient. The serial number is your key to updates 
 and add-ons, which have traditionally, for Stardock, been plentiful, substantive, and responsive 
 to customer feedback and requests (in fact, the first update is already available) .  

  Galactic Civilizations II is a strategy game set in space in which rival races vie for control 
 of the galaxy, via the traditional "4X" game style of exploring the universe, expanding your empire, 
 exploiting your rivals, and exterminating your enemies. That may sound familiar, but right from 
 the opening screens you're presented with the ability to create the gaming experience that you 
 prefer. You can play as the humans or any of the other nine races, each bringing its own unique 
 strengths, weaknesses, capabilities, and societal personality (trade-oriented, militaristic, evil, 
 good, and so on) . If that's not enough for you, you can create your own unique race with its own 
 distinctive characteristics. You then select the type of galaxy in which you want to play out your 
 space adventure. Do you want fast action? Play in a small galaxy packed with stars and habitable 
 planets and several rival races, and crank up the speed of technological advances. Are you more 
 in the mood for a long, epic space opera? Set up a gigantic galaxy (there are six different map 
 sizes) with widely spaced star systems.  

  Multiple paths to victory also provide you with completely different gaming experiences. You can 
 choose to be a benevolent ruler and eschew violence, spreading your cultural influence throughout 
 the galaxy. Instead of invading a planet, you can let their citizens see your luxurious way of 
 life, complete with malls and fancy restaurants, and sway them with diplomatic expertise. There's 
 a special satisfaction in having a planet's inhabitants dump their leader and join your empire 
 purely through winning their hearts and minds. Or you can choose to be the evil emperor, crushing 
 the nave civilizations that dare resist your military might. Throughout the game you are presented 
 with ethical choices, such as discovering that the planet you just colonized has a primitive civilization 
 that you can either protect at the cost of some progress, move to the equivalent of a reservation, 
 or enslave to increase your production. Your choices will result in a moral "grade" for your culture -- good, 
 neutral, or evil -- which will affect how other races deal with you. For example, if you are the 
 lone evil empire in the galaxy, "good" races may form an alliance against you. These moral persuasions 
 also result in different technological advances being available to your race.  

          Drengi -- damn, there goes the neighborhood.     

  While some games of this type purport 
 to allow you flexibility in how you achieve a victory while ultimately forcing you to win by force, 
 it is not only possible to win a game in Galactic Civilizations II without fighting, it is a fascinating 
 and viable approach that feels like a completely different game than one in which you win via conflict. 
 While good old military domination is certainly a path to success, you can win by achieving the 
 ultimate technology, culturally assimilating the majority of the galaxy, or forging alliances with 
 all remaining races.  

  Of course, you can also combine approaches: For example, if you have alliances with four of five 
 races and the fifth race just doesn't appreciate the benefits of being your good friend, you can 
 send some capital ships in and wipe them off the face of the galaxy, then join hands with the remaining 
 races, sing Kum Ba Ya, and enjoy your diplomatic victory. Or you might give another race money 
 or technologies to go to war against a specific civilization in your stead. You may start with 
 the intention of pursuing one approach and find that circumstances and other races actions drive 
 you in another direction. The only thing that is guaranteed is that, between choosing which race 
 you will lead, the size and characteristics of the galaxy, how many and what type of races will 
 populate the galaxy, the intelligence level of your foes, and the approach you decide to take, 
 each game can feel completely different from any you've played before.     

  This leads to the issue of artificial intelligence, always a controversial subject in strategy 
 games. The AI in Galactic Civilizations II differentiates it from other 4X games: It doesn't cheat, 
 and it's very, very good at higher levels. It's also unique in that the AI doesn't treat the human 
 player any differently than it does the other AI players. You can set the AI to a lower level to 
 allow you to have fun while learning the game, but when you set it higher as you advance in your 
 skills, the game doesn't respond by cheating. Instead, it employs more advanced (and devious) strategies, 
 observing and adapting to your play. For example, at lower levels you could be trading and generally 
 playing nice with a neighboring civilization that is rather weak militarily, while at the same 
 time setting up military starbases and fleets of fighters in their vicinity, and the AI may continue 
 to trust you. At higher AI levels it will recognize the signs of betrayal and take preventive or 
 preemptive actions.  

          You can make some really cool -- and really ugly -- ships in the ship designer.     

  In 
 fact, the AI will surprise you with the humanity of its style. You will be simultaneously surprised, 
 pleased, and frustrated when you have almost defeated a civilization, are gloating over the resources 
 that are about to be your spoils of war, and then see your victim surrender to another race that 
 is more aligned to its ethical style just to keep you from taking it over. Or when you're at war 
 with a race and are informed by a superior race that you're hurting their trade income and thus 
 must be eliminated. The AI will watch you and adapt, and not always in a predictable way, even 
 after having played many games. They'll seek out weaknesses and exploit them. At higher levels 
 you'll be convinced that the AI is cheating, but it isn't: It is just diabolically clever at finding 
 ways to optimize strategies. Perhaps the best compliment you can pay the AI in Galactic Civilizations 
 II is that it will beat you in ways that you will respect and admire.  

  In addition to playing with the default ships included with the game, there's a very cool ship 
 designer that'll let you make your own. And you don't have to use the various ships included in 
 the game; you can design your own from scratch, using any combination of technologies that you 
 have currently developed. There's also a large set of purely cosmetic parts you can use to create 
 the ship of your dreams; users have posted screenshots of incredibly detailed and complex new ships 
 that they have designed. Staying consistent with the theme of letting players play in their own 
 way, you can successfully take the approach of designing fleets of small, fast, and pesky fighters 
 that may be effective against larger capital ships if you choose your weapons wisely (defenses 
 are effective only against specific weaponry) . Conversely, you may prefer fighting with huge space 
 dreadnoughts, or perhaps mixed fleets. Prudent investment in espionage can give you a crucial advantage 
 in discovering what weapons system the enemy is building, so you can design the most effective 
 weapons and shields to counter them. But be aware that the AI is likely doing some spying of his 
 own.  

  While there is a plethora of game features that we haven't mentioned here, such as a galactic United 
 Nations that raises issues that all races vote upon that impact your empire, extensive trade and 
 diplomacy with other races, and much more, one that is worth highlighting and that follows the 
 thesis of letting you have it "your way" is the completely open nature of the game's user interface. 
 The game screens are stored in a directory and can be easily modified. The game is also designed 
 such that there is no limit to the polygons it can handle; users are already showing off incredible 
  Star Wars -based ships with extremely high polygon counts.  

          The evil squirrels! We're doomed!     

  There are, as in any game, some nits to pick: 
 The technology tree could use beefier data on future techs; it would be nice to have the ability 
 to select random races on startup; and there is no multiplayer (yet) . But Galactic Civilizations 
 II is a game that provides that "just one more turn" compulsion, and that appears to have the ability 
 to stay fresh, surprising, and replayable for a long time. One of the greatest compliments is the 
 comparison to Civilization IV that many people are making. Suffice it to say that Galactic Civilizations 
 II is different in many ways than Civ IV, but stands next to it as one of the all-time best 4X 
 strategy games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (213 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder what it would be like to run your own civilization? In space I might add? Well that's 
 what Stardock has done for us, they have basically taken Civilization's, and put in space, with 
 very positive results I might add, this is by far the most addicting turn-based strategy game I 
 have ever played in my life, far exceeding, possibly surpassing the Civilization games.
  
  The game starts you off at the character screen where you choose the race you want to be, ranging 
 from the standard Terrans (humans) , to the Altarians, all the way to the Drengin empire, each with 
 there own personalities, and unique race trees. After you choose your empire, you decide what traits 
 you want to upgrade through the bonus points system which lets you enhance your civilizations ability, 
 for example, if I gave four points to the economy, then my economy will be 40% stronger then before.
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty basic, you start off has a lone civilization who is ready to expand through 
 the cosmos, at start, you are the Imperial, guiding your race into the universe. You have to be 
 smart with every move you do, speeding your way through this game won't help, this is no real-time 
 strategy, you have to plan what you want and what your strategies are going to be, rushing in isn't 
 smart unless you have every race on your side. You have to worry about 5 things in this game, economy 
 (which is huge part of the game, and by far the most difficult to stabalize) , culture (also hard 
 unless you are smart with your research) , social order in your planets, diplomacy, and war.
  
  Planets in the game are broken down into separate catagories, there are the Terrain Planets, 
 then there are the unique planets, the Terrain planets are the normal ones, earth-like planets 
 that anyone can occupy without doing research. Unique planets are the planets that have research 
 attached to colonize them, for example, Radioactive planets need to be countered with radioactive 
 reflectors. Each planet has a number, so Planet X has 10 beside it, meaning there are 10 slots 
 that can be used for your empire, may it be a bank to help your economy, social centers for your 
 approval, or a culture exchange center to spread your influence. There are unique buildings that 
 can be used to stimulate your whole empire, but these mine as well be like the Tower of Giza in 
 Civilizations.
  
  Economy is the biggest part of the game, earning x amount of credits (in the billions) every turn, 
 now every planet you colonize takes up a certain amount of maintenance, bigger planets require 
 more money, but its hard to maintain unless you done the appropriate research to get the economy 
 stimulated. Economy has to be managed effectively to run an empire well, applying it to the right 
 things such as military and social, or research networks, depending on your empires needs. 
  
  Social plays out like your happiness in Civilizations, the lower this is, the less likely that 
 your people will stay with you. This meter is shown on every planet, for example, if it says 40% 
 approval, that means soon there will be a revolt if you do not act quickly to the epidemic, to 
 counter this, entertainment networks, stadiums may be built to entertain your people, this mechanic 
 plays off of the economy, so again, if this thing is low, then your tax income rate from your people 
 will come to a halt.
  
  Research and War play out exactly how Civilization did it, but a couple of tricks keep it refreshing 
 and tidy. Research is broken to the social, diplomatic, military, logistics, and culture sections, 
 each with its long list of items to research, but every race has its own unique tree of research, 
 making the races unique to one another, making it a different play through everytime your play 
 the game. War is almost exactly like Civilization but 3 things make it completely different, one 
 being that you can create fleets with multiple ships of different types with in them, making them 
 more lethal combat, one other being that you can completely customize your stats and your ships 
 to make a versatile war machine, and the invasion mechinic. The invasion is like rolling dice, 
 you have to roll at the right moment to get the highest number, this number stops both you and 
 the AI's, and its a chance of who will win the invasion, this mechinic is hard to master, so don't 
 worry if you loose alot, because I did to.
  
  The AI is anything but bad, they are the smartest things in the game, they will make smart decisions, 
 they know there way around, they taunt you, they will do anything they want, and they will do it 
 smart, almost better then you most of the time. The only problem is that I found them to be too 
 good, even on Beginner, so I would start on low difficulties before escalating to normal.
  
  Graphics and sound are nothing special, nothing to talk about, the music however makes the 
 game feel great, its both relaxing, and triumphant at the same time, suiting the situation in both 
 cases, if this game has a downfall, it will both keep you up all night, and that it has no multiplayer, 
 but if it did, games would take days.
  
  Overall, this game is worth a buy, if you are both patient with the game, and don't mind spending 
 every waking minute in the games universe, its definately a thinking mans game so be prepared for 
 a challenge when you walk into the games realm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habast
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  Imagine Sid Meier's Civilization games...
  
  Now imagine them in space with completley unique species, tech trees, witty (and sometimes humorous) 
 dialog, completley customizable species, ship, and well, pretty much everything if you want to 
 bust your butt on the RTF files.
  
  Sorry, off topic.
  
  Anyways, I'm a star wars geek and I love sci-fi stuff, and I've written my fair share of both fan-fic 
 and origninal stories, and I've also had my fair share of fantasies of making it a video game.
 
  
  If ever I pictured the AMAZING space age strategy game I would make, it would a little (or a lot) 
 something like this.
  
  Alright, I'll stop rambling, but only because you asked so nicely.
  
  Here's the breakdown.
 
  
  The Good
  Interesting enough story
  GREAT depth, which is surprisingly hard to find in the modern strategy game
  Highly immersive
 
  Great dialog
  Custom EVERYTHING
  Cool random stuff that can just happen when flying around the galaxy
  Good diplomacy... stuff 
 (although if your a crazy dude with a fleet the size of all of theirs' x6, you don't really need 
 it...)
  Good graphics
  
  The Bad
  Highly immersive
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  I tried to turn all of their species into different ones (that I made) , but for some reason it 
 still displayed the old art files (even though I replaced them...) ... That might just be my cool 
 luck at work again, though.
  
  Graphics: I'll admit, when I looked at the graphics on the back of the case the first word that 
 came into my mind was 'crap', but trust me, those screens to no justice the the visuals in this 
 game. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: It's 3 AM already!?! 10/10
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  Replayability: 90,000 out of 10 (10/10)
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  
  I just want to end 
 this review saying, if your in to strategy games or are a sci-fi fan, you'll love this game.
  
  If you're both, keep a clock close at hand! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randhill932
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have chosen Classification as Hard to describe because trus me. This isn't what 
 you might think of : Boring Turnbased, you have to wait for a long time to get things moving on..... 
 This game is nothing like that. If Civilization IV gave you the great experience in ruling a tribe 
 for whole world, this game will give you the whole universe to do so. The scale of this game is 
 really huge that you can barery seen in any other Strategy games. As a leader of one of the tribe 
 from over 10 tribes in the galacy, you will start to discover what wait for you in that space.
 
  There are many things for you to discover. I think for you to visualize it easier, I will say 
 we start as Alan Bradley - leader of human. At the start of the game, we just have one planet Earth. After 
 6 turns or so, you completed building your own Colony ship to have some citizen move to Mar - Another 
 and only inhabitable planet from Solar system and then after that, you will start a bunch of stuff 
 like negotiate with other spices about trade agreement, gift (Bunch of gold) or you can even buy, 
 sell technologies you have discovered with your fine scientist work on labs.
  And then, there will be the time war comes. You will have bunch of normal ship design to choose 
 from but if you want something unique, the game will support you with this. It will give you everything 
 to make your own ship. I personally did make some Star Wars based ship like X wings or Star Destroyer 
 and it turns out to be pretty cool. If you want to design a great ship for your own, this is your 
 game.
  Finally as usual, the modding community of this game is really big that it can actually fight with 
 games such as Mount&Blade. It will have new Spcies, new campaigns (Even the base campaign is great) , 
 new model of ships...... The modding of this game is huge and even if your bored with normal game, 
 you can always try the mod.
  
  
  Anyway, that was just a very brief review of this game. I can't just compress an encylopedia of 
 galactic civilization into just one review. You have to play and then feel it. It isn't like any 
 game you tried before........... trust me. :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I've played many 4X games, the Civilizations, and Master of Orion to name a few... but none of 
 them really sucked me in. Galactic Civilizations II presents a satisfying strategy experience with 
 deep gameplay, and a lot of freedom to play the way you want to.
  
  While sequels are generally continuations of a sort, the only way in which GC II fits this is the 
 campaign which is essentially a waste of time. Players are better off playing the game the way 
 it was meant to be played via the standard "New Game", or "Metaverse" functions. In a standard 
 game you're able to select your galaxy size, star amount, habitable planet amount, victory conditions, 
 etc. and then select one of ten pre-defined races and customize them, or create your own race to 
 play as. Once the game kicks off your race starts out with just its home world, and a survey and 
 colony ship. With these tools you have to explore the galaxy, and colonize new worlds thus expanding 
 your Empire, and meeting new major and minor races along the way.
  
  One of the beauties of this title is how you can win the game in one of four ways. You can go the 
 old fashioned way and either commit genocide by wiping out all other civilizations (or merely conquering 
 them) , spreading your influence and gradually manipulating alien worlds to join your empire, becoming 
 the head of a Coalition by forming an Alliance with every major race, or unlocking the mysteries 
 of the universe and ascending your race to Godhood. Since most of the game is complex, achieving 
 any of these conditions can be quite challenging especially on high difficulty levels.
  
  Combat can be considered solid, but not exceptional. Essentially it comes down to battle of the 
 stats. Space combat places emphasis on ship attack, and defense... naturally. Since GalCiv II comes 
 with a ship builder you can create your own starships with the technology you research over the 
 course of the game, and this is encouraged since the pre-built starships are pretty mediocre. Land 
 combat is fairly straight forward, and deep enough not to be considered a cakewalk (except on the 
 cakewalk difficulty, of course) .
  
  I did have some issues with the game. Navigating the galactic map can be cumbersome the larger 
 it is, for example the largest map size (Gigantic) is quite tedious to navigate through. Mouse 
 scroll is slow, and the minimap zoom isn't particularly helpful. Also the game tends to crash out 
 of the blue between turns, fortunately this rarely happens and the game autosaves every few turns 
 making CTDs little more than a minor inconvenience. One last complaint I have is the inability 
 to customize AI races. You can create your own custom race to play as, but the AI has to use the 
 stock races which is disappointing.
  
  Visually GalCiv II isn't too impressive, but this is first and foremost a large scale TBS title, 
 so that's understandable. The graphics aren't bad by any means, it's a full 3d game meaning that 
 space battles, and the galactic map aren't too bad to look at for modern gamers. Audio-wise the 
 game is so-so, some of the music is good (the menu theme, and a couple of the peace-time in-game 
 musics) , but most of it isn't anything special. There's no voice acting, and sound effects are 
 rare.
  
  Galactic Civilizations II is worth playing even if you may not be into 4X strategy games. It provides 
 a lot of freedom, and is definitely deep enough to be a breath of fresh air in an industry where 
 things are becoming more and more streamlined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is a direct rip off from Master of Orion II... If you are a fan of MoO series, 
 this game is just right one for you... If you are into turn based strategies, then this game is 
 for you...
  
  The game is quite fun to play, easy, customizable ships, huge tech tree and good diplomacy options 
 makes this game really fun and enjoyable, especially the newly found technology is brought to you 
 by a news broadcaster with real funny dialoges... The diplomacy is quite fun, the AI doesnt try 
 to tacke you by allying every AI faction on the map to stop you...
  
  There are many victory conditions, such as massive alliance, cultural victory and of course the 
 classic domination victory...
  
  I cant say much about the campaign since I only played custom games like Civ 4... 
  
  All in 
 all GalCiv is a great rip off, promises hours and hours of gameplay and fun...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Ever played Sid Meiers Alpha Centauri? Well, Galactic Civilizations 2 feels like a cheap new imitation 
 of it. I don't understand why gamespot gave this game such a high score. It reflects the old Sid 
 Meiers game in absolutely every way. This big hype about creating your own personalized units and 
 actually use them first came out in that old game aswell. It's fun and all but jeez, its been done 
 already!
  The campaign is straightout boring too, you'll press that turn button a million times before you 
 get any research done or build anything useful. I thought the fighting scenes would be slightly 
 neat to see but those too are just a bunch of stick shaped soldiers shooting laser beams and ships 
 blowing up with cheesy effects. I was hoping that later on in the game's campaign you would AT 
 LEAST still have all the research you did in the previous mission, but NO. You'll have to wait 
 years and research all the same stuff you had before. All over again. I really wanted to like this 
 game, I really did, I was looking for a turn based sci-fi strategy but this really wasn't it. The 
 more I kept playing the more I kept thinking the old Alpha Centauri was much better and probably 
 still is. I mean come on, I know that nothing really happens in the galaxy but can't you make some 
 effects that distract you or something? The whole thing is based on this big black board with ok 
 planets and suns, but nothing else is there, no asteroid fields, nebulas, views of far away galaxies 
 in the background, nothing.
  I hardly ever don't like a game, but this one was very dissapointing.
  If you're looking for 
 a sci-fi space strategy game I'd recommend Egemonia, really nice views and gameplay though it came 
 out a few years ago. It has all those elements of research, warfare and economy that make these 
 games pretty neat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc_alpha
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Let's get something straight from the get-go: this game is now over two years old, yet I only recently 
 purchased the game (March 2008) . I now wish I'd invested in it sooner.
  
  GalCivII is one of the most engaging and well-designed games that I've had the privilege of playing. 
 I have always been a fan of turn-based strategy games versus the more popular real-time genre, 
 and with the recent release of the final expansion pack, Twilight of the Arnor, I can't imagine 
 that my preference will change any time soon.
  
  The story behind the game's campaign setting is simple but well thought-out: The galaxy is a big 
 and populated place, but interstellar travel by its various inhabitants is limited due to the lack 
 of practical transportation technology-at least until humankind makes its debut on the galactic 
 scene with the invention of superluminal travel capable of being integrated into individual ships. 
 With easy interstellar travel now possible, relations between the various races change, bringing 
 about concepts such as interplanetary trade and (gasp!) interstellar warfare.
  
  The campaign focuses on humanity's integration into galactic society, although you can also choose 
 to play as any of the other races. Each race has its own benefits and drawbacks, of course, and 
 there are numerous ways to "win" the game, be it with military might, superior technology, or by 
 simply being the most well-liked race in the galaxy.
  
  For those of you who've played any classics such as Master of Orion, the concept of GalCivII is 
 nothing new-it's the presentation of the game that places it in the same league as such hallowed 
 games. I get the feeling that the guys at Stardock approached their design concept by saying something 
 like, "Okay, if the Master of Orion franchise were dropped in our laps, what would we do with it? 
 How could we make it better?" The game interface is clean, attractive, and logically designed. 
 The icons for game management elements, such as Research or Planetary Management, are intuitive. 
 You can automate these elements to a certain degree or you can micromanage the heck out of them. 
 And, in what I consider to be a truly inspired development decision, you can even design your own 
 ships by putting them together piece-by-piece, as if someone dumped a big bucket of Space-Legos 
 in front of you and said, "Here you go, have at it."
  
  One of the criticisms that has been leveraged against the game is the lack of tactical combat, 
 and while it's true that hardcore grognards might be initially disappointed with such an exclusion, 
 I believe that repeated play will show that the game more than makes up for this design decision 
 with superior (and scalable) artificial intelligence. The game seems possess the unnerving ability 
 to learn and adapt to your playing style, offering up a challenge that won't make you miss the 
 lack of multi-player capability, which seems to be the second major criticism of the game. But 
 really, how often do you think people would take advantage of multi-player capability in such a 
 game as this? As someone who has attempted to play Civilization IV over the internet, I can tell 
 you how extremely frustrating it is to begin a game against another person only to have them (A) 
 quit when they think they're going to lose, (B) quit for no apparent reason, or (C) promise to 
 continue the game at a later time and then renege on that promise. GalCivII, bless its code, will 
 never quit on you, and it will always be waiting to play with you. Perhaps Stardock will incorporate 
 multi-player and tactical combat into a (hopefully coming some day) GalCivIII, but until then, 
 you're going to have your hands/claws/tentacles full as it is.
  
  The way I see it, if you're still reading my review at this point, you're obviously interested 
 enough in this type of game that I would heartily recommend it along with the two expansions. I 
 can also recommend downloading the game directly from Stardock, and as of this writing you can 
 get the entire Dread Lords/Dark Avatar/Twilight of the Arnor package for $60.00 USD, which is an 
 absolute bargain in my book.
  
  Now if you'll excuse me, I have a galaxy to conquer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAgmoore
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was a dissapointment when compared to classics such as Master of Orion 2 , Shogun: Total 
 War and Alpha Centauri.
  
  I think that the reason why people are rating this game so highly is because they have no point 
 of comparison since there are very few 4X space games on the market and most likely newer gamers 
 never played the games mentioned above which came out in 1996, 2000 and 1999 respectively.
  
  The first thing I noticed was that the game was still being patched as late as January 2008 
 ( even though GalCiv2 came out in Feb 2006 and even though mine was the Gold Edition V 1.5 ) so 
 my first question was why? Why are people talking about bugs and game-design flaws on Stardock's 
 forum? Where were all the beta testers? After reading the back of the manual I noted that there 
 were no game testers listed! While trying to figure out who created the game, I looked through 
 GalCiv2's Wikipedia, and the game was programmed by a team of only 6 coders!
  
  The most obvious flaw in this game is that ship-to-ship tactical combat is non-existant. It's frustrating 
 and insulting to watch a cinematic cutscene, where your ship floated around as if it were a puck 
 in air hockey, as if your captain were drunk and chimpanzees were working in gunnery.
  
  While designing custom ships I did ask myself, "how deep can this game be when the programmers 
 invested so much time into giving the player the option of connecting components like engines and 
 guns to different points on the ship? It has all the sophistication of lego, is the target demographic 
 a bunch of 8 year olds?"
  
  The campaign mode is a joke, it seems like it was tacked on as an after-thought and consists of 
 "capture a planet". The story is lack lustre.
  
  The sandbox game, strategically just seems like a rush game. The person who grabs the most habitable 
 planets and climbs up the tech ladder the fastest, ends up the winner.
  
  The graphics are good, the sound is mediocre, the cut-scenes for events and good, the sandbox customization 
 is great. This game lacks strategic and tactical finesse and gets repetitive very quickly.
  
  This game can be addictive, in the same way that a slot machine can be a time sink but once 
 you get past the flashing lights and loud noises, it tends to leave one empty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazzap50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  When I first opened GalCivII, I was pretty excited about its turn based type of motion and all 
 its different features. It indeed lived up to the hype that I had heard from my friends, and soon 
 I was sucked away into the fight of my life against the Dread Lords. Many times, I found myself 
 playing for 2, 3 hours straight without realizing that time was passing by at an unusual speed. 
 The game definitely keeps you playing and always thinking, "well, one more end turn wouldn't hurt." 
 But as the missions progressed, the difficulty increased so much that it seemed almost impossible 
 to get through the final mission without resorting to easy mode. Perhaps it was because of my ship 
 designs, or my incapability of managing all the planets correctly, but that's how it turned out 
 for me. Overall, it was a great game. Too bad there just aren't more people playing it, or a multiplayer 
 version involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  This is a great turn-based strategy game. Well, where should I start. The music in this game is 
 amazing . It's so good that you cannot listen to your music because you want to listen to the Galactic 
 Civilizations II music. The graphics are insane. You can see everything on the ship. The gameplay 
 is very addicting. Instead of having cities you need to upgrade, like most TBS games, you work 
 on planets. There is a bunch of other races you can pick or you can make your own. When you make 
 your own race you can choose it's government, it's ship design, and their special abilities. Another 
 fun feature about this game is ship building. Most TBS games make you pick regular units for the 
 times your in. However, Galactic Civilizations II lets you design your own ships and you can watch 
 them in combat against enemy ships. The diplomacy in this game is good and funny. For example, 
 I go to talk to an evil race and the first thing the evil race leader says is "Did you get your 
 copy of pillage weekly?" I know thats not hilarious but it adds a little humor to the game. Mods 
 are also everywhere for this game. And the research tech-tree in this game is very cool and good.
 
  
  This game is not perfect. If I were to go on a desert island for a month and could bring one game 
 it would be this one. However, if I only had 30 minutes of my life to play games with, this would 
 be the least game. The game is only fun for when you got the time to play a long time. Also the 
 game gets boring after a while becuase sometimes you got nothing to do. 
  Also the tech-tree in this game is LONG. I mean, I doubt anyone could complete it without cheats. 
 
  
  Even though this game has some flaws, it's an excellent game that you should buy.
  
  -Helloiseeu
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first game, but this one is very fun. Just making my ships has taken hours. 
 I am going to have to get a new comp because on the huge galaxy random map it takes 10 minutes 
 for the turn to cycle. Have not gotten the new one yet, need thet new comp. I do wish the space 
 and ground combat was more involved, but you can not have everything. This is the first game I 
 have found that you can pretty much take over the complete galaxy. I found the random maps almost 
 to addictive, in that there are so many ways to go about winning. You could expand quickly by colanizing 
 new worlds as fast as you are able, or take a smaller area and build up for a big push later in 
 the game. For the peace nicks out there you can try and win through peace, love and all that. I 
 never even tried that way, I prefer just killing the other guy ( or billions of them) and having 
 a few allies. One one once said War is an argument were to win the argument you have to kill the 
 other fella . In galactic civ II that is what I have done in abundance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations Dread Lords continues to be a worthwhile game to own and play (and play 
 again and again) . The only thing that dragged me away from playing Dread Lords was the release 
 of Dark Avatar.
  
  The nice thing about this game, aside from everything else that has been mentioned in previous 
 reviews, is the enormous level of support you can get online. That's been mentioned in the past 
 a time or two as well, but bears restating. Stardock is dedicated to this game (not to mention 
 other releases) and you can be sure they are tweaking, fixing, debugging and otherwise increasing 
 the enjoyment factor all the time. I started playing Galactic Civilizations when it first came 
 out, and it has changed for the better so much that it is impossible to cover all the details. 
 Suffice it to say, the designers listen to the players and good ideas seem to be rewarded. So, 
 a good strategy game that is not for the adrenline junkies, but for those who like to run vast 
 empires, it's a gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaarakeren
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  As long as I know Galactic Civilization II (GalCiv2) is the best space-strategy game i ever play...
 
  No game can conquer this game!!! this game is outrageous!!!
  You should play this!!!
  I wonder how can STARDOCK came up with this idea!!!
  The game has 10 playable preset races, and 
 also allows the user to create a completely custom race.
  Galactic Civilizations II includes a highly-configurable 3D ship design editor.
  Galactic Civilizations 
 II is powered by a custom 3D game engine, although most user interface elements are displayed in 
 2D.
  A major focus of Galactic Civilizations II is the artificial intelligence of its opponents, due 
 in part to the deliberate omission of multiplayer in favour of the single player experience.
  
  COOL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaviuz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This was definitely one of my favorites after a few hours of gameplay. It carries everything a 
 strategy game should but I dont like the battle screen animations. Watching a bunch of ships with 
 poor pathing and old lego type creatures march towards each other just left me crying for it to 
 end. If this game also included RTS style battles per encounter it would not only provide an endless 
 amount of time spent on a single round but it would also make the player much more involved. Mind 
 you this is coming from someone that loves the Total War collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  yup, thats pretty much all you do, its fun, sometimes!
  
  ok so here you are, leader of a planet who has just began to take over other planets. Beginning 
 is very VERY boying. Your just pressing the next week botton until your technology gets high enough, 
 thats when the real fun start. Ok ny nwo all the free planets are taken, and the WAR begins. now 
 you research techonologies for war to help you right against your enemies. But dont get your hopes 
 up, for these fights aren't that fun to watch! You cant even do anything, you just WATCH!!!!!! 
 Oh so fun, lets just watch battles that take lik 1 MINUTE!!! YES 1 MINUTE!!! and the graphics are 
 horrible. Still its fun for some reason?!?!
  
  Now you want to start to build your own ships, wow this is sooooooooooooo addicting, i have no 
 idea why but it is. Youll spend hours just designing your ships is ways only game developers can, 
 Its amazing. You upgrade to fit your needs in fitghing your enemies, counter their techonology 
 with yours.
  
  The deplomacy is the most amazing. The AI are very smart when it comes to deplomacy. They aid you 
 in war. If your strong enough, you might even scare them and made them give you techonologies!! 
 its really cool. The game can be pretty hard at some points, but when your strong enough, its a 
 piece of cake. After playing this game many hours, i just got tired of it. I mean your not really 
 doing that much. Just press next week, thats all your doing. But over all the game is pretty fun 
 to keep you going for a while. If you like turned based strategy games then this is the game for 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman55
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing this game with the demo. I really wanted to like it, so I played the demo. 
 I didn't like it so much. An hour or so later, I tried again. Still didn't get into it. However, 
 a couple of hours later, on my third stab at the demo, was when I truly discovered how great Galactic 
 Civilizations II is. Sure, it's a pretty deep game, and new players (like me) will be stuck playing 
 on the easiest setting to learn the game. But there is so much to love here, you won't really care.
 
  
  First, let's start with the campaign. Although it's fun, it is NOT a good way to learn the game. 
 This is because the campaign pits you against the Dread Lords, the most unfairly overpowered enemies 
 I have ever fought in a video game. I can't even get past the fourth level, and I'm playing on 
 the easiest difficulty setting! When an enemy invades my planet using 10 legions of soldiers and 
 completely wipes out my planet (containing a few thousand legions) without losing a SINGLE GUY, 
 AND I'm playing on the easiest difficulty, I think there is something grossly wrong. Experienced 
 players should play the campaign, but new players should stick to sandbox mode.
  
  Thankfully, sandbox mode is where this game truly shines. This is a 4X game (explore, expand, exploit, 
 exterminate) . It is a turn based game taking place in space. You research technology, manage your 
 economy, and build up a military, as well as engaging in diplomacy with other races and colonizing 
 planets. The gameplay is VERY complex. The AI is also quite good. On the easiest difficulties, 
 they do practically nothing. They give you an easy victory. But on the higher difficulties, they 
 play like a human opponent. In sandbox mode, you aren't restricted to playing as humans. You can 
 play as any of the game's races, each with their own unique strengths and weaknesses. You can even 
 make your own! There are also many settings that change the game, such as the number of habitable 
 planets and the size of the map. You can play a short game, or you can play through an epic space 
 opera that can last days. There are different ways to win, which include a military victory (conquering 
 the galaxy) , a diplomatic victory (forming an alliance with ever race) , an influence victory (having 
 your influence spread across 75% of the galaxy or more) , and a technological victory (researching 
 Technological Victory on the tech tree) . Unlike the campaign, the sandbox mode is fair and balanced, 
 perfect for everyone. This is where you will be spending most of your time. Since there are so 
 many different ways to play, the game has incredible replay value.
  
  One of the most brilliant aspects of the game is the ship building tool. The game has a very deep 
 ship builder, which is accessed in the middle of the game. Depending on the technology, you will 
 have different parts, the more advance parts obviously becoming available later on when you have 
 researched enough technology. Nevertheless, you can build very complex ships, and very powerful 
 ones as well which you can actually use in your games. Want your flagship to be the U. S. S. Enterprise? 
 You can make it. Nothing beats needing a better ship in the middle of a conflict and just making 
 your own.
  
  The graphics in this game are very good, but not perfect. The sound is alright, but the music is 
 boring and there isn't much variety. In addition, there are a few shortcomings. The tech tree is 
 not too complex, and it seems a bit unorganized sometimes. Despite these things, however, Galactic 
 Civilizations II is one of the most addicting games ever created. Hats off to Stardock for crafting 
 such a fine game. If you have any interest whatsoever in strategy games, Galactic Civilizations 
 II is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjranck
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Addictive and better than before. It is just a really fun strategy, tactical, space empire game. 
 I enjoyed the graphics the consols and the interface. It was interesting enough but not at all 
 taxing to get the game going or work in any of the main areas. Designing ships is interesting and 
 you can take as much or as little time as you need to. Tweaking the economy can be done or just 
 assign to a governor. This game is well done and definitely not too much in any area! The zoom 
 out and in look is very clever and works so well. Best game I've purchased in a long, long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttss
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 23, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  I found the game highly replayable... but I didn't find anything in it that made buying the expansion 
 worth it. The little extras such as super abilities didn't significantly change the game play. 
 I found no difference going with supper diplomat or super trade versus playing the same style in 
 the original. I loved the original, but wouldn't recommend the expansion. Buy the original, play 
 it, and don't worry about the little extras in this expansion.
  
  In my game play, it seemed it would, like clock work, rebalance the game after a while with an 
 outside event, like when the uneven hands takes territories of every player. It is almost counter 
 productive to get to much of a lead to fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: it009x9281
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I; m a long time vet of Galciv 1 though the game was fraught with bugs i found myself unable to 
 stop playing it late at night
  Any way Galciv 2 appeared and i was blown away buy its 3D graphics able to see my planets, ships, starbases 
 etc.
  i played on the huge setting snd just found myself expanding every planet i could find while researching 
 the best weapon i prefere to defend rather than attack at first then i could not believe when someone 
 came over and planted a colony right next to me i thought he can do that so at that point i declared 
 war i was quite suprised that the AI didnt send many ships my way and was pretty easy to put him 
 down but rather than go for conquest victory i went for culture victory but i found myself getting 
 a little outa control cos i owned half the universe and so many planets to watch so i found the 
 universe manger very useful.
  i must admit my fav part of the game is the ability to build my own ships.
  Make a super fast 
 colony ship and a super fast constructor i even built a ship that looked like a star destroyer 
 from star wars and used that as the maystay for my civilization (USM) .
  To round of i love this game in everyway even better build ur own ships.
  i have not liked any 
 space based expansion game since Imperium Galactica 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vpalmire
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  the fast paced gaming style of this series just took a significant step forward with this expansion 
 pack. i have found myself literally on the edge of a seat, waiting for the computer to make it's 
 next turn. the music is a bit of a re-hash, but the graphics are improved and the decision tree 
 is diversified for a deeper gaming experience. there are as many styles available to win as there 
 are personalities (well, almost) The A. I. seems to be significantly improved.
  
  for anyone who likes the genre, this is an absolute must buy
  
  oh, and yeah, i do have a life
 
  
  its just that much entertainment
  
  vince 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  My TBS experiences mostly come from the Civilization series, when people in the forums started 
 claiming that GalCiv2 is better that Civ4, I was about to blame them for blasphemy .. but decided 
 to give it a try anyway. And I'm glad I did, because they may have very well been right!
  
  The graphics of the game are nothing amazing, but it is pretty much what you can expect from a 
 TBS set in space, it pleases my eyes and units are fairly detailed. Sounds are very good from atmospheric 
 music to sounds of battle when two fleets are taking it out. Interface might seem a bit weird at 
 first but after a few hours you get used to it.
  
  If you've played other TBS games like the Civilization series, the game idea should be clear to 
 you. Several competing races are thrown in the same map and your goal is to come out of it as the 
 winner. What GalCiv2 does better than for e. g. Civ4 is that it gives you more options to customize 
 your experience from creating your own race to modifying your ships appearence and weaponry. Not 
 to mention mods. This greatly adds to the replay value and addictiviness of the game.
  
  The game also takes a bit more humorous approach than one might expect from a TBS game, the enemy's 
 comments when you're gathering a fleet next to their homeworld and the descriptions for many different 
 technologies are worth a few chuckles. This works out much better than one might expect in this 
 traditionally so serious genre.
  
  The AI is definately the strong point of the game. I was delighted to notice that with the right 
 allies it was possible to dig your way up even from a deep hole. For e. g. in Civ4 the game is often 
 already lost in the beginning if you fall behind in technology or population, or get nitpicked 
 by some strong civilization. In GalCiv2 it's possible to turn this development, allies are more 
 willing to trade tech and a war doesn't mean that the other party is gonna hold a grudge for the 
 next thousand years. Teaming up against common foe is easier and more satisfying. One match that 
 I was quickly losing due to my own early mistakes was quickly turned around when I gained allies 
 that shared their tech with me and luckily salvaged a powerfull ancient battleship that helped 
 turn the tide of war, something like this has never happened to me in other games. The bond between 
 you and your allies is much stronger, and for once it's worth it to look after your friends, even 
 if they aren't the most powerfull race in the galaxy once you give them the right tools they know 
 how to use them.
  
  In GalCiv2 you don't only build units, but you design them. You have 3 weapon types to choose from, 
 and 3 armor types to counter them. This leaves some room for tactics, if you own 2 of those techs 
 on a good level, it might be worth it to share one of them with your future enemy, this way you'll 
 have the say in what weapons and defences he'll be using, leaving you to choose the best possible 
 weaponry to counter his forces, in theory at least. Battles themselves are fought on 2 fronts, 
 ship vs ship (or fleets) , and invading ground troops against the planet's defence forces. Naturally 
 the defence forces usually outnumber the invaders that need to be brought there by transports, 
 but you can even the score for e. g. by nudging asteroids towards the planet, destroying some of 
 the planet in the process of course... Similar choises are also presented to you throughout the 
 game, there are 3 paths to choose from, evil, neutral or good. This to me was a new nice addition 
 to genre. Some things could had been done better tho, interface isn't the most intuative, and some 
 basic actions would had been nice to be able to automate and for e. g. upgrading your ships constantly 
 might get a bit tedious. The relatively large tech tree might seem a bit intimidating at first, 
 but after a one long game it already felt a bit too narrow for me. But the biggest flaw in the 
 game is its addictiveness, don't start a match unless you have some time reserved for it. Just 
 one more turn truly defines this game and I've found myself playing it 'till the dawn every night 
 since I got it.
  
  This game goes right up there with Civilization IV and is something every TBS gamer should have 
 in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  The amount of customisable options there are is amazing. When you start a game there are hundreds 
 of combinations you can have, e. g. size of galaxy, amount of hospitable planets, anomilies, stars, 
 victory conditions, technology rate, etc, etc... Then there are ten races to choose from, ranging 
 from war-mongering Drengins, to the noble Arceans. You can even design your own ships, and make 
 them for a certain purpose, e. g. for speed, for invasions etc... The only bad thing about this 
 game is the lack of multiplayer, but because the A. I. are do good, it almost makes up for it. Gal 
 civ 2 is very addictive, even more so than Civ IV I think, and you just keep coming back for more. 
 BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  GALACTIC CIVILIZAIONS II
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Gameplay 7.33/10
  - Story 1/5
  - Graphics 3/5
  - Sound 1/5
  - Effort/Innovation 3/5
  - Presentation 3/5
 
  - Replay Value 10/10
  
  - Overall 6.3/10 (28.33/45)
  - Monetary Value $40
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY: 7.33/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  A fun little turn based strategy game from a once small and unknown company. Excellent replay 
 value on this one.
  
  Fluidity: 8/10
  Good. Gameplay is turn based with the player getting the 1st turn at the start of rounds. You can 
 move every unit you have as well as issue command to every planet every round. The objectives in 
 every map change depending on the selections you make at map creation or due to the objectives 
 in the plot if you are playing that. The game is fairly straightforward in term of gameplay. You 
 should be able to figure out all the commands and aspects to the game without need for outside 
 help. The only problem I had is that in some maps, depending on how you feel like playing, the 
 maps can take much too long to complete. Yes I know, a lot of strategy games are like that but 
 honestly it gets boring because things become repetitive. The producers do try to throw a wrench 
 in the game every now and then to mix things up such as political Kus and new aliens and such 
 but they tend to be more of an annoyance than fun and they extend the hours of a game even farther. 
 Not bad but suffers from boredom syndrome like most strategy games.
  
  Options: 8/10
  You can try to win in several different ways such as diplomatically, militarily, technologically, 
 or influentially. You have a choice as to what planets do and how to deal with your adversaries. 
 You can create your own ships, which is a lot of fun especially with mods that add parts. There 
 are several difficulty settings you can chose from with a better AI at each step up. All in all 
 there is plenty here. Very good.
  
  The bad part is that gameplay becomes very linear (reduced options) at times. For example, for 
 a military victory, you simply churn out fleets of small ships as quickly as possible and zerg 
 the enemies (larger ships are generally ineffective especially later in the game due to combat 
 mechanics) . If you want a cultural victory (without use of force) you have to build star bases 
 near target planets (considered an exploit by many but you really don't have any other means to 
 do it) . Trading between races needs some rebalancing especially the way they trade techs with each 
 other (I end up turning tech trading off in my games since AI trades don't make much sense) . It 
 would be nice to have a better means to achieve influence victories. More variability for planetary 
 upgrades since they all boil down to 1 of three types; research, economic, or production planets 
 (influence planets are almost worthless) . More options for ship creation. Some special stuff like 
 flagship upgrades, or better home planet bonuses... something to add more fun to the game.
  
  Combat: 6/10
  Unbalanced. The developers keep tweaking with combat in patches but no matter 
 what they do it is still boring and linear. At first, it was the attacker who got first strike. 
 Then that was patched and it was both sides attacking at the same time (better balanced but renders 
 defenses even more useless than it already was) . The major problem with combat is that defenses 
 are severely unbalanced against offenses which renders big ships obsolete since they can only fire 
 once per round (at a single target) , thus can only destroy 1 ship at a time wasting some of their 
 damage each round if their target is small ship with very few hit points. This means that you are 
 better off creating fleets of fast building mini ships with a few guns (and no defense) than big 
 ships with a lot of hit points, guns, and defenses.
  
  The way defense works is by a roll based on the ships defensive rating. So if a ship has 10 defense, 
 it essentially means that it will roll a 10 sided die (dice) and the result is what it actually 
 blocks. If it rolls a 2 it will block 2 hit points of damage even though the ship has a defense 
 of 10. Weapons on the other hand always do maximum damage. So a gun that does 10 damage will always 
 do 10 damage. In essence, defense is nerfed by 50% and it costs just as much to research it as 
 it would for any weapon type. Plus to be effective you need ships that can actually hold a lot 
 of defensive shields, which only very large (expensive) ships can do effectively and there is still 
 no guarantee that they will block anything since it comes down to a lucky roll of the dice.
  
  The game needs a rebalance in combat. Perhaps a more linear approach to defense and perhaps 
 allowing all guns (on a ship) to fire separately so as not to waste shots on a single (already 
 dead) ship. Smaller ships should also have some kind of advantage in dodging. It doesn't make sense 
 that they are just as easy to hit as large capital class vessels considering how much smaller they 
 are (especially against guns and missile weapons) . Weapons should also be looked into. As it stands 
 now they all behave exactly the same. Perhaps lasers should be more accurate but do less damage, 
 while missiles are high damage but hard to hit with, and guns somewhere in the middle. Just my 
 idea anyway.
  
  All that said, it is kind of fun watching the little ships fly around and shoot each other especially 
 custom made ships.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  STORY: 1/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  I honestly 
 didnt complete the plot because I got bored of it. The plot pits the player against a highly advanced 
 alien race through a series of maps and such (corny &amp; overused) but that isnt really the problem. 
 The problem is, there is no characterization in this game. There are presidents and rulers to every 
 race but you really don't know anything about them aside from their biographies and your own character 
 has no background either. There are no unique ships, planets, or bases that play a part in the 
 plot nor is there any reason to play it aside from stopping the bad aliens from destroying you. 
 It is just boring. I know some people don't expect a plot from a strategy game, but Ive seen plenty 
 of similar type games that do have a decent plot. I don't expect huge cut scenes and I don't care 
 if speech is spoken or written (I am aware that this is made by a small company) but I would have 
 loved to see some kind of compelling reason to keep me interested in playing the plot. Maybe even 
 have some way to unlock something special like new technologies or a cool flagship anything to 
 make the plot worthwhile.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS: 3/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Compared to other strategy games like civilizations, not bad. The ship builder adds a lot of fun 
 allowing the player to create all sorts of different and unique looking ships. You can also download 
 mods that add hundreds of new parts that you can use to make your ships with. ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND: 1/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Annoying as hell and/or none existent. I honestly do not remember if there was any ingame music 
 (I don't recall any speech either) or if I had turned it off, but if I did turn it off then that 
 would mean it was bad. The annoying song I am referring to is the main menu/title song. The one 
 with the lady singing in alien tongue. It is unbelievably annoying and sticks to your brain for 
 weeks after you hear it. Not good.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; INNOVATION: 
 3/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Average. The strong point of this game is its gameplay and support. The company continues to not 
 only fix, but to enhance the game through patches which is nice to see. The bad part is most of 
 this game was simply borrowed from older games of the same genre such as Master of Orion II as 
 many reviewers have pointed out.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION: 3/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Manual explains the game sufficiently allowing the player to start playing fairly quickly. Lack 
 of decent sound/speech, and FMVs hurt this game a little. Lack of plot or story hurt it more.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE: 10/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  You 
 will not want to replay the plot but when you feel the itch for a strategy game it is one that 
 you will go back to time and time again. Personally, Ive probably spent over a hundred hours playing 
 this game but the hours were split up fairly evenly over a one year span. I played for maybe 30 
 hours in the 1st month and maybe 4-5 hours per month after that and I still go back to it every 
 now and then and I don't expect I will stop playing altogether any time soon. This is a very good 
 thing IMHO.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL: 6/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  A very good 
 turn based tactical strategy game. I own Civilizations 4, Sim* (fill in the blank) , *Tycoon and 
 several *craft/empires type games and I always find myself playing Galciv (Galactic Civilizations) 
 when I want to play a single player strategy game. I would say Galciv is the best turn based sim 
 out there topping the Civilization games which are good but not as much fun in my opinion. ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  MONETARY VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Again, due to its replay value, and decent gameplay, it is a fine game to own. Add to this, the 
 fact that it was released at $40 rather than $50 like most other games, makes Galciv a true gem 
 and pleasure to own.
  
  $40 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Conquest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  for the longest time I have played the original version of Gal Civ, it was the best time I have 
 ever wasted in my life. I delved into the game at the level which was entitled cakewalk and was 
 suprised I won even without doing anything major in the game. I practically just moved the colony 
 ship around trying to figure out what the purpose of the ship was. Soon I colonized a planet and 
 to my suprise a movie! it said after years of being stuck on Earth, we have begun colonization 
 of our newest home. after that one event I realized how to get going. I won that game in as little 
 as 200 turns once I got a foothold, production started to go and I started to produce ships and 
 in less than 10 turns I was stronger than anyone in the galaxy. so one by one everyone surrenedered 
 to me and the cakewalk was done, forever! I was a hard addict to this game every game I upped the 
 ante and pushed the difficulty one more. I eventually one this game on Masochistic (which was the 
 hardest fight the computer would put up against me) .
  
  After recieving the game from Amazon. I tried to open the case which gave me so many problems of 
 which I won't discuss here. I started a game, this time I started on the level Painful instead 
 of Cakewalk, I wanted to see the skill of the new AI and all its limits. The thing I noticed the 
 most was that you could now customize the parameters of the game, the options are from whom you 
 play to whom is the smartest. The thing I enjoyed the most is getting a 3-D type of format to see 
 ships, stars, and planets. Most of this game I was behind! the AI was putting up an incredible 
 fight. I never figured out what happed that game, The Dregin were put right next to me and eventually 
 declared war on me. At the time I was relatively weak and frail with only a ship or two to ward 
 off the many transports that came. I never gave in though I researched a technology that saved 
 my butt called 'Arnorian Battle Armor' I stuck it on a medium ship. It was able to hold off anything 
 the dregin could manufacture until I could mount a reasonable defense. the Ethics that are stuck 
 into this game can save your life, if your against someone with Psionic Shredders sometimes theo 
 only thing you can do is become a goody two shoes. I haven't been able to find a reasonable defense 
 for Psionic Beams though which are the Doom Rays of the Archaic times. The Technology Tree has 
 become more managable with everything in a straight line one tech requiring only the prior tech 
 to research. so you can perfect in any line of research you wish, I suggest the Missile weapon 
 line as its the most powerful by far. Stardock has a way of finding even the most miniscule glitch 
 and fix them, with the service they have on support the game seems to become better and better 
 with ever sequential patch. Persistence and Flexibility are the keys to the game. If you find some 
 way the works do it again and again until it doesn't work then adapt that plan of action someway 
 or another. (never, never be afraid to push the boundries in difficulty if you master on level 
 push on to the next difficulty) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahqahq
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  The gmae looked very fun and many of you may think this is going to be like another civilization 
 4 but it is not. The game oerlal is pretty good but many things keep it form great. First is the 
 campaign, I thought your research would stay with you from level to level but it did not. THere 
 is so much technology and it takes at least 2 hours of game play to get good weapons and armor. 
 THe graphics are not good, the sound is repetitive, but it is good if you just want to have a fun 
 game once in a while. I did like the ship maker mostly because the ships in the game are terrible. 
 SO overall it may be worthwile when it oges down to 20 but if you are trying to decide between 
 this a civ 4 buy civ 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashface
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  This is a good, solid strategy with all the basic build and conquer gameplay standard for these 
 games. The advanced ship design features are very nice but alot of the cosmetic additions are pretty 
 poor and useless. There are probably player made mods on the net though. The computer AI is pretty 
 tough. I have all my techs maxed and there are still 2 empires stronger than I am. I can't really 
 think of any significant flaws with this game. It still doesn't surpass Alpha Centauri as far as 
 space strategies in my opinion but is definately a very good game. If you're a fan of strategies, 
 you should definately try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinochild
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I really, really want to like this game and have spent hours, days, attempting to make myself like 
 it, but I just can't. It's frustrating game play and boring action have left me empty and unsatisfied. 
 Let's start with what's to like:
  
  Ship Customization - You can design your own ships. This rocks. I would almost buy the game simply 
 for this feature, however, its implementation leaves a little to be desired. You build all kinds 
 of crazy hulls, but all the components are slap on. Still, it's better than anything else I've 
 seen and a step in the right direction.
  
  Game Customization/Modding - This should be a standard feature in any game. I wish there were a 
 few more options though. For example, it's nice to be able to add/edit the xml files, but one thing 
 I miss from the original galciv is how critical Range is. Range is almost a non-factor in this 
 version. I attempted to reduce the range of all ships, but the game doesn't seem to recognize 0.1 
 (must be INT values) . I've heard many people complain about the race to colonize. If Range were 
 more restrictive, it might help this.
  
  What's not to like:
  
  Building Improvements - Why is it that if I have a new colony and I have the highest level of industrial 
 improvement available, I have to build an Industrial Sector which takes forever and is prohibitively 
 expensive to buy. Why not allow access to all the improvements so I can start with a basic factor 
 and work my way up as the colony grows? Seems like a simple idea. It's incredibly annoying that 
 I can research the entire tech tree before I can fill up the tiles on a planet.
  
  No Ship/Planet Combat - There's no bombing planets from space. Without troop transports, there's 
 no way to take the fight to your enemy. This is ridiculous. Planetary defenses are all about improving 
 your ground troops defense capabilities, but tiles are so precious, why would you ever waste a 
 tile to build one?
  
  Ship to Ship Combat - In GalCiv, ship combat was simpe and quick. Nothing specatular, lame actually, 
 but at least it was quick and clean. There's no improvement in GalCiv2. It's exactly the same, 
 except that you can watch a simulated combat you have no control over. You can sit and watch frustrated 
 as your huge dreadnaught targets a tiny enemy fighter rather than the enemy dreadnaugh, wasting 
 it's firepower. The only real reason to watch these combats is so that you get a chance to see 
 the designs you've made. You spend the entire game zoomed out so far, you never see any of the 
 graphics on the main map. AI - I play with 8 Godlike AI players and I have to give them a reason 
 to attack me. It seems like if you don't have overlapping borders (and sometimes even that isn't 
 enough) the AI's will not initiate combat with you. I often start with one of the smallest empires 
 once the colonization phase is complete and I rarely build any combat ships because they're a waste 
 of resources early in the game. Even then, weak and exposed as I am, the AIs rarely attack. When 
 they do, it's great fun since I get to waste my resources on building ships to defend, but even 
 then, the AI's attack isn't the greatest. They have moments, I'll give them that, but usually, 
 if you repulse the first wave of transports (which usually doesn't take more than one or two ships 
 because they're sent out without escorts, and even if you can't destroy them, they only contain 
 1000 troops which is never enough to conquer a planet) , you've won the game. Nothing else in the 
 game seems to spur them to initiate combat. Even when you've almost acheived an influence victory, 
 they don't react.
  
  Ship Upgrades - When you build a ship, that's it. If you research better technology and want to 
 upgrade the ship rather than build a new one, good luck. It's so expensive as to be useless. And 
 there is no option to build the upgrade into an existing ship (like, docking it at a planet) like 
 there was in MOOII.
  
  Diplomacy - Has anyone ever been able to forge an alliance with another race? Please tell me how. 
 The only methods I've found to improve relations with an alien race is to trade with them, go to 
 war with a race they're at war with, and to give them stuff. I've given races everything and still 
 see no way to allign with them. The other point is, what if you have no tech to give? How are you 
 supposed to affect other aliens and acheive a diplomatic victory?
  
  Tech Tree - I hesitate to call this a tree - it's more of a vine. Lasers I, Lasers II, Lasers III 
 etc. There are no prerequisites from other techs lines - like, you don't need to develop a certain 
 level of industrial technology before you can build a better space station. It's uninspired and 
 boring. The tech descriptions are equally uninspired. It's like the team thought, Oh, maybe we 
 should put a description or something here. Anyone have a little brother who can do it this afternoon? 
 The truth is, there's no need for the descriptions because the techs are so simple - they're defined 
 by their effects and that alone. Bottom line, there's no fun in it.
  
  Interface - When you design a ship it's saved so that you can use it again in another game. But, 
 as your research continues, you build better ships - a lot of better ships. If you don't want to 
 scroll through hundreds of ship designs, most of which will be useless to you because things play 
 out differently each time you play, you have to delete them or at least mark them obsolete - one 
 at a time. If they'd just at a multiple select option, this would be so much easier. Better yet, 
 why not allow you to save designed particular to your custom race rather than by the default race 
 hull design?
  
  Also, when attempting to move all of your ships, it's difficult to figure out which ones have moved 
 and which ones haven't. The game is finicky about taking you through each ship in turn - it stalls 
 when you try to set a ship to 'sentry' or 'guard' (and this is a bug that still exists in the 1.4 
 patch) . Alignment - You start out the game as a neutral race. As you colonize planets, sometimes 
 you'll find something special that requires you to make a decision - do I wipe out the locals, 
 enslave them, or take a penalty on my population and let them live? Your choices move your race 
 towards the good or towards the evil. I see few ways to ever move yourself to the good without 
 seriously impairing your colonies. Once in a while an event will happen, but these are incredibly 
 rare - maybe two or three per game. Other than settling colonies, there is no other way to affect 
 your alignment.
  
  Bugs - There were so many bugs in the first release of this game it was almost impossibe to play. 
 They've finally managed to stabilize it in 1.4, but there are still a few outstanding issues. I 
 would hesitate to purchase the next release of a stardock product until they'd released patches. 
 There's no point putting yourself through that kind of frustration, and by the time the patches 
 come out to fix the bugs, the price of the game will have come down. Borrowing - I won't say plagurize, 
 but it's so evident that the game borrows ideas from other strategy games - particularly Master 
 of Orion II - that it seems a little cheap. Come up with your own ideas guys. Give us something 
 new. Summing it up - So, I don't think I'll be playing this game anymore. It came close to being 
 a great game, but it's just missing a few important things that would make it fun. I would still 
 rather throw in MOOII than this. I'm waiting for a game that takes the ship building in GalCiv2, 
 combines it with the tech and ship building in Ascendency, takes the ship combat from MOOII combined 
 with the 3D aspect of the ship combat in Ascendency, uses a 3D space map without star lanes, makes 
 an interesting planet improvement system, aggressive AIs, and is all around fun to play. Am I dreaming? 
 Is it out there and I've missed it? Who wants to help me make it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is interesting and can waste some of your time, but there is nothing special about it. 
 You own a fleet of ships, can build/design more, research parts, colonize planets, build structures, 
 fight, and that is about it. It is all done in 2d bird's eye view and is turn-based. Fights go 
 into 3d, but you don't get to control anything in the fights, except you get to choose what ships 
 to send to the fight. Weapons and defenses come in three types. Each type of protection protects 
 a ship against one of the three types of weapons. So, basically, bigger ships beat smaller ships. 
 More technologically-advanced ships beat older ships. The only thought that needs to be applied 
 is how to counter your enemies' weapons and armor. Basically, you want to have ships that are well 
 protected against the weapons that your enemy uses, while equipping your own ships with guns that 
 are not blocked by your enemy's defenses. Nothing advanced here at all. Oh yeah, lots of factions 
 give you the option to trade technologies and team up, but that's it. Doesn't get any more complex 
 than that.
  
  Seems rather simple for a game that is mostly in 2d and completely turn-based. I realize why this 
 game is overrated: because it is a fairly solid X4. But just being solid is not good enough when 
 you take on such a relatively simple concept as X4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdibatti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  I'm new to the 4x turn based strategy games, never played one before, not even Civ 3 or 4.
  
  Anyway, this game is a lot of fun.... you actually have to think about what you want to build 
 or do next, not like RTS games where you just mindlessly build up a force and charge the other 
 team.
  
  However, you can do that if you like. After playing the game for a week and being very diplomatic, 
 I decided to start a war. I built up my Fleet while at the same time researching ship upgrades, 
 planet bombardment, marines. Then I set out to the nearest planet and attacked with my fleet, destroying 
 all their ships.... then proceded to deploy my marines for a ground assault. You have no control 
 over the battle, but it is still fun. Sit back and relax and see how your army matches up to theirs. 
 Not a game for everyone, but a nice change from the usual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  For all of you who want to be like cobra commander, Lex Luther, Darksyde, M. Bison, Dr. Evil or 
 any other over powered bad guy with too much money and time on there hands Rejoice! Afraid of what 
 your parents would do to you if, you turned your room into a secret enemy hideout? Fear no more! 
 Now you can get your enter Megalomaniac mojo going with this game! Want to rule the sea of the 
 stars with a Iron Fist? Want to be the Nero, Saddam, Mussolini Hitler or, even The Godfather of 
 the cosmos? Want to take over planets, systems or, cause wars just for fun? Now you can! Words 
 almost can't even Convey how awesome this game is. Unlike most games in this genre, GC2 isn't a 
 giant spread sheet where you type stats in for 75% of the game. this game makes you get your hands 
 dirty with all the objective and task you wish to do. The Graphics isn't going to burn up your 
 Graphics card but, this game isn't all looks. If you are looking for a game with stylish over the 
 top Cut scenes, get Final Fantasy. As for the rest of you that want a game that can bring out your 
 inner Kingpin, Stop reading this review now and, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishtari23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  First of, this game is not for everybody. But for those that love a good strategy game this is 
 a great buy. You will however have to invest a lot of time to really appreciate it. + Immersiv 
 game play
  + Strategic depth
  + Great graphics for a strategy game
  + Very replay able
  + Fun and interesting customization options, especially the ships
  + Mod able
  
  - No multi 
 player
  - Steep learning curve
  - Lack of information in-game, most notable in the tech tree
  - Manual is too brief on just about 
 everything
  
  Some say that this is just same old, same old . And if you have played masters of orion, and the 
 like, a lot of it will feel the same, but no other game does it as well as Galactic Civ 2. Time 
 just seems to flyby when you are playing.
  
  Since I have played Master of Orion I &amp; II until death (MoO III is dead to me) GalCiv 2 has 
 filled a 4Xspace void in me.
  
  So if you like strategy and have time and patience this is a game you should try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraMagnus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  I have been looking for a new strategy game for a while now. Having played many RTS games to death 
 I was looking forward to something that did not simply involve building a base and manufacturing 
 an immense force as quickly as possible to crush the enemy by sheer numbers, which is how most 
 conventional strategy games play. I was getting fed up with that old formula so when I stumbled 
 upon Galactic Civilizations 2 I was intrigued.
  
  First, a disclaimer: GalCiv2 is not for everyone, if you only enjoy the above mentioned quick paced 
 RTS games, then you will not like GalCiv2. There is no real time combat in GalCiv2, the AI handles 
 the combat. This game is about preparation and reaction not execution. GalCiv2 is about building 
 a successful civilization using all the facets of a society from military to economic to diplomatic. 
 GalCiv2 is a TBS game, which means that it is intentionally slow-paced. In order to get the most 
 out of this kind of game you have to put in time, and have a measure of patience. That being said 
 GalCiv2 does what it does so well that the Just one more turn. addiction is in full effect.
 
  
  GalCiv2 takes place in the distant future, when humans have invented Hyperdrive technology that 
 they share with the other races in the galaxy and essentially open the galaxy to expansion. This 
 has many effects including making the more war like races even more dangerous. So while everyone 
 squabbles over territory an ancient race called The Dread Lords returns with a vengeance and 
 starts manipulating the course of the wars that are going on and basically blasting anything that 
 moves. So the campaign consists of you playing as the humans and trying to survive the onslaught 
 of not only some of your neighbors but also The Dread Lords.
  
  The gameplay in GalCiv2 is something that any TBS player can appreciate. The developers have put 
 in a ton of time to make the AI play in a challenging way. And the AI is all youve got in this 
 game because there is no multi-player. In GalCiv2 you can have the AI play as well or as poorly 
 as you want. And when it plays well you better bring youre A-game, it really is the best AI I 
 have seen. It really gives you a run for your money without cheating.
  
  So during a typical game whether it be in the campaign or skirmish (which really is the meat of 
 the game) you will start out with a single colony, build your society, research technology, trade 
 with other societies, fight wars, make deals, colonize distant worlds, and hopefully either conquer 
 or unite the galaxy.
  
  The main draw of the gameplay is the customizability. Nearly EVERYTHING in this game is customizable, 
 from the shipyard where you can build an endless variety of ships, to custom races where you can 
 import images and logos, change the look of your ships, and add your own stat bonuses and race 
 descriptions. And in addition to customizing your race and ships you can change the parameters 
 of your game and the races you are competing against. The bottom line is that through the customization 
 options of GalCiv2 you can have a completely different experience each time you play, with very 
 little effort.
  
  The graphics in GalCiv2 are excellent, especially when you consider how much information the game 
 is pushing to handle all of the facets of the game. I play it on a Sony laptop at medium graphics 
 settings and it looks great, I can only imagine what it would look like on a high end system.
 
  
  The sound in GalCiv2 is also great. It is not as robust as a lot of RTS games, but that is because 
 it isnt an RTS. The music and sound effects set the mood very well. The music and voiced scenes 
 in particular, while sparse, are very good.
  
  The value of this game is a no-brainer. It is priced at $29.99 and you can download direct or get 
 it on disc. One of the things that the developers are very adamant about is that there is no CD 
 copy protection on this game. They want you to be able to play where ever you are and without the 
 burden of CD keys or license checks. The developers really trust and care about their customers, 
 which is also evident in the way they have worked diligently on huge updates that have and are 
 still making drastic and extensive changes improving an already stellar game. Never before have 
 I seen a developer actually ask their players for feedback and ideas and ACTUALLY IMPLIMENT THE 
 PLAYERS SUGGESTIONS IN FUTURE UPDATES! The team at Stardock are simply brilliant, really.
  
  So if you have not guessed it yet I really like this game. Not only for its own merits, and 
 they are great, but also for the merits of its developers, BIG KUDOS to those guys. In short if 
 you like strategy, have the patience to enjoy diplomacy and economics in addition to combat, and 
 want to get involved with a great game and a community of developers and players that actually 
 listen to each other, then GalCiv2 may be the game you have been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nadtheimpaler
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations has an engrossing depth and a massive memory requirement that grinded load 
 times to a halt. Time between turns was insane. Almost two minutes till I could move after hitting 
 the End Turn button. This game is for Star Trek fans, turn-based empire builders, and anyone willing 
 to take the time to get into the Galactic Civilization World, as long as their computer is up to 
 memory/ performance specs. With difficulty levels to ease you into the world and difficulty levels 
 that sting you when you have spent so long and realized your going to be destroyed. The game manual 
 is a must for anyone outside games like GalCiv, but worth the time for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valodimer_Viet
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  i had gud time enjoying the game but i found it is very complicated and much harder to get used 
 to compare to the previous galatic civilization game. i think tthey should make the game more like 
 pick and drop :S , make it easier for player to handle stuffs. i also dislike the part i cant really 
 make custom race due to there are many limitations... the game play is still some wat slow. i would 
 like to see there is option at the begin of the game to reduce reseach , buidling, training time 
 25%.50% and 75% to speed up the game .Other than those, i'm happy with the game and the developer 
 did a gud job . My very thx for that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafsin67
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  After only one week of its release there was a patch out ready for the bugs already reported. How 
 is that for speedy and caring? Anyway, customer support would get a 10 if they had that as a category. 
 They are still patching and updating this product even now.
  It's a not so typical RTS game because it's in space. Other then that, you would do a civ/simcity 
 style of RTS play. Build up your military, do the diplomacy, build wonders, buildings, units, etc.
 
  The ships are fully customizable. You can create your own from all their many space ship component 
 designs or go the extra mile and create the USS Enterprise or Super Star Destroyer.
  One of the greatest features of this game is the AI. Stardock has been spot on with great AI that 
 doesn't 'cheat' the higher you move up in difficulty. It's kind of refreshing to be moving along 
 in a game only to get your butt kicked every now and then by strategy and cunning from an AI. Instead 
 of it producing more units, more advantages, etc as you go higher in difficulty.
  Highly recommended for RTS'ers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anjanand
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  This Is the Level. This the plain of the of the best strategy games. Experience the right adrenaline 
 pumped world of strategy only on Galactic scale. Galactic Civilizations is the total package. The 
 best Strategy game that I've played since Tiberian Sun.
  
  Even though some time has to be spent on mastering the turn based game-play the classic Characteristics 
 of a strategy game was all included.
  With a gripping story at the start the games evolves in super futuristic world
  of space domination. 
 With new planets to explore and to colonise and to be on the constant lookout for invading races 
 and to search for the mythical dreadlords.
  
  Unlike other strategy games what was special was that you could win the game not only through military 
 might but fields such as Economy and Technology. Advances in all those fields seems to go on for 
 ever, looking as if one can never get to the end of one. The political environment involved gives 
 this game the edge over other games. Once you get hold of the controls and the game-play it's just 
 smooth sailing. The graphics were some of the best seen in a space strategy game. The intricacies 
 involved is mind boggling and highly addictive. This baby keeps you up at nights on end always 
 yearning for just one more turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebnatjen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I guess it helps that i was a huge fan of the original Galactiv Civ and the Altarian Prophecy expansion, 
 plus about all the other space strats ( MOO, MOO II, MOO3 (that was sad) Ascendancy, etc, but Galactic 
 Civ II is about as close a perfect space strategy as you can get. Perhaps the best thing is the 
 AI, which unlike pretty much any other strat game, doesn't cheat, and the dialogue they've written 
 for it and the moments that it says its lines is just uncanny, especially on the higher levels; 
 you'd swear a human opponent has just sussed what you are up to and isn't shy about letting you 
 know he knows! Gal Civ looks great too, superb detail as you zoom in and out on your ships, planets 
 and starbases, and a great sense of scale as well. And the ship design feature is way cool, almost 
 too cool, I finish up spending wayyyyy too much time designing them, but watching them in the game, 
 especially combat, makes it worth every second. The number of different races, customisation, galaxy 
 and game set ups and the multiple paths to victory make for good replayability; what wins in one 
 game won't always get ya there in the next, and its fun to experiment with the different benefits 
 of being good, evil or neutral.
  If you like strategy games at all, you owe it to yourself to have GalCiv II on your hard drive! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Picked up this game hoping for a new and improved version of Masters of Orion and I guess it's 
 a case of be careful what you wish for because it feels like that's basically what I got. Why is 
 that a bad thing? Well because it has all been done before. Maybe that's not Stardock's problem, 
 maybe that's gaming's problem right now. I keep hoping for something innovative and instead I keep 
 getting the same basic games in prettier packages and with prettier graphics. That is not necessarily 
 a bad thing, but it ends up creating games that do not hold the players interest very well. Galactic 
 Civ II is a nice game, with some good features in a genre that has not seen a whole lot of activity 
 lately. But after playing in the sandbox mode a couple of times and doing some of the missions 
 it is the kind of game that quickly becomes repetitive especially if you have played any of the 
 many similar games churned out over the last decade.
  
  So general conclusions: nice graphics, good interface (although a couple of the less used options 
 are not always easy to find) , okay pacing. Recommended for avid ship designers and those who have 
 never played this type of game before but like strategy games. For those who have played more then 
 a couple of these games in the past you may be better off dusting off one of the classics and spending 
 some time getting reacquianted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Strategy games are great, and I would list this game in the category of greatness. I actually have 
 enjoyed playing this more the Civilization IV, as you have more control of your units abilities, 
 more control over your Civilization, and much more interesting battles.
  
  One thing I do find an issue with though, is that begginner is to easy, and hard is annoyingly 
 back and forth. An example is, you'll be fighting for a planet over and over again. At the drop 
 of a hat, and there doesn't seem to be much rhyme nor reason, your enemies (or allies in some cases) 
 will turn on you. This game is great that you don't have to micromanage that much, but there should 
 be more description in the technology tree. Also, it takes longer for some technologies, which 
 is never explained.
  
  All in all, buy it, love it, resell it when you get bored. You'll play your money's worth on this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, why is the map not 3D. A space strategy must have a three dimensional map. Unit from 
 different civilizations cannot be on the same tile. Why is this so? Your spaceships change the 
 route, when an alien spacecraft (even when you are not in war) in on its way. A tile is so big 
 in the game, that even the largest planet can fit in it! The largest planet can fit in it, but 
 two spacecrafts can't! That nonsense!
  
  Now to the game: The game is a classical space strategy, with lots of researchs and upgrades (but 
 not for the planets) . You can design your spaceships yourself, there are different types of hulls 
 and lots of weapons, engines, shield etc. This option makes the game more fun.
  
  There are so little uprades and buildings for planet, that you might wonder, that do people live 
 here or do they just work and return home at the end of the day. There is just one reactional building 
 for the whole planet. Just one type of farm, factory, diplomacy building and just one lab. The 
 game has a slighltly boring routine. Discover techs before your opponents, design most powerful 
 ships and crush your opponent.
  
  I give a moderate point for this game because there are no other space strategies around. But it 
 hardly deserves it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goober_billions
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Well Well, this is a game for me. Okay so in this game you get to contol your own Galactic Civilization! 
 Duh, so what, done it before right? Well this game takes it to a new level. This game is all about 
 the way you handle things. From politics to War to choosing whether or not to wipe a planet out 
 for some cash. The Technology in this game is so dep it will keep you working and trading for it 
 for hours. The other races in this game can either be your enemy or your friend... or even puppet! 
 The AI in this game is formidable however, and your wont be able to do things your normally could 
 in a game like this.. for example, you ally yourself with a bigger Empire, with thoughts of betrayal 
 already planted. You move your fleets into vital positions in his empire, then when the time is 
 right, you strike! Well if you tried that in this game, they will flatout tell you they know what 
 your planning, and will unleash there own fleets onto your now betrayed fleet. Its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Its not a bad game, I would say its Civilization in space. I like the strategy but the micromanagement 
 can get a bit tedious at times. The Graphics are pretty good for a RPG, better than some with similar 
 styles. I do see a lot of replay value to this game. What is really nice is you can design your 
 own ships, and even create your own race. I feel this game is good for anyone that likes RPG's 
 especially games like Civilization. At this time I only played the game where you create your own 
 galaxy. I'm about to start the campaign section that will give a story line
  
  Overall, I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Following in the classic footsteps of 'Masters of Orion' series comes the Gal Civ series which 
 in my mind, even surpasses the masterpeice of MOO2, its suprisingly addictive with many features 
 lacking in other typical clones that have come and gone, one feature that stands out is the 3D 
 ship creator, that alone is fun and addictive in just creating ship after ship, each with different 
 styles, shapes and features.
  
  Gameplay is typical space strategy, build some colony ships and expand, do research and build planetary 
 buildings whist at the same time, being careful to defend your civilization from pirates or other 
 races.
  
  My only real criticism is that the combat could be better, if they could do a completely 3D combat 
 engine for the game, maybe even 3D ground combat for invasions, the game would then become pretty 
 much unbeatable, but still, the current game is excellent, I think the only games currently that 
 can match GalCiv2 are obviously Moo2 and Imperium Galactica 2, both are old classics.
  
  Stardock, keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  It is very fun game. But at first like the original you can feel very overwealmed and feel like 
 its just way to confusing. Take the time trust me get to now the game. The sound is fine except 
 when your in planetary battles it can sound alittle quarky with these beeps and boops at some times. 
 One problem that can happen is when like in the end game you can have super good ships but the 
 ai can burrow in planets and you may need like over a hundread ships to take a planet. The random 
 events like revolutions and like religious conflicts make the game very fun. The ai is superb it 
 knows what its doing. It is the civilization of space. The graphics are fine for its class but 
 it should of been somewhat better. I love the custom designing your own ships its awesome. You 
 can make a flying robot or flying cheese or just something weird. You can recreate startrek ships. 
 Its great. After a long game you feel kind of like tired of playing and stuff. I recommend you 
 play sparsly play hour or 2 here hour or 2 there or you may burn the game out and get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotnem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  This has to be the most addictive stretagy game i've ever played! I've played a few, some are not 
 even turn base, and nothing matches this! The AI difficulty can be changed and depending on what 
 it is its stretagy also improves. They can also remember your strategy and will apply it to themselves 
 to counter you or to take advantage so you wont be able to fool the AI twice depending on the AI.
 
  The graphics are good, granted their isn't much to see so they just improved whats there. The 
 sound is good but after 15 minutes withen the game you won't notice it because your soo immersed 
 into it.
  There is a huge replay value because you may do the same misssions over and over again but the 
 game uses new maps so you may never know where everything is or how good is your starting planet.
 
  The different races also offer huge customisation for ship designs. Think of Sid Meier's Alpha 
 Century in space. You can customise the ships and add new designs to make it look like your dream 
 ship (Yes, we are also talking about the Enterprise here) .
  You can custom make the races and you can download mods on their website or if you want to make 
 your hands dirty you can download the mod that allows you to make everything from scratch.
  Although you can conquer through technology, alliance, conquest, or culture victorys it takes a 
 while to conquer planets because you need to research the troops tech. This can be annoying because 
 it takes a while to get there and time is of the essence.
  It may take a while to get used to this game but it offers a tutorial and a manuel that offers 
 very good information all about the AI and everything else. Not to mention a huge graph that displays 
 all the technology so you can plan ahead on what you want.
  There is also not allot of micro-management here. This means that you don't have to do more than 
 generally run your empire. You can assign "governors" to do the general things on your colonies 
 and ships. Also set up rally points so ships go to location B upon completion.
  Even though this game does not have multiplayer there is the Metaverse with rules which allows 
 you to, on completion, send the scores online on the website so everyone can see how good or evil 
 are you.
  This game has the best AI i've ever seen (the AI does'nt "cheat" as well) , a long, long, long, 
 long, etc. replayablity that truly makes the 59 dollars worth it and more, good graphics and sound, 
 medium learning curve to some people and an overall brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations II is the rare strategy game that excites the player to the point of making 
 the outcome of the game irrelevant compared to the anticipation of the next turn. Whether colonizing 
 distant planets, discovering new techs, engaging in diplomatic affairs, or ignoring diplomacy to 
 favor gunboat tactics, Galactic Civilizations II rewards the player in strategy gold.
  Galactic Civilizations II is a 4x strategy game (explore, expand, exploit, and exterminate) taking 
 place in the vast reaches of outer space. How big outer space will be is left up to the player 
 with a wealth of options such as galaxy size, system density, frequency, abundance, and number 
 of species involved. After that its up to the player to go about ruling their species as they 
 see fit, going through the traditional footsteps in order to achieve supremacy through one of the 
 three means of achieving victory.
  Galactic Civilizations doesnt innovate in any real sense, a few nice touches and add-ons here 
 and there, but largely this will be familiar territory for strategy fans. Where the game truly 
 succeeds is at what it does so well, which is largely everything. Colonizing new planets is always 
 an exciting affair, giving your empire a truly expansive feel with a real sense of achievement. 
 The fruits yielded by research add exciting technology to your empire with which to customize your 
 attitude towards your people as well as others. Exploring the galaxy will lead to discoveries of 
 new planets and resources to add to your wealth. Its all very well done without the traditional 
 tedious menu surfing of its predecessors. 
  The game adds a number of very nice touches, the foremost of which being the shipyard customization. 
 As you research greater technologies, its possible to customize your ships with an increasing 
 number of unique aesthetic as well as functional pieces to make your ships look even more unique 
 and interesting. The system is extremely easy to manage, and encourages the player to dump the 
 prefabs (a good idea considering the rather lame designs) and jump off on their own. In addition, 
 I have never seen a game handle the political process better than this game. The galactic United 
 Nations, your own government, political schisms in your colonies, all of it has a delicious touch 
 of realism, despite the fact its taking place years in the future with aliens in distant galaxies. 
 
  The entire process of galactic domination is treated with a special glaze of humor, which adds 
 to the process instead of detracting. There are a number of instances that will make you chuckle, 
 such as the scientific discovery miniaturization being described by your science advisor as, Smaller 
 is better, or at least thats what everybody keeps telling me. My second favorite is the customization 
 screen, in which you can create your own race, giving your options in birth rate ranging from Frisky 
 and Very Frisky to Dont Ask being the highest. There are to many others to fit in this review, 
 but the important thing to state is that the humor adds to the gameplay rather than getting in 
 the way and diluting the immersion of the whole affair. 
  There are a few problems that keep Galactic Civilizations from achieving a state of nirvana, and 
 while they arent severe, they are noticeable. At the beginning, information comes in slowly and 
 is easy to disseminate, but as you colonize more planets and fleets are created, it becomes a bit 
 difficult to keep up with everything. I found myself on the edge of a precipice during a large 
 game, trying to keep my sanity managing the minutia, but after a while you adapt.
  Research in the game is a bit obtuse to say the least, being both slow in game time as well as 
 a half-hearted tech tree. On anything but the fastest research setting, you can likely count on 
 achieving most technology pretty late in the game, and even with the fastest setting, youll likely 
 be disappointed with the rate of technology. In addition, the tech tree is curiously uncreative, 
 with the advancement over Laser I being Laser II. This is done a number of times to pad the tree 
 and make it a bit longer, but largely it irritates rather than engrosses. 
  Ship combat is also just a point and click affair. There is no gigantic battle screen to go and 
 fight the good fight, but rather you click on an enemy fleet, there is a shooting animation, and 
 whoever had the best fleet wins. Its kind of disappointing to see such a robust ship creation 
 screen, only to have ship combat relegated to a 5 second zero-tactical affair. On the other hand, 
 Im glad the developers didnt attempt to create a tactical system that felt pegged on, so this 
 move was a mixed blessing.
  Many of the games functions are a bit difficult to discover for the first time. When I tried to 
 engage my diplomatic counterpart with the intent of making an alliance, I had a difficult time 
 discovering that I need to first research alliances, then the other race had to have that technology, 
 and only then could I make the offer. There are a variety of other quirks like this that arent 
 covered very well by the documentation, but for the most part these dont hamper your first play 
 through, and youll figure out all the functions past the second. Though there are a number of 
 small problems, largely they arent anything big enough to cause any serious problems.
  The graphics in the game are nice, with interesting and unique ship designs that allow for flexibility 
 with the players taste. In addition, the planets, explosions, buildings, and involved minutia all 
 looking above average. The game isnt going to win any beauty contests per say, but it doesnt 
 look like the ugly duckling either.
  The sound is well done, with an epic space orchestral score being delivered while the player is 
 making difficult decisions about his space empire. The menu noises can get somewhat irritating 
 after a while of menu surfing, so I turned them off, but the music is without a doubt an integral 
 part of this package.
  Galactic Civilizations II is a triumph on all fronts. Its a rare bread of game that keeps the 
 player more interested in what happens next than the outcome of the whole process, and whether 
 you win or lose, you are guaranteed to have a great time every time. This games perfection comes 
 close to gracing the face of God, and it should have a place on every strategy fans hard drive 
 for some time to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuuseiPT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this short and stick with the important points :P
  
  Galactic Civilization 2 is the first space turn based strategy game that succeeds in hooking me 
 since the old Master of Orion 2. Why ? 
  
  it doesn't try to reinvent the wheel while bringing it's own twists, and when you have a successful 
 formula, that's a safe way to produce a hit. Sure it doesn't bring the genre to new heights but 
 puts it once more in the highlight where previous attempts where shadowy at best.
  
  Technically speaking, the sound isn't awesome but does its job, the music is easily forgotten but 
 not bad, the graphics are pleasant but not really on par with whats done now a days.
  
  So with a technical package that is no more than average what makes this game so great? In a word, 
 the game play, and what could be more important.
  
  The game plays out as you would expect from one of its kind, but does so in a superior way. the 
 interface is a bit clunky in my opinion but works really well and makes it easy to get into the 
 game, on the contrary to other games. The various aspects of the game, from economics, to research 
 and ship designing, are deep but simple in their own way. The best way to describe it is that it's 
 an easy game to get into but hard to master, since there are many little details that wont be 
 apparent before you play around for a while, and while you do the amazing AI will teach you how 
 it's done.
  
  The strong AI is the other great aspect of this game, I really can't put it in words play the game 
 and see it for yourself. You won't be disappointed.
  
  This game is a shiny example of what great gameplay and a strong AI can do to an average technical 
 package. For every fan of the genre this is a must have, for the others you should at least give 
 it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrec
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Today, when one purchases a game of some worth it often includes a tutorial mode of some sort. 
 I was looking forward to a game that involved something more than the regurgitated hack and slash 
 games that seem to be flooding the market these days. So after downloading this demo for several 
 hours, I was anxious to give it a whirl. I was hoping to install this game and hit the ground running. 
 I can now tell that this game would require far too much reading for my taste to enjoy it thoroughly. 
 Even a simplified tutorial would have made this game much more enjoyable. Since I havent yet purchased 
 this game I am hoping that someone can convince me it is worth my further consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joniale
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  I find this game total boring, poor graphics, poor sound for 2006. The management is right when 
 you now where are or which are the things that you must build. As many says it is a game of try 
 and error. In the game all is slow. You must wait too much to achieve a small objective. You dont' 
 see how are improving step by step cause before you are already bored and this is not funny, ist 
 frustrating!! The tutorials explain some things and they are compulsory reading. You have from 
 ther very first time all the options and you are loosed. You see that you can later achieve and 
 this is confussing and difficult your choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koude_Wolf
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Around 10 years ago there was a game called Master of Orion 2. It was a brilliant game. So surely, 
 after a decade something should come along and be atleast as good, if not better. Galactic Civilizations 
 II was set to be that game. Did it manage? Hell no.
  
  Master of Orion 2 looks better, sounds better, feels better and especially plays better than Gal 
 Civ II could ever hope. The premise of the GalCiv II campaign is even ripped straight from MoO 
 2, i. e ancient good civilisation and ancient bad civilization have massive war, good traps evil 
 in pocket dimension, good dissapears, younger civilizations prosper... evil is unleashed. 
  
  The campaign game is worthless, don't bother. Even on the lowest difficulty the AI cheats like 
 hell, for example after about ten turns I have built a factory on my planet and researched Xeno 
 Research and Stella Cartography, the Altarians, my allies by the way, are busy annexing my territory 
 and spamming the galaxy with colony ships and upgraded space stations. So when the 'Dread Lords' 
 show up you'd had it, It becomes a ridiculous game of hide the ship and the objectives don't even 
 change. The normal game is yet more bizarre, here even on the more tougher difficulty settings 
 the AI has forgotten how to play the game and what you'll see is either a total lack of anything 
 or a ballistic expansion. This means that even on the larger maps, the whole galaxy (20 stars... 
 wow) is colonised before anyone has even researched lasers. Also, having gigantic maps is pretty 
 much a gigantic pain, thanks to the frankly idiotic way mouse scrolling is (mis) handled.
  
  All of the writing in the game is of a pretty poor standard, especially the technology information, 
 mostly due to the attempts at humour. Humour is always a bit risky, but for the amount of attempted 
 jokes, statisticly speaking you'd expect a few of them to be funny. Not so. The amount of times 
 a technology is described as "Yeah, remember, like, that other technology? This one is, like, way 
 cooler." is just pathetic and shows not a sense of humour but lazyness. Each of the ingame races, 
 ripped blatantly from other sources and not even ripped well might I add, is personalised with 
 such writings in their diplomatic dialougue, yet they consistantly fail to behave in that manner 
 in the rest of the game. Diplomacy itself is a bit of a joke, again not a funny one, it isn't helped 
 that all the races (except the Torians) have dull, if not ear-bleeding music. The Alignment element 
 is very poorly balanced, playing an evil society seems to have nothing but good consequences, increased 
 defence, research production, you name it, evil gets the better deal. Surely good societies would 
 have some bonuses? 
  
  Very evident is that the designers did very little, or more likely no, background research, not 
 even to find out what the game's basic distance unit, the parsec, is. Which, for those interested, 
 is just over 3 lightyears, meaning that individual star systems are often a ridiculous 30 lightyears 
 across.
  
  Being able to design your own ships however, is a really nice touch, and is the main source of 
 enjoyment for the game. Its just a shame that even here in it's best feature there could be much 
 improvment. For example, the camera is stuck, focused on the very centre of the ship, making it 
 difficult to fine-tune your designs, especially on larger ships. And often the hard-coded attachment 
 points do bizarre things, like face the other direction to what they indicate, trying to correct 
 this by using the provided direction changers often isn't helpful as they add a lump to the ship, 
 which can spoil your design. After getting a satisfactory design and building some, you don't even 
 get to lead them into glorious space battle, you just sit and watch them undulate and often freeze 
 in the battle mode, same for planet battles. It gets boring very quickly. Also the decision to 
 have a timing mini-game to decide the combat advantages in planet battles is just plain idiotic, 
 it's not even handled well, with the numbers continuing to zoom up and down a good 0.5 to 2 seconds 
 after you've clicked.
  
  Galactic Civilizations II is yet another bitter dissapointment for fans of a genre that saw it's 
 peak in 1996. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyTHand
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  No space battles? No land battles? It's like playing Rome: Total War and hitting 'auto resolve' 
 ALL the time. 
  
  I used to really enjoy Imperium Galactica, and frankly I think GCII doesn't do any element as well 
 as IG, and doesn't even allow you to do more than *watch* the land or space battles.
  
  There is a certain interest in developing that new technology and being able to add the super small 
 super fast engines with go faster stripes onto your ships, but this gets old very, very quickly. 
 
  
  Personally, I can't see what all the fuss is about. I think it's a waste of $40 and with anything 
 else on your shelves, I doubt you'll be playing it after a week has passed. I certainly wasn't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations 2 is a huge and very entertaining strategy game for those civilization fans 
 looking for a change of scene. In fact, the the game could be considered a tribute to civilization, 
 as it functions much in the same way. The gameplay is a very addictive and fun mix of economics, 
 research, diplomacy, and conquest, all based off of a lush strategy map made of 3d worlds and other 
 solar bodies. Realism is completely sacrificed for fun and balance, but when playing, you really 
 dont care. Graphics are as expected for a strategy game, good from far away. Get close and youll 
 notice a lack fo detail you dont need to see. Not a big deal. The sound is mediocre at best. As 
 far as I could tell, there were about five songs: the title, and one for a good, evil, and nuetral 
 civilization, plus one more, as filler. you essentially hear the same thing again and again. I 
 understand that gameplay, not flash and flare, are what strategy games are about, so this doesnt 
 mean that much, but dont expect the sound effects to be anything amazing. The value rating is very 
 good, because of the incredible amount of content and replayabily, due the endlessly customizable 
 gameplay enviornment. Overall, strategy fans will LOVE it, but it will win few FPS converts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lncualop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who have been pining for a modern version of Master of Orion that doesn't suck, 
 look no further. Galactic Civilizations II is a shining example of what space-based 4X strategy 
 games should be like. You have the numerous alien races, the extensive tech tree, the nice 3D engine 
 where everything is rendered in beautiful detail, and an AI that does NOT cheat as you increase 
 the difficulty level. The game is novice-friendly by providing some helpful video tutorials. The 
 gameplay is just plain addicting where you would keep playing for "one more turn". You can start 
 a game and not realize that literally 5 hours or more have gone by. The game just sucks you in.
 
  
  A couple of minor things that seem to be missing from the game that would have made it perfect: 
 tactical combat, a more detailed tech tree (not just Laser I, Laser II, etc.) , the ability to terraform 
 inhospitable worlds, and a library of pre-built ship designs (minus add-ons) . The game is still 
 great without them, though.
  
  The one great thing about Galactic Civilizations II is that the game ships with absolutely no copy 
 protection on the CDs. You do not have to put the CD in your drive in order to play the game, but 
 you do need the serial number in order to install updates, which I consider a fair trade. Stardock 
 is one of the few game publishers that doesn't treat its customers as software pirates.
  
  Don't walk, run out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havokk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I like XXXX games. I've owned and played a lot of them and this one ranks close to the top. It 
 has lots of options but is not so complex to be a spreadsheet in space. Ship design is fun, ships 
 are all so small there is no way you can have everything.
  
  Ships can go anywhere on the map, there are no wormholes or other choke points. You have to be 
 aware of invasion from any direction.
  
  You can genuinely win without ever firing a shot. You can win by financially or politically controlling 
 the galaxy.
  
  There is no copy protection!
  
  The graphics are not flashy, they look nice without getting in the way of the gameplay.
  
  
 Two things disappointed me about this game.
  
  First, the galaxy gets colonised very quickly. On a large map at the default settings there are 
 generally enough planets for each player to have three, maybe four colonies. After playing something 
 like Alpha Centauri or Space Empires IV where you have lots of colonies, this is a letdown. There 
 is no sense of "expand" here. What does that make it? a XXX game? I find that the middle portion 
 of the game just consists of hitting "next turn" waiting for fleets of ships to get built.
  
  Second, there are far too many things I had to learn from trial and error or from reading forums 
 online. This is made worse by inconsistent use of terms in the game. For example, limits of starbases 
 per sector. What's the limit? I only found out when I reached it. More important, what's a sector? 
 For example, does a tile with an approval bonus apply to a building that generates morale? It does, 
 but why didn't the designers just use the same term?
  
  In summary, this game is pretty good. I still prefer Space Empires IV but not by much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natwright
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  For those that like space, tactics and turn based games this looks to be a promising game. Galactic 
 Civ I offered hours of entertainment so it stands to reason the sequel will offer many more? Unfortunately 
 the sequel falls short in the campaign. The Dread Lords are unmatchable in a fair fight but thankfully 
 combat works by allowing the attackers first hit (there is no initiative roll for defenders) so 
 you can take out a stack of these uber ships with heavily armed attack ships. Due to the unbalanced 
 nature of the Dread Lords, there is little point investing anything into defense as it's just impossible 
 to match or beat their attack.
  
  Much of the campaign is ruined by the strength of the enemy. There's little point building space 
 stations because they only last a couple of turns before a Dread Lord annihilates them (regardless 
 of the space station level) . This turns the game into, build ship, hide ship, group ships, attack 
 planet required for mission, send in transport. It gets tedious very quickly.
  
  Overall there isn't anything in this game to entice me into coming back, with the new features 
 barely improving on the prequel to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Beware the hype, that is. I still play Masters of Orion II to this day because its amazing to me 
 that nothing can come out that even contains all that game had to offer, much less does it better. 
 MOO 2 is at least 10 years old, and yet almost every aspect of it is better than Gal Civ. Only 
 the graphics are "slightly" better in Gal Civ. In MOO 2 there would be all sorts of random events 
 that could occur, you could even find other NPC Characters to join your Empire, Pilots, Gunners, 
 Govenors, etc. All very colorful characters. Then there were the unique planets to discover. By 
 the way planetary invasion is such a direct ripoff of MOO2 that its almost plagerism. MOO2 would 
 also surrender to another AI everytime you were beating it. Nothing new there. Also there were 
 unique races from other galaxies that would pop in from time to time to mix things up. Combat was 
 all strategic and put you on a strategic turn by turn battlefield where you could set even guns 
 on rear and sides to fire. Speed made a huge difference and there were a huge combination of how 
 weapons worked. Some might teleport, some might send out small fighters, some might create a gravity 
 well. It was all unique. 
  Gal Civ, I was so hoping would be at least as good. The Reviewer here on Gamespot compared this 
 game to MOO2, but I don't think he honestly PLAYED moo2, he was just told about it by other people 
 obviously. If he had, there'd just be no way he could love this game so much, because its just 
 NOT AS GOOD. This game is amazing to all the people that are of this generation and never saw games 
 like this that came out a decade or more ago, like Star Control 2, XCOM, and of course MOO.
  Its too bad really, I had such high hopes for this. Go find MOO2 somewhere for practically free 
 and see what I mean, if you really like this game. You will be shocked!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtualpoker69
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  After playing MOO2 and Space Empires 4 ,this game seemed a big step backwards in the genre. The 
 tech tree is confusing, and the depth of play is lacking. You can't conduct you own space battles. 
 Your just a spectator watching them unfold. It really got old quickly after a few times of seeing 
 it. The 'great AI" is a scipted affair with no chance of changing the attitude of other races towards 
 you. A giant step backwards from the Civ games and Alpha centuri that this game is moddled after. 
 The interface is poor. There is no building cue or other touches that was state of the art in 1999. 
 For the simple graphics, it puts a strain on a mid-range system and it gets worse with the patches. Truth 
 be told. there are better freeware games out than this which I can only recommend if you have a 
 burning desire to throw away 40 bucks. Even a patched and moddled MOO3 runs circles around it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondodogoof
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  If you like Sci-Fi turn based Civ like game play, then you may like this game. But that is what 
 I thought before I bought it. I just wish I bought something that would be more "fun" like EAW 
 or Rise of Nations Rise of Legends. Galactic Civ is a good game, just not the most fun in a classical 
 sense. I would get Empire at War or Rise of Nations rise of legends, but if you must have a turn 
 based, get Civilization IV. It is a much more polished game, and just seems much more fun to me. 
 This galaxy seemed very stagnant. Nothing seems to change, your planets don't begin to look cool 
 after you progress, fight scenes are dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  First up: If you're an adrenaline junkie or an action-addict, this game is definitely not for you. 
 If you're into superb graphics and bugger the gameplay, this game is not for you. If you prefer 
 to use your twitch reflexes to blow somebody's head off (in-game) rather than quiet contemplation 
 of tactics and strategy, then please, please don't buy this game - it's definitely not for you.
 
  
  If, on the other hand, you enjoy playing turn-based strategy games like Civilisation 4 or Heroes 
 of Might and Magic, then you're going to love this game. In a world of adrenaline junkies, the 
 turn-based genre is a slowly dying breed. Every once in awhile, a game comes along that can show 
 that this genre still has tremendous potential. Civ4 is one example - and GalCiv2 is another.
 
  
  The biggest disadvantage to newbie players (like myself) is the lack of an in-game tutorial. This 
 would've helped tremendously in figuring out how to get started. Another big drawback is the confusing 
 explanations of how hammers, beakers and shields work in this game. It took awhile for me to work 
 out, but I wish the manual had been more helpful. And finally, although the technology entries 
 were very amusing ("Old McDonald had a...") , they don't provide as much technical detail as you'd 
 hope. This is important when you're designing ships, or deciding which buildings to construct on 
 your newest planet.
  
  Which leads me to the positives. One of the biggest highlights of this game is the ship designer. 
 It's incredibly easy to use but also incredibly powerful. There's the potential to construct any 
 type of ship imaginable. Which is very useful when personalising a custom-created civilisation. 
 
  
  The other highlight is the AI. At sub-normal levels it'll plod along like in most bog-standard 
 games. But at normal or above, the computer starts making moves you'd expect a human player to 
 make. Like surrendering to a more powerful race rather than being conquered by your massive fleet 
 of marauding warships. Or secretely forming an alliance with another civilisation behind your back. 
 In short: the AI in this game is delightfully evil.
  
  In conclusion, GalCiv2 has all the makings of an absolute classic. Addictive gameplay, plus an 
 extremely easy to use but powerful ship designer, and some evil AI, makes for a thoroughly enjoyable 
 and challenging game. And the support from Stardock has been just tremendous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I, like many of you, had heard about this game when it was being developed. Somewhere after that 
 I lost track of it. Luckily it popped up on my radar recently and I looked into it again. What 
 a great game!
  
  If you like RISK type games, ie Rome Total War, I highly recommend this game. The depth to it is 
 astounding. I was very impressed all around. And hey, if you're reading this it means that like 
 me you didn't buy it when it first released. That means two things. 1: It might be a little harder 
 to find. 2: It's going to be cheaper!!
  
  Really, you owe it to yourself, at least download the demo. AT LEAST.
  
  UPDATE: The replayability 
 is extremely lacking. I lowered my score accordingly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay, in a world filled with fast paced games, it's nice to settle down for a strategy game. A 
 few of you know some Turn Based Strategies, such as Civilization 4, which is awsome. GALCIV2 is 
 a FINE example of a Turn-Based Strategy, combining many elements into one game.
  
  The graphics are especially good with ships, since you have the ability to make your ships as shiny 
 as you wish, and watching them fight isn't so bad either. In order to actually see some pretty 
 good views, you'll need a good video card, but hey, integrated cheapos can run this game, with 
 a few minor problems and some major cuts on graphics. Graphically though, it runs well, even with 
 a terrible card. Only thing that needs work on this game is probably some extra graphics when in 
 planet-view, or on planetary ground battles. 
  
  Music is based on the old GalCiv, and it's pretty awsome, although after HOURS of playing, you 
 could do with a change or two. Every civilization has a unique soundtrack, which fits into the 
 civilization's generall perspective and attitude. ( My favorite being the Iconians, because of 
 it's eerie and mysterious sound for a good race. ) The music is also pretty well composed and of 
 high quality as well. Sound effects are also contributive to adding to the game's atmosphere. Some 
 repetition kills the novelty over time, but it's pretty good.
  
  The Gamplay is what you'll fine the most interesting. It's extremely addictive, thanks to it's 
 simplicity and at the same time, depth. The basic resources you have are Credits (BC) , population, 
 technology, and your race, and you only need a bit of time to learn the basics. After a while, 
 in order to compete with the other races on higher difficulties, resource managing and planning 
 gets rather important, adding some strategy to this game. Speaking of planning, you'll need to 
 do plenty of planning in order to play this game well. While gameplay involves things either in 
 either planet-view, galactic-view, or menu-view, it's not as simple as it seems. You'll need to 
 utilize what's available to plan out the right path to your goals, such as military, political 
 power, economic security, and influence. Back on gameplay. The game's economic view is mainly in 
 your economic menus and on your planetary views. You need to adjust income and expendiature to 
 your strategy and needs, and some more to military. Military is a huge role in galactic travel, 
 use, and fighting, as you will later see once time progresses in the game. Research cannot be neglected 
 either, as you will need other technologies to help benefit or progress your other factors in the 
 game. There's no mutiplayer, but the AI is extremely effective at immitating human behavior. You 
 can have a real simple and stupid player, good for beginners, or something of an uber-pro, who 
 you shall swear is a human player. There's also a single player game mode, along with some custom 
 scenarios and some open-ended games, which you shall play. The playing scenarios are quite addictive, 
 with some games taking WEEKS to play. The game's novelty shall last quite a while in gameplay, 
 and there's so much more I can go through in terms of gameplay, but the rest is up to you to discover.
 
  
  Value, what can I say about it? Well, think about it. You should be paying pretty nice prices for 
 this game, $40 for a normal version, and you get a pretty awsome game for that $40. You can play 
 the game over and over, and with the updates added constantly and with some actuall purpose, the 
 game's novelty should last a while. There's no mutiplayer, but the game itself should make up for 
 this. 
  
  In short, get this game. I don't care if you don't like slow-paced game, I thought games this genere 
 were terrible too. BUT. As soon as you start learning how to play this game, you want to just basically 
 stick on to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkinc9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Confusing at first even with the tutorials but I enjoyed the learning curve. I recommend listening 
 to the tutorials because you really need to get a grasp on the different windows. I think the tutorial 
 windows could be changed to a more hands on type. Takes a while to get through all the tutorials 
 so set aside some time to do this. I chose the research races first because ofthe high demand for 
 tech inthis game. If you fall behind you loose money respect from the other races. Ounce your tech 
 level is up you make so much money you can start to buy stuff right off the bat instead of waiting 
 for the build list. When starting a new planet build a few things to get them started and even 
 from the start select planets that will have a focus like building ships and such. Build lots space 
 mining platforms this helps emencly when it comes to money and moral. There are many different 
 windows to deal with and sometimes you seem to micro manage a bit, but its fun and after learning 
 the basics its real easy. Hope you all enjoy this game as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of MOOII and what I can say is that this game can by no mean match the fun I have 
 while playing MOOII. Nevertheless, its a great game and has many strong points of its own over 
 MOOII. It is much more deeper in tech tree and is extremely hard to win especially when playing 
 huge galaxy mode. While I can beat MOOII several times, I am still struck with GCII even after 
 spending several weeks playing it. The AI is quite smart. Furthermore, the developer keeps on updating 
 the game with newer patchs to make the AI smarter and harder to beat. However, what I dont like 
 about the game is the spaceship and land combats where you cant have any control over them. Apart 
 from that, it is so far the greatest space combat game you can find in store today. Highly recommend. 
 Play it and you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXJGeneration
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a week or two after its release. Its an excellent game I might add. The common 
 misconception is that its some sort of Star Wars: Empire at War game or something. This game is 
 by no means an RTS in any shape, form or way. I'm sick of the comparisons between this game and 
 "Total War" or "Homeworld". This game is designed mainly for a much more mature and patient audience. 
 People who can look past tedious combat and the many things action junkies thrive on when playing 
 video games. Another thing people don't realize is that this game was made by a small time developer. 
 Hell I barely even heard of the game until it came out. Its nice to see a sleeper hit every now 
 and then. Hell even the developers themselves were surprised on how big of an impression their 
 game made. Another I'd like to point out is that theres a great deal of support from the developers 
 on this game, they made a bunch of new improvements and such only weeks after the game was released. 
 Also theres a ton of small time mods that can add to your own individual customization and look 
 to the game.
  
  Anyhow, I never got the chance to play the game too much since I'm running on some hardware problems, 
 but I did play it enough to understand the basic mechanics and such for the game. If you enjoy 
 building your own ships, playing politics (or just killing everyone else) researching technologies 
 etc. the game is worth the price. If your looking for the next Empire at War, Homeworld or Total 
 War don't get the wrong idea about this game, its not what your looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dx900
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of science-fiction games, I have freespace 2, X2 the threat, Some Star Trek and some 
 Star Wars games, i still play old games like Age Of Empires and Fallout.
  Video Card is Asus Geforce n6800 512Meg, Great card by the way.
  
  About this game.
  
  
 Graphics are horrible and childish.
  Too much micromanagement.
  It is difficult to see what technologies are going to guarantee you a vessel upgrade.
  The vessels 
 move in 2d. Come on, it's 2006!
  It's hard to know where your vessels will end up when you ask them to move.
  In the campaign 
 after you research your technologies and you move on to another portion of space, you're back to 
 square one with your tech tree, totally ridiculous!
  Figuring out what the space stations do is an exercise in trial and error
  The only good thing 
 i can say about this game is that once installed, you don't need the cd in the drive to play it.
 
  I wish i would have never bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeptii
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  How can this game be rated so high?
  
  The technology tree of this game is badly designed, and its combat system is pathetic. The fact 
 that you still see a ship that fires tiny little lines on the screen with no stunning effects whatsoever 
 makes it not worth it. Besides, you can't really get/create good ships if your technology research 
 is not in proper order.
  
  The planets that are inhabitant can never become habitable no matter how much technologies you 
 researched, and the fact that any system would most likely have 1 of these makes the whole galaxy 
 chart look vain. You see a lot of empty planets while you cannot occupy them... what's the point?
 
  
  Overall, the game is very badly designed and structured. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anakonda
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Well if I were to talk about the best role playing strategies of the new millennium then Id 
 certainly have a lot to say about Star docks Galactic Civilization 2. The game features an easy 
 interface with numerous customizations that I havent seen in any other RPS. The difficulty 
 setting has for example 12 different levels and the size of the game determines the number of the 
 enemies that you can have and this can be a really big number because there are 10 major races 
 and 8 minor races. All in all the depth of the game goes to never before seen limits as basically 
 you can customized almost everything and with a little info for modding the game the possibilities 
 are endless. 
  The campaign is interesting but doesnt really catch the greatness of the game and I at least 
 found just time consuming till you finish it. The custom game is where the real fun is and I think 
 that most of the community experiences the same. One downfall for the game is that it doesnt 
 have multi player and apparently there are no plans for making it multi player which is a shame. 
 Another little aspect of the game that could have been a little bit more interesting are the ground 
  planet fights that occur when trying to conquer a planet or defend your own. Right now 
 it is just made plain and simple with a random ratio that you can pick and see the whole thing 
 play out in front of you. Other RTS like Civilization IV for example had an option where you could 
 control your forces and sometimes even when you would have really bad odds for winning you could 
 do it if you knew what exactly to do which gave Civ IV more of a strategy game appeal. Gal Civ 
 2 in the other hand has this settled in an interesting way but like I said it could have been a 
 gorgeous real time strategy way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  If I didn't say exactly what this game is about in the title, I will expand on that summary. After 
 waiting for the company to hammer out some of the bugs, I picked this game up after some patching, 
 and I am happy I waited. The amount of control a person has in this game is what makes it a real 
 gem in my opinion and the detail is above average. Being able to design your own ships, your own 
 race, your own abilities made this a game that was slow to start, spending more time getting my 
 ships just right before I even started playing the game. Once I got into the game itself I found 
 it to be a well thought out game and became hooked very quickly.
  
  Even after beating a total domination victory on a large map, I found I had to play again, and 
 dove into the campaign. Although I am only par of the way into this campaign at the time I write 
 this, I am sure enough that I will be lost in it for a few days so I may as well write this review 
 now to say it is done. It is as simple as this: you like space ships and strategy? This is your 
 game. If you like to customize the experience, this is your game. If you don't want to customize 
 anything, you don't have to! There are several races and ship types to choose from right off the 
 bat.
  
  If you've checked my game list and agree with some of my ratings for strategy games and your question 
 is, "should I buy this one?" My answer is yes, this is one of the essential must have strategy 
 games in the ilk of Total War, Stronghold: Crusader and Dungeon Keeper 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Turn Based Stategy games are pretty rare these days but once again this game shows why some the 
 best games ever made are from that genre. This is,.. simply put an great game. It does have some bugs 
 in the retail version, but nothing too bad, and certainly nothing that ruins the game. The game basically 
 is this. You choose a civillization. Expand you influance thoughout the galaxy wether though force, technolgy, or 
 culture and in the end whoever owns almost all of the galaxy,. wins. The game is alot of fun and 
 I actually enjoyed it more than Civilization 4. The tech tree is huge which some complained about,. but 
 com on,. it's strategy game and not suppossed to be for people who don't mind having to think a 
 little. You can and pretty much are encourage to build your own ships. Which even though can be pretty 
 time consuming is fun to me. And the cool part is that stuff you build is carried over to later 
 games for that race so you won't have to make new designs every single game.
  My only gripe out the box is the combat is automated and I would have preferred full tactical,. or 
 at least the option for it.
  The AI is this game is pretty some of the best around and not all of them cheat as they do in most 
 games to accomplish this either.
  I would definately reccomend this game over just about any of the strategy games released around 
 the same time as it such as LOTR-Battle for Middle Earth 2,. which while decent is certainly not 
 better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inquisitorium
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  
  First of all , i started playing civ 4 and i thought this was the best turn based game but it stayed 
 in the limits of reality, lukely science-fiction is one of my favorite things. Civ4 is great, but 
 all of the aspect ( Civ4 VS GalCiv2) are same, but in GalCiv2, they are more concrete. Every aspect 
 of this game is perfect, but the tutorial is weak.
  
  The game are very tough to learn, because the tutorial is nasty and they forgot to explain some 
 aspect of the game.
  
  The races are hot!
  
  The most adictiv aspect of the game is the shipyard and the ship construction. They give you some 
 ship at start, but if you want to have great ship, you MUST build fine balanced ship.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game so full of excitement. I had read the great review for this game and 
 I was ready to game away.
  
  I started it up and BAM, in my face - nothing cool about it. Camera use was clunky, planets were 
 confusing and it looked like a bad playstation game.
  
  And here I am, dozens and dozens of hours later, loving the game. Read more to know why.
  
 
  Gameplay - 9
  
  It does grow on you, and let me tell you - the potential is massive. Best AI ever seen in a strategy 
 game and so many different things to do.
  Hard to describe really.
  
  I think that the real thing that made me like this game is some good old friendship. My old school 
 buddy came over on a visit from a far away town, and he basically stayed for a week. And we played 
 Gal. Civ II the entire time.
  Heck, the first 48 hours were straight up.
  
  I have several computers at home, so not everyone can do this ofcourse. But it was so much fun, 
 even without hotseat or basic lan functions. I played, he played - discussed strategies and cursed 
 the smart AI.
  
  Trust me, if you like games like these, give a good amount of time to grow on you. And get a friend 
 to back you up - so much more fun when sharing this with someone.
  (start same sized maps, same opponent number and see who is the better gamer. Man, that's some 
 good fun)
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  Clear and beautiful. I love this in a strategy game. It's 3D, but it feels more like a 2D game. 
 You don't have to do anything with the camera, other then move around the screen. You can admire 
 the 3D look, but it just looks so much better at default view.
  I wish more games would do this. Use 3D if you must, but don't force it on me. 
  
  
  Sound 
 - 7
  
  Not very memorable, but fits the game. Definitely doesn't ruin the mood, which is very important.
 
  I would have liked something even better, but I'll take this and live with it. 
  
  Value - 9
  
  For this price you can virtually get years of gaming pleasure. With a multiplayer 
 coming up and patches fixing the problems, you'll have a blast playing this over lan.
  Infact, I'll do this the moment the multiplayer is released... yeah, I'm really not going to get 
 any beauty sleep that day.
  
  Tilt - 9
  
  This game can offer so much, if you let it. For me this is something Civ IV should have offered. 
 No bells and whistles that would annoy me, just clarity, beautiful interface and a smart AI.
  Oh, this game does have so many bells and whistles that I can't even wrap myself around it by-the-way. 
 But - it doesn't annoy me. I don't have to look at any of it, or use it even the slightest. I love 
 that.
  
  Gamespot reviewer was right: This game forces absolutely nothing on you. You play how you want, 
 using what you like and as long as you desire to.
  
  Give it a try. I dare you to beat the computer at "Suicidal" difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShienYeh
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Various settings makes the game interesting. The Graphic in it is good, so does sound effect. But 
 comparing to Civ4 or Alpha Centauri , GC2 still has many things to do. Races may have uniquel abilities, 
 technologies, and ship functions. Class 0 planet = No use planet ever? 
  I played it about 10 days , then I decited to play Civ 4 and Alpha Centauri instead. The AI in 
 GC2 seems poor, not only in Ship Design, but also in Fleet Control. Although this game has these 
 problems, it is still a outstanding simulation game, espicially for Sci-fi game players. I give 
 it 8.0 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terial1901
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The actual game itself as can be predicted shows much more than the demo.
  The Game has many surprising features which make enjoyable to a very high level.
  Good things 
 that you will see in the demo and full version that can give you an even further positive outlook 
 on the game if you are still unsure about it is the good graphics, Sound Value, and Playing experience 
 not to mention good difficulty levels to match your skills.
  I think that almost everyone who tries this game out should enjoy it a lot, perhaps even find it 
 extremely phenominal.
  If you try the game out check these features specifically, it should peck your interests. 
  The 
 value of the actual game itself is something to find out on your own, I find it very good mostly 
 due to the things listed above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyntakaiwa
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 25, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  At first, the game was fantastic, even if the "made your ship yourself" was not as original as 
 it sounded, the functionnality combined with a deep and complex gaming experience astounded me. 
 
  
  The graphics are not that bad, today we've seen better, but I'm not repelled by some glitchy graphics 
 or simple design. 
  
  I didn't play the main scenario because I didn't want that kind of experience, maybe it should 
 amaze me again and let me play the game like the first time.
  
  The research system is really huge, battle are not as thrilling as I think it should be. Again 
 it the Sid Meier's Civilization complex... Some unit again another in a fast battle with no possibility 
 to intervene at all. Except for some few things. Many times, you are confronted with diplomacy 
 problems, or ethical problems (I like the idea and the realisation) . 
  
  But like any other Civ game, at some time, you are bored. It's a neverending game (err.. it has 
 a end but it's so far away that you are discouraged and hopeless) . The IA wasn't as agressive as 
 I thought it should be. 
  
  In the end, it's a great game really, but don't play it 4 night at a row, because you could be 
 rapidly bored.
  
  The game has many bugs and glitches, sometimes annoying... And the scrolling thing is really a 
 problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdeangulo
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 25, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Having played the Demo. It seems the game hasn't much to offer.
  
  Once you hear Galactic Civ. you think in two games. Sid Meyers Civilization and the classic game 
 Stars!
  
  But Galactic civ. is none of them. It's a bad sample of a predictable strategy game. Not very clean 
 graphics, few management skills required and an atmosphere of stillness makes this Demo a boring 
 game.
  
  The difficulty and the learning curve makes the first ten minutes exiting, but once you have experienced 
 the sense of the game, it looses all its capacity to surprise.
  
  After playing the Demo it's clear to me that expending some cash on the game would be a loss of 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: namsilat
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  It definitely reminds me of the good old VGA Planets. As the empire gets bigger, it's quite a problem 
 to manage starbases and ships. With planets, we can hit "next" or "previous" to scroll through 
 the planets, but there is no similar option with ships or starbases. Long technology and research 
 trees, sometimes I wonder if it's too long. I find myself clicking "turn" just to move the game, 
 especially during early part of the game play. Even though It has a decent variety in user-defined 
 options that allow different game play experiences, I would like to see more hull options with 
 higher technology advancement; most of the available hulls are there right from the beginning. 
 Overall it's a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halflingomega
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The first 2 hours of play can be overwhelming but in my opinion, this is a sure sign of a deep, 
 immersive, highly addictive game. If you like turn based strategy games this is a must have in 
 your collection. I must also say that the demo does not do the game justice. It's simply too short 
 to truly immerse yourself in the game.
  
  The tech tree is huge... and for those who played the first installment of Galactic Civ it has 
 been streamlined into different research categories so it is easier to focus your research depending 
 on your preferences / what type of victory you are going for.
  
  Another awesome addition is multiple weapon and armour types. You can now have lasers (countered 
 with shields) , missiles (countered with point-defence) , and mass drivers (countered with stronger 
 hulls) where each defence functions to full capacity only against it's respective weapon type. 
 This can lead to intense research races to rapidly change your armada's weapons and defences to 
 counter your opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameismatt123
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up a while ago after hearing good things about it, and here I am two months 
 later, completely hooked on the games deep (and extremely tough) gameplay, and loving every minute 
 of it. 
  
  GalCiv2 pits you against several other alien races in a race to controll the galaxy through any 
 means necessary. War, trade, diplomacy, strategy, all of the best elements from any strategy game 
 (turn based or real time) come together to make GalCiv2 one heck of a ride. You start off in your 
 home system with just one colony ship and one flagship, and it's your job to expand from there 
 in whatever way you see fit. As you come across new, habitable worlds you use colony ships to well... colonize 
 them and then build improvements on the surface that aid the planet in becoming more productive, 
 more protected, more influential, etc. As you spread out intoi the galaxy, you will begin to run 
 into the rest of the alien races you chose to inhabit the galaxy with you, and relations from there 
 get better or worse depending on how you treat them. The games themselves are fairly expandable 
 and you are allowed to pick what races are with you, how common stars and habitable planets are, 
 how the stars are packed, etc. and the alien races you have compete against are all very different 
 from each other in their ideals of how to deal with other races. Some races, such as the Yor or 
 the Drengin are cruel **** who try to crush you with powerfull armies, while others such as the 
 Humans are nicer and hope to win through diplomacy. The AI is brutal, and it knows how to make 
 you beg for mercy. It is ruthless and will expand as fast as it can and fight you every step of 
 the way. Forming alliances with the aliens is a key part of the game, and keeping everyone happy 
 at once can be a challange. If you can manage to ally with all of the races, you win by a diplomacy 
 victory. The diplomacy win is sort of cheap, however, because all you have to do to get one is 
 research the alliances ability then shower your opposition with gifts until they live you so much 
 they can't say no to an alliance. The next way to win is to win by a cultural victory. This can 
 be achieved by spreading your culture to the galaxy until you finally have the rest of the galaxy 
 tied down with your products that they need you to survive. The third way is through war. The wars 
 are very basic, just sending your fleets to fight their fleets, blowing any ships out of orbit, 
 then sending in the landing crafts to take the planet. Basic, but it works. If you can conquer 
 all of the other races through battle, you win. The last victory is a technological victory. After 
 traversing the looooong and very expensive branch of the tech tree that leads to eternal life, 
 then you win a tech victory. Speaking of the tech tree, it could have been a bit more detailed, 
 but the descriptions are very funny, filled with jokes. I laughed out loud several times, infact. 
 Dealing with other leaders can be equally funny as well, mainly because the other leaders are completely 
 willing to insult you to your face. 
  
  The graphics are good, but not great (there isn't much to see in space anyhow) , though the art 
 and style of the games visuals more than make up for that. The sound is nothing special, merley 
 OK audio that gets the job done. Just put some tunes on in the background and that won't be a problem 
 anyhow. 
  
  Overall GalCiv2 is a fun and addictive strategy game with lots of depth and humor. I highly reccomend 
 it to any fan of Civ IV, or just turn based strategy in general. Now get out there an play this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  I really tried but i couldn't see anything wrong with this game. They got it just right. 
  
  The storyline is a great addition to the strategy game, the diplomatic system finally works 
 ( a civ that has lost all planets but one will not stubbornly refuse peace and tribute ) and i 
 can't even begin to tell you how much fun i had with the ship designs. The real time cinematic 
 battles are also a great idea, keeping you glued to the screen, fists clenched, watching every 
 move that your fleet makes.
  
  The custom maps also give the game a great re-playability, but i was still left wanting some multiplayer. 
 It's a shame the people at stardock didn't implement one.. at least a hotseat mode.
  
  All in all the game is great, and all the better if you are into SF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpha9eek
Rating: 3
Date: May 19, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I agree with tar1901. This game kinda sucks. I play RTS's and RPG's all the time, so this is my 
 genre, however I was bored with this game within a half hour, and within two hours I had un-installed 
 it from my computer (knowing I never wanted to play it again) .
  
  Besides what tar1901 said in his review, the ship building process was tedious at best, and the 
 game lacked direction and focus. It was also confusing as to what you needed to do and the manual 
 was little help. 
  
  I usually respect the opinions of Gamespot, but I got to wonder if they were smokin sumthin when 
 they wrote this review. 
  
  Don't bother with this one, there are better RTS's out there, like CIV4 and the Total War series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 17, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  As the comment says I'm not much for playing tbs games but given that it was sci fi I got this 
 one. Not a bad investment. In my opinion its civilization in space and I think I may have seen 
 those words describe it as such - in fact I think it was here on gamespot.
  Moving on. The campaign, in my opinion is kind of dull. It mainly has you mopping up here and there, 
 with the dread lords and their sidekick race. I think that a singleplayer campaign does sell the 
 game initially - and finally the multiplayer experience is the core. In this case, I didn't feel 
 the singleplayer do much for me. It boiled down to just a plethora of attrition battles with minimal 
 variety sprinkled here and there.
  One more thing I didn't like is the user-unfriendly research agenda. I mean, you research 10 items 
 with the same name, and just different indices. I don't think I do, and I'm sure there are others 
 who don't, appreciate spending all your time and resources on excessive alternatives. Here's where 
 this game could learn something from Hegemonia - a game that I know and that I know doesn't expect 
 you to invest your life in research. Further, better descriptions as to the pros and cons of researching 
 certain items would be appreciated.
  Past the criticism now, I must say the AI is quite good. I was muttering innumerable expletives 
 as the computer gave me a hard time in the campaigns. This is the closest I think I got to playing 
 with a human on the other end in a campaign. 
  One thing I liked was when you trade with races and if you offer them equivalent technology for 
 barter and they think it lacks as a bargain they will make those weird statements questioning your 
 sanity and/or sobriety.
  Finally, there is one thing that is appreciated even though I only noticed it during installation. 
 The designers aren't obsessed with CD keys, yada yada yada. Installation was smooth and usually 
 when I install games I prefer to let the setup run and not come back and peer at a key and tap 
 away at the keyboard one letter at a time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhamar
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  This game is very addictive, you can make huge Ships, the battles are not very exciting since is 
 just an automated AI overview, you cannot take control of what or who to attack in the battle. 
 The Learning curve is easy, after a couple of hours you can learn each civilization style. Also 
 you can include customized images for your new civilization. The Ai is better than you can normally 
 expect, since it learns from your different choices and counters them. By the time you realize 
 you have spent the whole night playing for a few rounds only. If you like strategy sci-fi games 
 this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geocide666
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 15, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Not really sure how this game got in the top games. Basically just a race to get specific technologies 
 which allow you to invade. Very little replay value. Pretty fun for the first 4 or 5 missions, 
 then you realize its not going to change and that each mission is basically a clone of the previous 
 with different objectives and names. Not worth $49.95 IMO. Maybe 19.95. 
  
  You can tell , however, that this game was created by gamers. Just the fact that it allows you 
 to bypass the serial if you want to was nice. The interface is easy to navigate. But this game 
 gets boring extremely fast . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acepace
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  So how do you review a TBS game? I'm not sure. Externally, the graphics are stunning for a TBS, 
 very scaleable, and competetive with anything right now on hte market.
  
  Since I'm on the external aspects, the sound is topnotch, except the ambient music, which frankly, 
 is horrible and should be user replaced.
  
  However, gameplay wise, which is what counts, this game rocks.
  The game is a fairly typical 
 Space TBS, the 4Xs. Go out, Colony, Expand, Exterminate. Exploring is fairly fun, anomalies dot 
 space early on and give bonuses. 
  Colony Management is very simple but deep, with each planet having a quality, and that quality 
 number setting how many tiles you can construct on planet. Controlling production is fairly crude 
 but effective, choose what to focus on, this affects production, this can also be set globally 
 which is very nice. However, one thing that could be implemented better is ship construction, adding 
 lists of ships to build.
  
  Diplomacy with other AI is one of the highlights, there are the usual settings and the AI is no 
 idiot, overall, in the game, the AI is one of the highlights, at the higher levels before it cheats, 
 its brilliant and is capable of giving any non exploit using gamer a match for his money.
  
  However, combat is where the game can stumble for some people, space and ground combat is a 
 pure math/random numbers affair overlaid on very pretty real time graphics demonstrating the ships 
 fighting. However, its non user influenced, therfor abit weak.
  
  Theres enough to talk about for quite a few pages, the amazing ship builder which has enough bling 
 options to enable you to build anything you want. The humourous yet immersive aspects of the game, 
 making you chuckle at the tech tree advancement text, or the AI telling you to bugger off with 
 your one sided deal. The entire game was clearly made with attention to keeping you entertained 
 during all aspects of gameplay.
  
  However, there are bugs, quite a few, its fairly mandatory to update to 1.1, these bugs hurt gameplay, 
 and in 1.0, for strong computers, can even stop the game. However, in the end, they do not prevent 
 me from enjoying one of the best TBSes to come out in recent years.
  
  Ace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hsiehtheist
Rating: 5
Date: May 7, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Overall, I was quite disappointed with this game, especially after seeing Gamespot's glowing review. 
 The game has clearly drawn many of its gameplay elements from the Master of Orion and Civilization 
 series, which isn't a bad thing, but MOO2 and Civ are just better games.
  
  First of all, GalCiv II's combat is completely hands-off. When your ships engage with each other, 
 all you do is sit back and watch. There's no planning, no tactical maneuvering, no strategy. Sure, 
 it's cool to mess around with the camera while your watching, but it doesn't really add anything 
 to the main gameplay experience. YOU aren't contributing anything to the outcome of the battle. 
 (In MOO2, there was a great tactical turn-based space combat system which grew deeper and deeper 
 with depth as more technology was researched.) 
  
  The same goes for planetary combat. You invade a planet, and then a pretty poor rendering of two 
 groups of troops running at each other and shooting takes place. Nothing tactical or strategic 
 about it. (This is pretty much the same as MOO2.)
  
  I'd say my biggest qualm is with the tech tree. It is horribly bland, almost completely linear 
 and has zero novelty. After the initial technology or three in each area of research (i. e. weapons, 
 planetary improvements, propulsion, etc.) , each new technology is just an incrementally improved 
 version of the last technology. There is almost nothing *qualitatively* different about new techs. 
 That is, if you've just researched laser IV which takes up 7 units of space and does 1 damage, 
 your next beam weapon research option is laser V, which takes up 6 units of space and still does 
 1 damage. The next weapon research option that opens up? Plasma weapons, which take up something 
 like 10 space and does 2 points of damage, only slightly better than Laser V. 
  
  You'd think there'd be more room for variation with planetary improvements, and there is a little 
 bit more, but not much. Again, you might research a planetary improvement that lets you produce 
 X widgets (could be units of happiness, money, research, production, whatever) . Then you research 
 the next tech and it lets you produce X+2 widgets. Woohoo.
  
  My point here is that new tech doesn't revolutionize anything about gameplay. There's hardly anything 
 novel about new techs that dramtically changes your strategies. Again, contrast this to MOO2. You 
 might research a gadget that let you teleport marines during space combat to an enemy ship if it's 
 facing shield were down in attempt to capture the ship. In addition to getting a new ship in your 
 fleet, you could scrap it to appropriate technologies your opponent used in designing that ship. 
 
  
  This lack of novelty obviously has an impact on ship design. While the cosmetic control the GalCiv 
 II ship designer gives you is neat, designing ships to accomodate every incrementally improved 
 tech you research is cumbersome and boring. I don't get excited about designing a ship with Stinger 
 III missiles to replace the marginally inferior Stinger II missiles.
  
  Of course, in MOO2 there weren't many legitimate paths to victory that didn't involve lots of combat, 
 so GalCiv II wins a few points there. But there just isn't the depth of gameplay in GalCiv II that 
 there is in MOO2. 
  
  The Dread Lords campaign in GalCiv II is somewhat interesting, but not very coherent. It's basically 
 a series of games/missions with unique victory conditions against an uber-enemy called the Dread 
 Lords with a cheesy story wrapped around it all. Each game of the campaign has you starting off 
 on the same date, even if the last mission in the campaign lasted 10 years. Nothing carries over 
 from the previous mission, so the insane technological advantage the Dread Lords have in each mission 
 is there in every mission. You always start off with an undeveloped planet, even if that planet 
 is Earth. Lots of these little inconsistencies take away from the story, which is pretty poor anyways. 
 
  
  Another problem: the alliances in the game don't work. There just aren't any advantages. You don't 
 share technologies, you can't use allies' bases as resupply points for your ships (which is a major 
 problem in big maps with few planets, like some of the later missions of the campaign) , and you 
 can't coordinate anything specific (strategically, militarily, technologically, or economically) . 
 You can't even share maps.
  
  I simply don't understand why this game won an editor's choice award. It's completely inferior 
 to MOO2 from a gameplay standpoint, and isn't that much fun on its own. The graphics are nice, 
 but not spectacular. The sound is only passable. There's not a whole lot of depth as far as 4x 
 games go and almost no novelty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tar1901
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 5, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Let us see why this game got the 9.0 score.
  
  It has nice ships and they are separated in different classes. Let us start with the first class: 
 "ship". This is it. The only ship class. There are no fighter, battleships, carriers, cruisers. 
 The small ship fights just like the large one and you do not have any control over the ship. It 
 is just atac point vs defence point
  Nice ship designer, but total useless. It does not matter how may extra parts the ship has or where 
 the weapons are placed.
  
  And there are the land battles. Oh, wait there are no ground units. You just move some population 
 from one planet to another, roll the dice and watch the battle. It is always the same sequence 
 no matter what atac you select. 
  So there are no ground battles.
  
  The cover ops. You have a spy network but the only thing you can do is to alocate money for a specific 
 enemy fraction and after some rounds the spy level for that fraction grows and when it is maxed 
 out, you can see the enemy planet interface. There is no building/ship sabotage, no leader/scientist 
 kills, no revolution. But wait somethimes you can get some random tech fom the enemy.
  
  The tech tree is about the same for every race, the interface too, also the building are the same, 
 starbases are the same, all races use the same living conditions.
  
  So how does a game like this get 9.0? 
  
  It is like one of the free games you can download 
 from sourceforge, the only different thing is the 3D graphics are better.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyBunny55
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Turn based strategy games are pretty few and far between these days. With the exception of a few 
 standouts like the Civ series, the genre sometimes seems like it may be destined to go the way 
 of the Adventure genre. That's why I was pleasantly surprised when I discovered Galactic Civ 2.
 
  
  GC2 doesn't really take the strategy game to a whole lot of places that it hasn't been before, 
 but it accomplishes a lot in a very polished and addictive gameplay. The game follows the basic 
 TBS formula: research technologies, colonize new areas, conquer enemies, and partake in diplomacy. 
 This, coupled with a very slick presentation, can easily lead to the classic "one more turn" syndrome.
 
  
  While the game provides you with quite a few options to tailor the game lenth to your liking, GC2 
 is certainly not a short game. The first time I sat down to play, I thought I might finish a round 
 in one sitting ala Civ 4. 10 hours later I had barely made a dent in my tech tree, and much of 
 my galaxy was still out of reach of my ships.
  
  The interface and graphics are very clean and polished. Everything is rendered in full 3D and fully 
 zoomable. While the zooming seems trivial at some times, it complements another nice feature of 
 the game very nicely, the customizable ships.
  
  There are, quite literally, millions of possible designs for the ships that can be accomplished 
 by attaching new discoveries to a miriad of hard points on basic hulls. This layer of the game 
 is deep enough to add a lot of variety to the game. Despite this, it still manages to remain accessable 
 to even the most casual player.
  
  The tech tree in GC2 is bigger than any I have seen before. While a lot of TBS games force you 
 to balance your research, GC2 does a good job of allowing you to pursue whichever branch of the 
 tech tree you like and completely ignore those that you don't.
  
  One thing that I really liked about GC2 was the hassle free options to buy and play it. if you 
 choose, you can buy it online and download it rather quickly. It's only a few hundred mega bytes. 
 Also the game doesn't come with any sort of copy protection, nor do you even need to have the CD 
 in the drive to play it.
  
  My only real hangup with the game is the sound. There's only one real audio track. While it's pretty 
 good by itself, it gets pretty repetitive over time. The beginning of the game can be a little 
 slow too, as the technoligies for for invading other planets take quite a few turns to develop.
 
  
  All in all, Galactic Civ 2 is an adictive and satisfying strategy game with some excellent customization 
 features. I would easily recommend it to any fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyndy62
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  I was not familiar with Stardocks Galactic Civilization franchise. The first time I was introduced 
 to it was in one of the gaming magazines where I saw a one page ad around January of 2006. The 
 premise sounded familiar to a game that I played back in mid 80s, Starfleet. Yet this game is 
 so much more. The game is easy to understand for newcomers, yet has the depth to challenge the 
 most experienced player. From the beginning Land Grab exhilaration to the later Out Maneuver 
 strategies, the game never gets boring. There is always something happening that you have to respond 
 to. Take too long to respond to a threat and you may be signing your own death warrant. The AI 
 is VERY intelligent. The Nine game races will constantly examine your state of readiness on the 
 battlefield. If they find you lacking, they may attack, align themselves with other races and then 
 attack or they may even demand bribe money from you to insure that they dont eliminate your race 
 from the galaxy. The AI is very smart in defense mode also. If a race feels intimidated by your 
 large forces next to one of their planets, they will tell you that they are aware of your presence. 
 They will demand you to remove your ships and then start to build up their defenses on the planet 
 you are surrounding. So surprise attacks are very difficult without instigating a military buildup 
 against you. There are several ways to win the game ( or lose it ) Militarily (might makes right) , 
 Diplomatically (politics) , Culturally (McDonalds on every corner) , and Technically (blind them 
 with science) . The choice is yours yet you may find yourself adjusting your end game strategies 
 several times throughout the game.
  Stardock provides new content to the game on a regular basis. They are not like most other gaming 
 companies that release a computer game, fix it once or twice and then never revisit it again until 
 they come out with the next expansion or version. Stardock constantly supports the game with patches 
 and new game features. They listen to their customer comments and then respond with action.
  Overall I give the game 90/100. I have knocked off 10 points because there are still some play 
 issues ( bit buggy here and there ) that need to be addressed even after the latest patch.
  I love this game and find that it never gets old. Get the game and mark off a few weeks in your 
 schedule planner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallonegro1502
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Stardock is probably the best company at responding to customer feedback in the gaming industry! 
 For many of us who played the first installment in the series, it was great fun but was missing 
 some things. I basically wanted MOO2 mixed with Gal Civ's killer AI and an interface that was less 
 ugly and more accessible. A whole lot of other people felt the same a voila a sequel better than 
 the original. If you like strategy games this one is right up there with Civ IV, however Civ IV 
 to me is still more polished. Something that needs to be improved in Gal Civ 2 is the tech tree 
 it is too large with much of the techs not resulting in much of an improvement over the tech prior 
 to it. Nevertheless, they don't make games like this very often, never if you count the level of 
 support that goes with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedf4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  I can't believe they charge less for this game than Civilization IV (33% less) since this game 
 is really a good game. Good graphics but even on my notepad (a Dell inspion 600m with a LOT of 
 memory) if work quite fine. Sound are quite basic however.
  
  You could play differents race, configure them, give them an edge for combat, research, production. 
 Its quite incredible how much you can configure this game in face!
  
  You should try this game (they have a demo) to check if you could become addict of it but in my 
 case, I did try the demo and went to Future Shop a few hours ago with my 40can$.
  
  If you like space strategy, try it, it's worth it! Never though I will buy a game that week and 
 you see, I've done it;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdnp2035
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Galatic Civ 2 is great.. solidly. It is a Very complete real time strategy program. The variations 
 you can produce in interface looks, maps, ship designs is amazing. Almost too many variables.. that 
 shouldn't be a possibility, but wildly different vibes can be produced throughout set up spectrum. 
 It can take a little experimenting to find the sweet spot.
  
  The large map sizes are freaking huge. Big to the point that I look at the size, consider how many 
 planets will end up populated, and think "I think my computer will probably blow up if I let this 
 develop for an hour". Which is cool, programs should have a 'system overload' option. In reality 
 it runs pretty smoothly at any scale. Compared to civ 4, galatic civ 2 runs very smoothly, much 
 faster. 
  
  A lot of comparisons can be made to civ 4. There is a simular feel to the two, despite the completely 
 different settings and methods of building a civilization.. which is strange. I think galatic civ 
 2 is the far, far better of the two. It feels more open, creative, user friendly, and has better 
 graphics on most fronts. gc2.. is more fun.
  
  What's wrong with galatic civ 2? The AI could be a lot more subtle. It is generaly too easy or 
 too war filled. There needs to be more ground in between. The graphics could be better too. It 
 looks very cool in general, the ships are great, zooming works well.. But it could be more 3D. In 
 fact, I get the feeling there is a lot of potential that has gone unrealized as of yet. I don't 
 know why.. but it feels like there is lot of room for mods.
  
  Overall.. Galatic Civ 2 is great. It is the best real time stradigy I have played. It is not always 
 outragously super fun.. but I still spend increadible amounts of time with it per sitting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deetso
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty- Hard- but thats just because thats where I like it- you could turn down the difficulty 
 and have an easy game- but where is the fun in that. I like to fight other civilizations for the 
 planets and think about what Im doing with each turn- not a turn to be wasted if you play it really 
 hard. 
  
  Learning Curve- Im with nearly everyone else- ive spent plenty of time playing these sorts of games 
 and normally I jump in and start playing for a bit and then read a few of the instructions and 
 gradually get a better understanding of the game-I couldnt just do that with this game- i spent 
 a lot of time watching the tutorials and reading about the game before it was any fun.
  
  Gameplay- I love the turn based strategy game- and add space ships that you can customize and and 
 starbases and I love an influence victory every know and then theres the ... you get the picture- 
 There is a reason I gave gameplay a 10 and also gave reviewer's tilt a 10. Maybe Im biased but 
 i love this game.
  
  Graphics/Sound- well- i certainly didnt play this game for these.. when the game first starts running 
 I was like 'dang cool music" except that its the same music the whole time- like one song.... so 
 now- after playing for a while- I have officially turned OFF the music... to bad and the graphics 
 arent anything to write home about- but the planets look cool out there in space and the map is 
 fun to play with so I was probably easy on it but I liked it.
  
  Value- sort of related to gameplay in that as a strategy game there are a milliion different setups 
 and paths to victory. Im not a big fan of the campaign but who cares- the rest of the game is great.
 
  
  Back to Galctic Civ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations 2 is definitely addictive, but has serious problems. It is one of the most 
 bugged games I've had the questionable pleasure of playing. Save games have a tendency to corrupt 
 as you save or _even_ as you LOAD them. Such bugs are severe and it is unacceptable that they are 
 this prevalent in a finished product. Prepare for some serious frustration.
  
  Anyway, apart from the bugs the game is quite enjoyable. You are leading a civilization of choice 
 (terran by default) in a game of conquest in space, not unlike "Civilization". Hence the name I 
 guess. The name of the game isn't the only thing the developer borrowed from another product. "Gold-pressed 
 latinum" sound familiar? There are many such references to in particular Star Trek, mostly in the 
 less-than-serious descriptions of the technologies that you invent.
  
  GC2 is a strategy game almost without a tactical part; battles are a relatively simple affair. 
 There are 4 possible paths to victory: making alliances, cultural conquest, military conquest and 
 a scientific victory, so there is some diversity and replay value there. You're able to (re-) design 
 and equip your own ships, which is a nice feature. Diplomacy can be great at its best. The AI will 
 surprise you at times, however I haven't been as impressed with it as some. It'll still make plenty 
 of stupid/weird mistakes.
  
  The main map could have been better designed as well. There are two main zoom levels, one zoomed 
 in, where you can see all the models in full, and one where the models are replaced by simple icons. 
 The icons however are far and away more informative and I find myself looking at a very dull screen 
 to get the information I want to see.
  
  Something else I noticed: each game appears to be heavily influenced by the first phase of the 
 game; if you come out short there you'll be in for an uphill battle and vice versa.
  
  There are two main ways of playing: starting a free-for-all game in a generated galaxy and a campaign. 
 The campaign unfortunately is a bit too much like the former where some particular starting conditions, 
 such as the size of the galaxy and relations between races, have been set. You will basically start 
 from scratch each campaign mission. It's hard to give a final vedict since I haven't finished it 
 in every way yet, but I'm afraid there won't be more depth than what I've already seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BnryZombie
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  So yea this game is cool it has tutorials to help you get through the hard part of the game. But 
 i mean the campain sucks. you have to research everything from the beging ever damn time you play 
 a new mission. if your the same race i belive that your tech should cary over.
  
  But the best part in it all was the fact that you could build your own ships. great just great 
 that makes this game worth building. reminds me of when i was 5-7 years old playing with legos.
 
  
  All in all i would recomend this game just fro the fact that you can do almost anything with it. 
 but wouldn't recomend it to some one without an imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellyfeetbob
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  The gamespot rating of 9.0 is right on for this game. I would rate it a perfect 10 except for some 
 minor technical issues. Much like the civilization series this game is complex and legnthy. What 
 would conquering the galaxy be however if you could do it in an hour? The only problem I have experienced 
 is an occassional crash every now and then. This should not keep you from buying this game however 
 because you can set it to autosave as frequently as you want to. Also the game is so good this 
 is only a minor inconvienence if it happens to you at all. The other problem if you want to call 
 it that is that you dont have total control over planet invasions or space combat. However there 
 is so much work to do in researching, building, customizing fleets and invasion forces, setting 
 up logistics etc - that an rts style invasion or space battles could be just too much to handle. 
 This is a turn based game not and RTS. The good things our too numerous to mention and far outweigh 
 the few negatives I have listed. Customizing your race at the beginning of each game is a particular 
 favoite of mine. I also like customizing combat ship during the game and this is actually necessary 
 to hang in there against the enemies. The AI is great and totally customizable. Unlike other series 
 continuations, this version kept EVERYTHING that was good about the first version and simply added 
 up from there. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this is not a so bad game... but i think some people are crazy to say this is one 
 of the best turn based game ever made. The ship battle is horrible you just have to look your ship 
 fire and you can't do nothing... where are the crazy manouvers i had to think in Master of Orion 
 2 to not let my ship damaged using all the shield sides and i can't concentrate fire of my fleet 
 on the ship i want destroy first, i can't shot at missiles... I CAN'T DO NOTHING!!! just look at 
 a crappy sequence that calculates the outcome on which types of armor and weapons the ships have. 
 About the management and the diplomatic aspect it's a litter better.... but in few words i don't 
 think this GAME CAN'T BE EVEN COMPARED TO THE BEAUTIFUL MASTER OF ORION 2 also if it's of many 
 years ago.
  In MOF2 you had great music, in diplomatic screen when alien got angry the music became nasty, 
 the management screen was a lot more nice you could see the buildings and allocate people to work 
 in an easy and not in the sick way of this game (go to move a slide bar that changes the productions 
 of all planets) , in mof2 the ship battles were great you could FIRE your weapons and MOVE the ships 
 you build... not just watch at them.
  And the land battles in GALCIV 2 are also more sick than the ship ones!!!!!
  You choose a strategy (that's 
 a good thing but the BAD thing is that you see always the SAME SEQUENCE every startegy you choose) 
 AND THE SEQUENCE IS SO LAME... you see your soldiers and the others and behind them you see HORRIBLE 
 BIG BOXES that should be tanks or something and they got smashed like...... boxes, in few words 
 it looks horrible. In MOF2 a game of over than 6 years ago ALL WAS BETTER, great music during land 
 battles, you saw your little soldiers but well done charging and firing, and you could scream "shoot 
 at them, kill them all!!!!" and all your bonuses were showed in a simple and clear way, ALL THOSE 
 THINGS MISS IN GALCIV2 a game made in year 2006.
  
  Many are the not well made things... for example the tech tree is messy and confused, you don't 
 even know what you already know, what you can do with the research you have and what is the best 
 thing to research... to figure this out you have to spend half an hour to go find the right research 
 screen and do a reserch youserlf !!! And when you discover a new tecnology it's funny what happens 
 : It appears a drunk robot who moves his arms with a sick music.... this can make laugh.... or cry 
 :)
  I remember in MOF2 when you spy teconology a spy appears, when you conquer a planet and steal a 
 tecnology a soldier appears, when you research a researcher appears (AND ALL THOSE CHARACHTERS 
 WERE DIFFERENT FOR EVERY RACE!!!!! WHEN HERE YOU GET JUST THE DRUNK ROBOT FOR ALL!!!) ... and with 
 some good sound not sick.
  
  Little things that can make you understand how the 6 years or more old game was much more well 
 done than this.
  
  In conclusion this game IS NOT TERRIBLE, but NOT GOOD, the strategic and management part is well 
 done... but it looks BAD, screens are not user friendly, the music is terrible, in few word this 
 game didn't entusiasm me like the great MOF2. After 1 hour i played at this game i was thinking 
 "OH MY GOD and people say this is the sequel of MOF2?!??!? a game made 7 years later that look 
 worse, the sound is terrible, the screens are crappy , the ship battles a boring watch show, the 
 land battles ridiculous ???"
  
  Well i see that i compared this game in all my review to master of orion 2 because i think that 
 is one of the best turn based game i ever played, so i suggest to you to go and play mof2 you will 
 see that the 6 or more years old game is 300% better than this galciv2.
  And after i played this glaciv2 i went to search for my old cd of mof2 to play it again , hear 
 it's great music and see that simple but nice graphic ,go and design another ship in that nice 
 screen that i still remember with that great music, perhaps put a tractor beam on the ship so I 
 can CHOOSE to fire in the engine of the enemy ship in the battle screen and then i can board and 
 capture the enemy ships and use them against their builders or sell them.
  
  This galciv2 is lots more similar to the crappy master of orion 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAnxiety
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  In most reviews i've read for this game i've been told that it's a) hard and b) complex but in 
 my experience so far it's neither. 
  
  Yes it's challenging and yes there is a lot to learn but i found that by completely ignoring the 
 tutorials and jumping right into the game on the second easiest setting i was able to get to grips 
 with most of the game within my first hour of play. After that first hour or so i felt confident 
 enough to start a new on a setting that i felt suited my skills, the fact there are so many difficulty 
 options, i always thing it's a very good thing when a game gives you the option to make your enemies 
 either unbelievably stupid or excruciatingly intelligent. There are also many ways to tweak the 
 game's settings before you begin allows you to tailor the game to fit your skills as well as decide 
 how fast a pace you want it to go, i. e. do you want techs researched very fast so you can get your 
 weapons and stuff early on or do you want to advance slowly giving you more time to tinker with 
 the other aspects of your empire.
  
  There is a lot of things to do in this game but after an hour i had experienced most of them, although 
 some at only a basic lvl. Most of the early stages of the game consists of you building colony 
 ships and sending them out to do their stuff while you research and perform various colony management 
 tasks at home. After awhile all the habitable planets will be colonized, altho this could be quite 
 some time on the largest map setting, and you'll begin thinking about how you want to go about 
 attaining victory. There are 4 options Conquest, basically kill everyone, Influence, which while 
 sounds the most complicated in one of my games i just couldn't stop myself from winning via that 
 path no matter how much i wanted to go down another, Research, basically get the biggest and best 
 tech before anyone else does, and finally diplomacy, which means making friends with who you want 
 to and killing those who are left really.
  
  I really should mention the ship building feature which i actually thought i wouldn't use when 
 i first saw it, thinking that the game's own ships will be far better than anything i could turn 
 out but i was wrong. Even at the start of the game, when you only have a few techs, it's a bit 
 daunting with the number of options you have to create your ships with but once you actually have 
 a need or idea of what you want it becomes very easy to stick what you want on and then fiddle 
 about with the ascetics. It really should be one of the first things you try out especially since 
 the game's scout ships are very slow and the sooner you come up with something faster the better 
 off you will be.
  
  The game is in a finished state. While i did encounter the odd bug compared to the ones being seen 
 in most "finished" games these days they're laughable and none of them should cause you any serious 
 of even significant problems.
  
  This is an overall great game that i'll happily spend many hours trying to escape from reality 
 too and i recommend it's purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cdscottie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Now the PC market has been lacking it's shine ever since consoles dominated the market but Galactic 
 Civilizations: The Dread Lords is a gem. It may not be the most innovative game to date but it 
 brings some things that make it extremely fun. 
  
  Such as the easy to get into ship customization where you can make your race win or lose with your 
 own ship designs. Or the updated feel it gives off with the showing of planets and stars instead 
 of hiding it away from the user in the original. Of course you can't review the game without mentioning 
 the fact that it is cheaper than most new releases and has no CD protection for easy installation.
 
  
  Although the game is great in many aspects it does lack some thing such as sound and graphics. 
 Although these are bad they still can feel a bit dated at times.
  
  After weighing in all aspects of the game it is still a must have for any TBS player's shelf and 
 it won't break the bank either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltodd124
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to support the company that made it, after reading about their troubles with 
 Starforce. I've tried to get into the 4X space sim genre several times before, starting with the 
 first Masters of Orion. The genre just never grabbed me. I expected the same out of this game, 
 especially after I sat through the long and boring tutorial videos. Then I started my first game, 
 and I quickly changed my tune.
  
  The graphics in my opinion are more than adequate for this style of game. You have a 3-D view of 
 the game, with 360 degree control of the camera as a default, or if you prefer the traditional 
 top down view you can choose that as well. You can zoom in for a close up view of your ships (which 
 you can design if you choose) and planets, or zoom out to view the whole game field.
  
  The management screens were a little confusing at first, at least for a noob, but by the second 
 game I was whizzing through them with expert confidence. There are plenty of aspects of your planets 
 and ships to manage, but I never feel overwhelmed.
  
  Interacting with the AI or other players is the crux of this type of game, and whether you are 
 negotiating trades, peace or warfare, you have plenty of options. The AI makes good tactical decisions, 
 often catching me with my pants down, and doesn't seem to go for any attempts at a ridiculous trade. 
 I haven't played the game against another living opponent yet, still working out my strategies 
 against the AI.
  
  When starting a game, you have ten preconfigured races to choose from, or you can build your own 
 race. You spend points on various attributes that give bonuses to create your race, or you can 
 tweak any of the preconfigured races. You also get to choose the size of the universe you play 
 in, and the content within that universe, much like choosing a map in AoE style games. You then 
 choose the other races you want to play against. 
  
  Keep in mind, I'm "new" to this genre, but I have played 6 games of various conditions, and have 
 had a blast. This is one of the best games I've bought in a long time, and if you are looking for 
 something different, I suggest you pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monster_Machine
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations II is a fresh new look at a strategy game. It compares favorably with MOO, 
 allowing some very cusomisable ships. This is an easy game to learn, but takes a long time to truly 
 master, as there are so many variables. Playing one style of game (i. e. a huge galaxy with a few 
 civilizations in widely scattered clusters OR a small game with a lot of habitable planets and 
 easy tech) won't leave you prepared to take on another style. in this manner the re-play is truly 
 DEEP.
  
  Their security method is to use a key code to recieve patches and updates. No dongle is required, 
 no additional (read, invasive) software is installed on your computer. This method of security 
 guarantees that the updates will keep coming as long as they keep expecting purchases.
  
  The house is a small one, and like most little fish, they support their product MUCH better than 
 a big company will. Very Good!!
  
  WARNING: For those who want a good fight, this game's not for you!! All battles are autocalc. That 
 is it's greatest shortfall IMHO.
  
  Overall, attractive graphics, much re-play value and great customer support make this a favorite 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Best take on this game to date but stil, yaaaaaaaawn. Graphics look so incredibly datet i could 
 cry, and all in all the game is jsut so simple. All the tech stuff seems meaningless to me as i 
 have no relation to their names"invent supderduper winkydink,,, sure go ahead what do i care".
 
  
  One fun feature is customizing your rides,, although this quickly looses its glamour, specially 
 since you cant play other humans where it actually might have been of some purpose.
  
  Absolutly nothing is groundbreaking in this game and after an hour or two you know where its all 
 going and what is happening within the next hours,, yaaaaawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindlessTeef
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  If there is one consistency when it comes to gamers that cannot be denied, it would be our inclination 
 to compare. This is understandable, every genre has a benchmark game that defines the quality of 
 any other title that challenges its position as the the best of the genre.
  
  As it goes for the 4X genre, Master of Orion 2 is that title. MOO2 was so close to perfection and 
 remains a superb game even now, ten years later. So, the question would be, will Galactic Civilizations 
 2 take a seat up there with MOO2?
  
  The short answer would be: not likely.
  
  The long answer?
  
  GalCiv2 is a good game, make no mistake, but it is not great. Other than 
 the occasional inconsistency in the game world (duplicate ship types when you upgrade your original 
 design, the ship design screen getting it self confused and a few other minor bugs) GalCiv2s slow 
 pace quickly becomes boring. Soon you will just start clicking End Turn like someone suffering 
 from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, just so something can happen. And then there are the space 
 battles or rather, the lack there off.
  
  MOO2 gave us the turn based tactical battle screen where we could place our fleet in a formation 
 and control our ships in the battle, one turn at a time. This gave you some tactical options, if 
 you played your ships strengths and kept their weaknesses in mind, you could defeat stronger enemy 
 fleets. Ships were also stackable in MOO2, allowing you to stack hundreds of smaller ships on top 
 of one another to make them deadly against bigger ships. Think Heroes of Might and Magic in space
 
  
  GalCiv2 disappoints in this department and leaves you wondering Why did I just spend days clicking 
 end turn 5000 times, researching weapons, shields and hulls just so I can watch small little ships 
 do their own thing and die!?. You have no control over your ships in battle. The battles take 
 place on the same strategy map that you play the rest of the game on. GalCiv2 allows a new level 
 of customizability of ships and some excellent technologies to research for ships; it is foolish 
 not to make full use of this by separating the strategy from the battles. 
  
  GalCiv2, like I mentioned before, isnt all bad though. The game is well thought out and put together. 
 The interface is easy to use, research is simple (maybe a bit too much so) and planet construction 
 is nicely done as well. You can also built star bases and investigate anomalies for extra cash 
 or other bonuses. 
  
  Another nice feature is that sometimes when colonizing a new planet you will be presented with 
 a moral/practical decision. For example; the planet is already inhabited by a primitive race! Do 
 you move into the North Pole so they dont even know you are there, do you relocate them or enslave 
 them? The decision you make may have moral, industrial or research productivity implications. You 
 get to be an evil galaxy conquering villain if you want to be
  
  The ability to upgrade your ship design and then proceed to apply these changes to the ships 
 in space is also a nice touch. Researched better sensors for your custom made scout ship? Simply 
 enter the ship design screen, remove the old sensor, add the new one and go and find your scout 
 in space (you can simply hit the F1 key and find ships or planets) , select it and click upgrade. 
 A turn or few later and you can continue your scouting
  
  Diplomacy options hold nothing new, but they are executed well and do the job perfectly. To much 
 diplomacy isnt nice either, you are not going to research weapon and ship technologies for days 
 so you can sit down for a cup of tea (or alien equivalent) and chat. 
  
  By far, the best feature of the game is the ship design system. The usual components are all there, 
 different hull shapes, engines, weapons, shields and modules. GalCiv2 also supplies you with dozens 
 of ship structures that you can use to customize the look of your ships. Think a galactic game 
 of Lego
  
  This ability is a game in it self and can keep you busy for hours. GalCiv2 gamers even upload screenshots 
 of their ships to the GalCiv2 website so they can show off their creative genius. This also, in 
 turn, causes more disappointment as you cannot truly get to appreciate your creations in battle. 
 You can zoom in to a battle close enough to see your ships that you spent so long creating, but 
 its over so quickly and you cant actually control, and in effect have any say, in the battles 
 outcome. 
  
  GalCiv2 still manages to create that just one more turn game play, but it still just doesnt 
 offer enough in the end. I would personally recommend waiting for it to become a budget title before 
 buying it. Maybe GalCiv3 will get it right 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kl004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Build a space empire through diplomacy, military, culture, economics research or a combination 
 of all of the above. In fact, with enough planning, you can win the game without even going to 
 war. 
  
  Games a balanced and randomized and the AI is very smart. It is strictly a one player experience 
 but it is a great experience. Finding the right strategy and outsmarting the AI is very rewarding. 
 Minimal micromanagement (compared to games like Rome: Total War) . 
  
  My only gripe is that it could have a better technology tree viewer.
  
  The developer listens 
 very well to the user community and implements great changes. This game could very well be the 
 sleeper hit for 2006 :) . Two thumbs up for fans of turn based strategy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbutton
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  For some reason I was inspired by the review that Gamespot gave it and then all of the hype that 
 they gave the demo being released.
  
  I played the demo and thought it was fair decided to go ahead and download it from IGN and man 
 am I disappointed. The graphics are subpar, the sound is uninspiring and in general it seems like 
 a half-baked idea. There are so many things that to me seem like they should have just been included 
 in the release and not only were they not included in the release there was no mention of them 
 in the patch.
  
  I strongly urge you to spend your money elsewhere. This game reminds me of a great game that came 
 out in 97 called Stars! I wish that they had used more of what was in that game and given it a 
 facelift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andoverjon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  I loved the old Masters of Orion games and when Masters of Orion 3 (i think it was 3) came out, 
 I was sorely dissapointed. Then i heard about this game, and can say that is was the best 40 bucks 
 i've ever spent (most games are 50, so this is pretty easy to say) .
  
  For those who know nothing about this game, it is a turn based strategy game like civilization 
 set out in space. You settle different planets, meet different races, research technologies, build 
 spaceships, build up your planets, find resources out in space.... Overall, there is a LOT to do.
 
  
  The tech system is great, much more expansive than Orions (which should be expected) . The one thing 
 i dont' like is how some planets are ALWAYS uninhabitable. In MoO, if you researched certain technologies, 
 you could make planets habitable. And i think this makes sense. Also, expansion is TOO easy in 
 the beginning.
  
  I like the fact there are major and minor races, and there is a fairly good collection of races 
 (though there could be more) . They could just fix it by making minor races major ones. You can 
 also customize your race.
  
  I don't know if i suck at the game, but now that i'm playing on normal, its REALLy hard, i get 
 my ass kicked every time and one race ALWAYS hates me. But thats OK, the game has plenty of different 
 difficulty settings.
  
  Also, there is a campaign mode, which i've tried. ITs OK... But the game is so great, you don't 
 really need one.
  
  Some people have criticized this game because its a "point and click" game. I guess it sort of 
 is. But if you like games like Sim city, where you build stuff up and graphics and sound aren't 
 that important to you (although i think the graphics are more than adequate) then this is the game 
 for you. If you like cool graphics and action, then don't choose this game.
  
  If you have played MoO or CIV and liked them, definitely get this game. IF you like turn based 
 strategy games, get this as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeEhEiK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  I hate TBS games... Nothing to do, just click "turn" over and over again. But wait... I've only 
 played Civ... once....
  
  About a month ago I found some interest in Galactic Civilizations II. The gameplay was neat; every 
 geek likes space... But I was never a TBS fan, I always opted for RTS games. But the run of the 
 mill build and kill RTS games were getting old. And so when they announced the demo two weeks ago, 
 I was there. There was a dilemma though. The next day Rise of Nations; Rise of Legends demo was 
 to be released. I wanted to test both; however in all fairness I was more excited about RoL than 
 GC2. 
  
  After a long day of work I turned on my desktop to see two reminders for downloads from GS. Like 
 a rabbit is swift I downloaded both. GS finished first, so I installed it. While waiting I figured 
 I should give GS a shot.
  
  Yippeee! The first 140 turn game had me asking for more. The second 140 turn game still wasn't 
 enough! Rise of Legends could take the back burner, I could care less.
  
  The next day I stopped by my local Gamestop. They only had one left, but that was well enough. 
 Quick, I got home and installed the game. From then on all my fantastical dreams of ruling the 
 galaxy came true. 
  
  Then I opened the custom ship creator! As a young kid I would play with my erector set and Legos 
 for hours on end. My basement was overflowing in bright plastic girders and semi-punctured blocks. 
 I used to have friends come over and we would build entire layouts. So, not surprisingly, I enjoy 
 the ship creator as if it were a game in its own right. 
  
  Both GC and Civ4 are addicting; however there are some differences. For example, the Civ tech tree 
 is relatively simple, where as the GC is long and complex. This could either good or bad, I like 
 the complexity myself. There are a lot of variables in GC as well. This includes everything from 
 the ships you build to the planets you populate; there is much micromanagement.
  
  However, these characteristics do not negate the enjoyment of this game. Instead, from my own experience, 
 they enhance it.
  
  I suggest downloading the demo, and definitely buying the game. Mind you there is much to learn, 
 but over all it's worth it.
  
  "Live long and prosper" 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundsmith81
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  If you like Civilization IV but desire something more Sci-Fi, then this is the perfect game for 
 you. Although I did fight a bit with the rather steep learning curve, I was soon unable to pull 
 myself away from this game. The detail put into the video tutorials is a nice touch and offers 
 people who learn more visually an easy way to grasp the game. The customization is mind boggling 
 with the ability to actually create your own race with unique attributes and detail or build your 
 own starships from scratch. Not to mention that the research tech tree is enormous. There are numerous 
 ways to play and win. New to this series is a 3D space environment that is beautiful and can easily 
 be rotated and adjusted by the player. Games can end up being a little bit lengthy but hey, thats 
 what you look for in this type of game. I love the fact that there is no play disc once installed 
 and if you register your CD key, you could potentially lose your disc and still be able to download 
 the whole game back to your PC. I do get a little bit tired of the music tracks but they seem very 
 fitting for a Sci-Fi game. Overall, a top notch title that should not be missed by any strategy 
 fan!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vrubim
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  After reading the wonderful and somewhat overrated Gamespot review of this game, I thought to myself: 
 "cool game, must be even better than Galactic Civilizations I, which I loved".
  Big mistake. The game seems unfinished, incomplete. Too bad I already spent my bucks in it, but 
 you can still save yours.
  The improved graphics are a good point to the game, but the interface is very poor, and the game 
 gets boring and uninteresting by the first 10 minutes.
  But perhaps I didn't liked it because my parameters are too high, since I haven't found a better 
 4X game than Space Empires IV Deluxe.
  If you still want to give it a try, go ahead. But I recommend to play the demo first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burter16
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been wanting to play a new turn based strategy for a while, and I was getting a little bored 
 of Civ4, so I read the review and picked up this game. I was a little bored at first, mosty because 
 I couldn't figure out what to do, but once I read the instruction manual and sat through some tutorial 
 action, it turned out to be really fun. I do not have a top of the line computer, and the fact 
 that this game runs superbly is a nice feature. The graphics are reasonable, and pretty much all 
 I would expect from a space strategy game. The planets and ships look really good, and you can 
 zoom way in to check them out too. The AI is pretty smart, and acts way too much like REAL players, 
 which is both annoying and challenging. The ship builder is great, and for those who enjoy customization, 
 a very fun and time consuming process. Probably the best thing about this game is that fact that 
 you don't even need to build a ship to win. You can get a technology victory by going hardcore 
 research, a diplomatic win by being friendly with everyone, or an influence win by brainwashing 
 the galaxy. In fact, for all the resources it takes, war is often NOT the best strategy, which 
 is both a unique game twist and a good life lesson for the kiddies. The matches take a LONG time, 
 especially if you're playing against a lot of opponents on a large map, (like days long) but fans 
 of the genre generally know that going in. There are a few pointless features in this game, such 
 as the fleet battles (which you'll inevitably skip due to how long they are) , but overall everything 
 works nicely. The difficulty is there if you want it, but unlike some of the simcity or tycoon 
 games, which seem like there is NO way to keep your citizens happy, galactic civ 2 is quite reasonable. 
 If this game was available for online play, it would be a sure winner. In any case, it is definitley 
 an entertaining game to play on a rainy day when other TBS's are getting stale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madcatmk3
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 23, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  It's fun. really fun you can spend hours just sitting there playing on and on. The politics are 
 good and you entire civilitzation can be destroyed due to one random event, Say an enemy gets a 
 ranger early in the game they can decimate your fleet, and go unnopposed. Or a race surrenders 
 thier planets to themmalking thier military much stronger. It's like life. Personally the turn 
 based system isn't my favorite but it's still fun. The thing is that theres not short games you 
 have to spend hours and hours to build things up. While it is the best in it's class I feel there 
 is just something missing.
  EDIT: SOme things have changed since I last reviwed it and it's much, much better then before and 
 many errors fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  so here we are with galactic civilisation 2 dread lords, a game that all of you must play... Many 
 gamers prefer action or role plating game and few are those who like RTS game... well this one 
 is a great one... i am a hardcore gamer and i rarely play RTS games but when i got that game, i 
 installed just to have a look of it... After some minutes of playing, i found this game addictive 
 and i played that game untill i finished it... so believe me when i say this game rocks, then it 
 rocks haha :lol:.
  
  the graphic and sound are amazing... the game is rather easy to play and there is not much to learn 
 to be able to paly the game well... just a few glimpse at the controls and its done... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Civilization in Space. The true sequel to Master of Orion. High praise, but accurate.
  
  Sure, there are some touches that reveal this is a small developer game. But the graphics and sound 
 are competitive, and most importantly, DO NOT detract from the game at all. Stardock deserves a 
 medal for what they have accomplished here, for the extremely intuitive and usable interface alone.
 
  
  The game is extremely fun, the AI is pretty good, and the game is more multifaceted than any I 
 have ever played. You can win with tech; you can win economically, dimplomatically, or militarily -- or 
 even by developing the strongest, most desirable culture. And these aspects arent just after-thoughts -- they 
 are integral to the game.
  
  Ignore the stability and 'gfx sux' posts -- check out the screenshots -- its a pretty and addictive 
 and fun game. It takes some learning. So read the manual and play the first game on an easier setting 
 and you'll figure it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I hate to give this game a poor review, because I had really high hopes for it. I love turn based 
 strategy games, having cut my teeth on them from the board game days to Civilization on the computer. 
 Further to that, it would be nice to see a quality game come from a developer that is not one of 
 the big companies.
  
  That being said however, this game misses out. It has a very linear feel to it, albeit with a huge 
 tech tree. The graphics are very low quality, which makes it great to install on your work laptop 
 for travelling, but otherwise is unsatisfying. The sound is about the same, but what do you need 
 for a game of this style.
  
  For me, the part that hurt the most was the glaring bugs in this game. A game of this nature and 
 development can have a 5/10 for sound/graphics and still be excellent elsewhere if it is stable. 
 However, I can crash this game easily just by playing the game. Create a new ship type then leave 
 the screen to do something on the planet, go back to the shipyard to launch a ship and watch an 
 exe error occur. On 1 computer fine, but this happens on my laptop and my gaming rig. 
  
  Secondly, this game doesn't expand at all on the concept of TBS gaming. Develop tech tree, conquer 
 (via different methodologies) and win the game. It is challenging at its harder levels but not 
 in a satisfying way. With games like Civilization IV out there, I find it hard to believe that 
 this game garnered a 9/10 from GameSpot in a truly unbiased review. With more stability the best 
 I could see this game getting from me would be a 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Some reviewers before me already mentioned the comparison to the legendary Master of Orion II game. 
 I have to admitt, this comparison is necessary, because MOO II was the milestone and a kind of 
 "capital" in the history of space 4x games. And - how I could find out - after Galactic Civilizations 
 II it still remains unshaken.
  
  GC II had great aspirations. Honestly, this game is not bad. It offers nice and handy graphics 
 interface, comfortable sounds, honourable depth and complexity and the ambition of becoming a space 
 epos. But the great idea fails on lots of bugs, the feeling beeing unfinished and - the most important 
 - the lack of originality.
  
  1. Bugs everywhere. The game loves to crush down periodicaly. So I had to save it every move not 
 because of my possible strategy mistakes but because of the game instability. I don't know, if 
 this is a bug or not, but I could barely see the ships I was designing and nearly nothing at the 
 tactical map. The same problem with the planets which I noticed as boring schematic transparent 
 circles.
  
  2. After a while you don't know where which of your planets lies, because the names are visible 
 only in nearer zoom levels. After few hours you feel quite desoriented because of the bad whole 
 transparency and visibility of the ships.
  
  3. Ships and combat: It took few hours until I was able to build a clumsy little (smal-type...) 
 fighter-design just with some armor, 10 hitpoints and one miserable laser-cannon. The battle was 
 a matter of tasteless exhibition without the possibility of interfering - like in MOO 3. Boring 
 and weird.
  
  4. The research is really the major fllaw of the game. It goes forward very slowly (you may discover 
 only one tech at once) and you are confronted with some really idiotic types of technologies and 
 a unlogical tech tree. Why I have to discover something abstract like planetary improvements, when 
 I want to enhace my factories? Or "trade", "alliances", "diplomatic relations" - are we in the 
 stone age of Sid's Civilization-series or in a space game???
  Ergo: The programmers wanted to make a huge tech-tree in spaming it with useless and illogical 
 technologies. The player is inventing something and deos not know what exactly, because the desctription 
 is neither none or some really misplaced kind of humor (a drunken robot comments with "old McDonald 
 had a farm"...) .
  
  5. The planet management may turn quite annoying, especially if you notice, you haven't chosen 
 the number of each buildings correctly and now the output of the planet doesn't match your needs 
 (especially by very expensive future uprgades) . You only can scrap one building and buid another 
 one instead of it, but not simple transfer the production capacities, like MOO II did in very elegant 
 way.
  
  6. Spying is a joke. You invest lots of money in messages of sort "your spying level is medium 
 or high", but you don't have any benefits of it. No stealing technologies (maybe far later in game?) , 
 no sabotages, no subversions, no inner security...
  
  7. Gameplay. Personally and unfortunately I didn't experienced the famous "once more turn"-fever. 
 In fact, during my whole gameplay I was expecting that "something will or must happen" this or 
 in the next turn. But nothing happend. The ships were moving frustratingly slowly also after I 
 invented the 4th version of some XXYY type of drive, I still had to mess with income and approval 
 (a very annoying addition) , anonymous planets and spapeless ships or fleets, opponents without 
 exceptionality (where are the really scary Antarans, the intelligent Mentars, the collective of 
 Klackons or the stealthy Darlocks?) and with the dailiness of each turn.
  
  In fact and summarized - QC II offers lot of management, it offers lot of clicking, lot of space 
 building&exploring schematics, but compared to MOO 2 it lacks the atmosphere, vitality, originality 
 and the space 4x spirit totally. Everytime I switched it off, there was no impression left, only 
 plenty of dead hours I could have used for something more meaningful...
  
  "The feeling of the emptiness remained in spite of so much planets..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zua12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations II is the evolutionary sequel to Galactic Civilizations. Bringing the franchise 
 into the wonderful world of 3D and scaleable interfaces, GC2 is a familiar friend who hasnt changed 
 much over the years to fans of the series. New players should expect one of the best 4X strategy 
 games of recent years. Whats 4X? eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, eXterminate. If youve played Master 
 of Orion or Civilization, youve got a good idea already.
  
  GC2 takes place in a universe where humans have invented the hyperdrive and, for some reason, chose 
 to share this technology with every race in existence  good and evil. A mad scramble for colonies 
 ensues both in the official story and at the start of every map, during which events unfold. Regular 
 games play almost exactly like original Galactic Civilizations  you lead your race to victory 
 or defeat by power, diplomacy, technology, or culture. The campaign consists of a series of maps 
 with set starting conditions and specific victory requirements. The story is told primarily through 
 cutscenes between missions, with some minor dialogue during the maps.
  
  The campaign missions are an interesting and worthy addition to the 4X strategy genre. Much like 
 RTS games, the challenges that are set up tend to contain a bit of a puzzle element  requiring 
 the player to figure out a proper order of events with which to reach a win scenario. There is 
 some flexibility, but less than in the regular maps. The campaign is attractive primarily for its 
 uniqueness; you will not encounter the title Dread Lords in regular play (thank God) .
  
  Another major change is the addition of ship building and customization, which adds a great deal 
 of charm to the game. Not only are custom-designed ships usually more suited to the players needs, 
 but they can be impressive creative outlets too. There are five different styles of hulls  Human, 
 Altarian, Torian, Yor and Drengin. Each style will have several types of basic hulls for the various 
 ship sizes  tiny, small, medium, large, and huge. All in all, there must be over fifty basic hulls 
 to worth with  and then these can be customized with weapons and defenses, but also cosmetic additions. 
 The cosmetic changes dont affect ship performance at all, but do offer a really cool creative 
 outlet for players.
  
  The final addition is a change to the way planets were handled. Previously, a planet had a number 
 associated with its quality rating  4 would be like Mars, 10 like Earth, 15 is paradise. All the 
 planets capabilities were tied directly to that number  population and income, production and 
 research. In GalCiv 2, the number merely designates the number of build slots on the planet. Want 
 money? Then you need population, which requires farms. However, high population leads to overcrowding 
 which means dissatisfaction, unless you build entertainment facilities. Combined with unique structures 
 like  capitals, planets can be customized very easily now. Most 
 players will presumably build a few economy worlds, one or two industrial planets, a couple of 
 tech planets, and so on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerveza_fiesta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  When I first tried this game I started up the campaign. I wouldn't bother with it though, I found 
 that the real fun is in the large-universe scrimmages vs. the AI or another player (though I haven't 
 tried multiplayer yet) . 
  
  I find the game very research-intensive. Basically everything from industry to government to military 
 to research itself can only be upgraded through research. I'd say its even more research driven 
 than Master of Orion. The only problem with research is that it takes a lot of time, which is probably 
 why I enjoy the larger universes more. It gives you time to establish a small galactic empire and 
 a solid economy before dealing with enemies (or allies) .
  
  I really like the victory conditions too, ally with everyone, influence everyone to elect you galactic 
 president, beat them all into submission or just research until you are basically a transcendant 
 being of pure energy. It gives a chance for different types of players to excel rather than favoring 
 pure military strength
  
  There are a few annoying aspects of the game, like popup news windows and build completion windows, 
 but these can be turned off easily. My only real complaint is that winning in battles is usually 
 proportional to the amount of guns you have; there is no tactical battle interface like in Master 
 of Orion. The game *is* about managing a galactic empire though, so the lack of tactical battles 
 is not too big of a deal. 
  
  I haven't been playing long, but so far this is a great game. I totally recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asmodeious
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations II is set roughly 270 years into the future. In this time the humans have 
 invented a new technology known as the hyperdrive. This technology has allowed for movement between 
 the stars.
  While the game is a mildly entertaining it can also be most fustrating when it decides to lock 
 up on you. The game also has many minor bugs and glitches that just make it somewhat irritating 
 to deal with at times.
  Dispite these set backs the game does offer several strong points. The first of which is that it 
 has realitively low system requirements. This is a blessing to those of us who may have out dated 
 systems. Another thing is that the AI does offer a good deal of compition without bending the rules 
 in its favor. It will watch your military build up and positioning. If your military is too close 
 or in it's area of influence it will ask you to pull back or declare war. However on lower difficulties 
 this won't mean much because the AI usually doesn't build up any sort of military initially.
  All-in-all a fun game. However; I would not recommend it to anyone who is not a fan of the TBS 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyver247
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  unreal they did it again you cant go wrong with these guys, i cant wait to see what they do next. 
 the game takes no time to get used to very simple interface. loved it..... unreal they did it again 
 you cant go wrong with these guys, i cant wait to see what they do next. the game takes no time 
 to get used to very simple interface. loved it..... unreal they did it again you cant go wrong with 
 these guys, i cant wait to see what they do next. the game takes no time to get used to very simple 
 interface. loved it..... unreal they did it again you cant go wrong with these guys, i cant wait to 
 see what they do next. the game takes no time to get used to very simple interface. loved it..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the original Galactic Civ then you will love this. If you are a newcomer you will 
 like it. If youre like me you will find no better game out there. Galactic Civilizations II is 
 an amazing game. It took everything that its predecessor had and improved it. The game has great 
 graphics if you put it on the high settings but still is playable on a large variety of systems. 
 You do not need the best graphics card to play this game, which i admit is very nice for us unfortunate 
 people out there. Also the gameplay is really good. There are a vareity of turned based strategies 
 out there who boast that they are revolutionary. However only Galactic Civilizations II can say 
 that. The gameplay is amazing and no two games are ever the same. There is so much to do in this 
 game that you will never get bored. BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. You can design your own ships, colonize planets, choose from around 10 different 
 species. The only problem i would say is there isn't enough room on the planets to build buildings. 
 They give more options of buildings to build than they give room to build them. You have control 
 over pretty much everything. The amount of space on planets is the only problem really, actually 
 i am not really sure i just got the game yesterday i think you can change to size of the planets. 
 THIS GAME IS GREAT if you like turn based games gets this, its CIV IV in space get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galaxy613
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game I've played for a long time, the last game I played for this much was 
 AoE1. Even without the demo I was sure I was going to buy a piece of gaming history when I bought 
 GalCiv2, just looking at their very open dev-logs about the game before it was released, I saw 
 how they cared about their product and what the player will think and see. Already they are working 
 on a v1.1 patch that 90-100% of it's contents was brought up/asked for by the community. I could 
 go on so long about Stardock's great customer support and business model.
  
  Now onto the game, granted the graphics are not the best and by the end of their year they'll look 
 quite out-of-date, but they are the best graphics (other then Civ4) I've seen in a strategy game. 
 It uses a good amount of bumpmaps and shadows, but they can not compete with such graphical awesomeness 
 like in X3 and other next-gen graphical games. Also the sound and music of this game is not stunning, 
 some of the background music can be pretty boring and the sound effects are sparse. But if you 
 get into the game well you won't mind the small amount of sound effects and the ambient music, 
 because you'll be too busy planning what next for your empire to care. Plus, this game isn't about 
 the graphics and sound.
  
  I have not played GalCiv1, but trying the demo of it before and after GalCiv2, it was quite confusing. 
 This game will take some time to learn whats the best strategy to use, if you have experience with 
 other TBS games like Civ4, then you'll have some head start on learning it. The AI is one of the 
 highlights of this game, the AI is extremely good and well crafted, sometimes you'll almost believe 
 it was human. The reason why the AI is so good is because they did not include muiltplayer, because 
 theres no muiltplayer they had all the time that'll normally be used to program that in you work 
 more on the AI and balancing the game, which, IMO, was the better decision. While muiltplayer is 
 not in the game, the devs still left a small "door" open for it, so maybe later if there was enough 
 crying out for it, they could add a muiltplayer expansion or something.
  
  You owe it to yourself to at least try the demo (coming out March 30th '06) before abandoning this 
 game, especially if you liked games like Civ4, this is a great strategy game and is a great additon 
 to any collection.
  
  -Galaxy613, been playing sense Feb. 24th '06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The visuals, and game play are way different than what I am used to. Very in depth strategy. It 
 took me awhile to figure out what the Hell I was actually doing. I created a few ships, and started 
 to build me civilization, and caught on after a few hours of play. I like the uniqueness of this 
 one. I designed my own race instead of using the well though up ones in the setup menu. I thought 
 that this was a modern SW's game actually. Seems that there could have been something done to the 
 way you view the civilization. Like in R: TW you can actually get a view of how well your city look 
 up close and personal. Almost like A tour. This game should have added a way you could run it like 
 sim city or something. that would have been cool. I am happy with the way it is. I'm just throwing 
 stupid idea out there. The game has potential. It's ranked I believe 10 at this time for a month 
 it's still in the top 10 so that speaks for itself also. Plus It's developed in Michigan which 
 makes it even more cool!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviscerador
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  I was waiting ansious for that game, and the wait was worth of it.
  
  It has great graphics, nice ambient music and sounds, awesome AI and lots of hours to come playing.
 
  
  But (there always is a BUT) i have found some minor details that, while doing the game more challenging, 
 some times annoy me.
  
  - The true diplomatic solution is inviable. If you dont have military spent, research, and a good 
 fleet to back your diplomats, all races take you as the last monkey. OK, i know, it is like the 
 real world, but in here, the pen is not stronger than the sword. 
  
  - The enemies surrender to other races: this is a BIG annoy. Even if you dont do anything, at 
 the last stages of game, always are one or two civilizations that have a lots of planets, just 
 because the rest of the races surrender to them, even if you are not attacking. I suppose that 
 they surrender to friendly ones, but at last, these ones are unstoppable at the end.
  
  Bypassing these little minor details (that in the end, they do the game more challenging) i have 
 lost a lot of sleep just trying to bribe, spy, conquer, research, and above of all to design my 
 own ships!! (the dream for every one freaky engineer like me :D)
  
  I recomend this game to every one
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let me say I was obsessed with MOO and MOO2. These games offer the ultimate replay value. 
 Microprose who made the original Pirates game and Master of Magic just has knack for creating games 
 that take a long time to get old. 
  
  When MOO3 came out I set aside time to just be at home and play it. I was ready. And it sucked. 
 Really bad. But there was this little ad in the box for Galactic Civ. It was best part about MOO3, 
 so when it came out I bought it and kept my fingers crossed for a faithful clone. It sucked too. 
 No customized ships was a deal breaker.
  
  Along comes GalCiv 2 and I have to say: Finally a true MOO2 clone!!! In a nutshell, if you like 
 turn based empire games or science fiction in general, you cant go wrong with this game. If you 
 have a burning desire to explore strange new worlds, you cant go wrong with this game. If you were 
 a die-hard MOO2 fan, then you might even cry tears of joy as you customize your first race. 
  
  This game is wonderful in every detail but I do have two gripes: The battles are simulated 
 and not tactical. Most of the time tactical battles were a waste of time in MOO2 because tech level 
 and fleet size could win the fight before you began. But it would be nice to see a turn based tactical 
 engine in the game to allow for more unorthodox victories in space. 
  
  My other gripe is the music. Its great, but it skips a lot. But, since I patched the game, it seems 
 to have cleared up this minor annoyance by about 95%.
  
  Note: Im adding more gripes about this game for those who didnt agree with my glowing review. The 
 tech tree is no where near as creative as it is in MOO2. I miss stellar converters, death rays, 
 and black hole gens. ALOT. I hope more techs and tactical fighting are added in GalCiv3 and the 
 sound effects could use a little love too. 
  
  Bottom line: Best turn based Sci-Fi game ever. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galamode
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I don't consider myself a huge "civ" genre junkie. Keep that in mind while reading, as this is 
 very much for the people like myself who are not entirely devoted to the Civ Genre
  ----------------------------------------------
  Starting Impressions
  When I first started 
 the game, I found a rather bland, and quite dull menu with a somewhat cartooney logo and graphics 
 I would expect froma couple of years ago. However, determind not to let that bog me down, I launched 
 the "New Game" option. A simple layout of some 10 differant options appeared. Me, being the control 
 freak that I am, choose a custom race. Although there are kinda standard features like choosing 
 your race name and etc, I was surprised by an in deapth page where you choose you racial bounus'. 
 This itself was quite entertaining, a page where you can choose your pre-determind role of your 
 empire. Then some other minor options da da da, lets get this game started. What I soon realise, 
 after the first some 6 hour in total game, is that there are more than a few flaws to a somewhat 
 flashy game.
  ----------------------------------------------
  Graphics - 8/10
  Although graphics as is true for the genre are a relativley un-important part of the game, these 
 still fall below my expectations, however, being said that Civ games rely on gameplay graphics 
 I will give it an 8/10 for being completely 3d, and somewhat alright.
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sound - 4/10
  In nearly all games I tend to 
 pop on my own tunes (the Elder Scrolls Games were the exception) However, I at least get a couple 
 of hours out of the games sound before I am inclined to do so. This however, was not the case, 
 from the start the music was completely forgettable, and at times annoying. The sound effects of 
 say the ships and etc. were also completely forgettable, I give the overall sound a 4/10 just beacause 
 they bothered to put it in.
  ----------------------------------------------
  Value - 5/10
  While perhaps a game once every so often may not be bad, there simply is not the 
 "one more turn" effect in place. And any way you toss the dice that is the key factor in a games 
 value and longevity
  ----------------------------------------------
  Gameplay - 4/10
  I chose to put Gameplay, the most important aspect, last, only beacause of its importance, and 
 beacause the other sections directly influence it. The gameplay itself of this game, as mentioned 
 in value, simply does not induce the "one more turn" effect that keeps the genre going. This is 
 the biggest letdown, while crappy music, and behind the times graphics may hinder the game slightly, 
 losing what these games are legendary for can simpley not be looked over. On top of that, there 
 are many bugs, and somewhat imba AI. At the start of a game, like most civ games, you want to start 
 colonizing new lands. On all but the easiest difficulties the AI will immediatly occupy ALL of 
 the possible colonies, usually putting YOU behind the AI. Thus, it is difficult to keep up in virtually 
 every way, from population, to science, to militarily, it simply makes the game HARD! Also, with 
 almost limitless researches, it's hard not to fall behind in certain areas, however, the AI seems 
 to research in a balanced way. Getting the technologic win seems almost laughably easy compared 
 to some of the other options, thus showing more imba in the game.
  ----------------------------------------------
  To Conclude...
  While hardcore Civ junkies 
 may find it a nice, and slow paced game, the casual Civ gamer will likely be turned off by this 
 title. Only if you are extremely into that "Space Civ" theme should you look here, other wise I 
 would recommend simply getting Civ IV, its a much safer bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjutla
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  For all of those people who are writing reviews putting down this great game, all I can say is 
 that this type of game, in that kind of setting isnt for everyone.
  
  Im not going to lie this game lacks problems, errors, poor videos and sounds. But the reason I 
 bought this game is the actual dedication the people at stardock have for this game and their drive 
 to continuing to make it better. With updates being released every 2-4 weeks, with huge fixes and 
 amazing add-ons was a huge reason for me buying this game. 
  
  So many people are comparing GC2 to big company released games. Stardock isnt very big and may 
 not have alot of experience creating games, compared to larger ones, but the release of GC2 I think 
 they did a fantastic job.
  
  Cons
  - Lack of sound and music
  - Videos needs updating
  - Errors/Problems
  
  Those 3 Con's above are the only things I find, 
 not wrong with the game, but needs fixing... which they will or have already done in a updated 
 patch.
  
  So I will leave you with just saying, when the demo is released in two days, give it a try if you 
 find yourself bored clicking the turn button every minute this game probably isnt for you... maybe 
 because your mind is set on some FPS or some RPG game. But all I can say is give this game a chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenonixlv
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  This game has some interesting things. Ship customization hasn't been in a strategy game elsewhere. 
 Although the game is kinda slow playing for me ,cause I don't want miss anything, like a ship destruction 
 that i could avoid.
  The game graphics are kinda normal, but not so good for a 2006. year game. The most worse graphics 
 has the Millitary Starbase, which is just a junk with Cubes on it.
  The thing I didn't like is that computer players see habitable planets. They have no need for scouts 
 although they build em. + the Auto Survey for flagships which moves the flagship exacly to the 
 location of the anomaly.
  There is some sort of luck in GalCiv 2. Like the Surface battles where your click on attack botton 
 makes all the diffrence.
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  One time I played GalCiv 2 I was AT WAR with all civs (4) . But when all seemed to be lost. BAAAMMM 
 an event shows up saying '' Our scouts have found a Lucky Ranger''. Well that was a spot of luck. 
 After a Defeated many fleets with my lucky ranger. BAAMM anothor ship finding event. After some 
 more weeks BAAAMM another one. And again some weeks later Bamm another Lucky Ranger. (Do you Think 
 thats luck or what!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The syndrome you know it!!??? Well, prepare to experience it to its full extent!!! Research, Diplomacy, 
 Conquest, Economy, everything you can expect from a civ game is here and more, much more!! Customized 
 ship design, campaign mode, a great AI and full and continuous support from Stardock! 10 days from 
 the release and the first patch is out! Not to correct bugs!! But to improve an already great game 
 experience!
  
  So, if you are fun of strategy games that demand lot of tactical thinking and not an click and 
 play festival, the what are you waiting!!?? The only negative - if considered - is the absence 
 of multiplayer game. Well, until you get bored of the game features, probably there is gonna be 
 released an expansion pack with multi feature installed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I really do. I never was a fan of turn based strategy games before but after 
 reading the gamespot review of this game i just had to have it. And I am glad I bought it because 
 it provides one of the most indepth experences I have ever played. The deeper you dig the deeper 
 this game gets.
  
  There are far too many things about this game to point out in this review but i will do my best 
 to point out some high points.
  The AI does as in all games show signs of complete stupidness. They will leave transports undefended 
 other things like that, but it also is extremely inteligent. It actually uses battle tactics. It 
 doesn't just fling ships at you.
  
  here is my example of what the game is capable of. I started the game and expanded as much as I 
 could before another race got in my way. Their military was weak as they were busy expanding also. 
 So I attacked them, and drove them to the south. Eventually there economey collapsed and submit, 
 but not to me, to one of my semi frendly neighbors who got a little too violent with me. So I gave 
 a lot of technology and money to a smaller race they were at war with to distract them while I 
 got ready another invasion force. I rampaged across their terrortory until they managed to convinve 
 their friends to join in on the fight and I had to call a peace treaty. Well several years of war 
 later most of the major races are all dead. I am in the middle of crushing a much weaker race when 
 pirates attack me on multiable fronts. My ships are far superior and in greater numbers. but their 
 ships are specialy desigened to take my personaly designed ships out. So I had to design a new 
 fleet of ships to take them down. 
  
  This game just keeps throwing me curve balls. and I am having a ball.
  
  The good:
  Human 
 like AI (mostly) , very long line of tech trees, long epic wars, political warfare nearly as important 
 as traditional warfare, can choose from very small galaxy to a massive one, can create your own 
 ships from available tech and decorative parts, four different ways to win.
  
  The bad:
  AI can still be little kid level of stupid, graphics are so-so, tech trees is large but boring, 
 tech tree a little off balance
  
  This game is great. I love the fact that you can be completely isolated from a major race both 
 of you building fleets of warships and researching tech apart from eachother and finally seeing 
 who has the advantage. Will your ships rip them to pieces? Will they march over you like you were 
 bugs? Or will your capital ships trade blows on even standing? And when they get the upper hand 
 having to devise a strategty to get the advantage. then having the computer do the same to you 
 when you gain the lead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: Read the bad reviews before deciding to buy this game. As fate would have it, I needed 
 a new game right about the time CG2 came out. Gamespot loved it, and the user reviews were high. 
 And thus it was, utter, complete, glazed-eyed shock and dismay. Could this game be so bad? Someone 
 actually compared this game to Civ 4. Insanity. That game ruled, this game sucks. It takes 500 
 turns to get anything accomplished. I just keep clicking the TURN button and waiting. 
  $40? Nooooo way.
  $30? Ahn-ah.
  $20? Nope
  $10? I don't think so. 
  Free? Ummmmm..... well, 
 it basically is free to me since I already bought it... and I ain't playing it no more! 
  *Note to self: do not be fooled into buying over-hyped crappy space game ever again (can you say: 
 Freelancer?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yazoo100
Rating: 1.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game stinks. The graphics are from 1998, the gameplay is weak, and it is extremely boring. 
 I cannot believe I just wasted my money of this piece of junk. Thumbs down.
  
  If you are buying this game, some things to remember. Read the manual. This is not an easy game 
 to just download and start playing. The whole game is just boring and I remember playing a game 
 like this back in the late '90s. In fact, I think it's the same game in a different box. 
  
  I had high expectations when downloading this game from the reviews but whoever left those 
 reviews must be talking about a different game because this one sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zafrod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I realize that the temptation for most has been to compare this game to Master of Orion II, and 
 obviously there is some basis for comparison. This game is much closer to the Civilization series, 
 and it captures the fun of that series admirably, while adding a lot of new features and excellent 
 customization.
  
  The game even pokes fun of its similarity to the Civilization series at times. When I built my 
 first special building, I chuckled when the news announcement mentioned, "You might even call it 
 a Galactic Wonder." The game isn't afraid to be a little tongue in cheek throughout, poking fun 
 at everything from hippies to Star Trek.
  
  The game play is extremely customizable, to the point that I have trouble understanding how people 
 find it too  You can set the number of habitable planets, the 
 size of the galaxy, the research speed, how many opponents you have, and the difficulty level of 
 each opponent.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to Civilization, but the sci-fi flavor is a nice change of pace, and, 
 despite how others feel about the "realism" of the research tree, I think it was very well done. 
 I especially like that weapons and defenses are broken up into seperate categories, so simply maxing 
 out one set of weapons or shields won't necessarily make you impervious, as you may find that your 
 enemy doesn't use the type of weapon you've protected yourself from. You'll find yourself going 
 back to the shipyard to create new vessel designs often, trying to figure out just the right balance 
 of offense, defense, speed and capabilities to have the maximum advantage. Creating your own units 
 is another great feature of this game, and the system outclasses even Sid Meier's forray into this 
 genre, "Alpha Centauri".
  
  Will everyone enjoy this game? Of course not. If you're an aging fanboy looking for Master of Orion 
 II with prettier graphics, you won't find it. If you like Civilization, but think it needs more 
 sandbox features and a techier backdrop, you should have a blast with Galactic Civilizations II. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  As published on loadedinc. com...
  
  New Mars was a backwater planet in my sprawling empire. With only four buildable areas the only 
 purposes it served were as a tax base and home to a few trading routes that bulked up the weekly 
 revenue. Far from the front line of my civilization, it stood dead center in my empire with fleets 
 of assault-class ships and starbases weeks away. It was there that my attention waned. It was there 
 that a starport and three factories sat dormant. It was there that the Arcean Empire stealthily-invaded 
 and conquered New Mars, unleashing an industrial juggernaut in the heart of my empire. It was there 
 that I realized Galactic Civilizations II: The Dread Lords was more than just the average strategy 
 game.
  
  The AI is part of what makes the title such a well-rounded experience. You have several difficulty 
 settings to choose from but even the "dumber" tiers will sneak troop transports and escort fighters 
 far behind your enemy lines. Bump up the difficulty and youll see many different tactics from 
 desperate enemies. It may surrender to you, leaving the lives of its citizens in your care or sometimes 
 surrender to a much more powerful empire. Do you stop your assault or continue and wage war against 
 a faction thats not so broken?
  
  Even if you didnt attack, the AI may declare war for a number of reasons. A sudden military buildup, 
 an interruption of their regular trade income, even the fact that you may look similar to another 
 race is enough for them to send out the ships. Perhaps the best part is that they will let you 
 know it. Its one thing for them to destroy your fleet; its another to have them tell you that 
 you never stood a chance in the first place. But while fighting can be important, it certainly 
 isnt everything.
  
  Victory through military conquest isnt the only avenue to the successful domination of the galaxy. 
 In Galactic Civilizations II there are multiple paths to spread your dominion. A cultural victory 
 can be achieved when your empires influence accounts for 75% of the galaxy. You can even conquer 
 planets without firing a single shot. Citizens of an alien planet will recognize the superiority 
 of your culture and overthrow their native governments to give you control. Its the best way in 
 the galaxy to say, "Were better than you," without being hostile.
  
  But if your ways arent gracing their way through borders then you can always try new tactics. 
 Schoolyard bullying takes new form in Gal Civ II with the concept of an alliance victory. You dont 
 need to militarily or culturally dominate your foes. Just form alliances with enough of them so 
 that no one else will dare oppose you. But when other races just dont like your swagger you can 
 go it alone, beat them to the proverbial punch, and score a technological victory by researching 
 your way to the top.
  
  And what a climb it will be since the game features a large technology tree that covers a wide 
 array of social and cultural aspects of life. Its here that the beauty of the game is realized 
 and where you can shape the way your economy, population, manufacturing methods, diplomatic relations, 
 scientific and militaristic methods work. You have complete control over what your people will 
 research and ultimately the type of civilization that will be created. Its important to strike 
 the right balance since researching in one particular area will leave you vulnerable in others 
 while having a broad pattern of research leaves you open to being outclassed in many fields.
  
  Priorities will also shift in times of peace or war. While devoting research to lasers will 
 be a good idea if death is on your doorstep, researching diplomatic alliances and stronger trade 
 theories will help you excel in times of peace. And it all depends on how you want to control your 
 race. Galactic Civilizations II gives the player a lot of control over their own destiny. In the 
 economy management screen you have a say in tax rates, how much money is put into industry, and 
 where that money is allocated. A few dynamic sliders make adjustments easy so you can switch between 
 high-production / low-research economies and vise versa if the times call for it.
  
  Perhaps the greatest example of user control and customization is the ship builder. Using researched 
 technologies that unlock armor, shields, weapons, transport modules and other practical or aesthetical 
 components you can create just about any ship you can imagine. Dozens of attachment points litter 
 a basic hull and give you the opportunity to add dozens of different components at any angle or 
 position you can imagine. A sliding scale bar will increase or decrease the visual size of a part 
 leaving you with a near-limitless amount of combinations to try out. Its an awe-inspiring moment 
 to see a faithful visual re-creation of an Imperial Star Destroyer or the Battlestar Galactica 
 take to the stars.
  
  This mode most-heavily exemplifies a theme that is visible throughout the game of the developer 
 leaving the most important decisions of the game up to the player. You can have your own vision 
 and achieve it how you want. Players arent coerced into military action or rely on technology 
 to bail them out. There are genuine choices to be made about how to best compete with the intelligent 
 races in the galaxy. However, these choices come at a heavy cost of user-friendliness.
  
  Galactic Civilizations II does have a steep learning curve. It will take players a few hours to 
 finally get in the swing of things, even after viewing the games tutorials. The videos they show 
 are comparable to any type of basic training. Youll learn the basics but it in no way prepares 
 you for what youre about to face. The tutorials are helpful in that they display how to navigate 
 the various menus, explain their functionality, and show how to perform basic space-exploration 
 maneuvers. The beginning of any match is an ideal time to perfect these basic skills. As you meet 
 other races those skills will be forcibly updated as you adapt to ever-changing situations and 
 relations.
  
  The races are about as unique as the rest of the game. You have militant races that start off with 
 warfare bonuses, exploratory races that will get advantages in hyperspace travel and xeno technology, 
 and passive cultures that have diplomatic dominance at the beginning of any match. If none of the 
 pre-set species are to your liking you can always create your own. More fine-tuning can be accomplished 
 with the government party selection. Technologists, Pacifists, Universalists or any other government 
 get bonuses on a specific set of attributes be it research, luck or diplomacy. As the game progresses 
 and you research different types of governments your totalitarian control can be switched to different 
 forms such as a democracy or a republic where voters will regularly vote on what party stays in 
 power.
  
  These types of changes ensure that no game is the same. Whether you spend a single day in a tiny 
 universe or weeks conquering the massive galaxies youre likely to come across a completely different 
 set of challenges. And thats one of the best strengths of Galactic Civilizations II. No matter 
 what you play youre probably going to have a new experience. A campaign mode will slowly introduce 
 you to steadily-larger galaxies to play while skirmish games give you the option of designating 
 the size and difficulty of the match. Its these matches that will keep you coming back over and 
 over again.
  
  Rounding out the massive amount of gameplay is a well-crafted presentation. Players of the original 
 Gal Civ will quickly see a huge 3D overhaul of the universe with stars, planets, ships, anomalies, 
 and trade routes all independently displayed and animated. Thousands of objects can appear on screen 
 depending on the size of the virtual galaxy and the game will never skip a beat. The animations 
 do get a little rough in some patches, mainly the planet conquest battles, but those are few and 
 far between and may never be seen if you dont choose to go planet-hopping.
  
  When its all said and done, Galactic Civilizations II strives to be an in-depth strategy game 
 that creates a unique universe with an AI smart enough to compete. It not only meets that goal 
 but surpasses it with ease. It is a little tough starting out but players who get the hang of things 
 will quickly become addicted to one of the best strategy games released in a long time. Its also 
 a perfect entry game for those too intimidated by Paradoxs past Hearts of Iron series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Sorry Guys but i will compare GC2 with MOO2 as everyone does and i see no problem doing so as we 
 got to compare this game with the best of this genre. Shortly MOO2 is the best reference we all 
 have up to now.
  
  First of all i never understand; there is a perfect example in front of you. A game that shook 
 the world and became a best seller, besides it was 10 years ago. Why dont you just take all you 
 can from it, and give all your efforts move it further? They failed in MOO3 because they lost the 
 spirirt, here that is another example what not to do.
  
  *Anyway, GC2 is not a bad game and have to admit there are good parts also. So i will start with 
 the pros:
  +Overall improved graphics. Universe looks nice , interface, colors and ambience, gives the feeling 
 of quality.
  +New variable alignment of the races, good &amp; evil , good empires tend to close up to eachother: 
 this is new and very nice feature. Adds to flavor.
  +Very nice simple and clean planet (surface) view, quick way to see what is in a planet. Easy que 
 windows and different buy options.
  +Quite impressive AI, they surrender to other races, they perform clever moves (in higher intelligence 
 levels)
  +Cinematics during gameplay. Adds to spirit of the game.
  +Random events increases realism. +Custimizable ships.
  +United planets is a nice feature of 
 the game. Very hot issues are discussed.
  
  *And the Bads:
  -Space Combat is horrible, just a movie to watch. Player has no effect at all. MOO has offered 
 not the option of manually commanding combats but also disabling ships &amp; boarding other vessels.
 
  -Radar view is ridiculous, this is a 4x game eh? where is the exploration then? I already see 
 who is where.
  -Land combat is similar to Moo2 however, i prefer Orion's little running soldiers and battloids 
 in combat. GC2 barely manages to give it. Fighters were soldiers you train In Moo2 , Fighters are 
 population in GC2. This way, there is no enslaving (and assimilating) the population possible in 
 GC2.
  -Diplomacy screen is a totally useless screen. You can finish the game easily without a single 
 click to diplomacy screen. Your options are highly limited and usually you exit the screen without 
 achieving anything. -Trade? Why should i research trade? Humankind knows it since 200bc!!! You 
 have to send a freighter all the way and establish a trade route? bah! in Moo2 it was a single 
 click in diplomacy screen.
  -There were special governers and pilots for hire in Moo2. There is not such a detail in GC2.
 
  -Technology names &amp; tree. Sorry guys but the WORST part of this game lies here. Research is 
 totally screwed up. Laser1, Laser2, Laser3?? What the heck is that? Mini balls ?? what kind of 
 a technology name is this? Why dont you call it Hyper accelerated particles or Tachyon Armor piercing 
 teqnique I dont know!? Names are just not realistic. Miniaturism? what happened to -common name 
 for it- Nano- technology?
  
  Also, we should be researching scientific names rather than item names Example: atomic reactions 
 theory rather than Nuclear bomb 
  
  MOO2 offered better view of the tree, it was plain and clear. You get lost in the tech tree of 
 GC2. Also when you get tech by combat, a warrior (of the race you have chosen) introduced the tech 
 to you, if it was by espionage, a spy was displayed on view. Now we are informed by an ugly emotionless 
 robot, making absurd moves like drunk.. how shoddy!
  
  It was very disappointing for me, that long wait for such a game... I wonder when they will be 
 able to excel Moo. Or, just improve graphics of Moo2, and sounds, add some fancy cinematics its 
 ok with me really. Somebody please do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Just One More Turn should of be the catch phrase for this game not sid meier's Civ 4 which i found 
 to be a poor addition too the civ family, this game on the other hand is what a turn based stratergy 
 game should be all about. Great Graphics cool storyline and just so damn addictive to play.
  Galactic Civ2 is a vast improvement over Master Of Orion but very much the same game play so its 
 not to hard to pick up and get into even if you haven't played Master Of Orion you wont be dissatisfied 
 with the game play if you like turn based strategy that is otherwise you may find it a little slow 
 to begin with but thats come to be the norm for these type turn based games.
  
  Only one bad thing i have found about this game so far there is no HOT SEAT option for multiplayer. 
 play by email is there but no Hot Seat. I would be great too see a patch or expansion that adds 
 the Hotseat Option. 
  not everyone has 2 or more PC's to run a network for games that are multiplayer and as for an internet 
 option are you really going to play a game that could possibly last days online., Get your tooth 
 picks out to keep your eye lids open if your looking to play this online. 
  
  I will finish by saying a Great remake! grab this game its worth the dollars:)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smackhq
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Like many of you out there, I love turn based space strategy games, such as the reigning king MOOII. 
 I always keep an eye out for new ones so not needed to be said, I was excited to find GCII. Unfortunately 
 that didn't last after I got back home.
  I read the reviews and thought to myself that finally I might have found a game that I would enjoy 
 but was amazed by some of the game play features. Here are just some things that I found which 
 really bugged me (sorry but I will compare GCII to MOOII as many have)
  
  1. Radar. Hate it.... period. If I am some struggling race that barely can leave my planet how the 
 heck do I see so far into space. I loved MOOII's setup where your planets had the radar circle 
 and you could see ships within that but nothing else. As your tech grew, so did radar screen.
 
  
  2. Ship build. Ok the construction part is sort of cool in how you can customize ships but lets 
 be real here. I take a small fighter with 1 stupid laser and spend 30 minutes designing "fluff" 
 to go on the outside. The fluff or cosmetics dont add anything to function so I don't waste my 
 time on it.
  
  3. Planets and AI. This kind of goes back to #1 but my gripe here is if you cant see past your 
 area that you have explored how to do you know a planet is there? I would swear that the computer 
 sends ships to planets without first scouting them or with adequate radar.
  
  4. Combat. Sucks.... big time. All you do is attack and watch video.
  
  I could go on with this 
 game and the let down it has been for me but I don't want to invest that much time into a review. 
 The game isn't bad but for $40 it's not that good of a value. If it gets to $20 I would say it's 
 worth buying but for now I would read the posts from people who don't like it and make up your 
 own mind.
  
  Thanks.
  
  Rob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogerborg
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest here: Galactic Civilizations II isn't inspired by the 1996 game Master of Orion 
 II. It's not influenced by it, it's not an homage to it. Galactic Civilizations II is a literal 
 screen by screen clone of MOO2, dumbed down by three notches. Even the music and the UI layout 
 and colour scheme are swiped straight from the original.
  
  GalCiv2 changes the following (and *only* the following) :
  
  A simplified (read: more restrictive) 
 economics system.
  Almost all of the fun combat technologies are gone. Combat is just a simplistic weapon vs armour 
 calculation.
  Fighters, planetary defences, orbital space stations, planetary bombardment, all gone.
  GalCiv2 
 manages to mangle MOO2's UI even while attempting to clone it; it takes too many clicks to get 
 things done, and doesn't display information as helpfully as MOO2.
  GalCiv2 adds a mediocre 3D engine that you'll never see, as full 3D combat scenes take far too 
 long to resolve and are thoroughly uninvolving to watch, unlike MOO2's bold and frenzied 2D combats.
 
  
  I'm not saying that GalCiv2 is worse than MOO2 *for it's time*, I'm saying that it's a worse game 
 in absolute terms. It took its developers ten years to rip off MOO2, and they didn't even do a 
 very good job of it. If you like GalCiv2, you'll love MOO2, and you'll only need to pay a fraction 
 of the price to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joloven
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  
  I've found this game terribly addictive and i've lost a lot of sleep time at night waging nearly 
 impossible wars on the harder difficulty levels. While in contrast I found the easier levels kinda 
 boring, but i'm an experienced tbs'r. If you want a good challenge that will beat you a few times, 
 if your good at games like this, start on something harder than the normal difficulty. I'm up to 
 the "Masochistic" difficulty level, yeah that's my style. :)
  
  This is one of those deep games that you can either really get into, or they start to bug you, 
 because you can't learn how to get into it.
  
  Overall though i've had a blast. good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I've heard a lot of fuss bout this game for so long that I was willing to buy it and start playing 
 it no questions asked. Well to make a short story shorter, GC2 is not good enough to hold a candle 
 to good old Master of Orion 2. 
  I agree that MOO3 is a big let down but as far as i'm concerned so is GC2, for reasons so many 
 reasons (more than i'm willing to write here) but mainly I hated the combat system so much it made 
 everything else even worst. Sorry for all the hardcore fans but I don't think this game is meant 
 for any other ppl but them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Global_Nexus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. The TBS genre has been utterly lacking for a long time. I mean, sure, we have the 
 Civilization series, which most any TBS player has at least one of in their hard drive. What else 
 has their been? Master of Orion? The first two were among the best TBS games of their time, but 
 the third one was an absolute joke. Well? Ah yes, Galactic Civilizations. A small, independent 
 game by a little company called "Stardock", released around the time of Master of Orion 3. It was 
 a game that didn't have the best graphics, the most options, it didn't even have a very big budget. 
 And heck, if you want to get down to the nitty-gritty, it pretty much has a development team of 
 about five people! But for all its flaws, the first GalCiv for Windows was a game with heart [and 
 deep gameplay and an excellent AI] , and it succeeded via word of mouth and went on to sell quite 
 a lot compared to what Stardock had planned. They supported the game for about a year with updates 
 and additions, and eventually released an expansion entitled "Altarian Prophecy". Not that long 
 afterwards, Stardock announced it was ready to produce a sequel.
  
  What a sequel it is.
  
  Galactic Civilizations II has many things that were missing from the first game, and then some. 
 Whereas the first game had a skimpy story, only slightly delving further with the release of the 
 Altarian Prophecy expansion, the plot takes a much greater role in GC2. Included is a long campaign 
 delving into the titular Dread Lords, an ancient, powerful race of evil beings whose ships make 
 Galactic Empire's entire fleet [both Death Stars included] look horribly underpowered and nerfed. 
 The storyline even reaches into the sandbox game, though it is far less prevalent there -- for 
 example, if I play as the Torians and I meet the Drengin, they'll comment about how we'll soon 
 be slaves to them again. It adds a lot of character to the game.
  
  Of course, maybe you don't care about the plot and want a deep game to play. GalCiv2 has that, 
 as well. Though the game lacks multiplayer, it has the best AI I've ever seen in a game. This AI 
 does not cheat until it is above the "Intelligent" AI setting, and even then it only receives economic 
 bonuses and nothing else. The AI can and will thrash you if you're careless. Warfare is much improved 
 in the game over its predecessor, introducing a ship designer that lets you craft not only your 
 ship's armor, armament, and other equipment, but also the way it looks. There are tons of little 
 "additional" pieces that cost nothing to add and are merely there for looks, which gives the creative 
 player an outlet for that creativity.
  
  Giving depth to the very basic attack-defense rating of GC1, GalCiv2 introduces three kinds of 
 weapons to place on your ships: Beam weapons, Mass Drivers, and Missiles. All three have defenses 
 that maximize defense against those weapons: Shields, Armor, and Point Defenses. All defenses offer 
 SOME kind of protection against all attacks, but if your ships are heavily Armored, you won't get 
 the sort of protection against Missiles and Beams than you would against Mass Drivers. Thus you 
 -- and your rivals -- must keep a close eye on what sorts of weapons and defenses are being developed 
 in order to counter them.
  
  Planetary management has also been greatly improved. In GC1, planets all had a Quality number, 
 which was arbitrary and determined how useful the planet was. Anything below 15 was usually useless. 
 All improvements could be built on all planets. It wasn't all that intuitive in the end. But in 
 GC2, Quality refers to the number of tiles on a randomly generated planetary map that are available 
 for the placing of buildings. It amounts to this: "Should I turn this planet into a Research world? 
 Or a Production world? Maybe I should build a lot of farms, entertainment centers, and trade centers 
 in order to make it an economic center? Or perhaps I should balance it out?" With tiles occasionally 
 having special bonuses to certain buildings [for example, if a tile as a Mineral bonus, a factory 
 that is built there will be more effective than a factory built on a normal tile] , this makes choosing 
 what you want to place on a tile highly important. And, as a note, you can't build ships on a planet 
 unless there's a Starport built on it.
  
  Then there are Starbases. These are your "forts" -- space stations that serve various purposes. 
 There are four kinds: Economic Starbases, which can be upgraded with Trading Posts and Factories 
 which boost trade income and planetary production, respectively; Military Starbases, which can 
 be upgraded with modules that enhance the attack and defense of ships within a certain radius of 
 said base; Influence Starbases, which enhance the cultural influence of your civilizations; and 
 Resource Starbases, which can only be built over rare galactic resources and can be upgraded to 
 improve the civilization-wide bonuses you receive from those resources. Starbases and resources 
 can often mean the difference between victory and defeat -- for example, if the Drath have invaded 
 your civilization and are heading for your homeworld, a Military Starbase can give your meager 
 defense forces the firepower to destroy even their mighty battleship fleets.
  
  There are four ways to win: Total Conquest, Diplomatic Alliances, Cultural Conquest, and Technological 
 Supremacy. Each one requires a different strategy, the researching of different technologies, and 
 the gathering of different resources [of course, they're ALL a plus] . And you can "mix and match" 
 different ways to victory, making alliances and then conquering anyone who doesn't become part 
 of your little club. Or conquering a few civilizations to give yourself more influence for cultural 
 domination.
  
  The graphics of the game aren't the best ever made, but they're still very good and more than adequate 
 for a game of this genre. There isn't much to complain about or compliment here, unless you want 
 photo-realism from the game. The one thing that is really neat is that as you zoom in and out, 
 the graphics scale so almost nothing gets pixilated. So if you were playing GalCiv2 on a widescreen 
 TV-sized computer monitor, the graphics would scale still. Very nice.
  
  The sounds are fine -- missiles sound like missiles, lasers sound stereotypically like lasers, 
 and railguns... uh.... well... I have no idea what a railgun sounds like, but they make distinctive 
 sounds, too. The music fits the game well enough: when you're at peace, the music's relatively 
 peaceful; when you're totally destroying an inferior civilization, the music fits; when YOU'RE 
 getting pounded into the ground, the music fits that too. Each civilization also has its own unique 
 theme, except for the Iconians, who share their theme with minor races [for some reason] . The game's 
 sounds are not great, I'll admit, but they work and that's enough for me.
  
  Also, about ship weapon sounds: never mind that there's no sound out in space -- there's no background 
 music out there, either. :p
  
  Is there anything negative about this game? Absolutely. You can't give custom races descriptions 
 yet, as far as I know. There are a few bugs here and there, but nothing game-killing. There are 
 typos. The tutorials aren't the best, so there's a bit of a learning curve. There's a big jump 
 in difficulty from Beginner to Normal. Nothing enormous to complain about though, unless you're 
 an excessive nitpicker. 
  
  Overall: The game has long-term staying power, no game ever playing the same. You will get more 
 than your money's worth from Galactic Civilizations II, and Stardock offers many, many updates 
 to the game that not only fix bugs but adds new content to the game! As of this date, there are 
 about three updates released -- and another underway! 
  
  If you want a great turn-based strategy game, you can't lose with Galactic Civilizations II: Dread 
 Lords. There's nothing more to be said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayito777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  This game has created so many different variations and the constant addition of new patches makes 
 the game amust have for those who enjoy strategy games. This game encourages players to develop 
 their skill in combinig a strong research with trading and politics, build your armada early or 
 the AI will take over your planets. Deal, trade, build and attack to be named the ruler of the 
 galaxy. The game will consume your hours like a wild fire on a hot summer, before you know it, 
 5 or 6 hours have gone by and you look in disbelief at yout watch, your wife yelling in the background 
 or your parents looking at you like, why is he looking at me like that. Play this game and you 
 will enjoy it, don't forget to visit the community and your opinion will enhance the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Tyranuz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I've tried the game, it has a lot of options, that's nice. Good graphics, VERY cutomizable, etc...
 
  
  BUT. There's a huge bug problem with the game, on my popular FX5200 the textures of the ships and 
 planet aren't working good, and i've heard from a lot of nvidia users the same problem.
  
  Check the website and you'll see A LOT, i mean, A LOT of people writing about the bugs, and the 
 HUGE list of KNOWN ISSUES.
  
  If you're thinking about buying this game, i reccomend that you wait a few months after they fix 
 all the bug problems, overall the game is very acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leavemebe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Like many of you, I am satisfied when my galactic strategies succeed, hard work, lots of mental 
 gymnastics, that same sense of satisfaction you get from a solved crossword puzzle. But I do not 
 get the sense of fun and kick-ass slap doggy silliness I get when I have created a spaceship that 
 I can call my very own.
  
  This game gives you an absurd number of hardpoints and hull nubbins to hang anything you can possibly 
 imagine on your varied and funky ship frames. It's like a vehix. com spacecraft builder, little 
 wing here, space blaster there, how about some trim, and the nappa leather package please.... can 
 you monogramme that for me? Thanks!
  
  Pick a color, a lighting scheme, I think high contrast brings out the sleek, don't you? No no, 
 that zero-point energy source doesn't go next to the sensor, it fusses with the sillouette. One 
 engine, two engine, red engine, blue engine. You got space, add it. Do you want 30 foot tall blinking 
 spires with glowy lights? What color? Stick that on too. Anywhere!
  
  I'm not done.... you want that gargle-blaster bigger? Move the sizing lever, want it wee? Slide 
 the lever and the item shrinks and grows.. slide the lever and the item shrinks and grows.... ahem... anyway... 
 there's a pretty impressive systemic set of heuristics that are presented in an appealing user 
 interface wrapped in soothing audible emanations. But back to this crazy shipyard thing... ah, I've 
 said too much already, I'm gonna go make an extended range, fleet supporting, hyperdrive enabled 
 hat-rack, bright pine colored, if you are interested...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstf_badreldin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Galactic Civilization II I thought, this has got to be something like 
 Civilization IV, which was in my opinion a really nice game, but a little too complicated for me, 
 so as a result, I approached this game with skepticism. First of all, the first thing that you 
 notice when you start up the game and after the intro movie, is the menu music, which in my own 
 opinion gives you that space, faraway epic feel. Variations of this music stay with you throughout 
 the whole game, but unfortunately start getting repetitive after a while which is kind of disappointing.
 
  
  Anyway, I start with the tutorials, expecting them to be a lot like other tutorials where they 
 give you extremely basic instructions, then when you go for the campaign, you realise that you're 
 swamped with details they didn't mention, as well as a lot of other difficulties that you'll simply 
 have to find out for yourself. So, you can imagine my surprise when, after completing the tutorials 
 and starting my first game, I discover that I've got more or less a good overview of the game and 
 how to play it.
  
  Within an hour, I'm hopelessly immersed and I've lost contact with the rest of the world. That 
 first day, I spent the entire night trying to defend my home planet and other developed colonies 
 from the onslaught of several hostile alien races. I didn't even realise what time it was till 
 my alarm rang and I realised I had to go to work in an hour. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a turn-based strategy game ( 3D engine, but thats the least you 
 can expect from any game these days) . The sound effects, from laser blasts to space stations are 
 standard, meaning they're a lot like Star Trek - Star Wars sounds. You've also got some ambient 
 sounds which keep the galaxy alive, and without them it wouldn't be the same, since you'd be going 
 around in the galaxy in relative silence.
  
  To keep it short, for any strategy gamer, this game is purely and extremely addictive. Its relatively 
 simple (at least simpler than Civilization IV) , since the tech trees are just one line, and don't 
 keep branching out then fusing back together somewhere further down the line. Also, developing 
 planets is straight forward, and you won't be spending any significant time keeping track of endless 
 statistics or the like. Instead you'll always be waiting for, wondering about, and wanting the 
 next turn (where you're expecting a tech to be completed, or a battleship to be constructed, or 
 maybe an invasion army to reach its destination, etc....) . Trust me, this is a game you don't want 
 to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoochild85
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  I always trusted reviewers for their quality assessments but this time i have been disappointed, 
 as i said, this game is poo. No action, hours long to complete the simplest task. AAAARRRRGH. Poo.
 
  In fact im willing to sell this game to whoever wants it, contact me and get it for dirt cheap. 
 I just wanna spenk myself for spending so much time on it damn me.
  Graphically, the game is not impressive, because we never actually get the chance to see any combat 
 action or anything worth the high power of modern graphics cards. The music is average, worse is 
 the gameplay, which is soooooooooooooo looooonnnngggg, and tedious. It is definetely not addictive, 
 although it is completely unlinear (i like) . whatever happened to games like morowind, sid meier's 
 alpha centauri or sim city 2000? we're getting bummed buying bad games because there are sop few 
 good games coming out today
  whatever
  
  M 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivj
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  I have no idea who made up all these reviews as well as GameSpot's review (how much $$$ did they 
 pay you?) but I want to thank people who created file sharing, which allowed me to "try before 
 buy" and helped me save $50 by preventing me from ever buying this crappy game.
  
  Most of this game is basically text-based events which have graphics painted over them. All you 
 do is point click, point click, selecting different menu options and micromanaging your planets.
 
  
  There's no excitement, no action. You watch your ships fight in a cheesy 3d view that resets every 
 couple of seconds. Technological advancements have no more meaning than "weapons +1" 
  
  AI is completely retarded, they declare meaningless wars and then don't attack you. They'd have 
 50 ships stacked and they wouldn't even use them, letting you take their planets. You'd have 5 
 planets vs their one and you'd have tons of ships and they'd have none, and they would refuse to 
 make peace sayng that "you're loosing this war, why would we want to make peace?"
  
  There are 3 things that I have to applaud Stardock for:
  
  1) Great graphics engine. The universe 
 does look pretty nice (at least as nice as you can make it look in 2d) .
  
  2) Very flexible ship design. I wish more games did the similar thing. But then again, a boring 
 game with nice graphics and customizable ships is still... a boring game.
  
  3) Managing to create this amazing hype and bribing reviewers and gamespot - congratulations on 
 making good money by selling one of the crappiest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanaric
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, this game was not hyped, most havn't heard of it until its reviews.
  
  Turn based stategy has been argued a dead genre, and Galactic Civilization 2 has revived it. Civilization 
 didn't have what it takes, Space Empires was a niche that wasn't even known to exist by most, and 
 MOO 3 was by far the worst game ever made.
  
  Galciv does what all those games wanted to do and succeeds much in the same way as Alpha Centauri 
 did. They listened to the community responses from the first game and took all their suggestions, 
 which is a rare occurance, and created a masterpiece.
  
  Large expansive technology tree, ship design, powerful diplomacy, opponeants, an AI, all of that 
 is miracle to occur in a modern game and somehow it occurs here.
  
  Their are also events in the game that add much to the gameplay, you make a choice of neutral, 
 evil, or good that gives bonuses and detractions depending on the event. Their is also a huge variety 
 of these events in the game that keep things interesting.
  
  The AI will betray you, work against you, flame you, and ally with you. They dont do random nonsense 
 like on Civilization for, playing the game you feel as if they have a plan and amazingly they do. 
 
  
  Lastly the graphics are great for a 4X game, they however put more effort into gameplay and yet 
 the graphics are still amazing. Something that other good unknown 4x games have nothing of, like 
 SE4.
  
  Their are a few minor annoyances, i have surround sound speakers and the bass on the music in the 
 game is incredibly high, i had to turn the sub all the way down for it to not effect me, its a 
 very minor annoyance.
  
  Their is a bit of a learning curve, however the devs and forum members are willing to assist.
 
  
  One of the benifits of this game is that its actually updated on a regular basis, the devs are 
 not hidden like infants and take trash and ask people what they want. That is their secret to success. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxsigmaxxx
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  
  The Story
  So, you decided to go to GameSpot and find a good game for your self to buy. You see Galactic Civ 
 you go to the store and buy it, Once you reach your house you pop it in, install it and begin to 
 play. You skip the tutorial and get quite confused.. You go back spend atleast 10 minutes reading 
 a tutorial and start a game. You choose the Campaign and begin, "Hey this is boring!!!" After playing 
 through one mission you realize their is no fun in the game and you watch everything... Hey good 
 Idea's but where is the action?
  
  This is game is horrible.. Not to mention over rated and Hyped, The game is everlasting hell at 
 first you start with nothing. Let me tell you about what you do in the game.
  
  The game is set on turns, every turn your ship can move two or maybe 3 spaces. A space is very 
 tiny and to reach one end from the other will probally take 30 turns on a small map. On the biggest 
 map I wouldnt be suprised at 200-400 turns to do the same thing. At first you try to colonize worlds, 
 then building things on those worlds. Building somthing usually takes 20 turns and thats one thing 
 at a time, The game is very slow with the whole turns process. An Over Hyped feature would be the 
 Tech Tree. To even master on segment of a tree (literally only one thing like lasers when theirs 
 missles and bullets) One cool thing is custom making a ship but that gets tireing after a while 
 so its pretty much useless. Did I metion you must either buy your ships or wait somtimes 82 turns 
 for your ship to be made?
  
  Space battles and Ground Battles are the worst part. For space battles you watch one laser beam 
 or missle go and strike the enemy, it either blows them or it doesnt blow them up. Ground battles 
 are a mixture of horrible graphics and crazy lasers. Yes the cool "shoot down meteors" or choose 
 how your going to attack them is a great idea but when you shoot them with Meteors or somthing 
 you dont see them being shot by it. All you do watch is a couple of horrible looking lasers go 
 and shoot at the enemy. 
  
  Overall this game is horrible, the makes had execellent Idea's but they lacked alot of things and 
 the whole turn based Idea was really horrible. This game is a waste of time and doesnt deserve 
 GameSpots 9.0
  
  If you like horrible wastes of time and watching crazy laser shoot at units then buy this, if your 
 looking for somthing really good buy Empire at War... Empire at war curb stomps this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostwinds
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game combines great playability, a story line with enough hooks to be fresh every time, great 
 adaptability and customizable scenarios. If you only buy a few games in this year, this one HAS 
 to be on the top of the list. I believe that the learning curve is just right, and that most people 
 wil find that they are playing a lot more than they realize. It's easy to lose yourself for a night 
 in this game. After all, that's what you pay for. 
  
  Let me get specific for a moment, this being my very first review and all. The opening scenarios 
 are easy. That's to be expected. However, after you get a real feel for the game you can make the 
 AI tougher and replay the beginning in a whole new light. This AI seems almost too good at times, 
 able to play right to your weaknesses and hit you where it hurts the most.
  
  To sum it up, folks, this game is one of those that will rank with the all time greats... like C&C. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_kitchen
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  I think there was once a golden age of PC strategy gaming, and that age is long past. There are 
 so few strategy games produced these days that people are delighted with a mediocre remake of an 
 old game; they shower it with praise and give it editor's choice awards.
  
  Galactic Civilizations II isn't a bad game, yet neither do I see as the great game that everyone 
 else says it is.
  
  First of all I ding it on creativity. This is essentially the same game as Galactic Civilizations, 
 but with prettier graphics. How much you like this particular flavor of strategy gaming will depend 
 on how you felt about the original. If you didn't care for Galactic Civilizations, you probably 
 won't care much for Galactic Civilizations II.
  
  The game suffers from extensive bugginess. The bugs haven't prevented me from playing the game, 
 but despite following the directions on on the GalCiv website to avoid crashes, the game still 
 crashes occasionally, there is missing text and ship images, and after playing the game my computer 
 is messed up and I need to reboot it.
  
  I presume that the fancy 3D graphics are the blame. I don't see why what's essentially a two dimensional 
 game needs 3D graphics anyway. Incidentally, the new map looks beautiful, and it works in 1600 
 x 1200 mode, but it seems to me that the price to pay for this is bugs. I'd rather have a less 
 a less attractive game that is rock solid.
  
  The game comes with minimal documentation and it's hard to figure out what the rules are. In a 
 strategy game, it's important to know what the rules are, otherwise you're not truly making informed 
 strategy decisions. Do starbase bonuses stack? How do the mineral resources work? You have to spend 
 hours perusing internet forums to figure this stuff out.
  
  The AI has received much praise in reviews, but I don't get where the reviews are coming from. 
 I haven't really seen any "intelligence" out of the AI. Like nearly all strategy games AI, it should 
 really be called AD for "artificial dumbness." When at war, the computer races tend to send out 
 a lot of unescorted troop transports that are easily shot down. I have yet to see a computer opponent 
 launch a successful attack, and this was not for lack of them having a huge military advantage.
 
  
  And talking about combat, the game will be disappointing for people who like the combat aspects 
 of strategy games. There is very little strategic maneuvering involved, most of the strategy involves 
 getting a fleet built in the first place. You can't invade any planet until you have the Planetary 
 Invasion technology, so this ensures that war is a useless endeavor until a decent chunk of time 
 has passed. And until you have Advance Troop modules researched, you may not be able to put enough 
 troops on your ships to take over a heavily populated planet unless you build an awful lot of transport 
 ships.
  
  I think the developers believe that by de-emphasizing war the game is a more "realistic" simulation 
 of space-faring civilizations. It may be more realistic, but not necessarily fun. Because matter 
 can't travel faster than the speed of light, space games are nothing but fantasy anyway, no more 
 realistic than a game about casting magic spells.
  
  If combat is de-emphasized, what do you primarly do? I find that a big chunk of time is spent micro-managing 
 diplomacy. The diplomacy screen contains slider bars to trade money for tech, and the slider bars 
 are extremely irritating and time consuming to use.
  
  My take here is that the game is a decent contribution to the field of space strategy games, but 
 nevertheless it's overrated by most reviewers. Consequently I score it a 7 and not a 9. This is 
 a passing score, but not a great score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gudmo
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I admit, I was interested when I saw this game on the shelf. I brough it home and tried it out 
 but was quickly disappointed and I should have bought myself something else.
  
  The only cool thing about this game is the adding of parts on ships, the rest is lacking in so 
 many ways that it's shameful. I've for instance been playing the campaign and even though I suck 
 at the game itself the dread lords are unbeatable if they get a ship close to your homeworld. Also 
 the other races seem to know where all habitable planets are right off the bat and whatever you 
 do there is very little room for the puny human in colonization during the campaign.
  
  It's far off any MOO game and not even close to being good enough, it's just another mediocre game 
 of this genre like so many before it. The world is just so hungry for a good 4X strategy game that 
 most people kinda like it and won't give it a bad review solely on the fear that no more games 
 of the genre might appear. The gaming industry is changing, from a few companys with some seriously 
 fantastic games to many small companies being pushed into publishing mediocre games for the big 
 producers (Most of which were the very same that made the fantastic games of old) .
  
  This game like most of the games I've played during the past 4-5 years needed more changes from 
 it's predecessor and more work and it might have been good. But it wasn't given the time or resources 
 and thus didn't do anything for me. Money down the drain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. The graphics are quite average. Hey come on, i been spoilt by the good 
 graphics games out there now. Back to the topic, the gameplay is really addictive, it has a just 
 one more turn appeal, like civ 4. I just can't stop playing it ever since i started playing a few 
 days ago. It allows you to use a civilization and use it to conquer the whole galaxy either through 
 war or diplomacy. The AI is also superb as it analyses your strategies and adopt counter measures 
 to whatever you do. This is really a very good game. You must definitely try it. It is worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elias_Vaughn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I haven't been much of a Turn-Based Strategy gamer. I played Birth of 
 the Federation and the original Galactic Civilizations but that is about it. I was disappointed 
 with BOTF and nearly swore off TBS games, but I got the original GalCiv and it changed my view 
 on TBS games. When I found out a sequel was in the works, I was looking forward to it. Since I 
 got this game, I haven't been able to play any other because I've always been going for just one 
 more turn.
  
  By now you probably know that you can play as 1 of 10 races or you can make your very own custom 
 race and play. The galaxy sizes range from tiny to gigantic in which games can take a few hours 
 to perhaps days, maybe even a week or more depending on your goal, to complete.
  
  There are four different types of victory conditions: Military Conquest, Influence, Political, 
 and Technological. Every game is a different experience because you can choose the races you want 
 to occupy the same galaxy with as well as the many different AI difficulty settings. Aiming for 
 a Military Conquest but find that you can go for an Influence victory instead? Or perhaps you're 
 aiming to unite the galaxy but find yourself in a position where you can conquer it in just a few 
 more turns? That is what is great about this game. No matter what you plan to do, it can always 
 end up changing as the game progresses.
  
  Yeah, I'll say that some of the things can be tedious like colonizing and researching tech, but 
 each game is unique that way. You can get lucky and have some huge planet bonus tiles that can 
 quickly change your mind on how you want to conquer the galaxy. This not something you can find 
 with many games today and despite some of the repetitiveness, the game is quite addicting.
  
  The background story is very interesting. I can't help but notice it seems similar to Babylon 
 5, although I believe I read at the official GalCiv2 forums that the people that created the Dread 
 Lord ships never saw B5 and that the story was created back in the 90's. That took me by surprise. 
 The story is setup in such a way that you, the player, ultimately shape the galaxy. Will you lose? 
 Will you win? How you achieve that is your decision.
  
  There is a campaign included, but as of my writing this review I haven't completed it. I've been 
 playing the sandbox mode more since I find it to be more of my taste. From what I have played, 
 the campaign seems nice, but not definitely something you should start in if you're new to this 
 game or TBS games in general.
  
  Race Selection and Customization:
  
  As I mentioned earlier, in GalCiv2 you can play any of the races now. In the first game you could 
 only play as the Terran Alliance. However, I find myself playing as the Humans in every game. When 
 you're customizing your civilization, you can change the name of your empire, the color of your 
 ships, interface and the color you will appear on the map as (Terran Alliance show up as blue) . 
 You can also change the logo your civilization will use (the logo attached to all planets you colonize) . 
 There are many logo's included in the game, but you can download user-made logo's from the official 
 site.
  
  There are also many different abilities you can choose from as well as several Political Parties. 
 Each of the Political Parties sets the tone to how you will play the game. For instance, if you 
 choose the War Party, you'll most likely end up conquering the galaxy. The Technologists Party 
 aims for a Technological victory. Of course, it doesn't mean you will end up with such a victory 
 all the time.
  
  Ship Designer
  
  One of the nice things about this game is the ship designer. Here you can design your very own 
 ships using the technology you researched. This can take up a significant amount of time depending 
 on your goals. As you advance through the tech tree, new hulls will become available as do weapons, 
 defenses and other components.
  
  Tech Tree
  
  The Tech Tree in this game is HUGE. I do have some gripes about it though. Such as the Laser I, 
 Laser II, Laser III, etc scheme it seems to have, not to mention that each versions doesn't offer 
 much in return. Laser 1 takes up the most space on a hull while Laser 6 takes up the least amount 
 of space. But the damage dealt is the same. I find this particularly annoying. Why must I research 
 through 6 of the same tech just to advance to the next level? Why not have only 3 levels but the 
 time to research each level takes the same amount of time as it does to research through all 6 
 levels?
  
  Another thing is the need for an encyclopedia that gives more information on each tech and why 
 it should be researched. As I have played this game a lot already, I can pretty decide what techs 
 I need to research. Still, it would be nice to have a resource handy just to look at and see what 
 is needed for a future tech.
  
  Ethical Alignment
  
  As you customize the races that will join you in the galaxy, you can choose whether they are neutral 
 towards you or if they're an ally or if you're at war as well as choosing the AI difficulty setting.
 
  
  While you progress through the game, you will come across events that ask you to choose the Good, 
 Neutral, or Evil options. Evil gets short term bonuses while Good takes a hit but you get more 
 respect from other civilizations and neutral just puts you in the middle of the pack, which is 
 not always a good or bad thing.
  
  You can choose to research Xeno Ethics once you have it available, which, when completed, forces 
 you to choose your ethical alignment. If you're more evil than good, but want to be a good civilization, 
 you'll pay a hefty price (like 20,000BC) and vice versa. Each ethical alignment gets bonuses and 
 certain super projects. These projects can help you and benefit you as the game progresses.
  
  All in all, this game will keep you occupied for hours on end and wanting just one more turn. 
 GalCiv 2 has captured me like no other game in the last couple years and for $40, it is well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stasis416
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for 10+ hours I had to come on here and write a review for all of you out 
 there that are about to buy this game. I bought this game based on the reviews I read on this website. 
 
  
  The Pros:
  
  The game is pretty. Some of the animation is very nice, its neat when you are talking to an alien 
 race about diplomacy. 
  
  The game is simple to pick up, the learning curve is very low. You should be up and running with 
 no time at all. 
  
  The starport (starbase) construction options are neat and something I haven't seen done before. 
 You have the ability to build a starbase and upgrade it many times with different weapons, defenses 
 and mining abilities. The neatest aspect of the game. 
  
  The Cons:
  
  Alpha Centarui crushes this game hands down. I felt like I was playing something that was "rushed" 
 out the door. It's not nearly as indepth as I had hoped. 
  The tech trees are sorta weak. While they are vast and there is SO MANY things you can research, 
 the game doesn't do a good job at explaining what your research is doing for you. There are limited 
 build options with your planets, and even more limited options with managing your people. 
  
  The combat is very weak. It's a very weak numbers game, for example my plane has 13 missle 
 skill, your plane has 5 defensive skill, I attack you, your plan dies.. Your not really in control 
 of ANY combat, you click your ship and than click a ship you wish to attack.. yay for that simple 
 junk!
  
  The planet invasions are terrible. Basically you build a transport ship, fill it with 100 people 
 max.. and fly it over to an enemy planet. You than get a button to select that says "start battle".. 
 There is numbers flashing on the screen that are quickly changing, that say something like 13 vs. 
 5.. This would be your advantage to the battle (13) to your enemies (5) .. Since these numbers are 
 rapidly changing, its a freaking luck factor.. You click "start battle" and hope to god your at 
 a high advantage.. What the crap is that about? You than watch a tiny animation of your troops 
 fighting the other troops for the win. 
  After you take over your planet, don't expect much to happen.. Just build some more buildings and 
 move on.. You would think, people would riot on you, and you'd have to implement a new form of 
 government, lower taxes, and build militia to support your new planet?.. but nope.. No one cares.. 
 The AI is weak.. 
  
  Bottom line:
  
  I don't see why everyone is rating this so high? It's not better than MOO, and its no where near 
 advanved as many other strategy turn based games.. any of the CIV games are WAY more advanced. 
 I think people are HIGHLY desperate in search of a good space turn-based game. There hasn't been 
 anything on the market that has been really any good since MOO, and MOO3 was terrible.. So people 
 are CRAVING something so badly they have fallen victom rating poor design and lack of polish so 
 high. 
  
  My Advice: 
  
  Borrow a copy from a friend and get your fix or rent it.. I doubt you'll want to keep this one 
 around forever.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chokedoke
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i ripped it open as usual and started to install straight away it said 
 cd key optional now with me wanting to play the game as soon as it was great that i didnt have 
 to mess around with that right now its nice that a company finally puts a bit of trust into its 
 consumers rather than shoving crap loads of anti piracy which is alot like spy ware down our thoats. 
 Also you dont even need the cd to play is great i hate constantly swapping cds depending on what 
 game im playing so this is a massive bonus for me.
  
  Now on to the game when i first started i thought what the hell id start my own custom universe 
 as the humans and play on normal and see what happens. This may have been a mistake. First off 
 i was a little overwhelemed by the sheer amount of options i was assulted with, things that needed 
 doing each turn. Then when the tech tree came up i was a little astounded but ill talkabout that 
 later. Now the options there so much to do each turn you can sometimes forget things which can 
 be a hinderance, i also found the AI to be extremely competant while not looking like its cheating 
 it definatly did its job. It was great after a bit of exploration i came upon to races in a massive 
 war and both where asking me to help them and giving me gifts and stuff. Needless to say i was 
 a little mean and allied with the weaker destroyed there enemey then proceded to conqour my allies 
 which was great fun. During this i neglected one of my borders which was quickly overwhelemed and 
 i died as well. So if your careful the AI is fantastic but i would say try it on the easier levels 
 for your first game racking it up after you get used to the tech tree and get a few strats under 
 your belt.
  
  The Tech Tree
  This deserves a mention all on its own. Its massive if you even thought of just doing the whole 
 thing its not going to happen if you manage more than a third your doing well. So you really have 
 to plan out where you want to go in the early stages is war or diplomacy if its war then do you 
 concentrate on attack or defense if attack is it lasers, missiles, bullets do you want ground or 
 orbital attacks do you want well defended starbases or starbases that can kick ass. As you can 
 see there is so much choice that its very easy to get lost in. So you have to pick a path and stick 
 with it to the point you want to get to, then pick another point and head to towards that.
  
  Finally ive got to say that this game is great. Once you get used to all the options and the 
 tech tree you can move at a much more rapid pace. Two games are never the same. My first game i 
 went to war with everyone which was nice to be a complete badass but the next time round i was 
 all diplomatic which a totaly different experiance and one i would recommend to people.
  
  So if you put a bit of time into learning the game you wont regret it. I would put this game above 
 civ 4 put thats just me
  
  Chokedoke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M373ora_Fr34k
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Probably unlike many of the others who reviewed this game, I have never previously touched strategy 
 giants like Masters of Orion and Civilization. But these games have always piqued my interest, 
 so I decided to get Galactic Civ II. I did not regret it.
  
  From top to bottom, this game rocks. There are a few minor bugs, but otherwise Galactic Civ II 
 is highly polished. Here are the pros:
  
  -The graphics are among the best I've seen for a game of this type. The different races all have 
 a different look to them, and all of them are interesting.
  
  -Nothing is too simplistic. I've spent 20+ INTENSIVE hours on this game and I still haven't covered 
 all that it has to offer.
  
  -Competitive AI. If they beat you, it's because they were better, not because they cheated.
  
 
  -There are many different paths you can follow to win, not all of them aggressive. You can increase 
 how much your culture influences other races, crank up your diplomat skills to gain the advantage 
 against opponents through talk, or use research to become technologically superior.
  
  -Interstellar trade and an engaging AI really create a sense that you are a part of a galactic 
 community. 
  
  -The race you choose also affects how you play. You can even form custom races geared toward your 
 taste. This gives the game a lot of replayability.
  
  -Great sense of humor. Nerds rejoice, you will laugh at jokes that you wouldn't dare bring out 
 to your non-nerd friends.
  
  So with all that said, here are the cons:
  
  -Some bugs. But they are largely minor and do not really affect gameplay. Look for patches in the 
 near future that should fix them right up.
  
  -Utter lack of control during combat. It's all simulated. After games like Homeworld and Ground 
 Control, I can't help but wish that 4x strategy games would use some of their features. Oh well, 
 maybe next time.
  
  -No multiplayer. The developers have stated some reasons for not having it, and after playing through 
 the game I can sort of see why. If you go to the Stardock website though, they're apparently considering 
 adding multiplayer support in future updates. I can't speak for others, but personally I don't 
 see this as the type of game you'd play online anyway.
  
  -Steep learning curve. The manual is not really all that good; some computer gameplay tutorials 
 would have been helpful.
  
  Conclusion: Fun Fun Fun! An engrossing game with great graphics and an even better sense of humor. 
 And not expensive to buy either. Get your hands on this title now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinesneverun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I was so dismayed with Master of Orion III came out. I asked myself, "How could someone mess up 
 such a great game?". Well, I waited years for something to rival MOO2... Literally, I gave up hoping 
 and went on to other games such as ROME total war, Total Annihilation TAUCP v2.3, UTASP, and Age 
 of Empires. Nothing that was turned based could come close to the enjoyment of playing Master of 
 Orion 2. In fact, if I was the boss of the person who made up MOO3, I would have fired him on the 
 spot and asked if he was crazy for coming up with such a poor idea for MOO2.
  
  Then, Galactic Civilizations 2 came out... All my prayers were answered. This is truly the spiritual 
 successor of MOO2 right down to the planatary battles between ground forces. Yes, the graphics 
 and sound are a bit 90's, but who cares!? The core gameplay is very enjoyable and it is basically 
 a MOO2 engine with all the bells and whistles of refinement and ease of use. This game is great, 
 and definitely worth buying and playing. I only hope that they work on a more refined and polished 
 version with more alien races, tech, and more complex fleet battles with a Galactic Civ 3!!!!
 
  
  This is a MUST BUY game for fans of 4x, space sims, or empire junkies!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations II: Dread lords is a sci fi, turn based strategy game similar to master 
 of orion 2, civ iv , alpha centauri and so on, it features a singleplayer campaign and skirmish 
 mode but no multiplayer.
  
  The gameplay is good, but theres a few annoying things holding it back from being truly great, 
 ill start with the good, i like the sci fi setting, you can customise your own race and edit existing 
 ones before you play and as you play for you are presented with moral dilemmas such as allowing 
 dangerous research which could kill millions of your people for a significant research bonus continue, 
 or spend money to avoid it (neutral choice) or ban the research outright (good choice) .
  
  There are 4 different ways of achieving a victory, either through conquest , technological victory, 
 diplomatic victory or by an influence victory, were you control so much of the mpa and your influence 
 is spread sofar and wide that no one can hope to oppose you, whats fun about this is you can replay 
 a game and each path to victory creates a different style of playing for example be agressive conquering 
 all before you or maybe concentrate on keeping out of everyones way putting everything you can 
 into research.
  
  Also the technology tree is very very vast and it makes more sense to specialise in one area of 
 offense (there are three types, mass driver weapons , lasers or missiles) but make no mistake the 
 AI can adapt to your changes which leads me onto Gal Civ's strongest element.
  
  The AI is one of the best in a game, on challenging it doesnt cheat but adapts quickly to the players 
 strategy, for example if your designing ships with mass driver weapons the AI will specialise in 
 armour to negate your ships offensive capabilities also it will warn you not to move your ships 
 near its borders because it'll know you amassing for an invasion, or it may react and simply destroy 
 you before your forcea re ready to invade!
  
  The ship designer is also another strong addition to Galactic Civilizations II, you can design 
 any number of ships, and upgrade them as you advance , you can then see your unique creations represented 
 on the map as youve made them and watch them fight in a all new 3D battle sequence which is optional.
 
  
  Another thing i like which has taken a page out of master of orions book is planetary invasion, 
 you watch your troops slug it out however you can choose to bolster your advantage usually to a 
 detrimental effect on the planet such as utilizing 'core detonation' to blow up a part of the planet 
 reducing the enemies advantage.
  
  The downsides to galactic civ 2 for me where:
  The colony rush at the beginning, its fun in most games but the AI rushes much quicker than the 
 player to get to those hospitable planets .
  
  On skirmish games you cant preview a random map so often you can generate a map to find all the 
 opponents grouped together so you cant really expand at all.
  
  Also there is no singleplayer record so if you win a game you'll get your score but cant find it 
 after you exit the summary!
  
  Also you cant have your own custom music, i believe your suppose to but stardock didnt put it in 
 but may remedy this.
  
  AI tech trading can also get out of hand, with every race seemingly researching a technology then 
 automatically giving it to everyone but you, so dont be surprised if your bottom of the technology 
 rating!
  
  Also the UN voting in the game is totally random, you have no dictation on the voting subject.
 
  
  Whilst there are minor races they use recycled images, so the jessians and other races might look 
 the same but have a different skin tone.
  
  There are also lots of useless planets in a game and it would have been nice for the techonolgy 
 'terraform' to be used on them but it changes a inhospitable tile on a planet into one where you 
 can build upon.
  
  Also whilst the random events are a nice touch there is one particularly evil random event which 
 automatically plunges you into a war , it could be with the civilization who a turn ago gave you 
 tribute and wanted an alliance but bam! your at war it makes no sense and upsets the fragile balance 
 during a game..
  The campaign is lame, some missions are very easy and some are really difficult but it is very 
 tedious having to go research each technology over and over again !
  
  When you invade other planets theres also a rather weak advantage button where theres a number 
 which is quickly changing and if your lucky and press the button at the right moment your advantage 
 will be higher and the animation screen for planetary combat is pretty bad.
  
  Also whilst the tech tree is very big the technology name's are pretty boring, lasers I, lasers 
 II, lasers III etc and whilst the text can be funny sometimes, but its abit too much to have W00t 
 in the techonolgy description.
  
  Probably the most annoying thing for me was that, this game doesnt have a territory system in the 
 same way that most strategy games do, you only own the territory that consists of the planet you 
 own SO a alien race could have hundreds of little ships in your sphere of influence and you cant 
 ask them to leave but the AI will complain to you about having ships in its territory, you do get 
 people on the forums saying this is a unique thing to galactic civ 2 and a good touch because in 
 space territory wouldnt matter as much as in a country on earth BUT there has to be a line drawn 
 somewhere when a alien race can just throw down a influence star base next to your homeworld and 
 not ask them to remove it, it only leaves you with two options, do the same to them or just destroy 
 it.
  
  The graphics of the game I think are good, the map is in 3d you can zoom in and admire the detail 
 on your designed star ships, see the planets with their moons orbiting .
  Also your ships fight in new 3D engine but you cant control them, this is strictly a strategic 
 affair and sequence, the ships look good but they move awkwardly and the weapons fired dont always 
 seem to hit just disappear,,, also the ground combat animation is pretty bad aswell.
  Having said that, the diplomatic views of the various species look very good and some of the movie 
 sequences also.
  
  Sound is ok, the music definitely fits the atmosphere of the game however there just doesnt seem 
 to be enough music tracks and it would have been a good addition to have a custom music option 
 such as in Civ IV.
  
  Value, well its only been out a little while and already the guys at Star Dock have brought out 
 two patches and are planning to do regular updates not just fixing existing problems but adding 
 new content, they listen to fans and implement changes and new additions, also they have decided 
 not to include any CD protection so you can install the game on the machines you own at home with 
 no hassle but you need a legitimate cd key to download the new optional patches. The game itself 
 can last a very long time certainly a few days on a Huge map with challenging AI opponents, not 
 only that but like most strategy games you'll just want to play again on different maps and settings 
 and there are quite a few Scenarios to choose from too aswell as a random galaxy. One thing i can 
 think of to damage value would be the exclusion of multiplayer.
  
  Overall id say Galactic Civ 2 is agood game, but the bad points stop it from being 'very' good 
 or great, and if you like games like birth of the federation, alpha centauri , civ IV or Master 
 of Orion 2 then Id recommend giving this game a try it can be fun but probably wont keep you entertained 
 as those previously stated titles did.. no way did it deserve a score above 8.0.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepanda001
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  this is the first time playing Galactic Civ II, it is very classic looking, no fancy graphic with 
 nice simple interface. Just look at the interface, I know it is a classic RTS game Unlike LORT, 
 this game do not require good graphic card to playing it or take a realllllly long time to loading 
 the game if you have not so good computer. 
  
  From this game, I can feel the old ways about Starcraft playing. Besides, design ships and almost 
 every elements of this game can be adjust according to the player's personality. so u can be brutal 
 to your people, always goes to war and looking for territory expansion. Or nice to your people 
 and keeping peace by building a very strong economic and social essential fundation. Or perhaps 
 you can balance the social and war. It all depend on your decision. So great game after all. I 
 would stronlgy recommable RTS fans to play this game. 
  
  It is a liitle rough to start the game if you have beginner like me, so don't forget to go to the 
 game homepage and check out other players feedback. 
  
  For ship design, here is a very good dis section that post on the game website that I had looking 
 at. http://forums. galciv2. com/? ForumID=162&AID=104951 
  Trust me, you will enjoy some the designs the experts made already. 
  
  In the end, Classic 
 RTS, modern graphic and innovative gameplay = GREAT RTS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutisticAngel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  When the original Galactic Civilizations was finishing up its production in early 2003, the development 
 team at Stardock was so concerned that their fresh new product would be buried beneath the hype 
 surrounding Master of Orion III that they voluntarily decided to delay the release of their finished 
 product for a full month. They hoped this strategy would help distinguish their fledgling game 
 from the hotly anticipated return of a cherished series. It worked, though not quite the way they 
 expected: once strategy fans had gotten a taste of the cripplingly bad design of MOO3 and uninstalled 
 the unplayable mess from their hard drives, they looked around and discovered the surprisingly 
 deep and enjoyable game Stardock built. Now, three years later, the Galactic Civilizations franchise 
 returns with a sequel which is bigger, deeper, smarter, and even better than the original.
  
  For the uninitiated, Galactic Civilizations II: The Dread Lords can best be thought of as a 
 game of Sid Meiers Civilization set in outer space. A typical game will start players out with 
 a partially developed homeworld, a survey ship for scouting out nearby star systems, and a colony 
 ship for staking claim to any habitable worlds it might discover. The goal, ultimately, to find 
 a mixture of military might, scientific research, and diplomatic prowess to establish dominion 
 over the entire galaxy, but considering that some of the larger maps can include hundreds of planets, 
 up to nine other major species, and a several more minor ones, theres a long way to go.
  
  One of the most welcome and entertaining things about GalCiv2 is incredible freedom of choice it 
 allows. From small, densely packed galaxies to gigantic maps featuring vast distances between habitable 
 planets, from bitter one-on-one battles against a single AI to diversely populated games with a 
 fluid diplomatic landscape, the player enjoys a wealth of options to make every match a very different 
 experience from the ones before.
  
  Unlike the original Galactic Civilizations, the sequel allows the player to choose any of the games 
 preexisting races, or to create one entirely from scratch. Each race features a variety of different 
 racial bonuses which can improve their combat skills, domestic income, cultural output, research 
 abilities, and many more. None of these choices ever preclude a specific strategy  nothing prevents 
 a species with powerful militaristic bonuses from solving a border dispute through diplomacy  
 but they can greatly improve the potency of certain techniques. To further customize the look and 
 feel of their civilization, players can even specify the color scheme and base architecture of 
 their starting spacecraft.
  
  Starting spacecraft should be stressed because, once the game begins, players have access to 
 perhaps the most versatile and intuitive ship design tools ever featured in any game. Starting 
 with a basic hull, players have complete freedom to physically design literally any craft imaginable 
 by placing every hull extension, every antennae, and every support strut in any way they like. 
 Many of these components exist purely for aesthetic purposes and are completely optional, but this 
 system also allows the addition of any available engines, weapons, sensor arrays, and defensive 
 countermeasures to dictate the vessels performance and final cost. This flexible system not only 
 allows players the chance to personally create ships to suit their civilizations needs, it allows 
 the chance to completely customize the look and feel of a race to match their play style.
  
  Ship design is also a vital part of military strategy thanks to the relationship between the 
 games three main lines of weapons and defenses. Laser, mass driver, and missile technologies each 
 represent separate research paths on the technology tree, as do their respective countermeasures: 
 shields, armor, and point-defense systems. Phasors, for example, are unaffected by point defenses 
 and will cut right through armor plating, but can be weakened or even completely nullified by an 
 adequate deflector system. In practice, this rock-paper-scissors relationship requires warring 
 factions to constantly evaluate their enemies strengths and weaknesses and to refit their ships 
 accordingly. Since individual ships gain experience in combat to become more lethal, taking the 
 time to refit their hulls with new and different technologies can be a potent tactic.
  
  Ship components are only one aspect of a massive technology tree that includes all manner of enhancements 
 for a civilization. At the start of a game, colonies are restricted to a small handful of basic 
 factories, research labs, and farms to help them grow, but as new scientific innovations are uncovered, 
 inhabited planets can start building increasingly powerful structures. Most such improvements enhance 
 the planet theyre built on, but certain Galactic Wonders and valuable trade goods will benefit 
 the entire civilization that owns them. Many technologies also yield civilization-wide bonuses, 
 like Planetary Improvements which gives a permanent boost to an empires social and military production, 
 or Basic Miniaturization which allows more components to be fit onto a ships hull. 
  
  Research projects, colonial construction, and ship production all costs money, so a civilization 
 can thrive or wither depending on how much they have to spend. The majority of this funding in 
 the early game will come from taxing the planetside population, but as players climb the technology 
 tree, theyll be able to start financing their endeavors by attracting tourists from alien cultures, 
 selling technology and ships to allies, and sending freighters out to establish lucrative trade 
 routes with distant planets. These trade routes can be vulnerable to attack by enemy civilizations 
 and roving space pirates who may appear in the game, but the money they generate each turn combined 
 with the positive diplomatic affect it has on a neighboring civilization makes them well worth 
 the effort to protect.
  
  Trade routes and colonies can also be significantly augmented through the construction of starbases. 
 Basic starbases can be built almost anywhere on the galactic map where, at first, theyll be weak 
 and vulnerable to attack. However, by sending additional Constructor ships to upgrade the base 
 with additional modules, starbases can grow into incredibly powerful weapon platforms, profitable 
 trading outposts and production centers, or great monuments of interspecies diplomacy. Starbases 
 can also be deployed on special galactic resources found scattered randomly around the map, turning 
 into mining platforms which can produce significant bonuses for the faction that owns them. Critics 
 of space strategy games often complain that outer space lacks the interesting and varied terrain 
 of a game like Civilization 4, but as a game of GalCiv2 matures, heavily developed starbases can 
 alter the shape of the galactic map so dramatically that a sort of terrain starts to naturally 
 emerge.
  
  For the myriad of different choices it offers and the complexity of managing a civilization spread 
 across two dozen star systems, a special nod must be given to GalCiv2s interface for the way it 
 cleanly and concisely offers up all the information a player could possibly need. Colonies can 
 be viewed individually in great detail, or organized into lists which can be sorted by a wide variety 
 of different criteria. Using the Civilization Manager menus, players can easily issue new production 
 orders to a score of colonies and new navigational coordinates to a hundred different ships in 
 only a few clicks of the mouse. Ironically, the games interface does suffer from some odd quirks 
 when it comes to working with individual ships: its often impossible to order a ship to be refitted 
 unless its the only unit in its square at the time, and launching a ship from planetary orbit 
 will sometimes inexplicably cause that planets starport to cease production. During especially 
 eventful turns, menus dont always appear in their proper order, causing some confusion over which 
 planetary map the player is actually interacting with at that moment. These flaws can be annoying, 
 but there are ways to work around them so they rarely do much to affect the flow of a game.
  
  Slightly more troubling are the games seemingly random stability problems. GalCiv2 will sometimes 
 operate flawlessly for several hours at a time (yes, its that addictive) , while other times it 
 will suddenly dump out to the desktop for no apparent reason. AMDs 64-bit dual-core processors 
 seem especially hard hit with these sorts of problems, though many players have reported good results 
 from upgrading their motherboard drivers and uninstalling the game so they can reinstall straight 
 to the most current patch. These problems seem to be increasingly rare as new patches are released, 
 but its a real testament to the strength of the GalCiv2s design that even at their absolute worst, 
 the game is still a blast to play.
  
  One element which has gotten even stronger through post-release patches is the games phenomenal 
 artificial intelligence. When starting a game, players can select from nine distinct difficulty 
 levels which are applied to every other race in the game, or even set the difficulty level of each 
 AI player individually as desired. These levels range from Foolish where the AI will frequently 
 make newbie mistakes, up to Normal where it will play sensibly and actively seek to prey on the 
 weaknesses of other players, and finally to Incredible where it will aggressively micromanage its 
 colonies and identify ways to counter the players strategies. AI players do not seem to treat 
 the player much differently than they do each other, frequently going to war or establishing alliances 
 with each other in ways that feel seem very natural and organic in the context of the game. They 
 do possess one odd habit, though: AI civilizations often trade technologies among each other so 
 freely that its rare to see one of them pull much ahead of the others in the research tree. Regardless, 
 the sheer depth of choice in configuring the other players ensures that gamers of all skill levels 
 can find a suitable challenge.
  
  Graphically, the game sports the same clean, sharp look that graces its menu interface. Closer 
 zoom levels show the game map in full 3D, complete with stars casting directional light against 
 nearby spacecraft and moons drifting through the shadow cast by their planets. It all looks very 
 nice, but more important is the way each colonized planet sports a series of simple icons to tell 
 the player at a glance what the colony is doing. This map can also be zoomed out to the point where 
 every object is replaced by a surprisingly intuitive 2D icon to offer an easy overview of several 
 sectors, or even the entire map.
  
  Most ship combat plays out on the main galaxy map in a manner identical to the Civilization games: 
 the two vessels briefly exchange a flash of weapons fire, and the loser is destroyed. However, 
 when two fleets engage each other, the game zooms into an optional minimap where players can watch 
 the entire battle from beginning to end. Players expecting an experience similar to the space battles 
 from Star Wars: Empire at War will be sorely disappointed as these engagements are entirely non-interactive 
 and, while not unattractive, look little better than 2001s Homeworld. Few players will want to 
 pass up the chance to see their carefully crafted ship designs in action, but those who do will 
 discover that these sequences can be skipped or even disabled entirely.
  
  The audio in GalCiv2 strives to be minimalist and unobtrusive, and it succeeds. This is the sort 
 of game which is just as easily played through tinny laptop speakers as through a 5.1 speaker setup: 
 interface buttons chirp and ships explode and ground troops fire little lasers at each other, but 
 the games audio is ultimately only noteworthy for not being annoying. There is no speech in the 
 game, with one major exception: GalCiv2 features a full set of narrated video tutorials to help 
 explain different major aspects of the game. These tutorials are extremely helpful for learning 
 the basic mechanics of the game, but in the end, gamers may find themselves turning to their music 
 collection or television sets as they play.
  
  In the end, gamers still waiting for a true heir to their beloved Master of Orion II should rejoice. 
 Perhaps the highest compliment that can be paid to Galactic Civilizations II is to acknowledge 
 that in every conceivable way it is the exact opposite of Master of Orion III. This is not only 
 a game for existing turn-based strategy fans, but a phenomenal introduction for anyone whos ever 
 been interested in the genre. For its simple interface, incredible depth of strategy, mammoth scope, 
 and almost dangerously addictive gameplay, this is the title against which all future space strategy 
 games will be measured for a great many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Okay, so in case you don't know, here are the basic mechanics of how GalCiv2 plays:
  
  You pick to control one of a variety of intersteller races, or create one of your own. You then 
 pick how many you'll face against, and generate a random galaxy for you to attempt to conquer in 
 one of four ways; By total military conquest, complete cultural domination, Acheiving peacful diplomatic 
 agreements with and between all surviving races, or by researching all of the technology in the 
 games tech tree. Of course, you can also choose which winning methods are allowed, to fit your 
 style of play.
  
  Through the game, you control a federation of planets and ships, in much the same way you'd lead 
 your civilization to victory in one of the Civ games, only rather then fighting for supremacy on 
 one planet, you've got a whole galaxy to fight over.
  
  You can only live on some of the planets, of course, because not all of them have suitible living 
 conditions. Starting colonies on planets with harsh ecosystems leads to less productive and less 
 happy planets, but ultimately contributes to your races miliatry and social influence. To aide 
 in your colonization of planets, you can also build starbases, that can serve one of four purposes; 
 a military outpost, a social establishment to spread your cultural influence, an economical aide 
 center to increase revenues on trade and help with build efficiency, or a mining station, which 
 can only be built on one of the variety of resources that scatter the maps.
  
  Of course, through the game, you'll be researching new technologies, having diplomatic conversations 
 with the other races, and building up new vessels to explore, settle, defend, and conquer as much 
 of the galaxy as you can. One of the coolest features of GalCiv2 is the fact that you get to design 
 your space vessels, down to some of the most miniscule details if you so wish.
  
  Now, its time for me to point out my favorite features.
  
  1 - As i just mentioned two lines 
 ago, you have complete control over the design of your ships. Well, nearly - you're given about 
 a dozen base models that you can then add as many parts onto as you wish to alter the apperance 
 and styling of the ship, as well as a restricted number of functional add ons, such as weapons, 
 shields, engines, and troop transports. This doesnt mean you are forced to make your own ships, 
 no, when you research new technologies you'll generally unlock more predesigned ships that will 
 do what you need, but in some cases, you might want to build a custom ship to fight off a specific 
 threat.
  
  For instance, say your at war with one race. Generally speaking, each race emphasized their military 
 research onto one of the three types of weapons. If your general ships cant hold up to attacks 
 from their ships, you might want to consider building a ship specifically designed with extra defenses 
 against their preferred weapon type, say, more shields to fight off races that like to use laser 
 based weapons, or more armor plating for races using photon torpedoes.
  
  2 - This time around, you can play as any race, not just the Earthlings / Terrans, and can even 
 create your own. Although there arent many avatars to choose from, that becomes ultimately unimportant 
 because you'll never see your own avatar anyway. You do get to pick from a wide variety of logos 
 that will be bannered onto all of your planets, and you can pick literally any color to be painted 
 on your ships and signifiy your borders, a very cool touch. Customization of your race goes pretty 
 deep this time around, letting you pick from dozens of innate abilities that will give your race 
 the edge in the areas you've applied your bonus points to, as well as being able to customize your 
 pre-researched technologies.
  
  3 - Whoa, the graphics man! Sure, they really arent much compaired to a good number of current 
 games out there, but they are a definate improvement over the first GalCiv. Planets are actually 
 seen in orbit around the star they belong to, fully detailed with cloud movements and such that 
 can be seen even when fairly far zoomed out. The background is well done, with stars of varying 
 distance, as well as nebulae, to give a little something extra for you to look at. (But that can 
 also be disabled if you feel they are unecessary.)
  
  Now its time for my nitpicks.
  
  1 - You can no longer pick the ethical bias of the opposing races before the game starts, as you 
 could in GalCiv1. Previously, you could choose Pure Evil, Evil, Neutral, Good, and Pure Good for 
 any of the races - now they are all predefined, although im not entirely sure by what, because 
 the game doesnt show you anymore at the pre-launch screen like it previously did. It might be that 
 its different every time, based on their in game actions, but i dont think the game is quite so 
 deep as for that to be why.
  
  2 - You can no longer turn minor races off before starting the game. (Minor races are races that 
 start off with one planet and no means of getting off of them, and tend to not colonize any planet 
 other then their home one, but who often put a good amount of their resources into maintaing a 
 strong military, and that will occasionally start trouble with some of the larger races, but are 
 mostly just there to be crushed and conquered.)
  
  3 - The game can start off painfully slow. Typically though, turn based games have similar problems, 
 so GalCiv2 doesnt loose any major points for this. The same goes for the end game of larger maps 
 requiring extremely long turns - because its a common problem in all turn based strategy games, 
 im just mentioning it to remind everyone that the little quibble is still present, but im not going 
 to be too mad about it, to tell the truth, it doesnt bother me all that much.
  
  All in all, GalCiv2 is a great turn based strategy game. Its nice and complex, without becoming 
 too complicated to manage. If your new to the genre, you can still have plenty of fun by simply 
 letting the computer manage some of the more intricate details, or simply leaving them alone - 
 you can win pretty easy on the first two modes without doing much custom management.
  
  This is one of those games that just about anyone can get into, and strategy buffs will certainly 
 love it. Its certainly worth the price for just about anyone looking for a fun, relaxing game that 
 can be played time and time again, and will always fit your playing style because of how deep and 
 open ended most of the game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M__N__M
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I was expecting a huge difference, I liked the first galactic civ so much 
 and had high hopes. But I was significantly disappointed when I tried the game. The gameplay was 
 EXACTLY the same, usually with a sequel it should change somewhat. Aside from the ability to create 
 your own ships and place your own buildings in a planet, there wasn't much new with the game. The 
 gameplay was pretty much the same as galactic civ 1 with minor differences. Same buildings, mostly 
 same research tree, pretty much the same gameplay options & strategies to win.
  And to complicate things furthermore, the retail version is bug-ridden. Some bugs can disable your 
 ability to play the game, while others are just too annoying and spoil all the fun. It crashed 
 on several occasions too, specially when quick saving which killed me.
  However, the great guys over at stardock have a great customer support system, there is a patch 
 already out that resolves a good amount of these issues. And they're working on trying to fix the 
 rest. They responded & continue to respond to many of the suggestions & issues posted on their 
 forums which is something uncommon in game company history. A BIG KUDOS on that. They actually 
 care about the game and game development unlike many of today's companies.
  
  Don't get me wrong though, while I did say the gameplay hasn't changed much the game has, there 
 has been significant changes so lets discuss the difference between galactic civ 1 and 2.
  
  1) The class of each planet now represents the number of building slots you can build, which 
 means you can no longer build anything anytime as opposed to the gal civ. 1. This is somewhat reasonable 
 but now you have to micromanage your available build slots so as not to waste them. The good news 
 is, some slots have bonuses to certain types of buildings which really enhance your abilities early 
 on.
  
  2) The graphics are significantly improved, the world is now 3d as opposed to the 2d map in the 
 earlier game. Allows you to zoom in on the planet, or zoom out to see the whole galaxy which is 
 a very nice feature. However, it still falls abit short of "today's standards". But then strategy 
 games don't need much graphical power to make them great, but it would've been nice to see more 
 particle effects for weapons and engines, more 3d looking environment, a better looking background 
 then black.... basically more eye candy.
  
  3) Attack & defence factors are now split into 3 types, beam weapons, missile weapons, and mass 
 drivers (guns & cannons) . This adds more depth to the gameplay and can make for more enjoyment 
 of the game and its strategic elements. But can be sometimes annoying, specially in the campaign 
 mode, when you're faced with an enemy that has FAR MORE superior weapons then yours. And you don't 
 even have the research topics to build defensive measures against them. But I'll talk more on that 
 at the end.
  
  4) Starbases are now split into different types. You can no longer build everything on a star base 
 which is somewhat annoying. You can't build a starbase to enhance your planet's productivity and 
 add military modules to help enhance ship combat at the same time. You have to build 2 separate 
 bases, one for military purposes and one for economic purposes. You can however add defensive modules 
 for the protection of the base which is a relief.
  
  5) The ship designer, thats by far the best new addition to the game. It allows you to build your 
 own ship designs, allowing for both creative gameplay and practical gameplay. You can either design 
 works of art to fight with and get the most out of your ships, or quickly adapt to the enemies 
 tactics and weapons by deploying your own breed of ships that are properly armed to deal with that 
 enemy. The designer is very rich, its basically as if they merged the game editor with the game.
 
  
  All in all, a very nice package. It took me sometime to learn and get used to all the new features. 
 For those who never played the first game, there is a great set of tutorials that pretty much teach 
 you all the basics you need. You'll still need sometime to get accustomed to the game. But there 
 is just one thing I left out, the singleplayer campaign mode. Here is one word to describe it.......... 
 AAARRGGHH..... . 
  
  The first few missions start of relatively simple and aren't too boring. But once you get to meet 
 the dread lords, the game enjoyment levels takes a huge dive down. 
  You're basically confronted with near-impossible odds, even at the easiest settings. While you 
 get a headstart at the beginning with everyone is building up. The dread lords can quickly turn 
 the game into a hopeless fight for survival within a few turns, in one mission, no matter how hard 
 you try there is just no way to beat the enemy. 
  The longer you keep them alive the more threat they become as their home bases churn out more and 
 more ships at rapid rates that can take down your whole fleet single handedly. While the strategy 
 to conquer them early on before they become more dangerous sounds reasonable, you don't even start 
 with enough technology to put a dent into their early ship's hulls. Early on their ships usually 
 lay havoc to anything that moves turning your planets into undefended sitting ducks. They can conquer 
 your worlds pretty easily and turn them into ship churners with only 10 million soldiers, compared 
 to the billions usually housed in the planet. Although the campaign mode gives you several allies, 
 they hardly put a dent into the war effort in those early missions since they too don't have enough 
 weaponry. They end up begging you for help every few turns which you rarely would be able to spare 
 anyways. 
  And furthermore, several research lines are disabled in the game. Specifically those that enable 
 you to build their type of weapons and defences to combat those weapons. Which leaves you pretty 
 much in a bad situation. You're only hope early on is to try to drown them with as much 1-strike 
 ships as possible, your ships rarely ever get to have a 2nd strike as they usually get destroyed 
 in each encounter. So ships custom designed with alot of weapons can help make a dent in the war 
 effort, although that strategy ends up most of the times beefing up their ships as they advance 
 in level of experience with each ship destroyed.
  The only strategy I found successful was to attempt to stay alive and keep your economy and research 
 going while your at their mercy until you're able to research large ships and weapons with a damage 
 rating of 2 or more. But that takes a HUGE amount of time, and those new ship designs aren't up 
 to any dread lord ship in a fight on their own. You have to drown them with numbers, group your 
 ships in fleets for fleet bonuses and attack. Casualties are usually extremely high with any encounter 
 with a dread lord ship. Thankfully, they don't seem to group their ships in a fleet which is great 
 as I wouldn't imagine how it can work out if they did.
  
  But after you pass those critical 2 or 3 missions the game goes back to normal and you can combat 
 enemies more to your level. Anyways, thats the end of my review (and rant) . Hope it has been helpful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I love turn based strategy, may the genre never die! This is my first experience with Galatci CIV. 
 I only got it because its supposed to be the true Master of Orion. After I got this game with great 
 anticipation, my first experience with the first hour was very disappointing. I found it a bit 
 boring, and I was very disappointed that you couldn't direct the ship battles yourself (comparing 
 it to MOO) . But that's because its a different game than MOO, and than CIV, and it's improved on 
 both (obviously not in terms of graphics, when compared to CIV) . My problem initially was the learning 
 curve. The way that the resources work, and their allocation to shields, research etc. is different 
 than other strategy games (I still haven't figured out how to pump up my influence too well) . Once 
 I figured this out, the game became very enjoyable. What is much BETTER done in this game than 
 CIV, is that the tech tree is VERY well thought out. My problem with CIV, is that you always end 
 up researching everything. And you practically never have any kind of unique or superior units 
 to anyone else for very long, and whatever army you build will be obsolete before you get a chance 
 to use it. Not so in Galactic CIV. You will NEVER research everything (not in a standard game) , 
 and you will HAVE to build uniquely, and you will definitely have either a big advantage or disadvantage 
 depending on how your opponents have built. 
  
  The game is very playable, very enjoyable, but still has bugs. The good news is that it has updater 
 built in, and they are putting updates out fast. So, if you're reading this trying to decide whether 
 to buy this, go and do so immediately. You'll love this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seteger
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  
  I don't come to Galactic Civilizations II as an experience 4X player. I have heard of Orion, but 
 I never played it. I never played Galactic Civilizations I, either. I've dabbled with the occasional 
 RTS at most, so my perspective is a little more distant than the average reviewer.
  
  First off, this game has a huge heart. The way races react and communicate and the way various 
 events and research items are described are charming, sometimes hilarious. It's also easy to love 
 all the customized features, especially ship design, which takes some patience, but is very gratifying.
 
  
  Second, this is absolutely an addictive game. "Just one more turn, wait, one more, ok, just ONE 
 more . . ." will eat up an hour or two more than you intended to play. Each game feels unique, 
 and you have to shift your strategy on the fly, responding to your resources and how other races 
 are excelling. As a casual, fun game, I would rate this pretty high.
  
  But let's hang on a second with this talk of "masterpiece" and "brilliant." The game has some serious 
 flaws and limitations. These don't ruin the game, but they temper my judgement about how good it 
 is.
  
  For instance, it's still buggy. The game has crashed on me twice, and my virus software warns me 
 of a "suspicious script" in the exe file everytime I play. I've visited the main forum sticky for 
 assistance, I've tried what they suggest, but it's still a little unstable.
  
  The graphics and cut-scenes are NOT that great. I don't know why people are raving about them -- what 
 games have they been playing? They're ok, merely all right. (You don't play a game like this for 
 the graphics anyway, really.)
  
  Other little things sober the experience: the game is very text heavy; the research tree, though 
 complex and varied, still leads to repetitive lines of strategy (which can be said of virtually 
 any strategy gane, but still) ; and turn-based games are very old school. Seeing a battle acted 
 out isn't very compelling, and the graphics for these land and space battles are pretty weak. 
 
  
  This doesn't mean the game is bad; just have more realistic expectations. When I read gamespot's 
 9.0 and then a dozen 9.5s and higher among the top-rated user reviews, I expected more than I got. 
 Instead, know that if you enjoy strategy games in general and are in the mood for a more fun-loving, 
 even-paced experience, this is a good choice. Otherwise, pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  My first session of Galactic Civilizations 2 lasted six hours. That alone should tell you how truly 
 addictive this game is. I only pulled myself away because I had to get sleep so I could go to work 
 the next day.
  
  In the spirit of Masters of Orion, GC2 gives you the opportunity to take control of a galaxy-spanning 
 empire. But unlike most games which focus on military conquest, MC2 gives you amazing latitude 
 in how you'll go about building your empire. My first session didn't require the use of my military 
 at all. Of course, I also had my ass handed to me.
  
  The AI in MC2 is simply diabolical. But, like noted in the Gamespot review, I never felt that the 
 game was cheating on me. On the medium difficulty levels, I was barely holding my own against the 
 game's AI. My one session on the highest difficulty level didn't last long. I was soundly defeated. 
 On the easier levels, the game is far more leisurely. But even there the game offers some challenges 
 to work through. Players of all experience levels will find that MC2 has what it takes to keep 
 you on your toes.
  
  The game uses standard conventions for turn based games -- planets have a set number of slots for 
 buildings to be built based on local geography. You build your colony ships and send them out to 
 neighboring planets. Like in the recent Civ games, there is a sphere of cultural influence which 
 expands as you build cultural power, which can allow you to take over planets in civilizations 
 with weaker culture. The economics are relatively simplistic, but with all the other details you'll 
 be dealing with, it was the right balance.
  
  Indeed, that seems to be what this game gets right -- culture, espionage, military, economy, research, 
 building. No matter what you're doing, the game balances them all very well. You never feel like 
 one is taking center stage, and you feel like your decisions in each area actually have a significant 
 impact on the direction your civ is taking.
  
  What really blew my mind, though, was the amount of customization. Build your own civilization 
 like you'd build a character in an RPG if you like -- there are tons of options which make a huge 
 impact on your gameplay. You can emphasize pretty much whatever you like (I liked economics and 
 research, so I could tailor the civ to my play style) . But the real customization comes in building 
 ships. It's impossible to describe the number of options available. Not only do you choose what 
 functional parts to use (engines, weapons, sensors) but you can, if you like, build the ship from 
 scratch to look exactly how you want it to look. It was easy to get sidetracked spending twenty 
 minutes designing your ships. Normally that might distract from the gameplay, but the moment you 
 see your ship go into battle, using the weapons configuration you designed, every minute is worth 
 it.
  
  Graphically, the game was stunning. It ran natively widescreen, which was nice on my 1680x1050 
 screen. You could zoom in and look at individual planets and ships, or back to view the whole galaxy. 
 Planets looked wonderful zoomed in. I only wish that these games made the universe feel more real -- the 
 planets are still cartoon planets, and the ships -- while done in three dimensions -- still feel like 
 placeholders rather than real ships. In that way, the game feels more like a board game than a 
 real galactic civilization. But then, that's how these games (LIke MOO and Civ before it) have always 
 looked. MC2 does it beautifully, though.
  
  The sound was just adequate, though, with its music fitting but a bit tedious, and no real voice 
 acting.
  
  Glowing review so far -- but there are a few problems. Ships do not always go where you want them 
 to. Sometimes they get lost, hung up, or just stop, even though they haven't reached their destination. 
 So sometimes you've got to micromanage them. It wouldn't be a problem if there was an easy way 
 to find your ships on the map, but it's not always so easy. The game also misses some opportunities 
 to make it easier to find the control you're looking for. The map shows a lot of useful information, 
 but gets cluttered. You have some control over what is shown, but it seems like it could have been 
 streamlined. 
  
  But these are minor quibbles, really. My only wish for this genre is that it try a bit harder to 
 look more "real" in its presentation, rather than representational and cartoonish. Other than that, 
 MC2 is about the best space civ game out there. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  Very addictive, it will keep you making those turns even past your bed-time. This game is superb, 
 the best strategy game I've played so far. It's like civilizations but put in space. The manual 
 may not be so informative for new beginners, and it lacks the multiplayer, but once you got your 
 hand on the basics, it sure is worth every penny you spent and more. The game is completely modable 
 and it doesn't need serial numbers or discs to play.
  There just isnt time to explain how much this game offers, Ill rather play it and enjoy it for 
 a long time to come. 
  Right now Im about this close to conquer the entire Drengi Empire, no wait!!! 
  
  Damn.... 
 those Drengi.. gotta go!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezst_lv
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite games of all time is Master of Orion and Master of Orion 2. MOO 3 was a decent 
 game but went in a different direction than 1 & 2. This game takes the best elements of MOO 2 and 
 gives you a whole new set of tech to follow. The races are a bit more diverse and the custom race 
 gives you a lot of options so that the game doesn't get stale. You can win 4 different ways and 
 there are many different choices to make that give you bonuses or negatives to your racial abilities. 
 Needless to say this game takes me back to a better time for turn based strategy games, but gives 
 a new modern flair that will keep you coming back and playing the game. This is an easy choice 
 for the hall of fame like Civilization, Master of Orion and Alpha Centauri. --EW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kru_jnk_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Turn based games always had appeal to me since Alpha Centauri, Civ, and Master of Orion. But the 
 long absence of anything spectacular the past few years made me think the genre was dead. Till 
 this game warped in last week of course...
  
  At last! a game I can spend hours playing again and again, even if you are not a fan, you really 
 should try this game out. The replayability is awesome as the strategy is deep and challenging. 
 You have multple ways to win, by crushing other races to colonizing every planet available. You 
 also have the option to customize your fleet, pick which armor and weapons you want on it.
  
  The tech tree offers lots of choices too, although the names could be improved (laser 1   laser 
 II   laser III...) , the descrption could also use a little more information, and the tech trees 
 should benefit one another in certain ways.
  
  The interface is neat, information you need can be brought right up with just a few clicks, graphics 
 are a nice upgrade, it wont impress any FPS fan, but for a 4x game, its pretty good.
  
  The sounds in the game is classic, really brings out the space in you.
  
  All in all, the game 
 is worth the wait... another great game for gamers like us.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godless_moron
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  The first Gal Civ was a tremendous game. The constant upgrades by the developer was greatly appreciated. 
 I was concerned that this would be all flash and no substance with the graphics improvements and 
 I was concerned that the changes that force you to specialize would cramp my style. The first game 
 you play is not that great because you need to learn what is really happening. After that is is 
 a very deep game. 
  
  I would rate right there with Civ 4 which I consider one of the greatest. The difference is that 
 Gal Civ 2 is actually a bit simpler, but somehow seems deeper. Besides, you can get to build the 
 biggest baddest mother honking ship and blow the anti matter out the alien scum who do not bow 
 down to ytou as a god and lick your boots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I was very happy to have purchased this game! Its not often I get a game I can play well out of 
 the box. Its a very quick learning curve to be up and playing this game, but there are a ton of 
 features you'll be using as you become more familure with the game.
  
  You can also download the game from thier web site if you dont want to leave the house. Im a big 
 fan of not leaving the house :)
  
  The tutuorial is very informational. Its a series of videos showing you how to play. 
  
  Game 
 play can be edited to your tastes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakupacal
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Like most strategy buffs, I immediately snagged Civ IV when it arrived but was somewhat disappointed 
 by the predictable end-game and the unrealistic claims to multiple paths to victory (I feel that 
 a victory in Civ IV *always* requires a massive army) .
  
  Having generally fond memories of GalCiv 1, I decided to give the new incarnation a whirl and was 
 immediately impressed by the facelift. A few hours of play confirmed my expectations that the game 
 itself had undergone more than a cosmetic overhaul since the last version.
  
  Here is a galactic expansion game that really gives you options to play out a sprawling empire 
 struggling to manipulate or annihilate a galaxy teeming with forces bent on owning you. Economics 
 and influence are just as viable a means towards victory as putting together a fleet of monstrous 
 warships and enslaving every race in your radar.
  
  The AI is wonderfully sneaky and more personable than that of any other 4x strat game. There seem 
 to be genuine feelings (for good or ill) behind the encounters with the alien leaders... grudges 
 and friendships that seems so much more dynamic and logical than the arbitrary ones I found within 
 Civ IV.
  
  I don't mean to keep bashing Civ IV but ultimately, my copy of that game went on eBay as I realized 
 that I would be logging far more hours in the GalCiv universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hermanmw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations 2 truly is a game built for gamers. It not only allows you to create a universe 
 to explore, it lets you determine how you take control of it. For the first time in recent memory, 
 you can truly win through diplomatic, economic, or militaristic means. Or you can switch strategies 
 midstream. You get to decide. Impressive tech tree lets you research technologies to help you with 
 whatever strategy you are pursuing. The entire game is reminiscent of Sid Meiers Alpha Centauri 
 only you have multiple planets in numerous star systems to worry about. This game got a 10 in tilt 
 because of the humor that is evident throughout. There are numerous adapted quotes from hitchhikers 
 guide to the galaxy and Monty Python and the search for the Holy Grail. For example, when I finished 
 researching soil enhancements, the description of the technology read something to the effect of 
 
  
  I built a castle in the swamp but the first one sank, the second one sank, the third one burned 
 to the ground, fell over, and sank but the fourth one stood
  
  That, along with the amazing AI sealed the deal for me. If you are a fan of turn based games, I 
 recommend you purchase this one immediately. That means stop reading this, get in your car, and 
 go buy it NOW. This game is worth every cent of $40.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  The turn-based strategy genre has always been rather esoteric; consequently, the so-called "4X" 
 style of space strategy games is even more so. Those of us who love these games hold dear our DOS 
 copies of Master of Orion II and hope that someday, maybe, we will see someone step out of the 
 shadow of Microprose's masterpiece and successfully re-invent the genre.
  
  Galactic Civilizations II: Dread Lords is the newest in a short list of titles attempting to do 
 just that, and in this reviewers opinion, they handily succeed. It is an amazing achievement 
 that reminds me of the heady days of obsessive PC gaming that makes it easy to forget that you 
 have to leave for work in an hour.
  
  This addictive gameplay is incredibly deep and presented with some impressive graphics and sound 
 that complement a fantastic presentation. Combine this with an intuitive interface that allows 
 you to easily manage your empire; from the gird-layout planet building view, where you choose your 
 next planetary projects, you can zoom out to a tactical view showing small little 3D solar systems 
 complete with slowly orbiting planets and moons, along with the quicker movement of colony ships, 
 transports, and battle fleets. Zoom out a little more, and the 3D display of planets and ships 
 become icons, allowing you to view a large part of the galaxy with little clutter or confusion, 
 easily managing your colonies, or ordering your many fleets around to the different corners of 
 your stellar empire.
  
  Of course, you are not alone out there, and since there is no multiplayer in this game, it is fortunate 
 that the AI in this game is fantastic. They truly do react to you in subtle ways that never seem 
 canned, and can be downright cunning and frustrating opponents militarily, diplomatically and economically. 
 In addition, they did an excellent job of giving each race a unique personality, and ensuring that 
 their actions in game are based upon their unique cosmological outlook. Also there are a number 
 of minor races that show up from time to time, adding some great variety.
  
  Ship design simply must be mentioned here, because it is amazing. Ship design is a must in these 
 types of games, but it has never been implemented quite like this. As expected, you can modify 
 the existing hull types with the weapons, engines, armor, etc. of your choice, but this system 
 also adds dozens of 'structure components' that cost nothing to add to your ships, and are simply 
 there to allow you to personalize and create your own unique ship designs. Since there are dozens 
 of ship types, from colony and construction ships, freighters, transports and survey ships, never 
 mind the gamut of military craft from fighters to battleships; it's quite possible to spend hours 
 just designing your fleet, something that is a true joy to behold when you can see them called 
 into action.
  
  Along with the story-based campaign with the war against the Dread Lords, there is a random game 
 generation system that allows you to make a new game under whatever rules you specify; you can 
 set galaxy size and density, number of habitable planets, races, technology speed, and many other 
 factors. Also, you can start the game with any of the unique races or design your own, hence the 
 high value score; the replay value is immense. Master of Orion II has had a permanent spot on my 
 hard drive to this day, something Galactic Civilizations II will now have. 
  
  As great as this game is, there are few things that could have been added or addressed. As said 
 before, there is no multiplayer, and many seem upset by that omission. Personally, 
 I dont think games like this benefit from multiplayer all that much, and as stated, the 
 AI is amazing. There is no tactical combat in the game; all combat both space and surface is resolved 
 automatically. You can watch the space battle unfold in a rather nice combat viewer, 
 but there is no interactivity. Lastly, the one feature I really miss from Master of Orion II that 
 I would love to see included is the heroes system, mercenaries that you could add 
 to your space vessels or colonies to enhance them. There are also a few bugs here and there, but 
 nothing serious, and Stardock is addressing them quite quickly. 
  
  With these minor blemishes aside, Galactic Civilizations II is easy to recommend to any PC gamer. 
 It is an incredibly deep and immersive strategy game with nearly limitless replay value. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noeldillabough
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, having played a full game, I can heartily say it's *awesome*.
  
  It really is the MOO III we were expecting, and then some. All the 'sacred cows' that MOO II has 
 invented are there and my favorite... ship building!
  
  (Not only is it just plain fun to design cool-looking ships, but to survive in the game, you actually 
 *must* design your ships for the occasion using a complex rock-paper-scissor relationship)
  
  So far, I haven't really found anything to pick about on the game. If you like the turn based 
 MOO-style galactic conquest style, then you'll love this game period.
  
  I played a game at the 'Tough' level and it was 'Tough'! Really had to think about every move... 
 to use that next bit of precious resource to where it was most essential somewhere between survival 
 in five moves and long-term success. The AI is extremely clever at the higher difficulty levels 
 and it's nice to *finally* see a CIV-type game that doesn't cheat!!
  
  Definitively a smart man's type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddballrulez
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  this game, is awesome. i have NEVER liked the idea of a tun based game, but this just kicks ass. 
 its better than, i think all RTS's ive ever played. there are just so many options and techs to 
 choose from the game never really gets boring! the graphics are nicely designed, the sound track 
 is epic, and the gameplay is astounding. 
  I have only played 2 games, and they couldnt have played more different.
  the first found me 
 making an alliance with the rest of the galaxy, and being the 3rd most powerful (i had no idea 
 of what to do) . the second, i dominated the galaxy with everyone fearing my military might. (i 
 made one of the rulers appologise for attacking me he was so scared) so yeah, great game. you need 
 to buy it now. not to mention the replay value from the ship creator.
  this game is a must own for EVERYONE! i kicks the crap out of CIV and is the single most addictive 
 game ever. buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pister
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Having played many many turn-based strategies (TBSs) , I can fully recommend this game to any who 
 is a fan of the Civ series or Space Empires IV. The game is easy to get into and easy to play.
 
  
  When starting a game, you have a number of choices to make. You can choose one of the existing 
 races or customize and build an entirely new race. Even if you choose an existing race, you can 
 still customize the race to a certain degree. Each race has inherent bonuses which can be changed 
 in any way you like. After choosing and customizing your race, you choose who will share your area 
 of space with you and then the game gets underway. 
  
  Basically, you start out on your home world with a Flagship and a colony ship and you immediately 
 begin your quest to conquor the universe. As with all games of this type, exploration and quick 
 expansion is the key to success. When you colonize a new planet, you can zoom in and build any 
 number of buildings. Choices range from manufacturing, to research, spaceports, entertainment, 
 money, and influence to name a few. You also start with a flagship you can use to run around and 
 gather up the nearby anomalies. These anomalies can give you bonuses to a variety of things, but 
 they disappear fast so get out there and get collecting. 
  
  At first you can only build a handful of ships including the aforementioned colony ship, a scout, 
 and a constructor ship. The scout's function is pretty clear, but the constructor is very important. 
 This ship lets you build space stations. Space stations are vital as well in the early game and 
 should be built on any special resources you find. Later in the game, space stations can expand 
 your influence (think culture from Civ III and IV) , give you economic bonuses, or strengthen nearby 
 military ships. Space stations have a large area of influence which can span multiple sectors of 
 positioned right.
  
  The gameplay is great from many stand points. There is a huge technology tree with a variety of 
 paths to choose from. You can choose to specialize in one area or be a jack of all research. Also, 
 you can create your own ships in a variety of designs using the in-game ship designer. You can 
 make most any shape you want and add any components you have researched. You can spend as much 
 or as little time here as you want. Diplomacy is straight forward, however, I find it difficult 
 to know when the computer offers a trade if it is a good deal or not. In diplomacy, you can research 
 technologies which will give you a bargaining advantage. The interface does do a good job at letting 
 you know if you have a diplomatic advantage or not.
  
  Another great aspect of gameplay is that throughout the game you will be presented with ethical 
 choices to make. For example, on a planet you colonize, you find a sentient being that feeds off 
 the life force of your people. The good side is that the being keeps the planet healthy and more 
 productive, however, it kills your people when it feeds. So you must decide if you will not feed 
 the entity and let it die to save your people, let terminally ill people sacrifice themselves to 
 the entity, or hold a lottery and feed 100 people to it every week. The decisions you make will 
 begin to develop your reputation either good, neutral or evil. It's an intriguing aspect of the 
 game that adds variety each time you play.
  
  The end game is much like other TBS games in that everything comes to a head. Tensions mount and 
 eventually war breaks out across the galaxy. But conquest isn't the only way to win. All types 
 of victories seem plausible and attainable where as other games I have played, some victory conditions 
 always come up far more often than others.
  
  This game is great for it variety of options, engaging gameplay, interesting tech tree and, ethical 
 decisions. All in all, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardshael
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Finally, a turn based strategy (TBS) game that I can enjoy. With all the MMORPG's and action-shooters 
 coming out, I figured the gaming companies out there forgot about us TBS fans. Stardock has answered 
 the prayers and answered them well.
  
  As soon as Galactic Civilizations II starts up, you can see the myriad of additions from the original 
 title. The addition of a campaign and metaverse (which pits essentially pits your game results 
 against others) is a wonderful addition. Starting the campaign on normal skill level, I figured 
 this game was going to be far too easy as I obliterated the Drengin with ease. That all changed 
 as the campaign went on. As soon as the dread lords came into the picture, I realized how sad my 
 skills were. To hone my skills, I decided to hit the Sand Box type games. After a couple hours 
 I realized that the AI wasn't so stupid after all. Gal Civ II offers some excellent AI. The gameplay 
 ranks right up there with the original Master of Orion (which in my opinion was better than MOOII) . 
 The gameplay is based a bit on a paper-rock-scissors with three different types of weapons and 
 defenses. However, with the ship customization ability there is no one correct design that you 
 can stick with for the entire game. The only thing I wish different about this game is the ability 
 to control my own ships in battle. If not directly, at least some basic commands like target ship 
 X.
  
  Moving along, the graphics are very nice to look at. There are no token icons for your ships in 
 the galaxy. However you design your ship, that's what you see in the galaxy view. Graphics are 
 better than you can expect for a TBS type game.
  
  If this game has a downfall, it's the sould and music. Mostly the music. After only a few hours 
 of play, I've started to just play some MP3's in the background as I was beginning to get tired 
 of listening to the same thing over and over again. Fortuantely, this category means little to 
 me when it comes to TBS games. Most of the time I'm watching TV at the same time anyways *grin*
 
  
  One thing to downside to this game, the original out of the box has a few fairly glaring bugs. 
 With that said, it should not discourage anyone from buying this game as Stardock is and always 
 has been committed to their games. They respond to bug reports and consider all suggestions to 
 make help improve their product.
  
  Overall, this is definitely a game to add to anyone's collection. If you enjoy Turn Based Strategy 
 games, this is definitely a two thumbs up recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesisu_zork
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Finally ! A game worth playing. Am I speaking for myself ? No ! I'm speaking for all you star trek 
 and sg1 generation. The generation of Ascendancy.. the generation of allmighty Elite from Spectrum 
 Sinclair platform. Play the game ! Enjoy the free space, conquer , trade, develop tactics, improve 
 your planets, seek out new dicoveryes with science. Master of Orion was a good title .. this one 
 isi better .. becose it's simple and actual. Have fun , c'ause I did. I liked creating my own race, 
 exactly for my kind'a style of playng.. expansiv and tecknicali advanced. The AI has a surprise 
 for ya ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  That WOW factor is multiplied instead of 4X but by 10X with Stardocks newest addition to the turn 
 based strategy games genre. Galactic Civilizations II Return of the Dread Lords is a frightfully 
 fantastic epic struggle where you are in control of a races destiny. Long live God-King Suralle 
 Straykat! Kat Lord @ Large. 
  
  I highly recommend the purchase of this game for all folks who are in need of having their spouses 
 totally leave them and file for divorce, as the just one more turn attitude while waiting for your 
 Hh-Riss class heavy fighter to be completed and your Kam-Rah corvette to be done really can keep 
 your proverbial tail twitching and up until the weeee hours of the morning. 
  
  Never heard of a Hh-Riss or Kam-Rah class anything? Neither had I until I did some checking online 
 about names of ship classes for Kat-like races. Its more than a name though. The AI in GC2 is complex 
 and stunning especially on the next level above normal. Your ability to design a working spaceship, 
 plus making it pleasingly appealing to your sense of nice all plays a factor in how battles of 
 epic fleet proportions proceed. Yes, you can watch a cinematic type movie when you want that is 
 completely 3D of what happened when your Kats Claw Battle Cruiser met up with a Terran Alliance 
 Frigate. 
  
  Definitely a must for any avid gamer whether real time or turn based. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronj0072
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  If you never played Galactic Civilization I, then Galactic Civilizations 2 is a MUST HAVE for any 
 fan of space games. The replayability, depth of the tech tree, ability to customize starships and 
 sheer vastness make it a very worthy purchase at around $40 bucks. While there are minor bugs I 
 have noticed, and a couple of game-play issues that I hope are addressed in a patch, this is a 
 great game right out of the box.
  
  That said, older players who played Gal Civ 1 will find that the basic play has not changed a whole 
 lot, despite the long list of differences that Stardock mentions. Previous players will be able 
 to sit down and play without ever looking at the manual. I think that the claims of Gal Civ 2 being 
 the heir to the crown of Master of Orion 1 and 2 is a bit generous. If the ship design portion 
 had a bit more of the graphics flavor of Star Control and the planetary selection, descent, exploration 
 and resource harvesting play of one of the grand daddy's of PC space games, Starflight, this would 
 have been a sure-fire winner, hands down.
  
  Ah, Starflight. Now if there were ever a game that should be updated and ported to Windows, that 
 is it. 1987 was not a good year to get sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhammadsaad44
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  The game is so good especially in AI department every cast has its own style of dealing and it 
 feels very good , The best part of the game is the connection b/w game play and ship designer previously 
 in the game called THE MOVIES lacks in this aspect the custom script does not effect the game play 
 ,but now in this game it actually effect the game play by much and u can design the ship of ur 
 dreams or u can design one which is cheap and effective and also u can spying on the AI to view 
 their latest improvements so also they can ,it just a great game ,
  The only feature is less good or u can the worst part is the graphics ,Nothing look like a NEXT 
 GEN game it has graphics like AGE OF EMPIRE 1 (not very much but) if they really put some efforts 
 on the graphic part then it could be 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellbenta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  As long as games have been around, be that consoles or pc, game developers have often used the 
 term "adictive" to describe their games. Be that because the game offers "Long replayability" or 
 because, they say, given game brings such breakthru in gaming mechanics that "Everyone will like 
 this game". And thats were this developers are wrong. No game will EVER be for "Everyone". Diferent 
 peolpe like diferent games, and unless you target a SPECIFIC audience, LISTEN to what they like, 
 and DELIVER WHAT YOU PROMISED TO THEM, you as a Game Developer, WILL NEVER create a "Addictive" 
 game. Well, my gaming brothers, i'm happy to say that there is a company (Besides Blizzard and 
 Betesha) that LISTEN to it's fans, and DELIVERED what they promised to a SPECIFIC crowd of gamers. 
 That company is Stardock Systems. But enough about what EVERY game developing company should be 
 doing. Lets talk about what this guys have done and just how high these dudes have raised the 
 bar for every one else. 
  
  First of is the interface of the game. Two Words: Complete Customization. No longer do you have 
 to deal with a game that offers horrible interface screens that seems to take half the screen, 
 in this game you can place it were you feel like it. If youre a veteran of turn based games, Ive 
 said enough to get your attention.
  
  Second is the games AI. I think it was in MGS2 that they said that The quality of a hero is measured 
 by the caliber of its enemies meaning that there is no glory in defeating the local girls scout 
 basketball team, the real glory comes from defeating the 1992 USA Dream Team. In this this game 
 the IA IS the1992 USA Dream team. This punk (Im Refering to the AI) will totally own you if you 
 do not play your cards right. It truly feels like you are always playing against a human player 
 since it is constantly looking to outsmart you in many ways, mostly NOT thru military action. It 
 will form alliances with other races if you grow to powerful for it to confront you, it will use 
 spies to predict your next move and will try to raise prices of whatever it is you need to advance 
 just so it will take you longer to reach it. It will also see thru your charade if you try to position 
 your armada near its borders while you wave the white flag. And if youre going to talk about AI 
 you have to talk about the games .
  
  10+ Races: When was the last time a game had this many DIFERENT races to choose from? And thats 
 10 WITHOUT counting the other 6 or so Smaller  races. Oh, and Did I mentioned you can choose 
 ANY of them? Did I also forgot to mention you can create YOUR OWN race? The beauty of it is that 
 they all play different, meaning that those you call friends while being race A may be your worst 
 enemies if you decide to be race B.
  
  Extras: Aaahhh yesss. We call them extras, console lovers call them Side quests. Anyhow GCII 
 has plenty of them. From customization that actually has an effect on how the ships perform in 
 battle (a quite Robust list of customization options if I may add) to a large list of random events 
 that too, have an effect on the entire game. So far the one that really impressed me was when one 
 of my scouts found a lost precursor temple, inside he found a lost artifact that turned out to 
 be an ancient weapon. Of course I started research on this new weapon as soon as I could; and as 
 soon my enemies found out what it was (thru spying of course, those rats!!!) they quickly turned 
 nice and wanted me to join their trading routes while retreating their battlecruisers from my bordes. 
 Truly amazing. Yet the part of this game that truly impresses me is..
  
  The Story: Truly engaging indeed. The developers must have dedicated months if not years to come 
 up with a story that involves EVERY SINGLE race in the game; and how each one is entangled with 
 the other is truly amazing; Only Betesha and Blizzard can stand firm against this tipe of storytelling. 
 All in all, this game is just too good to be true. If you like turn based gaming youve just reached 
 heaven. But a word of warning to this tale.. if you enjoy sex, hanging out with your friends and 
 a family, stay clear of this game. Because once you enter the world of Galactic Civilizations you 
 may never want to leave. Ahhhh hell Ill just say it.. In the words of Master Yoda: Consume 
 you it Will
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  There was so little marketing done on this game i only found out about it a couple of weeks before 
 release. Suffice to say i was skepticl after playing Masters of Orion 3 which wasnt what we had 
 hoped it would be. 
  
  But as Gamespot say, you are rewarded for purchasing the game right from the word go. To play a 
 new game you can customise almost every aspect of it to your liking. You dont like researching? 
 fine start off with all of the tech tree. You prefer to customise your own race ? thats there too 
 and in some depth i might add. 
  
  The gae is no different. You can do so much. If your someone who doesnt much care for details then 
 for the most part you can ignore them. However if your someone who likes to compare your economy 
 with other races and choose the exact look of your ship then this game excells. 
  
  I spent hours just choosing the look of my ship and thats before i even put weopons or engines 
 on it. 
  
  The graphics, although not spectacular seem to work quite well and the sound is pleasant but nothing 
 special. 
  
  A small niggle i have is the lack of control you have over combat. In most games that would be 
 quite a large problem but considering the amount of thought that you canput into preparing for 
 combat its a very forgivable minor irritance. 
  
  My last complaint (and i really am clutching at straws here) would be the lack of infomation, a) in 
 the tutorial and b) in the tech tree. But these really are very minor and dont take away from a 
 players enjoyment. 
  
  Altogether though, this game is what Masters of orion should have been. 
  Space strategy fans 
 can sigh a deep sigh of relief for knowing there are still people out there who can mae games to 
 suit their needs. 
  
  To Summerise 
  +A huge amount of opening options.
  +Has the "one more turn before bed" feeling to it
  +Can customise Ships appearences .
  +Graphcs 
 and sound are nice
  +once its worked out its lots of fun to play
  +fantastic AI
  -Cant control the battles 
  -Not enough infomation in techtree or tutorials.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomtoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The game is actually quite fun, but it feels a bit like a rip off of an older game called ascendancy. 
 ascendancy is actually still quite a bit better, more customizable, better graphics at some points, 
 more races to choose from, and they explain the game as it begins. This game is newer, a bit bigger, 
 and has other options, but still not as fun as the orignal ascendancy.
  
  The begining of the game is a little different to pick up due to no formal tutorial, but even after 
 you think you understand, it might be a few games before you pick up everything that you need to 
 do during the game. Its a fun game, definatly worth trying, one of the best space sims that doesn't 
 really involve much combat, but more of strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NobleJms
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I have both CivIV and Gal Civ 2. While CivIV is without a doubt one of the best strategy games 
 I've ever played, I myself find Gal Civ 2 to be just slightly better. To keep things simple, I'll 
 just list the reasons out for you guys:
  
  1. While both games have amazing graphics, Gal Civ II does not require an Alienware computer to 
 play. If you have an average pc like me, you'll probably find yourself playing GC2 more than Civ4 
 simply because there's a lot less lagging.
  
  2. While Civ4 gives you, "oh, this is such a great game", the first 10 minutes you play the game, 
 it gets repetitive and boring after a while. But Gal Civ II's gameplay just gets more and more 
 amazing the more you play. Simply because there are many ways to win, and it's actually fun to 
 win by a peace/tech/influence victory.
  
  3. As far as how battle works in turn-based games, it's the same with Civ4 and GalCiv2 -- you click 
 on a unit and click it on your enemy unit, and the battle instantly resolves, just like that. However, 
 Gal Civ 2 is better because you can design your own units and make them prettier.
  
  4. Multiplayer has never been an issue with turn-based games, since 90% of those types of game 
 never use the multiplayer option. In the end, therefore, it comes down to the AI. I think you already 
 has a good idea about GC2 having the best AI in strategy gaming. Besides, let me just say something 
 that the Gamespot reviewer hasn't touched on. Gal Civ 2's AI are all designed with their own personalities, 
 war tactics, and such. You go to the Civ4 forum and post, "I hate the Romans", and no one will 
 have any idea why you do. But if you go to Gal Civ2 forum and post, "I hate the Terran Alliance", 
 believe me, you don't need to explain further. 
  
  Go get yourself a copy if you are still thinking! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunark
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Am I the only one who finds this game poorly executed, boring, and uninspiring?
  
  My first impressions were rather poor. The interface is clunky and badly designed. Nothing feels 
 intuitive... you have to dig around to find important information, while having to shift through 
 a lot of irrelevant content. The tiny ships look all the same unless you are zoomed in very close, 
 and it's often difficult to figure out who's who. The races are all identified by similar-looking 
 icons -- I found myself often having to click through the diplomatic screens just to see which race 
 a ship belongs to.
  
  There is lots to nit pick about, and I could go on. The biggest problem here though is the poorly 
 designed gameplay. For example, you will see many planets, but as it turns out *most* of them are 
 just decoration -- you can't settle on them. Then there's the technology tree, whose effects are 
 surprisingly uninteresting and suffer from banal sameness. A lot of other features just feel pointless 
 or useless. After a dozen or so hours and several games, I still can't find any use for espionage, 
 tradable goods, and many other potentially interesting aspects of the game. They're there, but 
 they don't really mean or do much, and they're rarely worth the effort. Oh and there's the battle 
 system, which can be best described as "crappy". What's the point of those cinmeatic battles? Is 
 that supposed to be "eye candy"? It looks like something from 8 years ago...
  
  Anyway... I could write a ten page review complaining about everything I didn't like. The bottom 
 line though is that this really isn't a very good game. I really, truly fail to understand why 
 it is receiving such high critical praise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game. It is definately an improvement over the first, but unfortunately not as fun 
 as Masters of Orion. I'll cut right to the bad parts:
  
  First the tech tree is kinda lame. It seems like they really didn't spend much creative effort 
 coming up with them (Sensors, Sensors II, Sensors III, etc) . How boring!
  
  Second, this game is HARD. That is, it seems hard, until you realize that there is only one strategy 
 that you must follow: rush build colony ships and colonize all the habitable planets before your 
 enemies do. Whoever has the most planets wins. Period. The victor is pretty much decided after 
 about ten turns, when the whole galaxy has been claimed. This makes the rest of the strategy sort 
 of moot. The number of planets your race controls is just too strong of a determinant of success.
 
  
  I don't know anyone that has been able to beat the "seige" mission in the campaign. Your main enemy 
 can conquer any planet with just 10 troops! That's just ridiculous. 
  
  Finally, ships are a lot harder to build and maintain than the fleets of 100's that you could build 
 in Masters of Orion.
  
  Otherwise, this game is very fun and I will continue to play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikegillis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game nonstop since I ordered it direct from Stardock.
  This is most definitely a game that will be fondly remembered by those who
  play it as a classic, 
 chock full of amazing gameplay moments where the story is not prefabricated by the game developer 
 but made by the gameplay itself.
  There is unlimited replayability due to the customization and randomization
  incorporated here 
 and no two games will play the same.
  What can I say. 
  Buy this game. 
  With all the crappy games being churned out these days finally we have a game that deserves to 
 be played and a game company that deserves the gaming communities support.
  Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  i love it when some game companies just like to make great games and sell them the good old fashioned 
 way. rather than (trying) to force their never-up-to-the-hype game down gamers throats with protection 
 schemes more elaborate than the game itself. now who would like a game that restarts you system 
 atleast a couple of time before it lets you play (*cough* *cough* star *cough* fuc *cough*) . even 
 if this game hadnt been this good i would have bought it just to reward the developers and publishers 
 to take this aproach. everyone likes the good-guy developer/publisher company.
  
  this game is as good as it gets. though i might get flamed for saying it, it might even be better 
 than civilization 4, though the jury is still out on that one, out playing both these games that 
 is. there is no aspect of this game that i can say isnt the best in class. one might say lack of 
 multiplayer is major minus for this type of game but i really dont play much online mainly due 
 to lack of time so it is always subjective.
  
  Gameplay : best in the world. love it love it love it and love it a bit more. cant get enough of 
 it and evrytime you play u get a totally new gameplay even if you try and play as same as possible.
 
  
  Graphics : this is no F. E. A. R. but it can hold its own very well in the world and possibilly amoung 
 the top three in its class. no polygon limit modding aproach is superb and will keep its graphics 
 up to date for a very long time (as long as new patches/mods appear on scene) .
  
  Sound : Pretty good but i doubt if anyone would be really be paying attention to the music.
  
 
  Replayibilty : forever and forvever and all eternity
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is astounding, its gameplay is just what a conquer the galaxy game should be.. fun, deep 
 and time consuming
  
  The core of the game is that your a fledging race that has just started out their place in the 
 huge galaxy.. your job expand and survive. From the first time I booted this game up I knew I was 
 in for a treat.
  The Computer AI is aggressive, making runs for planets.. so you have to be quick to colonize otherwise 
 you'll be left with noplace to go. The plantary side of things is interesting enough to keep you 
 interested in checking up on your planets but not so much micromanaging that you feel burried up 
 to your eyeballs.
  
  Good- Descent graphics, awsome galaxy conquest game formula, stellar techsupport, ship designer 
 is sweet as a fine errr... nevermind lets just say you won't be bored with this feature anytime 
 soon, easy to navigate menus and interface means you won't feel overwhelmed. Space combat well 
 I've not been to war with any of my neighbors yet so check a different reviewer for the space battle 
 review, introduction of minor races makes the galaxy feel alive more so than any other game in 
 this class. Choices of distrubution method was excellent.. I personally like STEAM for HL2 and STARDOCK 
 platform for this game is in the same league making aquiring this game simple as a purchase online 
 and download... its "backup" feature zips the game up for you too... and for a limited time STARDOCK 
 was offering to ship you a hardcopy at no additional cost. AI is some of the most brutal I've seen... A 
 friend of mine went to war had tech that he put the smackdown on the aliens but their next battlefield 
 meeting he told me they researched and countered his tech advantage.. so yea the AI is no dummy!!!
 
  Bad- tech tree needs to be scaleable.. its hard to make choices when you have to click click click 
 to see the end result of a tech tree. This IS NOT a game for the actionminded or for those who 
 lack patience. Initial learning curve can be a bit high if you've never played a conquest game. 
 and some features can leave the newbie gamer scraching his head. Lack of multiplayer will dampen 
 some spirits.
  
  Bottomline- If you love conquest games you'll want this game. If you never tried a conquest game 
 get this one cause you'll love it's depth. If you find conquest games dull and boring still I recommend 
 trying this as its new features like "ship designer" can be quite entertaining. If you are new 
 to the conquest game genre the game itself takes about an hour to learn the basics on easier levels 
 of difficulty but can take a lifetime to master on harder levels.
  
  Techside- game looks nice as the graphics are well done, Sound is above the board as well which 
 just adds to the overall apeal of the game. Game interface is both mouse and keyboard driven and 
 easy to learn... though I wish they would have included the option to remap the keyboard since I 
 would have prefered to use the arrow keys to scroll the map instead of them moving my selected 
 ship so I have to dock a little for that misstep 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybbq
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  I like civilization IV and its a very addictive game, but you cannot know what is a true addictive 
 game before to try Galactic Civilizations 2 !!!! If you are a pc gamer and you have to wake-up 
 early at morning, don't install this game!
  
  The first try is hard (its a very complex game) , but after some minutes of tutorial and playing, 
 its impossible to stop to play!
  
  The gameplay is perfect, better than Civ-IV (its just my opinion!) .
  
  You have the total control 
 of your civilization, from the peaceful way to the evil managing purpose. The researche upgrades 
 are almost infinite, even at the huge galaxy setup. 
  
  Graphics are good, for the game map at least... a 3D universe where you can zoom on your ships... 
 another good point (spacecrafts are very well detail and fun to see, even more if you create your 
 own spacecraft) . The bad point is when you invade a planet or an enemy civilization invade one 
 of yours: a 2D simple screen like Nintendo 1982 where two armies fight with poor graphics. But 
 The selection of the war technology you will use during the invasion and the random-like selection 
 of your advantage power on the enemy forces is enough to keep your eyes on the screen: you don't 
 want to push the skip button!
  
  Sounds are good too. The tutorial is very well done, this girl do it well!! The space weapons sounds 
 are very good (star wars like sounds) . But you will hear almost no sounds in the game if you forget 
 the cinematic and battles events.
  
  to conclude, don't play to this game if you need sleep!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Ahh back to the good old days of 4D space games. I have to say Gal Civ does many things right. 
 From slamming out Colony Ships early in the game to the massive fleets in orbit leading to a ground 
 assault, space conquest has never been done better.
  
  One of the great features that make this game stand out from the pack is the ability to customize 
 the "look" of your ships in space. That's right not only do you get to choose the weapons, engines, 
 armor, systems and so on but you can add wings, fins, colors, and may other astetic features to 
 your ships making them truly unique but most of all the brag factor for a vicious looking armada 
 is inspiring.
  
  Great job!
  
  Worthy of replacing Master of Orion in any sentence when discussing this genre.
  
  A must buy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vernholio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Damn you turn-based strategy games! Where did my entire evening go?! I just sat down what seemed 
 like a half hour ago and here it is, already midnight -- SIX hours later! OK, I'll quit and go 
 to bed now... No wait, just one more turn... 
  
  There really isn't much I can say that wasn't said in what other user's have said and what's in 
 the GS review. The game is a blast and incredibly addicting. Just last night I started a whole 
 new game with a HUGE galaxy and I spent almost 2 hours just designing my own versions of the Construction, 
 Colony and Scout ships, let alone playing the game! If you're creative at all, this game is definitely 
 for you! 
  
  Being a pessimist, I have to point out the flaws. This way, I can get through those and then I 
 can focus primarily on enjoying what's truly good about the game. So here goes... I do agree with 
 the GS review, the Tech tree is a little bit under-detailed, and it's a little hard to navigate 
 (it's kind of tough to see what you've already researched -- there should just be a list of the 
 techs you've completed) . Plus, the docs are limited in this respect -- no description of the techs 
 at all (hopefully someone will post something on the web describing them all) . And, the AI does 
 seem like it's cheating at times (Hey... that Civ only has two planets! How in the hell is he cranking 
 out all of that research, industry and all of those ships?!) . GS's review is spot on... the AI 
 can piss you off and also make you say... Hmm, that's pretty clever. Races that are supposed to 
 be your allies building "Influence Starbases" right next to your home planet... what's that all 
 about? :-)
  
  The Campaign is probably great (I bet the story-line is awesome) , but I wouldn't recommend starting 
 here. It doesn't give you a good feel for the game. It starts with a Tiny-sized galaxy and resources 
 are limited, so it makes for a very-slow start. I'd recommend starting with a bigger galaxy so 
 that you can exapnd your empire and spend some time getting a feel for it all.
  
  Wish list... "Scanners" or something like that to be equipped on a Colony ship that allows you 
 to scan a planet to see how "habitable" it is off the bat (so you don't waste a Colony Ship in 
 the beginning on a planet with only 4 buildable spots on the surface) .
  
  OK... my positives are all in line with what GS says (the ship builder kicks arse) , the negatives 
 are pretty much few and far between, and my one wish. All in all, the game is one of the best I've 
 played in the last several years! Buy it, buy it, buy it!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier3106
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty much anything a Turn-based strategy fan could wish for.
  
  In general when playing games of this genre you're clicking alot here and there all over the interface. 
 In Galciv 2 the interface is suprisingly simple. I never had the need to go through alot of screens 
 filled with buttons because everything was right where I needed it to be.
  
  Different from the first part is that the amount of buildings (improvements) you can build upon 
 a planet depends on it's quality. In GalCiv1 you could build an unlimited amount of improvements 
 no matter the planet's quality. In GalCiv II this is limited. Which is a good thing because it 
 prevents players from creating planets far too strong. On the other hand. The overall quality of 
 planets has dropped. In GalCiv 1 there would be plenty of say 15-20 quality points on planets. 
 In Galciv2 you jump in joy when finding a 15 point planet. This is disturbing because I find myself 
 too limited when building up planets.
  
  Combat is slightly based on rock-paper-sciccors. You have Beam/Missle/gun weapons and for each 
 of those catogories you have defenses. And for each category you need to do research. That gives 
 you the choice to either specialize in one type of weapon or go for a bit of everything. The first 
 is dangerous because your enemy could concentrate on defenses against your weapon. The second is 
 risky too. Because you're spreading out your research you'll end up with variation of weapons. 
 But they'll be weaker in the end. 
  
  GalCiv2 gives you an infinite amount of such choices like weapons types. In this game you can't 
 be the ber civilization that's great in everything (like in Civ IV) but you'll have to make choices 
 and take one direction. And that's great. It puts alot of fun in the gameplay. The bad thing is 
 though (or good thing, tottaly depends) is that the AI is smart as hell. The AI doesnt cheat. But 
 it'll have scout ships everywhere to see what the player is up to and it'll spend alot of espionage 
 too. And the work against your every move you take. Luckily the AI treats the other AI nations 
 just like you.
  
  GalCiv 2 is a great game and I reccomend it for everyone who even only a bit likes strategy games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatatlantic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  I say with out hestitation that Galactic Civilizations II: the Dread Lords is the finest 4X game 
 I've played in years. If you are unfamiliar with the term 4X games, they are a subgenre of strategy 
 usually in space and turn based. The 4X refers to four stages of gameplay: eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, 
 and eXterminate. You usually begin the game with a single planet, with which you build scout and 
 Colony space ships. As you find other inhabitable planets, you can send your colonizers to establish 
 colonies. These colonies grow in size and allow you to build improvements on the planets you control 
 including factories, research labratories, or other strategic buildings. Sooner or later you run 
 into other races with which you compete against for control of the map. You can ally yourselves 
 with these players or trade technologies. Eventually all your colonies are going to be in full 
 fledged planets with which you use to churn out capital ships to defeat enemy navies and land ground 
 troops to capture their planets. The gameplay is very similar to that of the much more popular 
 Civilization series, though several differences are present.
  
  The graphics in this game are crisp, and otherwise look good. No one will mistake it for FEAR, 
 but for this style of gameplay the graphics are more then enough. Unfortunately, I have experienced 
 some bugs, the kind that crashes your game back to the desktop, if it doesn't freeze up my computer 
 entirely. However, Stardock has promised support and patches, and hopefully these issues will be 
 addressed soon. Fortunately, the game autosaves regularly and its easy to quick save before major 
 desicions, so the problem is minimized in this way.
  
  Galactic Civilizations II begins by holding true to its name. You can pick one of several pre-fabricated 
 civilizations, from the familiar and diplomatic Terran Alliance (humans) , to the obligatory ugly, 
 militaristic expansionists (Drengins) . Just in case neither of those appeal to you, you can create 
 your own Civilization by picking bonuses in several categories such as Defense or Research. Each 
 civilization will then try to control the map using the advantages, and its not all military. Its 
 more then possible to use your Civilization's culture to get planets to defect to yourside. Get 
 enough of the galaxy under your control and you win a culture victory. There is also an ultimate 
 technology which by researching wins you the game, though it takes a LONG time to do so. Another 
 method is to form an alliance with every remaining civilization. Obviously, you can always just 
 wipe out your opponents the old fashion way if thats what you want, but it is worth it to note 
 all of these victory conditions are achievable and persuing them offers you a different gameplay 
 experience.
  
  Gamers should be warned, however, that this game is not for everybody, to put it mildly. It is 
 a very complex and detail oriented game, though not the worst in its genre in this regard. If you 
 are looking for instant satisfaction and minimal player input, then look elsewhere. It will probably 
 take even an experienced strategy gamer 2 to 3 hours to learn the ins and outs of this game. But 
 the ability to manage economies, plan urban development, and design your space ships is well worth 
 the effort. However, once you learn how to play you are going to have to compete against the AI 
 on higher difficulty levels (which begin getting difficult at the Normal setting) . The AI is capable 
 at this stage of identifying what weapons you have and countering them, attacking your strategic 
 points, and otherwise steamrolling you if you start screwing up. All this is done with out "cheating", 
 but by just good solid programing. However, there is always that chance that another civilization 
 will decide to support you with resources and technology allowing you to rebound.
  
  Combat in this game is a straight forward affair. Its basically decided by a dice roll, but an 
 animation will be shown displaying the outcome. I'm rather glad they handled battles this way versus 
 the more common hands on tactical approach. This way you really do have to outproduce or outdesign 
 your opponents to win. However, I found ground combat favored the attackers by far to large a margin. 
 It should not be easy to take a heavily populated planet. But its more then possible in this game.
 
  
  For better or for worse this game does not ship with multiplayer. But having had this game for 
 less then a week I've already put over 40 hours into it, so there is more then enough content to 
 keep you occupied. And trying to play this game online would not be feasible in a single sitting 
 anyways. Extending the playtime further or the numerous different types of maps the player can 
 choose. Don't get me wrong, they are all space maps. But you choose how big it is, how often habitable 
 planets occur, what other civs share it with you, and how fast research occurs. The game also comes 
 with a story campaign, which is basically an excuse to have set piece maps. It doesn't replace 
 the meat of the game, which is random maps, but is a nice addition when you want to try something 
 different.
  
  In conclusion, this is a bloody good game and is easily recommended to any fan of Civilization, 
 4X games, or just want to try something different from the 500th action game released in the past 
 year. . The amount of options available to the player in terms of customizable civs, ships, and 
 maps is enough to make gaming enthusiust drool. This game will be played by its fans for some time 
 to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboote
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations II is an exceptional game in many respects. It is immersive, deep, and strategically 
 challenging, requiring the player to think in weighing the pros and cons of various different forms 
 of action. While many other games seem to allow a play various paths to choose, GalCivII actually 
 offers real choices with real repercussions. 
  
  The gameplay is solid  if, on larger maps, often unexciting at stretches. Combat, for instance, 
 is not the high point of this game, since battles are not manageable tactically by the player and 
 the battles consist merely in the subtraction of hitpoints from target hulls by weapons exceeding 
 that targets defenses. This is only a minor weak point, however, since the game doesnt profess 
 to be a tactical wargame, but a strategic conquest game  and at that, it succeeds. 
  
  In general, GalCivII plays very similarly to CivIV: you are building an empire, conquering land 
 (planets and sectors in space) , finding and exploiting resources, handling trade and diplomacy 
 with your neighbors and rivals, fighting wars where necessary, trying to keep the technological 
 upper hand, attempting to keep your citizens happy, and making sure your empire is not a cultural 
 backwater  all of this in a 3D framework. Better than CivIV, however, is the following: In Civilization, 
 each city can only make 1 manifestation of any building (e. g. once you built a temple, thats it) , 
 so that cities tend to be uniform, while in GalCivII, you can (if for some strange reason you want 
 to) build identical research labs on every available space on planet X, while turning planet Y 
 into something vastly different. Additionally, the programmers of GalCiv2 seem to really know their 
 stuff: The game runs smoothly and has no problems at fullest resolution with all eye candy on during 
 lategame, even on my miserable little laptop (while CivIV slows to a crawl or crashes on my big 
 machine) . Speaking of laptops: GalCiv2 should also be applauded for trusting their potential customers 
 with a game containing NO copy protection whatsoever: their customers are treated as worthy players, 
 not potential criminals. In general, Stardock appears to be an exceptionally sympathetic company 
 as well, REALLY listening to the community and posting frequent answers to any questions. (I had 
 a tiny question regarding serial numbers when downloading the game from their website and I sent 
 them an email; I received a fine answer from one of their tech support people within 30 hours, 
 and if I understand correctly, their phones are running off the hook. Has anyone ever received 
 a reply from Firaxis?) There are many ways to achieve a victory in this game, and each one is challenging. 
 The robust AI of the game is better than any I have seen in a strategy game except for chess. Creating 
 your own ships is both interesting, important and fun. 
  
  The only negative aspects of the game are the lack of documentation (the manual could be much more 
 comprehensive, at least including information on the incredibly vast tech tree) , the somewhat sparse 
 graphics of the map (but perhaps that is just what space IS: sparse? In any case, the graphics 
 of the interfaces and ships are all sharp and good) and the average sound. 
  
  In general: Stardock should be congratulated on making an excellent strategy game, perhaps the 
 best strategy game in a space setting as well as treating their customers like kings or queens. 
 If you liked the Civilization series, you will LOVE GalCiv2, since it is everything Civ is, but 
 better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  the game is good and it just got better because this time you get to see space battle that is shows 
 a global battle like starwars empire at war space battle and i should really appreciate it i mean 
 O. R. B, X3 and many more space battle strategy should look up on galactic civilizations it really 
 emerse me really i was amazed by its battle and the races i think the developer and publisher sure 
 made a good game and the game really inspires by what it has
  
  but for the other galactic civilization is bad but not for this one since i really really really 
 appreciate the game they should make more dramatic even tough you get to see the gattle it also 
 sometimes there to little battle there to little units i think they should look up on star wars 
 empire at war space battle that way it would be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jones4j
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations 2 is an impressive, addictive, and most importantly fun, addition to the 
 4X genre.
  
  Gal Civ 2 is an eXplore eXpand eXploit eXterminate (4X) type of game, similar to the Civilization 
 games in many aspects. This game features both a campaign in which you deal with an intergalactic 
 planet conquering super race with a fair amount of missions, as well as an in depth random map 
 generator for "skirmish" style games. With the various options of map size, difficulty, number 
 of planets, number of opponents, etc, each "skirmish" game can take any where from an evening to 
 weeks. The great thing about it is that no 2 maps feel the same, due to the superb AI in the game.
 
  
  The AI in the game is really one of the main draws of this game. The AI doesn't cheat, unless you 
 choose the absolute hardest difficulty. The Ai is extremely well rounded and adjusts according 
 to your strategy. 
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the ability to design your ships. It becomes a necessity later 
 in the game, as there are three different weapon classes as well as three associated counters to 
 each. So if the AI is attacking you with beam weapons, you need to research and build ships with 
 the corresponding defense, shields.
  
  The graphics and sounds are quite good, but as can be expected from the genre, are nothing spectacular. 
 
  
  Another noteworthy drawback is that there is no multiplayer in the game yet, but the AI more than 
 covers up for it.
  
  Despite the minor drawbacks, Galactic Civilizations 2 is a great foray into the 4x genre, and is 
 well worth the money if you are into those types of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maeric
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  The original GalCiv was a great game in it's own rights. This sequal takes that formula and adds 
 to it rather than changing it at all. The graphics aren't a perfect 10 but definetly on par or 
 even better than games like Civ IV.
  
  The one thing I love about this game is that the AI doesn't seem to cheat. I mean, when they are 
 kicking your but you can look back and say oh, they researched that tech tree before me so that's 
 why I'm getting my butt kicked.
  
  The game has a lot of replay value because of the metaverse and the campaign and difficulty mode. 
 It makes a big difference playing a fool of a computer player compared to a brilliant level computer 
 player.
  
  The one criticism I have of the game is the game can be easily won or lost in the first 10-20 turns 
 of the game. It definetly rewards those that expand and expand fast. I don't usually like playing 
 games like this. Usually I like concentrating my efforts on a few quality worlds rather than having 
 a large number of worlds that collectively can mop the floor with another Civ.
  
  Overall though, this is a quality game that despite a few minor complaints in the UI department 
 is the best of it's kind.
  
  And with Stardock as the game maker, you'll be sure that the game will go through an evolution 
 dependant on customer feedback.
  
  This is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to TBS games what you want to look for is good Gameplay. And GalCiv2 gives you just 
 that.
  
  Graphics and sound are not critical to a TBS but GalCiv2 threw in a new engine and they made it 
 work nicely with the layout of the game. AI as far as i have seen is very competent. All enemy 
 Civ's take different paths to victory making the game very easy to replay over and over. 
  
  I dont have much to say about the game other than it plays better and is more satisfying than 
 any previous TBS i have ever played.
  
  PS. This game will turn hours to minutes and minutes to seconds... dont forget to sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewskin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Tired of crappy AI in "strategy" games? Sick of games that look great, and have great sound, but 
 lack any sort of real gameplay value?
  
  Then, look no further than Gal Civ 2, my hands down choice for Strategy Game of the Year. The folks 
 at Stardock have outdone themselves again with the second version of their incredibly detailed 
 4X space conquest game.
  
  Featuring a completely customisable AI, a deep, immersive ship design system, a very intuitive, 
 simple interface, and tons of options allowing you to tailor your gaming experience to your own 
 personal taste, you cannot go wrong with this instant classic.
  
  And, if you're like me, and love extras, as well as enjoy moddable games, you'll flip out over 
 this baby. Stardock's #1 product is customer support, and continually provide updates for their 
 games, which you can download directly from their website. No worries about copy protection BS 
 here, either, as you're free to copy it to any PC you own, and never have to use a disc to play 
 from.
  
  Bottom line from this gamer is, if you're a TBS strategy fan, you owe it to yourself to stop what 
 you're doing, and head over to www. galciv2. com for the game you've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryjames
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Five days ago I bought this game online via the digital download plus having the CD boxed version 
 shipped to my home. From the time I installed and fired up this game I have played every day with 
 each game spending 5 to 8 hours of my time. I'm not going to bother with details about the game, 
 nor am I going to gripe about two minor bugs I experienced. This is a FUN game and for me, is the 
 only game that has appeared to possibly replace my playing Alpha Centauri again. ( although I don't 
 truly believe that ) Galactic Civilizations II utilizes very serious polygonal technology in their 
 game create a ton of future for the product. Their website, forums and product development staff 
 are very involved with their customers on the forums. I judged the difficulty as "just right" and 
 the learning curve "30 to 60" minutes because the game comes with a set of tutorials that pretty 
 much gets you rolling into the game. I even dived into the game bypassing the last 4 tutorials 
 and NEVER reading the PDF manual once. Of course it is fair to say this game, like other great 
 TBS games (SMAC & MOO2) Galactic Civilizations II will occupy hours, weeks, months, and probably 
 years just like it's golden predecessors. If you enjoy turn based strategy games, then RUN and 
 buy this game OR just visit Stardock's website and purchase direct from them. The entire online 
 purchase and install was "painless" and I got my boxed version in the mail THREE days after I ordered 
 it. This game IS way more fun than SWEAW ( Star Wars: Empire At War ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: didistrife
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations 2 improved since its first version, but not as much as you believe it did. 
 I would call Galactic Civilizations 2 a big expansion pack of the first version that brings mostly 
 new content to it, maintaining the base engine of the first version. But that doesnt mean that 
 its bad, no, its very good, after all the first version was a very addictive game that I believe 
 kept all gamers fan of the style playing for countless hours. 
  
  The graphics had some good improvement based in the first version, but nothing that would make 
 you surprised. I would say the biggest graphical improvement was the planets showing outside the 
 stars, but its definitely missing variety in the planet textures, they are mainly all the same 
 looking scattered all over the games galaxies. Now we have fleet movie-like battles that well 
 graphically are weird. 
  
  Maintaining basically the same gameplay of the first game, I dont believe theres a way to change 
 it much after all, the game is easy to play and very addictive. The interface is friendlier now 
 and good looking. New features like the one where you can build your own ships help make the game 
 more enjoyable. The almost infinite technological tree can make the game last long and long hours, 
 giving a variety of paths you can follow, but they could have worked a bit more in the descriptions 
 of the techs that seemed like made by some bored kids. 
  
  Theres nothing much to be said about the sound, but theres also missing some more musics, listening 
 to the same one for ever lasting hours can be boring sometimes, specially if you already completed 
 the game a few times. 
  
  The developers kept the old formula that made the first version a great success and this one Im 
 sure will be another success. Even with a few flaws to be fixed, the game still very addictive 
 and a must play for everyone who enjoy the genre. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: telroan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  GalCiv2 is a solid turn-based strategy game that shows influences from great predecessors in its 
 genre. There are aspects from Birth of the Federation, Civilization, Masters of Orion, and even 
 Alpha Centauri type unit customization. Gameplay is similar to its direct predecessor GalCiv1 but 
 the ship customization feature really adds a whole dimension of strategic choice allowing you to 
 create ships with radically different characteristics that can really effect your strategy. The 
 Campaign is a nice add-on but is really only worth it if you want a little more story-line. On 
 the whole GalCiv2 is the most addicting game I have played in years and it is quite frankly astonishing 
 that this game is the product of an independent developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpencerStrat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Stardock has done a superb job with the graphics and shipbuilding aspects of the game. The multiple 
 ways to build a ship and make it unique is very intriguing and fun!! At the same time, the ability 
 to create fleets makes the game that much more enjoyable. A fleet of unique ships that the user 
 built makes for hours of enjoyment. The planet management also has more depth, but not so much 
 to where it is overwhelming. Specializing certain planets is a unique strategy that adds so much 
 more options to the player!! 
  
  I like how Stardock has made the game playable in fullscreen for high resolution or HD monitors 
 (Firaxis, are you listening?) . The game looks great on my 50' DLP!
  
  Overall, great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrotty
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  After several hours of playing I am thoroughly impressed. If you're a fan of 4X games (Stars!, 
 MOO, etc.) you _have_ to pick this up. It's tough to assign "instant classic" to a game only 3 
 days after release. But this game just has that feel.
  
  I'll leave the gameplay comments to other reviewers (in short: great) , but I'd like to focus on 
 Stardock's community involvement. I've been lurking on the galciv2. com website for months have 
 been reading practically hourly for the last week. The project manager and developers are all over 
 this thing. Any questions people ask (even if it's the friggin 10th time it's been asked!) is answered 
 quickly and personally by them. It's amazing.
  
  They let the gamers know what's working and what isn't. They're intent on frequent upgrades. And 
 these aren't just bug fixes, these updates include features the community feels might improve the 
 gameplay. With care like this I'm excited not only about playing another round against my galactic 
 foes, but also how the game itself will mature over the years.
  
  GalCiv2 is already on my all-time top ten list. I don't see it getting bumped off.
  (By the way, 
 support a caring developer, _buy_ this game, don't get it off the dark side of the web.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeXeN
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I would put it right up there with Civ4, both just dominating the TBS genre right now. Basically 
 if you like Sci-Fi and turn base strategy games GalCiv2 is the game for you. If you where a fan 
 of Masters of Orion 2 (not moo3) then GalCiv2 is just what the doctor ordered, its not exactly 
 the same but similar and just better. Most importantly it has the same addictive qualities but 
 does so with state of the art graphics and with tons more depth. 
  
  I dont think most people know this but GalCiv2 really doesnt have a polygon limit, so in essence 
 you can make ships that are thousands of ploys and import them right into the game. The game was 
 built from the ground up to be extremely modable, I just cant wait for the star wars and star 
 trek mods to come out. This also adds to the lasting appeal of GalCiv2 since with no poly limit 
 this game will just keep getting better graphically as you update your PCs. 
  
  I downloaded the game directly from Stardock without any problems, in fact I was amazed at how 
 smooth and easy it was. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  I debated buying this game after having bought Gal Civ, the original game, because I was afraid 
 that it too would be fun for a short while then turn boring as did the original game. However I 
 have been playing it now for many hours and I have to say that I am very impressed with the game 
 thus far. A true step ahead for this franchise and a welcome diversion. The game play is similar 
 to Galactic Civilization I, but better. So far I am enjoying the game more than I thought I would. 
 I have to say that I am glad that I did not wait to buy the game until the price came down. It 
 seems to be well worth the $$ I spent buying it the day it came out. Hats off to the developers. 
 Great game here guys.
  
  Update: Aug 08, Wow, I have been messing around with the game again and have to say that despite 
 its many flaws, it is still one of the best games ever. It has earned a top 10 spot on my favorite 
 game list. (Nothing will beat out TRIBES, TRIBES 2, and Space Empires IV, but GalCiv2 has earned 
 a spot right below em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matte979
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I am one of the many who bought MOO3 and was expecting something grand but after trying to like 
 it very hard it just was very boring was more like a spread sheet. I then tried GalCIv and didnt 
 really like it as it was to simple design and no ship design.
  
  GC2 is another story we have nice graphics and all the things you need for a strategy game in space. 
 We now have the best ship design ever seen in a 4x space strategy game. The game has a lot of options 
 and chocies. 
  The AI seem to be competent and can keep up with you. Things seem very optimized to run the game 
 with as little effort as possible. The drawback of this is that In the begining of a game you hit 
 end turn a lot. And the most time you spend managing is building new ships.
  
  Overall the game is very good game and with the support StarDock has for its customer it will be 
 Great.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactician
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Truly a spiritual successor to MOO
  
  Thats right, if you played Master of Orion and Galactic Civilizations and were disappointed by 
 the latter you need to give Galciv II a second look. This game is end to end beauty. Its graphics 
 are great for a 4X game. Its overall playability is solid. Its replay ability is even better. 
 
  
  For those of you who were shattered by how bad MOO 3 was, this is just the fix you need to get 
 back to your happy place. Worth playing and you know that if Stardock created it as their flagship 
 they will tweak and add to it making it even better. This will be using up space on my hard drive 
 for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnbach
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This reviewer loves 4X turn-based strategy games -- a lot. He even played MoO3 -- a lot. So he has 
 been in mourning waiting for a new 4X-er to come out. GalCiv2 manipulated the reviewer's desire, 
 nay need, for strategy and made him buy it. However, after a bit of playing, he feels . . . manipulated.
 
  
  First was the extreme headache getting the game. The download option enticed him further: he could 
 play the game NOW without leaving home. He started downloading the game, thinking he was getting 
 all he needed. The file downloaded then started to install -- error. He clicked install again. No 
 download began; the installer loaded -- error. After half an hour, he found out he had to delete 
 the downloaded file because it was corrupt, but there is no way to do that with Stardock's installer. 
 After some directory spelunking, the offender was located and recycled. More waiting and finally 
 a good install. Then the beleaguered hero noticed three other files to download. He began those 
 only to have the same thing happen again. This time the files were in a different hidden spot. 
 But they were ferreted out. This happened two more times. Finally, after four hours, the game launches.
 
  
  Once the game runs, it begins to fulfill the 4X need. The graphics aren't Empire at War awesome, 
 but they're good enough to please the eye. The sound is similarly adequate -- nothing to merit any 
 technical achievement awards. The music is downright annoying. Say buh-bye. The cinematics are 
 actually neat though. Maybe not worth the 2.5 hours downloading and redownloading however.
  
  The gameplay is what matters in these games. As long as the game plays solid and is entertaining, 
 most 4X gamers will overlook par or sub-par graphics and sound. GalCiv2 delivers in this respect 
 but offers little new to the genre. The ability to completely design the actual ships themselves 
 is very impressive. One can add all the necessary parts -- engines, weapons, defences, modules -- nothing 
 new there. However one can actually add on structure pieces to the base hull to personalise the 
 look of the ship. For instance, engine pylons, antenna, habitation rings, lights, and a myriad 
 of other details to consume a few joyful hours. This reviewer hasn't seen that in a game before.
 
  
  Beyond that, GalCiv2 doesn't break any new ground. The gameplay is exactly what one expects from 
 a 4X. It's enough to make a few hours breeze by in an enjoyable time. The AI is pretty good. Players 
 can choose how hard of a game they want with the AI really only being handicapped by a lesser or 
 greater tax revenue depending on the skill level chosen. This reviewer is learning the game on 
 "Cakewalk." 
  
  The actual campaign seems dull at the beginning. Hopefully, it picks up in intensity as the storyline 
 progresses.
  
  In all, this reviewer doesn't exactly regret his decision to buy GalCiv2, but he wishes he'd waited 
 for a price drop, even though that would have been quite awhile from now. But the decided lack 
 of new 4X games gives little choice if one needs a strategy fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cotitanium
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  The custom ship building feature is a huge trinket, toy, game of it's own. However, the interface 
 needs a litle work. It would be very nice if the various windows of the custom ship building screens 
 were resizable. For example, the 3d screen where you actually place you parts is tiny and could 
 use an increase in about on inch on either side right off the bat.
  
  Gameplay is smooth and fairly easy to pick up. The CAKEWALK difficulty setting is almost too easy. 
 You can sit back and let your allies take out the big bad if you feel like it.
  
  This game is a gamers dream in that the developer, Stardock, WANTS you to mod the game and has 
 made this very easy to do.
  
  Overall, great job for a small company! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killtek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  The love that went into developing this game by the folks at Stardock definitely carries over to 
 the game's design and gameplay. Developers that are open (and listen) to their community about 
 everything is a plus in my book and hopefully other development shops will take a page from Stardock's 
 developers.
  
  GC II is eye candy wrapped around hours of endless gameplay. I can see myself losing a full weekend 
 playing GC II (I had to force myself to stop playing lastnight, I'm a family man) . There's something 
 addictive about turn based games that makes you want to click that "Turn" button one more time, 
 and GC II is no different.
  
  The level of detail in this game is amazing, yet not too over bearing. The number one feature of 
 this game is the customized ship design. You can spend countless hours just designing your own 
 custom ships, limited by your technology tree.
  
  My only regret was not purchasing the retail box and purchasing the digital download only version. 
 I may just go out and buy the retail box for the manaul :)
  
  BTW... don't listen to anyone that says the game sucks because it doesn't have mulitiplayer. I 
 guarantee that you'll be playing this game by yourself several years from now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
