-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Galactic Civilizations II: Twilight of the Arnor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/galacticcivilizationsiitwilightofthearnor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique racial tech trees.
 New buildings and ships enhance the personality of each race.
 Immense galaxy size affords campaigns that can last for months.
 Interface tweaks make the overall game more playable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign could offer more surprises.
 Still no full multiplayer game mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.2, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 504 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Stardock
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Apr 30, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Galactic Civilizations II goes out with a bang thanks to the superb Twilight of the Arnor expansion. 
 

  Galactic Civilizations II: Twilight of the Arnor isn't just a great expansion, it's also a wonderful 
 culmination of everything good about the series. Developer Stardock has addressed just about all 
 of the possible complaints about both the original game and its Dark Avatar add-on. Plus, they've 
 added impactful tech-tree innovations, a climactic campaign, and a host of other tweaks, for a 
 superb example of what an expansion pack should be.  

  If you are a Gal Civ addict you'll be excited about the new tech trees provided for each of the 
 game's 12 playable civilizations. Where the Terrans, Drengin, Yor, Thalans, and pals used to share 
 a single tech tree that made all of the civs go about their galactic gallivanting in a similar 
 style, each now has branching-off points that emphasize unique traits. This means that you're now 
 able to play civilizations very differently, as well as make the good guys really good and the 
 bad guys really bad. With the evil Drengin, for example, you're now free to indulge your inner 
 De Sade by spending credits on such horrific goodies as Xeno slavery, slave canyons, and the always 
 entertaining visions of agony philosophy. The murderous Drengin offshoot Korath clan is actually 
 even nastier, with such techs as malicious bargaining, wretched cloning, and dark influence. Terrans, 
 on the other hand, can be happier expansion-minded imperialists with such specialties as majesty, 
 cultural domination, and stellar folding. Extra detail and history have been tossed into each tech 
 as well, giving you insight into each civilization's identity and, in some cases, reinforcing their 
 alien natures.  

           Ascend to a higher plane and win games with the help of the new Ascension crystals.   
    

  New visuals have been grafted onto the original game's star and planetary maps to give each civilization 
 a distinct look. Each race now has differently styled ships and planetary buildings, lending further 
 unique character to the civs, as well as boosting replay value. Planetary surfaces look different 
 now depending on who's in charge. Drengin worlds come off like utter hellholes, complete with slave 
 pits in place of factories and slaveling imagination labs in place of research facilities. Terran 
 planets look a lot like Earth with standard factories, farms, and research facilities. Thalan worlds 
 are bizarre and time-focused thanks to the temporal entertainment, as well as the incredibly powerful 
 hyperion matrices. Ships have also been reworked with more polygons and texture detail, resulting 
 in a much more varied range of vessels that appear more realistic. The cosmetic differences between 
 the ships in last year's Dark Avatar and the ships in Twilight of the Arnor border on astounding, 
 with most of the flat, featureless ship surfaces of the old game being replaced by the sort of 
 detailed, industrial hardware that you would expect to find on a galaxy-spanning vessel. Yet even 
 with these vast improvements, system requirements haven't been ramped up; the game runs just as 
 fast and just as smoothly as before.  

  Other Twilight of the Arnor additions are low-key. The new campaign is an enjoyable wrap to the 
 Dread Lords saga that tells the story of the Terrans finding the last survivor of the ancient Arnor. 
 This ancient super-race put the Dread Lords in their place many thousands of years ago, which means 
 that you're now relying on their tips to do so again, as well as free up the galaxy for unimpeded 
 wars a-plenty between the Drengin and, well, everybody else. A new victory mode called Ascension 
 has been introduced for sandbox play. Here, you can trigger the endgame by discovering five randomly 
 placed crystal anomalies on the map and building star bases around them to retrieve their mystical 
 goodness. If you hold them long enough to ascend to a higher plane of existence, you win the game. 
 There are a couple of significant issues with this victory condition, however. First of all, Ascension 
 crystals are often ignored by rival races, even if they're located right under their noses in key 
 solar systems. So there rarely seems to be much competition for what is ostensibly the most important 
 resource in the entire galaxy. Second, enemy empires don't seem to have an issue with you setting 
 up star bases around crystals until you're about 150 weeks from victory, whereupon they suddenly 
 notice what's going on and declare war on you, one after the other. This seems very artificial -- like 
 you're simply triggering a countdown instead of dealing with intelligent rivals. This lengthy delay 
 also gives you lots of time to put together a massive fleet and create defenses powerful enough 
 to fend off almost any sort of assault.  

           New starship textures makes each race's vessels seem like they really could boldly go 
 where no man has gone before.      

  Military action has also been enhanced -- at least in theory -- with the addition of terror stars, 
 which are rather familiar-looking planet busters that can blow up a world as quick as you can say 
 "Alderaan." They're far too time-consuming and a little too easily destroyed to be a true galaxy-beater, 
 though. Immense galaxies have been added to the list of map choices in sandbox games, providing 
 the option of setting up epic matches that can last for weeks. This option is a bit treacherous 
 for anyone accustomed to previous, saner, galaxy sizes because you have so much space to cover 
 that you can easily overextend yourself early in the game and wind up in major financial difficulty. 
 Editors now allow you to alter every aspect of the game. Numerous interface tweaks make it easier 
 to track technologies, track finance, and even set up automatic ship building whenever new techs 
 are revealed. About the only part of the original game design left untouched is multiplayer, which 
 remains MIA and will probably continue to be absent until Galactic Civilizations III from the looks 
 of things.  

  Adding this much new life to what should be a very familiar game is an amazing achievement. While 
 no single addition here can be said to make this expansion, the scope of the subtle yet wide-ranging 
 changes greatly improve the Galactic Civilizations II experience. Before Twilight of the Arnor, 
 players could stick to the Terrans and encounter everything that the game had to offer. Now, you 
 deal with something new each and every time you go galaxy conquering with a different alien race, 
 which freshens up a game that was in need of exactly this kind of facelift.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: spamin76
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why stardock is so adamant about forcing people to play games by themselves. It seems 
 like every game that comes out has at least a token multiplayer feature (even when it is shallow) . 
 But they resolutely march on giving us the occaisional opportunity to add some tweaks to the single 
 player experience. So if you don't mind playing a game by yourself, then this expansion may be 
 worth while (it didn't add a ton of things, but again made each race a little more distinct)
  
  There were some minor technology changes, but really nothing particularly huge or particularly 
 game changing. The AI is still fairly challenging, but it is largely same old, same old. If you 
 love the game and need more content, go ahead and pick this up, but don't expect anything new, 
 and if you are like me, waiting hopefully to be able to play this game with friends, well this 
 expansion is still going to leave you wanting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Ever wonder what it would be like to run your own civilization? In space I might add? Well that's 
 what Stardock has done for us, they have basically taken Civilization's, and put in space, with 
 very positive results I might add, this is by far the most addicting turn-based strategy game I 
 have ever played in my life, far exceeding, possibly surpassing the Civilization games.
  
  The game starts you off at the character screen where you choose the race you want to be, ranging 
 from the standard Terrans (humans) , to the Altarians, all the way to the Drengin empire, each with 
 there own personalities, and unique race trees. After you choose your empire, you decide what traits 
 you want to upgrade through the bonus points system which lets you enhance your civilizations ability, 
 for example, if I gave four points to the economy, then my economy will be 40% stronger then before.
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty basic, you start off has a lone civilization who is ready to expand through 
 the cosmos, at start, you are the Imperial, guiding your race into the universe. You have to be 
 smart with every move you do, speeding your way through this game won't help, this is no real-time 
 strategy, you have to plan what you want and what your strategies are going to be, rushing in isn't 
 smart unless you have every race on your side. You have to worry about 5 things in this game, economy 
 (which is huge part of the game, and by far the most difficult to stabalize) , culture (also hard 
 unless you are smart with your research) , social order in your planets, diplomacy, and war.
  
  Planets in the game are broken down into separate catagories, there are the Terrain Planets, 
 then there are the unique planets, the Terrain planets are the normal ones, earth-like planets 
 that anyone can occupy without doing research. Unique planets are the planets that have research 
 attached to colonize them, for example, Radioactive planets need to be countered with radioactive 
 reflectors. Each planet has a number, so Planet X has 10 beside it, meaning there are 10 slots 
 that can be used for your empire, may it be a bank to help your economy, social centers for your 
 approval, or a culture exchange center to spread your influence. There are unique buildings that 
 can be used to stimulate your whole empire, but these mine as well be like the Tower of Giza in 
 Civilizations.
  
  Economy is the biggest part of the game, earning x amount of credits (in the billions) every turn, 
 now every planet you colonize takes up a certain amount of maintenance, bigger planets require 
 more money, but its hard to maintain unless you done the appropriate research to get the economy 
 stimulated. Economy has to be managed effectively to run an empire well, applying it to the right 
 things such as military and social, or research networks, depending on your empires needs.
  
  Social plays out like your happiness in Civilizations, the lower this is, the less likely that 
 your people will stay with you. This meter is shown on every planet, for example, if it says 40% 
 approval, that means soon there will be a revolt if you do not act quickly to the epidemic, to 
 counter this, entertainment networks, stadiums may be built to entertain your people, this mechanic 
 plays off of the economy, so again, if this thing is low, then your tax income rate from your people 
 will come to a halt.
  
  Research and War play out exactly how Civilization did it, but a couple of tricks keep it refreshing 
 and tidy. Research is broken to the social, diplomatic, military, logistics, and culture sections, 
 each with its long list of items to research, but every race has its own unique tree of research, 
 making the races unique to one another, making it a different play through everytime your play 
 the game. War is almost exactly like Civilization but 3 things make it completely different, one 
 being that you can create fleets with multiple ships of different types with in them, making them 
 more lethal combat, one other being that you can completely customize your stats and your ships 
 to make a versatile war machine, and the invasion mechinic. The invasion is like rolling dice, 
 you have to roll at the right moment to get the highest number, this number stops both you and 
 the AI's, and its a chance of who will win the invasion, this mechinic is hard to master, so don't 
 worry if you loose alot, because I did to.
  
  The AI is anything but bad, they are the smartest things in the game, they will make smart decisions, 
 they know there way around, they taunt you, they will do anything they want, and they will do it 
 smart, almost better then you most of the time. The only problem is that I found them to be too 
 good, even on Beginner, so I would start on low difficulties before escalating to normal.
  
  Graphics and sound are nothing special, nothing to talk about, the music however makes the 
 game feel great, its both relaxing, and triumphant at the same time, suiting the situation in both 
 cases, if this game has a downfall, it will both keep you up all night, and that it has no multiplayer, 
 but if it did, games would take days.
  
  This expansion has had more enhancements attached to it on top of Dark Avatar, the video memory 
 usage has dropped dramatically, the AI has had significant upgrades, making them tougher foes. 
 The Research in the game has had a big upgrade, making some of the tech tree's a bit short in some 
 regards compared to Dread Lords or Dark Avatar, but it also makes the game more accessible. The 
 interface and maps have had better enhancements, the map is smaller, making it easier to see what 
 is going on within your sector of the map. They did change around some of the races around with 
 better descriptions and options, just though I would put that out there.
  
  Overall, this game is worth a buy, with all the upgrades, new options, and better interface options, 
 it can only get better from here on in, if you are both patient with the game, and don't mind spending 
 every waking minute in the games universe, its definately a thinking mans game so be prepared for 
 a challenge when you walk into the games realm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  I was fairly impressed by the additions added to Dark Avatar, so that expansion struck me as a 
 tough act for Twilight of the Arnor to follow. Still, even though I wouldn't call any of Twilight's 
 additions and tweaks "earth shattering" like those added in Dark Avatar, I'd still say that it's 
 a must have purchase if you enjoyed the previous two titles. Word of warning: Twilight of the Arnor 
 does require Dark Avatar to play.
  
  Once again there's a campaign, but it's not worth the time to play, so let's go right into the 
 additions and tweaks for the standard game mode. First of all there's a new Galaxy size for you 
 to play with, "Immense" which is a step above "Gigantic". If you want an epic sized experience, 
 then Immense is definitely for you. There's also of course the Custom pre-made Galactic Maps (such 
 as the Milky Way which was introduced in Dark Avatar) , and the same pre-defined scenario selection 
 that has been around since the original game if "Normal" is too boring for you. Also since 2.0 
 players have been able to set the frequency of "Extreme Planets", the type that you have to research 
 to colonize. You can't disable these planets entirely as the lowest setting is "Rare", but if you 
 want to play with most of Dark Avatar and Twilight's improvements with the faster pace of the original 
 GalCiv II then I suppose setting it to rare can help. You can also change the frequency of random 
 events, or disable them entirely.
  
  There's a new victory condition added to the mix, "Ascension". Essentially Ascension consists of 
 finding "Ascension" crystals spread around the galaxy, and building a starbase around them to harness 
 their power and holding them as a timer begins counting down every turn. When the timer reaches 
 zero, your race ascends to Godhood. Sound familiar? That's because that's also the result of the 
 technology victory, a bit redundant I think. Still, this "King of the Hill" style victory condition 
 can be entertaining from a gameplay perspective even if the result is attainable via another method.
 
  
  Modders can also have fun with this expansion as it comes with a pretty large mod suite. A Map 
 editor for designing your own Galactic Maps of course, a Scenario editor so you can create a specific 
 ruleset for a particular game, a Campaign editor so you can combine a few maps and scenarios into 
 one story based campaign, a Tech editor that allows you to actually create new tech trees, or modify 
 the existing ones, a Ship editor allowing you to import your own models for use as in game ship 
 components, and finally an Improvement editor that allows you to craft your own planet improvements. 
 I haven't spent a lot of time with these tools since I'm not a modder, but from what I saw they 
 were definitely a nice addition.
  
  The only other major additions are updated graphics adding more detail to ships, starbases, planets, 
 and nicer looking planet screen art. The planetary invasion screen has also been revamped, and 
 it looks a lot nicer in my opinion. There's a new type of Starbase added called the "Terror Star", 
 a spherical mobile battle station capable of destroying an entire planets by wiping out the star 
 system's sun. Sound familiar? It should, the developers even poke fun at this by having a special 
 movie play upon completion of your first Terror Star saying "That's no moon...".
  
  The real highlight of this expansion is actually the new tech tree system. Every major civilization 
 now has its own tech tree, there are some technologies shared between civilizations of course (like 
 the Universal Translator) , but you're no longer playing the exact same faction with a different 
 skin when you switch from the Terran Alliance to the Drengin Empire. If you play with a custom 
 race you can also steal one of the major race's tech trees as well, along with their Dark Avatar 
 Super Ability. I'm not sure what to think about this system personally, one of the nice thing about 
 GalCiv II was that you could have a favorite race and not worry about balance, or using a specific 
 race for a specific playstyle.
  
  Twilight of the Arnor is definitely a must have purchase if you enjoyed the original game and the 
 first expansion. It's also a must have if you like modding due to the surprisingly large amount 
 of editors that come with it. I have mixed feelings about the new tech tree system, and I personally 
 found the Terror Star to be rather useless (it can be destroyed by just one small fighter) . Still, 
 I would call Twilight of the Arnor the definitive version of Galactic Civilizations II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shababek
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:      
    
    
    
   
    
    
      
  ,   
 the Terrans , Drengin , Yor , Thalans  pals   
     
      
    
   ,  
     
    
    ,  
     
    Galactic Civilizations 
    
     
     
  ,    
    
    
 ,   evil Drengin  
     
     
 De Sade    
     
    
     
  ,  Drengin  
    Korath  
     
      
    
 ,    
 Terrans    
     
    
   
    
   
 ,    
     
 ,     
     
      
 ,     
   
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Hart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  Think back about 2 years, remember the release of what I regard as one of the best 4X TBS, or maybe 
 even one of the best games of all time. Galactic Civilizations 2: Dread Lords. It was the game 
 from StarDock that came before the Sins of a Solar Empire. Essentially it was pure awesomeness. 
 It was great because every game you played was unique. Every game had different villains, heroes 
 and events.
  
  I guess the main feature was the amazing ship designer, since you were always coming back to it. 
 Every time you developed a new weapon, engine or sensor you went in and upgraded your ship. And 
 every time you'd fiddle around with the meaningless props and additions to your ship to make it 
 look insanely cool.
  
  Twilight of the Arnor is the second expansion pack to the highly acclaimed Galactic Civilizations 
 2, unfortunately you require the other expansion pack to play it. So if you bought the Gold Edition 
 or the original and the expansion you're fine, if you didn't buy it at first then you can go for 
 the Ultimate Pack.
  
  So last weekend I noticed that Twilight was just released, thankfully I had 15 at hand, so i rushed 
 down stairs pryed my Mum's credit card from her hands and bought it. Digital Download of course, 
 couldn't wait for it to arrive through snail mail. Thankfully the StarDock central program is just 
 as reliable as steam, so I had it downloaded within two hours.
  
  As with the previous expansion, the first thing you'll notice is the new opening cinematic and 
 the new title screen. Of course these are not why we're here. I'll get this out the way now, the 
 expansion pack features a brand new campaign, I have no idea what happens. Here's the wiki. The 
 reason I'm skimming over the story, is because it's not what GalCiv2 is about, and has never been 
 about.
  
  The stuff we care about is the stuff that gives us more ways to conquer our enemies, and eventually 
 the galaxy. The most exciting of these new additions are the Death Stars, oh I'm sorry, I mean 
 Terror Stars. These are death stars. They are the ultimate tool of destruction in the game. All 
 you do is simply move them over a star system's star, then it completely obliterates the star and 
 all surrounding planets. It. Is. Awesome. Of course this power comes with a great weakness, they 
 blow up pretty easy and move pretty slowly, and the tech takes ages to research.
  
  Research is one of the things in the game that has not necessarily improved since the last expansion, 
 but has changed. Firstly all the tech trees are in a completely different order than before. This 
 is good because it forces you to re-learn them, so it adds more challenge to the game. And each 
 rates gets their own specific tech tree, firstly they are different because they are arranged slightly 
 differently, and each race has their own unique techs. This adds a whole new gameplay dynamic, 
 meaning there are certain advantages that you alone have, and the same for your opponents.
  
  As with Dark Avatar, Twilight of the Arnor brings a wonderfully pretty face lift, meaning your 
 ships will look much more detailed, and the the planets look great. Yea, that's basically it graphics 
 wise.
  
  One of the best features in my eyes in the addition of a new map size, immense. I tell you this 
 now, you will not finish an immense game in one sitting, unless you lose. They are so huge, it 
 will take you at least 15ish hours to complete. They are awesome.
  
  One of the major improvements about the game is the planetary invasion screen. Now if you kinda 
 wait around you just bombard the planet from space, while this destroys the enemy troops, it also 
 lowers the planet quality and destroys improvements. So if you really don't care about that planet, 
 just rain death down from the sky, but if you want the planet intact you're going to have to risk 
 landing your troops.
  
  Modding has always been one of GalCiv2s strong points, hacing relatively easy to edit XML files, 
 but Twilight brings in a completely new way to mod, the Editors. Map Editor is pretty self explanatory. 
 The Scenario editor lets you make missions. The Campaign editor lets you string these missions 
 into a campaign. Ship Component editor lets you make your own weapons, sensors and defences for 
 your ships. The Tech editor lets you fiddle around with the tech trees. The Improvement editor 
 lets you make planetary improvements, a. k. a. Buildings.
  
  All of these improvements create a fresh experience that is ultimately better than the previous 
 expansion. If you play GalCiv2, go buy it. If you don't play it, you're crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joonbeams
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  - And I'd do it all again (in fact I have) . For many, this game falls into the category of "hidden 
 gems", but no real turn-based strategy gamer needs any introduction. I'm a big fan of turn-based 
 strategy games (CIVs being all times classics) so if you're not, there is no point in buying this 
 game. However, if you are, then you are in for a treat. I wouldn't say that there is anything particularly 
 revolutionary here, but this is not necessarily a bad thing - and in the case of GalCivs it's great. 
 Stardock is one of those rare companies that really seems to care about it's fans and their input 
 so the expansions are always notable improvements. 
  
  This expansion has better graphics than previous releases (but those don't make or break games) , 
 it has distinct races with distinct tech trees - which is awesome (e. g. the Drengin build 'slave 
 pits' rather than factories!) , smarter AI, ehanced customizability of ships, and some minor tweaks, 
 but other than that, it stays true to the GalCiv brand that is the standard for space-centered, 
 turn-based strategy games. All in all, TOTA adds real value - I ordered mine in the pre-order but 
 at $20-40 you simply can't beat the bargain. 
  
  I rate this a 9/10 mostly for gameplay - it's not a 10/10 b/c it is not particularly original nor 
 'next-gen'. That said, if you are a PC gamer, there is simply no reason not to own this game. It 
 says a lot about the current state of gaming that this game (or series) isn't flying off the shelves 
 in record numbers.
  
  WARNING - if you play this game, you will lose several hours of your life for the elusive 'one-last 
 turn'. I think about this game at work and hurry home to play it. I'm playing my second game, on 
 higher difficulty, on immense galaxy, with a different race and it's like I'm playing a totally 
 different game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong: As far as expansion packs go, this is a good one. Stardock simply engenders 
 rabid loyalty because of that "extra mile" Brad Wardell and his team go to surpass many players' 
 expectations. Some examples of this in Twilight are:
  
  +Better graphics -while- reducing stress on your computer.
  +Bigger, smoother maps (as part of 
 smarter uses of resources) .
  +New tech trees for each Civ when an expack could get away with less.
  +An open beta that allowed 
 players to get in behind the scenes. 
  
  I should say now that I was part of the open beta. I felt that Stardock deserved my money on faith 
 alone, so I bought the game before it was released, downloaded some of the beta versions, and generally 
 just enjoyed watching the progress. It's a great group of people, developers and fans alike.
  
  However...
  
  I've just finished two games, the first on Challenging then the next on Tough. 
 While there are 5 levels above this, you would think that "Tough" would at least be, well, even 
 sorta tough. Right? In fact, I won both games by doing the following:
  
  Choose Terrans. Boost econ, keeping Super Diplomat. Trade techs at a huge advantage. Keep friendships 
 even if you have to pay for it. At a certain point, you'll have a pretty hefty tech lead. Make 
 some ships that the AI can't handle, and attack anybody who isn't already an ally. In both my game, 
 this was only 2 of the 7 AIs. After wiping out the two that weren't allied with me, I won. 
  
  O. K., so what? Well, the AI just simply didn't put up a decent fight. It still had plenty of 
 unescorted transport ships: Kill those and your planets can't be taken. The AI didn't refit it 
 ships to beat my designs, or it only did so very slowly. With all those allies, you could easily 
 dogpile the AI anyway, even if the AI did a good job in battle. The AI wasn't building on resources 
 effectively; it ignored crystals completely, even when you're out there snapping them up. 
  
  I haven't played other races because, frankly, if playing as Terrans wasn't a priority for 
 Stardock, I have much less faith in playing the other races. Of course, maybe Super Diplomat is 
 just overpowered? Could be. But that doesn't explain bad AI play overall. 
  
  So why do I give it an 8.5? 
  
  Like anybody else who knows Stardock, I'm certain that the 
 AI will get some love over time. This is the beauty of their development model. I'll happily pay 
 for their products now knowing that many of my complaints will be addressed with time. So I'm in 
 a odd, but well trodden as far as Stardock is concerned, position of predicting that I'll be rating 
 the game higher than if I rated it only on what I see today. Without that benefit, I would give 
 the game more like a 7.0. 
  
  Thus, my recommendation is this:
  
  Buy the game now if you have any interest in supporting this great company. You really have nothing 
 to lose. The game as it stands today is worth playing. But rest assured it will be better 2, 6, 
 10 months from now, too. However, don't expect the AI to wow you, at least that has been my experience. 
 This is still a work in progress... but the work will continue, and the progress will likely be 
 pretty profound.
  
  I give few companies that same level of trust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_harris
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Usually, when you read the fluff on a game publisher's website, they focus on all the good, leaving 
 out the slightest bit of bad. After all, who would willingly point out a game's flaws? When Stardock 
 games wrote their fluff page, spelling out all that they've added, modified, replaced, and built 
 from scratch for Galactic Civilizations II - Twilight of the Arnor, it was all they could do to 
 fill the page with feature descriptions. And, to their credit, no one could accuse them of artificially 
 pumping up their own product.
  
  It's that good!
  
  From the recreated 3D models of starships, to the improved AI balance, to the musical score, everything 
 about Twilight has been reviewed, reshaped, and recompiled into a truly wholesome 4X game. There 
 are, in fact, so many noticeable changes that if you choose not to buy the $30 expansion game, 
 all I could say to you is +whack+, why?
  
  I've played aggressive, militaristic, evil races, all the way to ethereal, technophile races with 
 great success in Dark Avatar many times over. I've gotten quite used to the AI's approach to galactic 
 domination and the ramifications of avoiding opponent interaction. What Twilight hands you is a 
 better reason to stay on top of each turn than the previous lineage of games. Each turn can bring 
 you an edge. Each technology tree is shaped differently. Each race has its own unique characteristics.
 
  
  Many game improvements to playability exist as well. Stardock notes that the ship 3D models are 
 more detailed than in Dark Avatar, and they certainly are. My system handles the graphical details 
 quite well, so it's hard to verify Stardock's claim of improved game speed when rendering multiple 
 3D objects later in the game. That aside, the higher degree of detail makes for a more enjoyable 
 gameplay experience. You can more quickly identify a race's ship by glance, for one.
  
  The planets and their screens also get a nice face lift. The image map of each planet is more uniquely 
 and cleanly illustrated. The planetary improvements are also quite a bit more detailed, and although 
 some of the names have changed, you get used to it. The goofy planet invasion screen has been replaced 
 by an updated version as well.
  
  But my favorite improvement of all is the more closely reactive/proactive AI. In Dark Avatar, it 
 was much easier to glide around the galaxy, picking up anomalies and building starbases like weeds 
 popping out of your nice front lawn. You could count on the AI opponents missing obvious methods 
 to improve themselves, leaving certain resources largely untapped. In Twilight of the Arnor, the 
 gameplayer must focus his/her mind much more on selecting where to build resource starbases, and 
 protecting them by balancing starships, defensive systems, and diplomacy. Starbases seem to take 
 a more dominant role in Twilight, combining their power with nearby planets better. Planetary production 
 always got a boost from a nearby economic starbase, but game balance seems more effectively shifted 
 in your favor here. Utilizing starbases that augment your territorial advantage like placing economic 
 and influence bases near higher class planets seems to draw more tourists to your part of the galaxy. 
 And since money is big, the more tourists you attract, the lower you can set your tax rate to keep 
 your taxpayers happy. In real life terms, it's called "new money" meaning money from outside your 
 tax base.
  
  I guess the only thing wrong with Twilight of the Arnor is hearing that this will be the last update 
 to this wonderful game. Stardock recently released Sins of the Solar Empire, a 3D real time game 
 that has immense potential, so I guess I saw it coming. It's a shame though... Turn based games 
 have fallen out of favor in the past few years, ever since Sid Meier's Civilization juggernaut 
 has begun fading from playtime. I just wish Stardock wouldn't end things prematurely.
  
  Finally, I'd like to point out that Stardock did leave the last chapter of this saga unwritten, 
 so to speak. They include many useful editors to this game that allow players to quickly change 
 just about anything substantive in the game and upload it so others can go shopping for unique 
 mods. This is a very smart move, even though no further official development will take place. It 
 allows gamers to breathe new life into an already stable, proven gameplay system. And further, 
 it develops a bond between producer and player that will likely result in the continued success 
 of Stardock games.
  
  So go out and buy this expansion right away. It's a beautiful sunset to a warm summer's day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_rudis
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 9, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  If you've never played Galactic Civ games, they are all good and this is no exception. For those 
 who haven't played Galactic Civ games and are interested in a SINGLE PLAYER game, then buying Gal 
 Civ 2 and this expansion is recommended.
  
  However, in judging this as an expansion pack to Gal Civ 2, I believe this expansion pack does 
 not add any real value to the game and previous expansions. Yes, the new differing tech tree changes 
 the strategy some as do all of the other tweaks to the game. But that is all they are, tweaks to 
 the game and change how you play the game. Nothing really revolutionary... no good additional campaign... 
 it just gives you a new way to play the same game.
  
  The problem is with all of these expansion packs that they keep putting out, they have still not 
 added multiplayer. Unless Stardock really changes something drastic with the game, no expansion 
 pack without multiplayer is going to be worth the extra cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggie_john
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  TA is the crowning acheivement of the gal civ series. It adds a special uniqueness that was missing 
 from the previous expansion and original game. Each faction has its own tech tree and techs that 
 give real depth to the game play. It also over went a face lift in the graphics department and 
 this was done in a way that allows for even bigger maps which is nice, on in the case of low end 
 machines we can now play the game all the way through with out huge lags at the end. 
  
  Ground combat is atleast better looking but still could have been improved in my book but its a 
 minor issue. Space is still king, though I wish they would have included a tactical battle sim 
 or mulitplayer but that war rages on over on the forums all the time. 
  
  All and all this is a must buy expansion, if you onw the game you most likely have already bought 
 it and if your on the fence about buying the series this is the expansion that I think will really 
 push you over the top and make this a must have for anyone who loves a good empire building space 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonwilles
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  If you think that chess is more rewarding than a round of Command and Counquer that twilight of 
 the Arnor is the exactly the game your looking for. In my opinion this game is the jewel that alpha 
 centauri was. The AI is very sharp, the depth of the individual races, and the refurbished graphics 
 all work towards making this game the very essence of exploring, expanding, exploiting, and exterminating. 
 If you have played the earlier games in the title you know what you're in for but be warned the 
 unique tech trees truly changes and deepens the experience. The game expertly uses the AI to make 
 it feel like your playing real opponents without having to wait for minutes inbetween turns. This 
 is the experience that i was hoping for from Civilization IV with the racial benefits, but that 
 Civ failed to deliver on. Truly a masterpiece in the genre!
  
  A few nit picks...
  With as smart as the AI is you can't tell your allies how to coordinate attacks.
  You can see 
 all of a rivals techs from the diplomacy screen so you know where to go to counter their techs 
 (this was in early versions too)
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
