-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Galactic Civilizations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/galacticcivilizations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 622 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Stardock
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 26, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Galactic Civilizations' strong AI, robust diplomacy, and variety of strategic options make it an 
 outstanding turn-based strategy game. 

  As its title suggests, Galactic Civilizations is a bit like Sid Meier's Civilization, but in space. 
 Based on a classic 1994 game for PCs using IBM's OS/2 operating system, Galactic Civilizations 
 gives a nod to the elegant simplicity of Sid Meier's popular strategy series. But regardless of 
 whether or not you're sci-fi fan, the outer-space setting isn't the real reason you should sit 
 up and take notice. Galactic Civilizations' strong AI, robust diplomacy, and variety of strategic 
 options make it an outstanding turn-based strategy game.   

          War isn't the only way to win the galaxy.    Unlike the recent Master of Orion III, Galactic 
 Civilizations doesn't drown you in the details of running a space empire. The game has a single 
 galactic map that can be customized in terms of size and star density, and all movement and combat 
 occurs on this map. Galactic Civilizations also has a handful of additional interface screens you'll 
 open up to monitor your production, economy, relations with your neighbors, and research, but it 
 won't take long to find your way around in the game. It might seem unrealistic for star systems 
 to be arranged on a single tile grid, but this interface wasn't designed for realism -- it was designed 
 for gameplay.   

  You may find the starting conditions for each new game familiar if you've played other space strategy 
 games. You begin with a human planet, a survey ship, and a colony ship. Hyperdrive was recently 
 invented, and now that all the galaxy's species have it, they've all started to compete to become 
 the dominant power in the universe, by conquest or other means. The game has a number of initial 
 customization options for the galaxy and the AI opponents, and although you always play as the 
 humans, you can choose from a number of ability bonuses and adopt a particular political party, 
 all of which actually affect the game later on. Every empire is born from equally humble beginnings, 
 and you even have to spend a dozen turns to research a universal translator before you can talk 
 meaningfully with the races you'll encounter. The first order of the day is to send your survey 
 ship out to scout and collect a variety of randomly placed objects that can grant bonuses. Once 
 you locate a decent planet (anything rated over 15 is good for any race) , you drop a few hundred 
 million people on it to get a colony going.   

  Upon seeing another empire popping out colony ships one after another at the start of the game, 
 or even the more expensive constructors used for starbases, you may begin to wonder if the AI is 
 cheating. But, while the opponents come in varying degrees of intelligence, they don't cheat in 
 any obvious way. That empire is just taking advantage of one of the more unusual elements of the 
 economy: credit. Some corporations are actually willing to finance the operations of governments 
 and produce units and buildings for you on credit. But obviously these companies are in business 
 to make money, because even when you pay quite a sum up front, the monthly payments on a loan can 
 continue for hundreds of turns. It's up to you to decide whether taking on debt is worth it, and 
 there are suitable rewards and punishments for risky financial strategies. The net effect is that 
 it doesn't take long at all to get a game going and chalk out some basic territorial boundaries 
 to defend and expand later.   

          Random events pop up to determine your alignment.    It won't take long to get an empire 
 humming along, but real challenges will start popping up nearly as soon as you do. That survey 
 ship zipping around the galaxy isn't gathering up goodies without some competition, and while you 
 can set it to survey automatically, you'll want to pay close attention to which empire's colony 
 ships are racing to the same planets as yours. You should get a good sense of who your potential 
 allies and enemies are from the minute you meet other races, and if you're ever too aggressive, 
 they'll call you up to tell you all about it.   

  As a space conquest game, Galactic Civilizations is all about conflict, but that doesn't mean you 
 have to rely on your military. The diplomatic system is very flexible and lets you do much more 
 than just declare war. Anything and everything is up for trade. Need to pacify an enemy winning 
 a war? Offering a star system or two is a real option. Want to buy allies? Instead of depleting 
 your treasury, you might try bartering technology or the special "monopoly trade goods" you can 
 research. Playing a strategy of cultural assimilation and need ships quick? Buy some from a militarily 
 advanced ally. Surprisingly, it's even a legitimate strategy to research as many improvements as 
 you can from your empire's technology tree and then sell technology to minor races (which don't 
 expand on the map) or allies. You can even have them pay you in monthly installments, so you you 
 can receive regular income each turn.     

  There are statistics hidden behind everything in Galactic Civilizations, and the diplomatic AI 
 does a pretty intelligent job of adding things up to see if they're in its interest. A militaristic 
 empire may not pay much at all for communications advances or even be willing to trade prized technology 
 for building a powerful combat base. AI empires will try to finagle a peace to pause and rearm 
 and may even surrender if threatened with extinction.   

          Bigger and better ships are only a few technology advances away.    One of Galactic Civilizations' 
 more unusual factors is its alignment system. Essentially, good-aligned empires are much friendlier 
 toward others aligned in that direction and tend to be more hostile to evil-aligned empires. AI 
 alignments are set at the beginning of the game, but yours starts out as neutral and is determined 
 by your response to random story events. It can sometimes seem that you'll benefit more often from 
 choosing an evil alternative instead of a good one, but moving in a good or an evil direction can 
 have an impact on how your empire is viewed by the entire galaxy, so choosing short-term rewards 
 isn't always the best strategy.   

  You'll also have to deal with internal conflicts. Once you advance your government to a republic, 
 or one of the later, more democratic forms, other political parties will compete with yours for 
 control of your empire's senate. You don't kicked out of office if your party loses, but you lose 
 the party bonus (for example, if you play as the Federalist party, you receive a 20 percent economy 
 boost) . The game has a numerical approval rating, so it's not terribly hard to tell if things are 
 going well on the domestic front, and to boost approval, you simply need to watch your tax and 
 morale levels.   

  Galactic Civilizations' technology tree is huge, and unless you focus your efforts and trade for 
 technology in other areas, you'll have trouble reaching the most advanced levels. You can also 
 research military advances, and some of the most powerful and interesting of these require cross-sector 
 research in multiple areas, such as studying both advanced weapons and biology. Unfortunately, 
 Galactic Civilizations doesn't provide any clear indication of what sort of research you need to 
 perform in each of these sectors to create improvements like advanced organic armor for you ships. 
 These advanced ships are as powerful as they are expensive, and the interesting part of Galactic 
 Civilizations' military engagements isn't the combat, since battles themselves are resolved quickly, 
 but rather the maneuvering of scouts and warships to detect and destroy incoming threats to your 
 planets and starbases.   

          Even the ugly races are worth bargaining with.    The game wouldn't be half as interesting 
 if it were just about fighting over planets. Space is divided up into quadrants, which are owned 
 by the empire with the most nearby influence. Influence is partly a measure of an empire's cultural 
 impressiveness and is helped by building vacation spots on starbases or embassies on planets. It's 
 also partly determined by ownership of starbases and planets in the area. Diplomacy is even a factor, 
 as well-liked empires have more influence than those that are hated. Quadrant ownership can play 
 a role in the legislation enacted by the galactic government all empires are a part of, and it's 
 possible to build such high influence in an area that other planets are swayed by it and defect. 
 The map also has pockets of resources scattered about that grant empire bonuses if they're claimed 
 by building a starbase, and these can become hot targets when war breaks out.   

  Galactic Civilizations' greatest strength is its simple yet deep gameplay. The 2D visuals are crisp 
 and the cutscenes are well rendered, but the ships don't look like much and don't sound that impressive. 
 The presentation is streamlined, but it can take some clicking around to understand which buttons 
 do what, since the little stylized icons aren't intuitive. But this is a game that's meant to be 
 played over and over, and you'll quickly figure out what's what. Repeat play is encouraged by the 
 "metaverse" Web-based high-score system, which ranks individual players and even clans. If you 
 do decide to play Galactic Civilizations, you'll want to get the patch and the "bonus pack" that 
 were made available on the game's release date, as they add a few more initial galaxy options, 
 a clear percentage score for each victory condition, and the ability to replace the standard sci-fi 
 music with an MP3 playlist. Galactic Civilizations may look simple, but it has a lot to offer. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I Played this game with and without the Altarian prophecy add on, so I'll talk about the add on 
 additions too.
  What I can surely say that this game is a real addiction threat - anyone who played Civilization 
 knows what I'm talking about. True, in some aspects its much more simplistic than Civilization, 
 but when you find yourself playing until 2am in a work night, when your wife and children are long 
 asleep - it says a lot about this game (or about my irresponsible self ?)
  Well, what we've got here is a formula of the 4 X games - much like the Space Empires and the Master 
 of Orion series. You create your race, and of course, try to rule the world.
  There are 2 things I liked the most , well 3, about this game - the vast tech tree takes 10's of 
 hours to explore, the rather advanced for its time diplomacy mechanism, and the economics part 
 of the game.
  Your diplomatic abilities are influenced from your actions (once in a while you are shown a moral 
 dilemma, and have to decide what path to take. Most of the time, choosing good is costly, while 
 choosing the easy, evil option is rewarding financially or otherwise. Who said being good isn't 
 hard ?) , tech advance, and the structures you build on each planet.
  The alignment thing is important, because no matter how kind you are to a faction of an opposing 
 alignment, they will not be your allies.
  The game is a bit difficult in the Normal settings. I mean, it's easy to win by a tech victory 
 or by an alliance victory, but most of the time it is impossible to get a conquest victory. The 
 difference between this game and the Altarian Prophecy add on - while most of the game parameters 
 are pre-determined here, in the Altarian Prophecy (from now on AP) you can change your civilizations 
 basic abilities.
  AP, is a quite small addition - it adds only the changes mentioned here before, a single player 
 campaign ( the usual, original setting is sandbox mode) , couple of races (very good addition when 
 playing the bigger maps, adds a lot to the challenge and the diplomacy) , a few more new tech's 
 and structures, and I also felt it raised the game's difficulty somewhat. For instance, whilst 
 in Galactic you can build and improve as many star bases as you want, here additions are pretty 
 costly, so every decision has to not be considered lightly. If i need to grade the AP, I'd give 
 it only 5, because it adds to the game play, but too little.
  The game graphics are, hmm, lame. Nothing short of older games graphics, but the games power is 
 in the economic and military planning, and not in the graphics. the sound department is Ok, there 
 are no spoken words, but the music is fine, nothing spectacular or so interesting that will make 
 you avoid turning it down and instead listen to your heavy metal albums... (Heavy metal goes well 
 with war, isn't that true ?)
  Game play wise the game is very simple, when the only thing that i can attest to be a little disappointing 
 is the battles. There is absolutely nothing interesting there.
  I love games that make you think. This one is not the most beautiful kid in class, but certainly 
 it gets all the A+s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechnologoDoom
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 24, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Like many of the other reviewers, I too have spent hours upon hours colonizing the universe. Instead 
 of many paragraphs of in depth analysis, I'm going to simply number the good (and poor) components 
 of the game and assign my value. Overall, Galactic Civilization is a solid space strategy game.
 
  
  What's good...
  
  1. (+10) The Star/Planets solar system system. Each star has multiple planets to colonize with 
 a variety of planet qualities to each star. I think that aesthetically this makes the interface 
 look really interesting, but it also allows for mega systems of financial/manufacturing/trade. 
 It certainly allows you to deepen and strengthen the region you posess. It also gives you time 
 to terraform less hospitible planets into solid places to live.
  
  2. (+20) Alignment desicions rock. Perhaps my favorite part of the game is random pop up desicions 
 that must be made during the colonization process. Each decision affects your ultimate alignment 
 and from there how other races see you. If you choose evil, you get some major up front gains, 
 but everyone hates you, and some of your planets may choose to break away. If you choose good, 
 you pass it all up in hopes that you'll make more friends along the road. 3. (+10) Invading planets 
 is complex. When you invate a planet in this game, you don't just take it over if there's no ship 
 defense. You must move troops to the planet and face the massive population. One of the most unique 
 parts of this game is this simple but well thought-out piece.
  
  4. (+15) Culture is a factor. Culture is mostly a factor of your social might, but the ability 
 to keep your planets together and to influence others to join you rests on this decisive piece. 
 Culture is huge in this game. And if you want to avoid battle for much of the game, appease your 
 enemies and have their citizens rebel to join you.
  
  5. (+20) Starbases take it to the next level. A successful civiliation rests on many many affective 
 starbases. You must contstruct these (and i put all of my manufacturing into these) piece by piece 
 and then upgrade them. But when you do they will take your social and military might to the next 
 level and also allow you to mine space elements that will also give you a big boost. It would be 
 great if you could populate them!
  
  the not as good....
  
  1. (-10) This is almost inevitably a military game, despite the other options. As is generally 
 a flaw within its genre, GalCiv is almost exclusively a military game despite the other options. 
 Gamespot reviews give AI good marks, but I consistently find myself fighting other races and feel 
 that overall there is little opportunity to really do anytihng other than fight in this game. All 
 advancements ultimately are so you can do that well. Even culture takes you only so far. What could've 
 had much potential is the galactic meeting once every so often where races vote on major universal 
 decisions. A great way to make the game more interesting would've been to increase the occurance 
 of these events and allow more important votes to be cast on the topics. As it currently plays, 
 the counsil votes rarely and the outcome is usually boring.
  
  2. (-5) So many planets, so much micromanaging. Even in this game, as you expand you'll spend more 
 and more time managing production and even just ships. This game makes advances in this field, 
 but it's still a significant drawback to the genre.
  
  so...
  
  Overall some great stuff here that will make for hours of fun play. It's just that it could've 
 been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaselbrain
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6/10
  While fun and addictive several repetitive issues start to crop up to as you play. For example 
 while on a large galaxy the computer controlled AI might surrender to you or someone else when 
 it could have gone on for a while longer, COMPLETELY unbalancing the game to the point of no point 
 in continuing to play.
  Aside from that issue and a few others the AI is impeccable, the fact that the game lacks a campaign 
 or multiplayer is completely offset by this.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  You can see whats going on and thats about as much as the graphics do.
  
  Sound: 4/10
  Sound? 
 YUK. Were it not for the musical score the sound would be terrible.
  
  Value: 5/10
  It's aging and it has a sequel thats recent and a ten fold improvement on the game. In short, in 
 this day and age there is little reason to get it.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  This is a great game that other companies should be aware of, It scope and implementation and AI 
 and ease of use are all thing that make this game a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duraxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  While not as relationship serveringly addictive as Alpha Centaurai, Master of Orion 2, or Civilization, 
 Galactic civilization sure comes close. I'll break it down short and then give the long review 
 at the end.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Addictive. It makes you not care about the sun, or food, or sleep, or even other people with a 
 pulse. If you've played any of the aforementioned games you know exactly what you are getting into. 
 The gameplay is simplified so it plays most like Master of Orion 1.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  I loved this game. Unfortunately it has a face only a mother would love. The graphics are blah, 
 and compare well to those of Master of Orion 2 (which is 6 years older) . Games of this ilk don't 
 need nice graphics to be great, but it'd be nice.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Meh. Nothing special. Nothing terrible. The score is basically ambient music.
  
  Value: 10/10
 
  This is what value is all about. Unlimited replayability (I've beaten it multiple times in multiple 
 ways) with dowloadable AI from stardock. 
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  This game is almost a 4X classic in its own right. Hopefully Galactic Civ 2 shores up the flaws 
 and the GC series finally finds its own pedastool.
  
  I loved long-term strategy games. When I first booted up civilization 1 (back in 1995) I ended 
 up playing that game until 3 in the morning... and when I looked at the clock I was shocked. Galactic 
 civilization is like that, I would play for hours, finally take a breather after a critical juncture, 
 and realize that I hadn't eaten. The gameplay is a simplified 4X game and has alot more in common 
 with Master of Orion 1 (Moo) than Moo2 or Moo3 (the latter of which was so complicated it was terrible) . 
 The planet building is unified so that you build 1 lab on a planet, when you research the new type 
 of lab you then build 1 of the new type of lab. Where the meat of the gameplay comes from is the 
 unique feature, primarily culture and politics. First the game uses a culture system, a more populous 
 (and stronger) civilization will have a higher culture rating meaning that it's culture will spread 
 farther. If a neighboring planet has a significantly lower rating it can defect, meaning that you 
 can win the game without ever having to fire a shot or be elected to any position. Wow. Trade routes 
 and Starbases help culture, and it's fun to watch top-level civilizations fight it out with culture 
 (and starebase building rights) . Politics has also been dramatically revamped by the people stardock. 
 The computer A. I. functions increadibly human-like which among other things makes diplomacy an 
 actual option. More interestingly you have to worry about your own civilizations politics. In the 
 beginning of the game you start with a certain government type that has specific benefits. As you 
 advance in the game your people begins to vote on the efficacy of your party's governance. Screw 
 up too much or piss off too many colonists and your party will actually lose the election giving 
 you a government penalty as opposed to a bonus. Not only are you watching the other civs rating 
 closely, but if you start to lose favor with your people you will cringe over the changing political 
 balance. In the end this game is great, ignore the throw-away graphics and bland sound and you 
 will be rewarded with a treasure full of gameplay. If you love the 4x style of gameplay you owe 
 it to yourself to buy this game. If you have never played a game like this but would like to try 
 with something simple this is also the game for you... it's like a gateway drug. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaldx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I played GC endlessly when it came out. Very addictive!
  
  There is a steep learning curve in this game, which can only partly be compensated by starting 
 off with weak enemies. When you play against weak foes, you will not really be "tested." You will 
 just get an easier game. Also, your diplomatic actions and nice foreign relations may or may not 
 pay off, so it is difficult to figure out a winning strategy. Just when you think you got it figured 
 out, you will get hit upside the head, or start a game with tougher enemies that just kill you.
 
  
  If you graduate to intelligent enemies, the game is "very challenging," aka "painful." You may 
 win one out of ten tries. That can be discouraging; when you seem to be getting off to a good start, 
 only to have some aliens just stomp out your civilization with superior everything; and no help 
 from your supposed allies. 
  
  The AI in this game is so strong and deeply complex, that it can actually make you feel stupid, 
 which is probably not good for the gaming masses. Considering the fragile male ego, I would think 
 that most guys want to feel smarter than the game-in-the-box, and would simply give up on this 
 game. Girls are welcome to try of course!
  
  True strategy aficionados (and a few sado-masochists) will take this routine humiliation as a challenge 
 and rack their brains to figure out a better way to play, but ultimately a player's choices are 
 limited -- and sometimes you are simply doomed. One thing I can say for sure: If you get a bad starting 
 location, you will never overcome it, no matter how hard you try. If you get bad position, just 
 START OVER. 
  
  In fact, let me file that one complaint: starting location in the galaxy (which seems fairly randomized) 
 should not be such a profound determinant to the outcome. 
  
  EARLY GAME STRATEGY TIPS
  
  Best starting politics is either pacifist or populist.
  Speed is a good primary enhancement, 
 plus diplomacy and influence. Speed is very useful at the beginning, whereas influence and diplomacy 
 have strong effects later on.
  
  You need to start in a location which is relatively unoccupied by potential enemies, and land grab 
 like crazy. This means 100% or 66% military spending (for colony ships) and zero social spending 
 for 10 or 20 turns. Try to build a couple more survey ships for a quick boost to your stats and 
 possible early attack capability. If you have a nearby competitor, use your survey ships (if they 
 procure attack capability, a matter of luck) to wipe out colony ships and other survey ships to 
 secure your sector of the galaxy. Early wars are soon forgotten and do not affect your alignment.
 
  
  Usually the entire galaxy gets occupied quickly, but sometimes there will be a "backwater" of stars 
 which is too far from all comers for direct colonization. The secret is to build a space station 
 (or a chain of them) to bridge the gap and get your colonists over there. That backwater is likely 
 the safest location in the game.
  
  Once established, you have to adapt your strategy depending on your relative location and alignment. 
 
  
  GC is an amazingly difficult game! I am looking forward to trying out GC2, but from the reviews, 
 it seems that the major enhancement is the ability to design ships. I don't think I want to pay 
 $40 for that "privilege." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnWillis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The Gameplay is almost hard to describe. There are so many different thing to play around with 
 including research, trade war, cultural influence and many other things that make the galactic 
 universe realistic. It is not a difficult game if you keep the difficulty low but if you put it 
 up, it becomes a bit impossible. There are enough different difficulty's to choose from so you 
 should be able to find the right one.
  
  The graphics and sound are a bit dated but you dont really look at this stuff when you get into 
 it.
  
  It is the most addictive game and i cant wait for Galactic Civilizations 2 to hit stores which 
 looks more promissing then the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italiano72
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  Galactic Civilization is not a game that I would recommend to everyone, unless you are a Civilization 
 fan you may not like it. I'm a Civ. fan and that's the reason I got it. My first impression was 
 pretty disappointing, I got turned off by the interface and simple graphic. I let it sit on my 
 shelf for months (while playing Civ III & IV) , what a shame !!!
  When I finally decided to force myself to learn it (I really hate manuals so for me I just have 
 to play it and figure things out) I have found it addictive just as Civilization. It has a lot 
 of depth and the fun factor is pretty high. On the down side It's not very difficult and I'd like 
 to see many more Alien Races and also it would be cool to play as one of them and not only as the 
 Humans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reflekshun
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  GalCiv is simply one of the most immersive, addictive strategy games i've played (right next to 
 the HOMM series) . I just loved the atmosphere it creates right from the get go, and the story that 
 YOU create, which is always interesting and fun to reflect on at the end of a game. GalCiv gives 
 you so much control as to how the game plays and unfolds, but isn't too free that its a mess. Its 
 VERY well organised and is a joy to experience!
  
  The tech tree is very deep and well structured. All research options have very intriguing descriptions 
 and effects on gameplay. You will be constantly wanting to research everything, but good luck, 
 because that takes a very long time and you will have to sacrifice military and building in order 
 to reach the end of the research tree before your hair starts going grey!
  
  The soundtrack sits in the background very nicely, pulls you into the world, if your morale turns 
 too evil, the music and gui changes into a much darker evil theme. Vice-versa if your morale turns 
 good enough. 
  
  Diplomacy is actually FUN to do.. Each race has a distinct personality and motive, trading and 
 creating alliances can actually be alot of fun! Winning by forming alliances with every race is 
 more fun in this game than any other i've tried. AI is very smart, with the updated patch, the 
 programmers actually used recorded strategies from many of the best GalCiv players and implemented 
 them into the AI. On top of that, each AI was created from the bottom up! ie. They didn't just 
 create an AI and switch some parameters for each different race! That to me is very impressive 
 and it shows when you play the game.. 
  
  All these factors and more go towards making this game teem with humanity and warmth. It seems 
 less like a computer game simply number crunching in order to win against you. Its much closer 
 to reality than that. 
  
  The replayability is awesome, playing the game through once is the beginning of a very long journey! 
 Different government types, race skills to start with, tech tree direction, winning through military, 
 research, diplomacy or pure influence! (if your culture is strong enough) . All these have their 
 pros+cons, and ALL are fun to achieve unlike some other strategy games i know. Of course all games 
 have randomised stars/planets, and the size of the universe you play in can be amazingly huge.. 
 keeping you coming back many times before you can complete your game. 
  
  No Online play, but there is a great community out there playing GalCiv and collecting statistics. 
 You should check their website for more info. (I put difficulty: hard, but its variable, AI can 
 be adjusted all the way from fool to genius)
  
  This game is FUN and TOTALLY ADDICTIVE. Be prepared to get sucked in big time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgranda
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  After logging in many hours of glactic battles and parsec expansion this game does not get old. 
 The game has a very prominant Civ-like feel to it but I love the random event touch to add spice 
 to the game. The CPU-opponents are some of the most balanced I have ever encountered and they are 
 consistent with their various strategies thoughout higher difficulty levels. The sound track is 
 awsome and the Tech-tree and planet development offer players many options for customization. The 
 2D graphis leave something to be desired but once you get into the flow of the game they are less 
 noticable as you furiously try to sabotage a Yor and Derengi alliance from blasting you out of 
 existence. I think what most impressed me about this game was the commitment from Stardock regarding 
 support and content updates via Stardock Central. Not only was it super easy to get patches but 
 new events were added regularly and player created events encouraged and included as often as offical 
 events. the game stability was top notch and it seemed for a while patches and content were coming 
 out every week. Many game designers could take some lessons on support from Stardock. All in all 
 excellent game with tilt that is as off the charts as Civilization III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 1, 2004 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Brad Wardell and his team at Stardock have brought us a very decent turn-based title combining 
 some simple macro elements found in Master of Orion I ( 1994 ) with basic Civilization concepts. 
 The overall look is polished, though does feel a bit blank and arid. There is definitely no sense 
 of atmospheric grandeur; the strong megalomaniac feeling so well rendered in Master of Orion II 
 ( 1996 ) is not there too. GalCiv lacks the details in the combat features, which are extremly 
 limited to a simple strategic clash like a Risk (ish) board game. That said, the strategic depth 
 itself is quite satisfying without being overly complexified. The diplomatic options are well layed 
 out, and like any competitor of the genre has either strenghts and tedious economic exchanges in 
 time too. The AI is effectively decent, not that strong like many critics said since I've never 
 been harassed or bothered militaristically by the AI even at Challenging levels. The good TBS player 
 won't have any diificulty at all to expand, thus bringing the almost unavoidable tedious ending 
 parts of a long TBS campaign. On the other hand, the developers have worked out a great tech tree, 
 indeed one of the best of all time.
  
  The graphical engine is just rendering things OK at a decent resolution for the genre. Coloring 
 is not that flashy, tarned down for a less memorable visual experience than many other space games. 
 However it's some kind of equilibrium that seems to be easier to the eyes for longer sessions without 
 being tired. The in game cinematics are cool ( first planet colonized, first starbase built, and 
 so on...) , yet mostly concentrated in the first half of a standard game ( ending builds may lack 
 some sense of reward ) . Now the audio score is average, and some weapon sounds may be intentionally 
 weakened: not a great deal of development time has been spent there.
  
  Indeed, a good humor style is incorporated and that shows when dealing with the very ETish aliens. 
 That is clearly distinguishing GalCiv from the serious titles of the genre like the MoO series, 
 yet the absence of a real galactic megalomania of domination is not helping the game's lasting 
 appeal. It remains a good empire building game, affordable, and we should keep our eyes open as 
 the franchise goes on with GalCiv2 and the promise of further implementations like a ship design! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortuus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 7, 2004 1:39 am PT
Review:  Based off of the popular OS/2 game, Galactic Civilizations is the ambitious remake for the PC. 
 The game boasts completely dynamic game play, that is, every time you play, things will be different.
 
  
  The game has lived out its life, and it shows. An expansion was recently released, but unfortunately, 
 it was too late to save the game from dying. Its a shame too because this game really is a classic.
 
  
  The versatility and flexibility is immediately apparent when first playing the game. You are faced 
 with many options such as the size of the galaxy in which you will play, the level of AI, victory 
 conditions, etc. One feature that you will first notice is missing is the lack of choice in race. 
 You always must play as the humans. This gets a little boring, but it makes little difference, 
 because as far as I can tell, the races are just cosmetic and there are no real differences between 
 them mechanics-wise.
  
  Game play mechanics are intriguing, but dont go into enough detail for me. Galactic Civilizations 
 doesnt have enough depth while Master of Orion 3 goes way too far in depth. You have your basic 
 elements of 4X strategy games; trade, research, politics, and combat. While the game doesnt have 
 anything terribly innovative, the game is fun and addictive enough to hold your interest for several 
 months.
  
  Lack of multiplayer and choice of races is what killed what could have been a great game. There 
 is some level of competition with the metaverse system. The metaverse system allows players to 
 submit their scores to the Galactic Civilizations website, and players are then ranked by their 
 score.
  
  The game can definitely hold your interest for several months and when you begin to play this game, 
 you will feel compelled to finish it. Unfortunately, the game becomes stale and repetitive after 
 a while and will sit on your shelf.
  
  If you are a fan of 4X turn based strategy games and are looking for a game that will hold your 
 interest for at least several months, then hurry up and get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2003 4:29 am PT
Review:  This is a fun, but not very deep game. In playing through Galactic Civilizations I found that I 
 enjoyed playing the games, but had many turns that were nothing more than micromanagement or waiting 
 for the next technology, ship, etc. The graphics and sound aren't bad but they're nothing to write 
 home about. The two areas where the game shines above all other 4x games I've played is designer 
 support and computer AI. Brad Wardell and Stardock patch, update, and improve the game on an ongoing 
 basis. In fact, it has just been announced that Stardock will be releasing a free major upgrade 
 to registered owners. Also, the AI in this game is well done and at the higher difficultly levels 
 extremely competent and aggressive. My biggest complaint is the large number of turns where nothing 
 meaningful happens, and the fact that the combat (and ships) in this game is easily the most boring 
 combat I've ever encountered. Many people seem to like the fact that combat is completely abstracted 
 to a level of simplicity similar to Risk, I don't. I really would have liked to have the option 
 of using tactical combat, especially for the more interesting combat. I could use the current combat 
 model for the easy-win or otherwise boring combats. If the combat were better and there weren't 
 so many meaningless turns, I'd bump the gameplay up to a 9 or 10, but as it is I think a 6 is fair. 
 I do think the game is an excellent value and gave it a 10 because of Stardock's amazing support 
 for the game. If you like 4x, I would certainly recommend the game, and with a few tweaks and better 
 combat I think this game be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spike2071
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2003 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations is, overall, an enjoyable game. The graphics and sound are ho-hum, but in 
 truth I like this fact as it has allowed me to install the game on my laptop for use while travelling. 
 
  
  The true depth of the game comes in the AI, which while questionable at times, overall does an 
 excellent job of being challenging. One feature that I particularly approved of was the fact that 
 as my empire grew more powerful, all the other nations did not automatically gang up on me. In 
 fact, a few of them (those that I was morally aligned with) became more and more friendly with 
 me, offering unasked for tributes, technologies, and even ships.
  
  Gal Civ also does away with the traditional AI governor of your planets. Instead, it allows you 
 to setup up to 4 templates with what you want to produce and in what order. All you have to do 
 is assign one of your templates to a planet and you need not worry about that planet again. On 
 the other hand, it is insanely easy to switch production for one or two turns before turning it 
 back to the template.
  
  Perhaps the best feature of all is that the developers Stardock have promised one year of support 
 for their product. I have already seen drastic upgrades in several areas. Some of these changes 
 were simple bug fixes and AI tweaks, but many were user based. For example, the original lease 
 system was rather weak. There were four options, but in truth only two were ever used by anyone. 
 After feedback from the players, Stardock changed the system such that all four options are now 
 viable.
  
  Overall, if you like strategy games, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moonshadow167
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2003 12:05 am PT
Review:  The game is defintly the best game out in this class right now, but I would have liked to play 
 the alien races. Also all races use the same star sytems. It would have been more interesting for 
 each race to have it's own uniqui atmospheres and planets for colonization with, a reaserch avaliable 
 to terraform unpleasent planets to your own requirments. I also thought the game was a little overpriced, 
 but I do realise it takes a lot of money these days to create one. However with the company's complete 
 support even to the point of creating a free expansion pack for it's buyers is fantastic. The suport 
 itself makes the game well worth the price, and this game should be a great or even a classic in 
 a year or so. They listen to the comments (and complaints) and are implimenting it in the game 
 (what's feasable antway) so this game is constantly evolving. The game as is now is the same XXXX 
 game as you've seen so many times before, but I expext it will be much more in a year or so.... much, 
 much more
  Moonshadow167 moonshadow167@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sublight_D
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 6, 2003 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I thought that this would be the space simulator/turn based strategy game 
 I had been missing for a while. So I read the decent game instructions, and quickly became interested 
 in trying it out. I started it up, set all the computer AI foes to the sub-normal setting, and 
 began playing.
  
  The first thing I noticed was that the sound was average at best. There are no real nice affects 
 when you decide to do something, and a very basic ping ping and schroom sound after a ship 
 battle leaves much to be desired. The graphics were crisp however, and I dont play strategy games 
 for great sound and stunning graphics, its all in the gameplay, right?
  
  So I continue to play, and am enjoying the depth of the research/technology tree. I get into trade, 
 diplomacy, and have about 4 star systems with about 8 planets early on. Then the big bad comes 
 on.
  
  One of the evil foes decides that they want to make war. They ignore all diplomatic means, and 
 apparently have a ton of cash. All of their ships have more experience than my peaceful ones, and 
 they have a few war technology advancements, because I was focusing on winning the game by the 
 other means, like diplomacy and influence. Basically I get annihilated because I dont have the 
 tech or troops to beat a pure warlike race.
  
  So I start over, and do a mix of tech and war. Again, same thing happens. I play again and again, 
 each time losing to warlike races. I decide to choose the war party and go all weapons. I last 
 the longest this way, but still lose. Why you ask? The computer cheats. Even on the sub-normal 
 setting. To take over a system, you have to clear all ships in orbit, and then send in troop transports 
 to defeat the ground troops. I destroy all ships in orbit, when and in the half turn it takes me 
 to send a transport to raid the planet, the computer has built two ships and put them in orbit. 
 Even had they bought the ships on credit as is an option, they cant have two built before the 
 turn is even over. Its just not possible, except by cheating.
  
  So it quickly became apparent to me (after 20 hours of playing) that the other ways to win the 
 game, trade, diplomacy, tech, etc are fine in theory, but in gameplay, the only way to do it is 
 to war. Personally, a war simulator such as this is really boring because of the before mentioned 
 average graphics and sound. At least Shogun Total War combined great elements of both strategy 
 and combat. This has barely both. Im just glad I only paid $35 american for it, instead of the 
 usual $50+ for new games. I hope I get full price on the return.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElfPhoenix
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 5, 2003 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Earlier I reviewed MoO III, a game I really wanted to like, but could not because of the troublesome 
 gameplay. GalCiv has excellent gameplay. One has to realize tho that it is purely a strategy game, 
 there is no tactical combat nor ability to custom make ships. But the game never pretended otherwise 
 (unlike MoO III's forgotten promises) . So I was well informed of the lack of tactical combat. Nonetheless, 
 I thoroughly enjoy the game. I have spent well over 40 hours with the game and continue to enjoy 
 it. It has a lot of replay value.
  
  The graphics are reasonable altho not spectacular (not surprising for a TBS game, tho) . The sound, 
 well, I do not much like it. It is too repetitive and gets to be nerve-racking after a few hours. 
 But that is my only complaint. Except I love tactical combat, but that was not promised so no fault 
 there.
  
  The AI of the game is amazing and reportedly it does not cheat until it's highest level. And frankly 
 even on lower levels the AI plays rather smartly. I love the challenge of the AI. Well done, Brad! 
 
  
  If you enjoy highly challenging TBS AI I highly recommend this game with no reservation.
  
 
  I'm not particularly fond of the updating system but once you get accustomed to it's oddities, 
 it works okay. The metaverse adds the possiblity that the AI will even improve. That is rather 
 inspiring!
  
  Remember, this game has no multiplayer and is intended as a challenging single-player game. It 
 does not pretend otherwise, unlike some games that purport multi but fail miserably as such.
  
  In summary, this is a challenging, refreshing, and entertaining single-player TBS game based 
 in space and quite enjoyable.
  
  Elf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2003 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this short.... get this game. It is a great game if your into turn based strategy games 
 or if your new to the genera and have always wanted to try one out. The game has a small bit of 
 a learning curve but not too bad.
  
  It has tons of depth and a very wll done diplomacy model set into the game. The music and graphics 
 all get the job done very well. The game has that "one more turn" addictive quality to it and so 
 many things to play around with it keeps you into the game very well.
  
  Colonizing, diplomacy, economic balancing, production, trade, exploration, political juggling, 
 technology researching the list goes on and on. But the great thing is none of this stuff is taken 
 to over complicated lengths like some other recent games in this genre *cough MoO3 cough*.
  
  The game is fun, addictive and has so far had excellent support from the devs. Its a great 
 game by a small developer. Get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2003 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Though different in many ways, this game is reminiscent of Masters of Orion II -- which is a good 
 thing! If Master of Orion III teaches us nothing else, it should at least be a cautionary tale 
 as to the need for a game to be FUN, even if it has the newest whizbang neato this or that. The 
 Galactic Civilizations User Interface is far superior to MoOIII. The gameplay is far superior to 
 MoOIII. Diplomacy is far better in GC. Colony and Fleet management? GC all the way.
  
  The perceived GC flaws really aren't. The graphics are better than Civ III, and that is a supposed 
 'modern' game (though I cannot figure what makes it any better than CivII, honestly) . The GC graphics 
 and sound are ok, but the ambient music is very, very good. And if GC proves to be mod-able, the 
 sound and ship-graphics complaints will soon be out the window.
  
  The only real complaints I have are these: no tactical combat, which would seem to be a natural 
 for a single-player game; and no simple way to track all of your various ships -- e. g., how 'bout 
 a button that takes you to all ships that are stopped and are without orders?
  
  And most importantly, Galactic Civilizations is just plaint FUN. After 2 weeks of MoOIII, I found 
 myself wanting to watch TV or read rather than play 'one more turn.' That is, until I got GC, and 
 I got that 'one more turn' feeling again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowmark
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 30, 2003 12:19 am PT
Review:  First let me say I am glad another game did come out after that horrible MOO3. But if you are a 
 fan of MOO2 or Space Empires, this game may not be for you. This is more like civilization is space. 
 Which is not a bad thing, it is just not really a 4X game. There is no ship customization, you 
 get new ships when you research new tech but the ships just have an attack and defense factor. 
 There is also no tactical combat, just some number crunching done when you fight.
  
  Graphics and sound are decent not great. Gameplay is good, especially the AI when it comes to diplomacy 
 which is not really done well in the other games. But it is more of a run around the board grabbing 
 up items game with a lot of micromanagement then it is a conquer the galaxy game. 
  
  No multiplayer and the same races each time you play make it a not super replayable game but there 
 is something there for those that don't like scripted games.
  
  If you are a fan of MOO2 and Space Empires, this game is probably not for you but if you are a 
 fan of Civ or new to the genre then this might be a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilebill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2003 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Galactic Civilizations is a breath of fresh air in the gaming world. The graphics are semi-legacy, 
 completely entrancing, and the interface is logically laid out and easy to learn. Do****entation 
 could use some improvement, the included manual leaves much to be desired; but after experimenting 
 with the game for a while only two pages of the manual are really necessary, the key stroke commands 
 page and the page of planet classifications. Remarkably enough, the game will run out of the box 
 without the CDROM in the drive. StarDock feels that registration online and membership in the "Metaverse" 
 of the game is worth the price of the game and that is what they are really charging for. Those 
 who pay instantly get a Bonus Disk upgrade that provides new game options, ships, and multimedia. 
 The game will continue to develop with player input guiding the process throughout at least the 
 next year. Also, the AI will be able to grow smarter each time it is connected to the Metaverse 
 because it will learn from combined player experience. Eventually the game will grow in functionality 
 as well, right now the player must play the human race versus the aliens, but with the customization 
 features this is not much of a disadvantage. If you liked Master of Orion 2, you will probably 
 like this game even though it is quite different in style and concept. It already well deserves 
 the 9.6 score that I have given it. With another year of player-guided development it will be a 
 perfect 10.0 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mainboard007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2003 10:55 am PT
Review:  I think Galactic Civilizations is one of the best 4x turn based strategy games published in a very 
 long while. I feel like I'm playing a space version of Sid Meier's Civilization, the first one, 
 updated of course. It's not groundbreaking like the civilization series has been so don't get me 
 wrong. Nor will I compare it to Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri. Galactic Civilizations stands out on 
 its own, although you might not feel that there is anything truly new to the type of gameplay. 
 I believe what Stardock has done, is make a masterpiece for those really wanting to feel like they 
 are running a HUGE Galactic Empire. There are a few flaws, but as far as I'm concerned, they do 
 not detract that much from gameplay.
  
  First off, its combat model is kinda weak, because it turns into: He who has the highest upgraded 
 ships and the most of them, wins. That's not saying the battles are not fun, it's just combat is 
 simplified a lot, and there's not much to do after attacking someone besides sit and watch the 
 results. (The only other problem with combat, and this comment is for only 4x veterans, is that 
 there is no ship customization nor can you retrofit older and cheaper parts.) 
  
  Secondly, which I believe this is the single biggest flaw that GalCiv has, there is NO multiplayer. 
 This game would have been one of the GREATEST GAMES of its type EVER MADE if it had multiplayer. 
 If you play it you'll understand why the lack of multiplayer is such an absolute shame. Whether 
 they will have multiplayer in a later patch or not I'm not sure. But I would suggest to anyone 
 to buy this game just for the chance.
  
  But if you can deal with those two flaws, this game has one of the best AI's ever made. The diplomacy 
 is wonderful, the technology is varied and interesting, and everything about the game just screams 
 quality and polish. But keep in mind it's a turn based strategy game so it doesn't need a lot to 
 do a lot. And to that end the graphics are not going to set the bar for anything. They're adequate 
 and as far as I'm concerned wonderful, but some people might not agree. All in all if you're looking 
 for a great single player experience deep in space this is one of the best to be had. BUT if you're 
 looking for a strong strategic space combat game or have to have multiplayer it might be good to 
 go with Master of Orion 3. I own both so I get the best of both worlds. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephencasey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2003 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game has the best AI, bar none. Every game randomizes the galaxy and you can play from gigantic, 
 loosly clustered galaxies with abundant high grade colonizing planets with 5 species from pure 
 evil to pure good, from fool AI to Genius AI. - to - tiny, tight clustered galaxies with little 
 high grade planets, and just a couple AIs. This is a deep strategy game not a tacticle shooter. 
 There are plenty of those. The AIs have personality and will surrender when it is hopeless. You 
 can alley up with some when it is advantageous then stab them in the back to conquer them later. 
 It takes a about ten hours to get your mind around it, but once you do it is easy to customize 
 a game that is right up your alley. Endless replayability, endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordsArmy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2003 11:52 am PT
Review:  Enjoyable... but... why play this when you could be playing Zelda? I mean realy, would you rather 
 be playing a mediocer stradegy game or Zelda? Go by a game cube and get Zelda. You owe it to your 
 self. There are some great touches in this game how ever... and I supose if you consider your self 
 a huge fan of the genra you should check it out, but only then. The rest of us... just go get Zelda. 
 I've gota say this though... the sound in this game is right up there with the best I've seen. 
 Great sound. Now... must... go... play... ZELDA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analog01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2003 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is refreshing after my great disappointment with MOO3. The feel, design, look... everything 
 brings out what I was looking for. FUN. Moo3 lost it. The reason why I'm comparing this game constantly 
 to moo3 is 'cause, well, ya know. It's the time frame thing. I've been waiting to play a good space 
 strat since moo2. I've only been playing this game for one day... but I assure, its fun. It covers 
 what its supposed to. The AI actually works. The theme is more old school space fantasy leaning 
 more towardStar Wars and Babylon 5 then some ultra bleached quasi-technical bullcrud game. You 
 know the one Im talking about. Just get the game and support the small guy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
