-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Galactic Assault: Prisoner of Power
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/galacticassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smart mission design that emphasizes brain over brawn.
 Good campaign depth with varied mission designs.
 Gameplay beefed up by lots of scenarios, solo deathmatch maps, and online multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unintelligible story.
 Dark, grainy graphics.
 A few odd bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: Wargaming. net
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Sep 12, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A good grasp of tactics along with smart, challenging missions outshine Galactic Assault's impenetrable 
 storyline and elementary design. 

  Although all of your initial impressions about Galactic Assault: Prisoner of Power lead you to 
 believe that it's yet another cut-rate effort slapped together in a cold-water flat in a former 
 Warsaw Pact nation, this is not the case. For starters, developer Wargaming. net is based in Louisiana. 
 Second, this is one playable turn-based strategy game. Yes, it's based on a Russian sci-fi novel 
 that you've never heard of. Yes, the developer is about as anonymous as a crowd on a subway platform 
 to anyone who hasn't played its Massive Assault series. But the game itself is more polished than 
 you would expect. It offers a great interface and enticing tactical engagements, despite miscues 
 such as incoherent storytelling and missions that are a little too carefully constructed.  

  For a game based on a novel, you would think that Galactic Assault would at least have a strong 
 story going for it. On the contrary, the plot of the campaign is so poorly told that even an English 
 speaker could probably make more sense out of the original, untranslated book. Either some people 
 at Wargaming. net need to brush up on their Russian, or authors Arkady and Boris Strugatsky need 
 to work on their storytelling skills. It's pretty hard to even figure out what's going on here 
 because the mission briefings make nothing clear. You apparently lead Maxim Kammerer of the Land 
 of Unknown Fathers in a war for the alien planet of Saraksh against Khontie, Insular Empire, and 
 Southern Barbarian factions. But beyond those basics, your guesses are as good as ours. You'd be 
 better off making up a story like you were a five-year-old playing with toy soldiers than trying 
 to comprehend the seemingly random cutscene voice-overs.  

           Combat may not be as intense as in the garden-variety RTS, although things still blow 
 up real good on occasion.      

  Thankfully, the missions themselves are smartly structured. Even though you might never know the 
 reasons why you're fighting a war, at least you always know what you're supposed to be doing in 
 the individual battles. Assignments are actually so masterfully laid out that even strategy-game 
 beginners will have no problems grasping the basic concepts of warfare on Saraksh. After a brief 
 tutorial mission to acquaint you with the interface, an advisor walks Maxim and his troops through 
 the initial missions against the Khontie. This is a teensy bit tedious, given that you feel as 
 if you're painting by numbers at times. Yet this measured approach does a great job of introducing 
 the strengths of armored units as opposed to infantry, as well as how to use artillery to beef 
 up defenses, the best way to dig in ground troops, and so on. It even covers elementary battle 
 tactics such as flanking dug-in enemy positions.  

  All of these tips get you thinking strategically from the very beginning, so you won't waste any 
 time on frontal assaults or stupid tank rushes. This is a very good thing, in that the structure 
 of the game makes it look more like a simplistic real-time strategy game than the turn-based wargame 
 that it actually is. The fairly generic army-man units in three of the four factions don't do much 
 to help this visual distinction; only the Southern Barbarians sort of stand out, with more rough-and-ready 
 equipment and monstrous ghouls standing in for shock troops. Turns are divided into separate sections 
 for movement, combat, and reinforcement. Circular targets spell out which spots units can go to 
 during the movement phase of each turn. Units can't be stacked, so they must be laid out in easy-to-spot 
 formations when attacking or defending. Warnings let you know if you're about to end a turn with 
 a unit still being able to move or fire. Unit strength and morale is depicted with a bar and a 
 light, respectively, both of which go from green to yellow to red. Overall, this is one of the 
 most helpful strategy interfaces to come along in some time. Many little touches here should be 
 emulated by rival developers.  

  Everything else is based on a traditional real-time format, with the only difference being that 
 you move units in turns, of course. Money earned for completing objectives and ka-booming the enemy 
 is used to augment preexisting bases with depots that construct all manner of military hardware, 
 from infantry grunts, to futuristic choppers, to engineering corps who can lay down bridges. However, 
 production is relatively sedate. Instead of rolling hordes of troops and tanks off of production 
 lines, fairly tight monetary limits force you to be cautious about what you're sending into the 
 field. The pace of combat is also fairly measured. It can take a number of turns just to take out 
 an infantry company, so there are no battles of attrition here. Yet at the same time, battles don't 
 drag. For want of a better description, they feel right, with units that take appropriate amounts 
 of damage before going down. Missions can stretch to an hour or so, although they generally move 
 along quite quickly, which makes this one of the zippiest turn-based games you'll ever play.  

 
           Ah, the eternal conflict between helicopter and battle-ghoul. It's like cats versus dogs. 

  That said, there are a few flies in the ointment. Enemy artificial intelligence is relentless on 
 the attack, although it seems to hit you with a pretty blunt frontal assault much of the time instead 
 of carefully managing its units. Missions are overly structured at times. This is pretty refreshing 
 in the scenario and deathmatch solo modes of play, given that the detailed objectives provide both 
 with a sense of purpose often missing from the cheapie sandbox styles that mark skirmish play in 
 other strategy games. But such a design is also limiting, in that missions can become awfully linear. 
 The only way to break away from this is to go multiplayer, and all it offers is one-on-one deathmatching 
 (not that there ever seems to be anybody on the servers, anyhow) . Bugs afflict some of the solo 
 deathmatch maps, as well. On a regular basis, games will end suddenly after just a single turn. 
 You get an error message that the game seems to be broken, and a bizarre prompt to fix it, followed 
 by a quick exit to the main menu.  

  The presentation values raise further gripes. Although the audio effects are acceptable during 
 battles, and the voice acting is actually pretty good for your standard wargame, the visuals are 
 so grainy and dark that it's hard to tell one unit from another when zoomed out even a touch. The 
 time of day changes as well, which makes this problem even worse when the sun goes down. At night, 
 it's awfully tough to see much of anything without scrolling right down to field level.  

  Even with its flaws, Galactic Assault's great interface and emphasis on battlefield tactics make 
 it worth a look. It could use some help when it comes to storytelling and visual design, but those 
 missteps are largely balanced out by what this game does right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AvatarBlue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  A good game. Not brilliant, but virtually bug free and worth playing. For one thing the setting 
 makes this game unique or virtually so. I believe there are a few games that are similiar or are 
 based on the same setting but I havent played those.
  
  The game is functionally designed. The campaign is a bit of disappointment, at least at the beginnng. 
 Later on though the big units make it worthwhile. Limititations during the campaign though make 
 some of the missions a chore, though some are challenging because of the limitations. I. e. unit 
 limits exist to keep specific scenarions balanced. This makes the AI very good because the number 
 of factors that must be coded for reduced. In some ways this is good, but it means that the game 
 leave a feeling that something is missing.
  
  Moving on the various environments, day and night cycle does add a great element of strategising 
 on top of the FoW. I just wish there had been a rudimentary supply model added. Yet the number 
 of units in the game provide numerous permutations to what tactics you wish to employ. Love the 
 aircopters that airdrop infantry units! That one unit makes the game worth getting imo. I was a 
 little disappointed in the other air units, but not by much. Futhermore, bases and tech is somewhat 
 limited. Maybe they planned to bring out an exp. pack. More likely, they reduced both to balance 
 the game. In this respect I dont think they could have gotten a better balanced game.
  
  The game is a good addition to any collection. The number of scenarios, the campaign, the sandbox 
 mode make it worth it. Also playing on different difficulty settings prolongs the game as you will 
 need to amend your strategy in order to succeed w/ gameplay elements affected with each level.
 
  
  A very solid game, well constructed but lacking in a few area.
  
  Worth playing and definitely worth getting if you are a TBS junkie like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alejes02
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Every time I play this game, all I can do is scratch my head. I'm fighting some turn-based battles 
 over some mythical planet I've never heard of, narrated by a story that makes absolutely no sense, 
 using weapons that are uninspiring. "Xyghwonft finds the book prompting Insogngons to invade Jnoosrung." 
 The narrations are literally that cryptic. Ok, so you don't know WHY you're fighting, but the fun 
 is in the fight, right? Well, not quite. The scenarios are uninspiring, the action is slow to develop, 
 and the whole package is formulaic. At least in the designer's earlier release, Massive Assault, 
 there was variety, a few nasty surprises, and an AI that proved challenging. None of that is present 
 in Galactic Assault; which is a shame, because a game like this needs an interesting back story 
 to keep you hooked -- to make you WANT to attack that enemy base. Well, there IS a story in here 
 somewhere -- but good luck on understanding it. And, without a comprehensible story, you just shrug 
 your shoulders when you get ordered to take just one more hill and say, "who cares?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Considering Domination: Massive Assault and this title, they downgrade.
  
  - Random seed of damage = Distraction, which is good in a PvP setting, but in a PvE, you don't 
 want to play with that.
  
  - No more maps/productions/country. Instead you have a base which produce units, but you need to 
 buy the proper upgrade and.... Zzzzz It is more refine and more complex, but it isn't more challenging 
 and definitely not more fun.
  
  - Graphics are lesser then in Domination. Not talking about the amount of pixels, but about the 
 rendered effect. Everything appear a lot less marvelous and a lot more tern. Realism or boringness?
 
  
  - Smaller maps but bigger countries. Instead of having 20 countries/provinces/states at war as 
 in Domination, you have 2-6... they are bigger and have less resources. So, what you have at start 
 is a LOT more important and your strategy matter less, it is turning more tactical, less strategic.
 
  
  I would normally have given such a game a 7.5 ratio from peoples I don't know, but considering 
 this is done by the same devs which did Domination, they have taken wrong twists and wrong paths. 
 So I will have to consider the new direction, and this is why I have to give them a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flanker145
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Yes, it MAY be elementary, designically speaking, but, YES, it's solid, and it 's got everything 
 a HIGHLY SOPHISTICATED, addictive Turn-Based strategy game of 2007 needs to have. Sound emphasizes 
 a dark, RETRO SOVIET Cold War Atmosphere, all masked a little in an interesting, just as dark, 
 snowy and swampy SciFi Fantasy Setting. Still remember the unreached Blue Byte's Battle Isle II? 
 Yes, stonage, for christs sake. But definitely, it helped characterize what a Turn-Based War Simulation 
 needs to be like. Oh yes. Played it? Liked it? Spent autumns and winters on it? This One 's for 
 YOU!
  
  -What? This review isn't long enough? Hey, i don't like to writee pages over pages on what can 
 be said in a few words. Geez. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Now this is one great game. I always frowned upon TBS games, because RTS felt better. Not today. 
 First, a quick peek at the story. In the novel's (and game's) Universe, called Noon universe, Earth 
 is ruled by commies. Well, not the really red ones: communism went so good, that Earth is now free 
 of crime and poverty and (!) money. Knowledge is the most valuable thing and the government is 
 ran by historians, scientists and other brainy fellows. Of course, there is a small number of individuals, 
 who, due to the lack of intelectual capacity, do not fit into manual labour-free world. And they 
 have to be taken care off. They can explore space! Maxim Krammer crashlands on Sakrash, a planet 
 populated by humans with technical proves of mid tewntienth century. ANd they are suffering from 
 the aftermath of a nuclear war. Since this is already a long peek into the story, I'll tell that 
 Maxim saves the Land of Unknown Fathers (leave it to russians to make funky names) from mind control 
 using dictators. And now the Land is beset by enemies from every side, so Maxim has to quickly 
 turn into a tactical genius and defeat every opponent. Maxim innitially controls units of only 
 the Land of Fathers. Since it was a nasty country, the most basic and never used are Penal units, 
 which aren't more than cannon fodder. After that come the infantry, called infantry, tanks, engineers, 
 Guards, ships, airplanes. I'll mention only the more interesting ones. Since Sakrash has a strange 
 atmosfore, which leads people to believe that horizon is above them, airforce isn't well developed 
 an doesn; t play a huge role in the game. Save for the Mountain Eagle tactical bomber, a leftover 
 from when Sakrash was a one Empire. This 6 motor plane resembles an eagle and delivers powerful 
 bombs onto the enemies. The only matching unit is khontie Storm Master 6-winged bomber. Then comes 
 the artilery. It has two anti-infantry, two anti-tank variations and the Death Hammer cannon, which, 
 while dealing 13 damage (toughest tank of the Land has 28 hitpoints) to both regular and armoured 
 units, is a scary sight. Trade off is slow movement and no area damage. The Land of Fathers also 
 has hipno ray vehicle (mobile version of towers that were used to control the populace) , witch 
 keeps friendly unit morale at max while demoralising enemies. All Land's equipment looks sturdy 
 and bulky, while infantry looks modern day. Rocket artilery is strange though. Khonties are a nation 
 to the north. It's government is split in two. However, that doesn't stop them from trying to invade 
 the former Land of Fathers. Their riflemen are good against light vehicles, but weaker against 
 infantry. They have shock troops, but they're as useful as Penal infantry. Their Cruiser tank has 
 amazing movement capabilities, though limited firepower. Siege cannon is a nice peace of artilery, 
 missile launcher being even sweeter. Storm Master is a good bomber. These are the uniths that you; ll 
 usually have at the begining of missions when you stop the Khonties in the campaign. All khontie 
 units are sleek, blue or unpainted metal. Their troops look like Imperial officers from Star Wars. 
 Union of Desert Sons is a band of ragtag bandints a la Mad Max. Now, replace bandits with tribal 
 mutants and you see the picture. They have obe of the most powerfull infantry in the game, which 
 leads to having poor vehicles. Two of the infantry units are melee focused, so they're tough. Artilery 
 looks a bit strange, strangest being the Fire Thrower. It looks like a huge clay ball held by wood. 
 It has short range, but decent area of effect. Mutants look like all post apocalyptic civilizations. 
 Insular Empire are cruel amphibiuos and submarine based terror inspiring pirates. They are cruel 
 and mercyless and most of their units are amphibious. The excel in fighting near water, because 
 that where he powerlful subs are. Are regular person would laugh a that: what can a sub do to people 
 on the ground? Torpedo them? Well, since Insular Empire is dominant sea power in Sakrash, their 
 subs are fitted to deal with ground targets, providing long range artilery support. Their marines 
 are a pretty decent peace of infantry too. Their transporter differ from other factions because 
 they can cross rivers and seas like they would cross regular terrain. Insular Empire is white, 
 sleek and vintage looking. This game makes you employ hard tactics. Firstly, while there is possibility 
 to build units, the resources are very limited, so you'll have to deal with what you've. So your 
 start entrenching infantry and vehicles, sending recon to spot for artilery, using trucks and trailers 
 and helis to move infantry and light artilery around the field (because trailers and planes can 
 move farther than other units) , flank the enemy, use artilery support to weaken enemy position. 
 That means that this game is fun. Hell, I liked it more that World in Conflict. Galactic Assault 
 has outdated graphics, but it does the part and shows a land devastated by nuclear and conventional 
 war gloriously, while WiC is sterile and has small units. All in all, GA is enjoyable and fun to 
 play even if you don't really know the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kolobock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Galactic Assault: Prisoner of Power is based on an extremely popular Russian science-fiction story 
 written during the prosperity of the soviet sixties. Its set on the planet of Saraksh and the 
 essentially the game is about the fight for supremacy between 4 races. The game offers you a choice 
 of playing through a single player campaign, eleven scenarios or twelve deathmatch games. There 
 are multiplayer options too with support for Hot seat, LAN and Internet Play. The battles in GA 
 are actually quite good. As well as the usual fog of war, the game takes things such as camouflage, 
 weather, terrain, fortifications and many other things into account. The ability to entrench units, 
 camouflage them and generally use the environment to your advantage is certainly a key feature 
 of the battle system and allows you to be quite flexible in formulating your strategies. Graphically, 
 GA looks pretty good, one of the best TBS titles I have seen. The obvious comparison here is Heroes 
 of Might and Magic V, which is a little too cartoony for my taste. So if you like strategy type 
 games, there is no way you wont like GA. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
