-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gangsters 2: Vendetta
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/gangsters2vendetta/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  8, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 394 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Hothouse Creations
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 5, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the business elements were deeper, or if there was some sort of strategic combat in the game, 
 Gansters 2 could have been a much more interesting game. 

  Released in 1998, the original Gangsters had a promising premise, but it was marred by the fact 
 that it was more complicated than complex. There was potentially a deep strategy game hidden somewhere 
 beneath its convoluted interface and strange artificial intelligence problems, but finding that 
 game was a chore. For Gangsters 2, developer Hothouse Creations has attempted to remedy the problems 
 of the first. The interface has been streamlined, and the game has been simplified. Unfortunately, 
 the company also removed much of the detail, and the resultant game doesn't offer you much to do. 
 It's repetitive and confusing in some areas, and too simple in others. And the interface, though 
 easier to understand, is still problematic.           The overhead map view is where you'll spend 
 most of your time.    

  In Gangsters 2, you play as Joey Bane, a small-time mobster looking to avenge the death of his 
 father and become big-time in the process. You begin in the city of Buffalo Falls, where you must 
 hunt down a few of the men responsible for your father's death and establish a foothold for your 
 operations. You hire gangsters and the muscle to protect them, and you send them out into enemy 
 territory to wreak havoc on your rivals' establishments, kill their henchmen, and take over their 
 operations.   

  As the game goes on, you'll be able to open your own illegal businesses, hire more gangsters, buy 
 more equipment, and that's about it. There isn't much depth to the game, and neither the business 
 simulation nor the combat elements are very interesting.   

  A typical scenario will go something like this: You begin with your territory established. There 
 are a few illegal businesses already set up or a few predetermined locations where you can set 
 them up yourself. Then you send gangsters out to protect your investments or hire local muscle 
 to guard them. Some enemy gang members will inevitably come in and try to wreck your buildings, 
 and your guys will kill them. Once you're set up, you send your guys to their territory and take 
 key places. Then you either take over the objective location or kill the guy you're supposed to 
 kill. And so on.   

  The scenarios don't offer much variety, though they'll get bigger, and the enemy will get stronger. 
 There are many frustrations packed into this seemingly simple setup. For one thing, hiring business 
 managers to run your operations is difficult. You must first set up the business, then switch over 
 to a newspaper screen and skim the paper to find someone to run it. Then you switch back to the 
 business and tell the newly hired manager to go there. It's unnecessarily complicated, and there's 
 no strategic reason why you can't simply hire a manager from the building screen.   

  The fact that areas like this are so obtuse seems to be at odds with the overall simplicity of 
 the game. You have very little control over your gangsters. Combat involves nothing more than getting 
 them near the opposition, at which point your forces will fight to the death or flee, depending 
 on how high you set their aggression level. At times, Gangsters 2 is like playing a simple real-time 
 strategy game that only allows you one type of unit.   

  What's more frustrating is that your gangsters will earn notoriety, and if it gets too high the 
 police will come after them. Never mind that there are no living witnesses to a crime -- simply killing 
 enemy gangsters in your territory will increase a gangster's notoriety. The problem is, the whole 
 game seems to be centered on these altercations, and in the beginning you have only a handful of 
 gangsters at your disposal.   

  The graphics in Gangsters 2 are simple but appropriate. The cities you'll take over are obviously 
 modeled on 1920s Chicago, but you won't spend much time looking at them. The game is almost unplayable 
 on the city level, if only because the visible area is so small that there's no real indication 
 of which buildings are visible. The most useful view is the map view, which shows the important 
 buildings as icons and the gangsters as little colored dots. You can issue orders from this view, 
 and you'll spend most of your time doing so. Because of this, Gangsters 2 becomes a game of sending 
 green dots over to the yellow dots, and hoping the yellow dots disappear before the green dots. 
   

  The sound is likewise very simple. The music is unobtrusive, and the ambient city sounds are authentic 
 if sparse. But the narrator, who runs you through the game's light tutorial and gives you mission 
 briefings, is another story. The monologue is read with little inflection, and seems like the narrator 
 is reading his lines for the first time. It's done in probably the world's worst Joe Pesci imitation, 
 and it's bad enough to make you say, "yes, you are a clown."           You'll rarely have to make 
 meaningful strategic decisions.    

  The business element of Gangsters 2 is just as plain as the combat. You buy blocks or take over 
 those controlled by your enemies. You can set up illegal businesses in some of the buildings, but 
 they are predetermined, and you get little choice in the matter, other than whether or not you 
 want to set them up. This isn't really a choice, as that's the only way you're going to make money. 
 Businesses provide a certain amount of money per game-hour (which translates to a few minutes of 
 real time) , and often you must sit around and wait until you have enough money to buy another place 
 or hire more goons. There's no way to speed up the game, which makes the downtime somewhat boring. 
   

  Like Gangsters, Gangsters 2 seems to be a deep strategy game. You can bribe police officials, break 
 your men out of prison, kidnap enemy gangsters, and more. The problem is, you never need to, unless 
 a mission objective specifically requires it. The scenarios are relatively easy, and once you get 
 a strong gang together, you can tear through enemy territory in a very short amount of time.   
 

  If the business elements were deeper, or if there was some sort of strategic combat in the game, 
 Gangsters 2 could have been a much more interesting game. But the developer not only simplified 
 the original game, it gutted it. The end result leaves you with few options and few meaningful 
 decisions to make. The original Gangsters was deep but confusing; Gangsters 2 is just shallow. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  this really shouldn't have been released as a sequel to gangsters: organized crime because it bares 
 only some of the shortfall of the original as its resemblance.
  
  pretty tedious.
  
  additionally it's a pretty linear game... overly complicated at times than it really needs to be, 
 but still manages to comes a cross like a really simplistic RTS. yeah... not an easy accomplishment, 
 but somehow that's how it works out. 
  
  not interested in the story or the characters or... anything really. not much in the way of strategy 
 either. watching dots fight each other waiting around for it to be over.
  
  that they gave you a story is almost a detriment to the game. the original didn't need no lousy 
 stinkin' story. in a lot of ways it just kills the replay value for this game. there's just no 
 reason to want to play this game more than once. switching up tactics doesn't matter... because... 
 there's really only one set of tactics available. you just go at it and hope for the best. 
  
  the only really good thing we can say about this game is that it makes the original look better...
 
  
  ... which... isn't... all that good a thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  By following Gangsters 2: Vendetta's line of reasoning, you'll eventually have to off God, as he 
 (or she) created Adam, who begat Cain... [all the way on down the Genesis line] ... who created Hammer 
 Constantine, who ordered Stoneface Langham to order Bullseye Coley to kill your father. That is, 
 mission after mission you discover that the mobster you formerly thought responsible for your father's 
 demise was but a mere cinder block in Gangsters 2's unholy pyramid of death. For real, bona fide 
 vengeance, you have to keep with the killing until you make it to the top. That's a lot of contrived 
 motivation to maintain, especially for a character as one-dimensional as Joey Bane.
  
  As Joey Bane, you'll have the opportunity to hire a number of gangster henchmen (and their henchmen 
 as well) to further your cause, some of which add more to your organization than just muscle. Gangsters 
 can come equipped with specialties, such as bombing or kidnapping, and, in weirdly out-of-place 
 role-playing fashion, you can add skill levels to their main traits (such as shooting and stealth) -- 
 assuming they survive the mission in which they're active. You can also hire specialists. These 
 people run your illegal businesses -- which you can establish covertly in some of the legitimate 
 operations running in your territory. For instance, if you hire a gambling manager and position 
 him in an underground casino, you can rake in much more loot than if you were to rely on the earnings 
 of your convenience store (which the casino doubles as during the daytime) alone.
  
  Successfully completing each successive mission requires that you accomplish one or more objectives, 
 which the narrator and your personal advisor inform you of throughout the game. Objectives include 
 such mundane assignments as taking over rival businesses, stealing kidnap victims, and, of course, 
 eliminating enemy mobsters. To help you on your way, you can bribe the local police force, buy 
 weapons and cars (for drive-bys) , and even occasionally hire hit men to do your work for you. Also, 
 your personal advisor pops up every now and again to let you know when one of your businesses is 
 being attacked or when a specialist has come available for activating one of your illegal operations.
 
  
  Gangsters 2 sports a sharp, simplified interface (compared to the original Gangsters) , a full 24-hour-day 
 time cycle (unruly behavior is more likely to occur and go unchecked by police at night) , and a 
 '20s/Prohibition-era Chicagoesque setting. Developer Hothouse Creations gave the game a more focused 
 feel than its predecessor, but despite the work that apparently went into it, Gangsters 2 still 
 embodies much of the original's vapid gameplay.
  
  For starters, it seems Hothouse went the cheap route by having the narrator and all of the gangsters 
 voiced by the same actor. The actor delivers his weasely gangster-speak slowly and laboriously. 
 The story is incredibly linear, and the action is guided by the narrator to such a degree that 
 after each mission's introductory sequence, you practically already know how the entire mission 
 will play out. The missions are tedious for their monotony to begin with; knowing exactly what 
 you have to do only serves to kill all opportunity for excitement and surprise. Almost invariably, 
 each mission will require you to set up a number of illegal businesses in order to earn enough 
 money to support your muscle (who'll abandon you if you run out of money) . After you have enough 
 muscle, you'll have to use them to penetrate the enemy territory, usually claiming some of the 
 enemy's businesses along the way, and then do a couple of drive-bys on the enemy bosses.
  
  This work plays out relatively similarly in each mission. In fact, save for the size of the territory, 
 many of the missions are indistinguishable from each other. The colorful live-action map screens 
 (quickly accessible via your mouse's scroll wheel) are excellently designed for carrying out your 
 missions, but the game's main screen is crowded with way too many similar-looking brick buildings. 
 Based on appearance alone, it's often hard to tell which building you have targeted for a takeover, 
 and in which building your hideaway is located. Because of that, you'll probably be spending too 
 much time on the map screens and not enough time taking in the action on the main screen. Which 
 will disappoint you, because aside from the crowd of buildings onscreen, the bustling main screen 
 is fun to watch. Trolleys and vehicles roam by, bystanders make their way to and fro, and chalk 
 outlines along the streets and sidewalks mark the places where the game's many, many murder victims 
 lost their lives.
  
  The designers made some smart moves with the interface and control. You can pause the game anytime 
 by hitting the spacebar, and attacking enemies is as simple as clicking on them. However, some 
 real boners crept into the design as well. For example, on the map screens, you can hold your cursor 
 over a dot -- which represents a person on the main screen-to find out who that person is and to 
 select that person for attack (if he or she is a bad guy) . Unfortunately, this same simplicity 
 wasn't carried over to the main screen. You can still specify attacks from the main screen, but 
 there's no pop-up help to tell you the name of the person you're attacking. Also, in many of the 
 missions, enemy cars are represented in yellow on the map screens, but so are those of non-enemies, 
 so you often have to pause the game to stop the action long enough for you to hover your cursor 
 over a car to find out if it's one you want to track the movement of.
  
  Speaking of design blunders, the game's biggest shortcoming is in enemy AI. If you set up guards 
 around any of your buildings and enemy gangsters have set their sights on one of those buildings, 
 they won't give up their attack until they're fully dead. Oh, they'll turn a corner to get away 
 from your guards' gunfire, but then they'll turn around and come right back, even though at this 
 point they're highly outnumbered.
  
  The characters in the game all lack any semblance of personality. They all have unique gangster 
 names, such as Lightning and Tux, but you never see them interact in cutscenes, and none of your 
 hired gangsters ever make their way into the narrator's story line. This utter lack ends up sucking 
 the life out of Gangsters 2. Specialists have the same problem: they're unique in terms of name 
 and ability, but they never interact with you or any of the other characters.
  
  Overall, the game has a sort of generalized, sketchy feel to it. Sure, you can buy rifles, Tommy 
 guns, explosives, and three different kinds of cars, and you can run a distillery, a brewery, a 
 speakeasy, and a craps game, but everything feels narrowed down to the point of oversimplicity. 
 Better guns make for quicker killing, and riskier businesses make for better income, but everything 
 in the game suffers from a degree of separation. You never get to see buildings from the inside, 
 your gangsters never express a preference for one weapon or automobile over another, and your businesses 
 lack accompanying sound effects to enhance the illusion or to differentiate them from each other.
 
  
  As with the original, the concept behind Gangsters 2 is great, but the execution suffers tremendously. 
 Graphics and sound shortcomings could easily be attended to, but the gameplay needs a lot of work. 
 It's not so much that you don't have different options for choosing what to do in each mission, 
 it's just that once you've chosen your route of action, there's little variety to what you see 
 taking place onscreen. Your gangsters run or drive around each city, shooting at and trading building 
 ownership with the enemy gangsters for the duration of each mission. That's pretty much it. The 
 story feels tacked on, the characters are weak, weak, weak, and the little attentions to detail-such 
 as the gangsters flying through the air when shot and photographers coming by to snap photos of 
 the chalk-outline-littered sidewalks-are misplaced. Hothouse Creations would have done better to 
 give the game a more authentic feel and to differentiate the units and structures from each other.
 
  
  We still think they're on to something, though, with this whole gangsters thing, so we'll hold 
 out for the next iteration and hope that the third time around will be the charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ayush_Singh
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Here you a playing a role of gangster trying to take out all othere gangster in the state. you 
 have your muscles , cars , guns, hitman, your partners in crime ..... but .... something is missing..... 
 I played the game twice and found that it could be addictine if the there are more options in the 
 game. There is FBI, Judge, Governor, everyone in the city but you cannot play politics with them. 
 they always favour your opponent . you get the option to bribe them but its not easy. the game interface 
 is good and there is no difficulty while playing but there is no 3d angle to that. also ,As you 
 proceeds difficulty level increases without any increase in game playing. left side you become 
 most wanted, police search you, no more bribing, no easy funding, it become quiet irritating. all 
 in all the game concept is good interface is good the devlopers must bring out its 3rd version 
 with todays gameplay. it has much thing to offer than the game delivers now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Gangsters2 is a game i used to play alot. I loved it. I loved being a gangland boss; I loved the 
 story; I loved the setting. It rocked. 
  
  The graphics are simple & dated, but they have a certain charm that makes it enjoyable to view. 
 The varying map levels (a system not unlike used in Republic or one) makes controling your men 
 & empire simple enough. Not that they couldnt be prettier, but they serve the job well. 
  
  The gameplay in Gangsters2 is again a simple point & click affair. Hiring muscle is again just 
 a case of clicking the appropriate tab & hiring them. Everything is simply a case of pointing & 
 clicking, selecting the right numbers & so on. Simplicity is one of the things that make this game 
 run effectively.
  
  Thats not so say its easy. Although most of the missions can be done relatively easily, some are 
 quite challenging. One mission involves you having to kill someone &/or bribe the local army sargent. 
 The only problem is there are armored army vehicles patrolling the roads. Not easy. 
  
  The game starts with you being at the bottom of the barall, wanting to start a criminal empire 
 as a way to avenge the death of your father. As you progress, you get acess to new weapons, gangsters 
 (who have different skills to offer like bomber or bribery) , vehicles & businesses. 
  
  However, Gangsters2 suffers one major flaw. Its simplicity & general linearness means that while 
 the game is fun. its shallow. Replayability is lacking, & once youve completed it itl be a loooong 
 tim before you try again (its been about 2years at least for me, just started again) . 
  
  The multiplayer looks quite fun, & were i able to play it im sure id give it a glowing report. 
 However, not only did it not work (admittedly I hadnt tried with the patches) on LAN, but I fear 
 that the global gangsters playing community is lacking. In the same way as with Gangland, few ppl 
 seem to be online & playing, which is a shame. Perhaps thats because a game of this nature doesnt 
 usually have a large, permanently online community as Civ4 or AOEIII goes. If it is ill have to 
 search out this vanguard of remaining players, & then report on it.
  
  Gangsters2 shows its age now, but its still a classic. Games like The Godfather & Mafia are superior 
 games of the mobster genre, with deeper gameplay, better graphics to say the least. However, in 
 the RTS areana, other then Gangland there is little Gangsters2 has to compete with. This is a shame, 
 but it is why Gangsters2 is still the best of its type. Gangland tried to bring it into the modern 
 age, but other then give it 3D graphics it failed to improve upon its predecessor. That is why 
 Gangsters2 is still the best mafiaRTS you can find, if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesci_fan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Gangsters 2 is one of those games that will make you say to yourselfThis is terrific, but I 
 wish there was more..." and that's exactly what the game is; something that needs more. like.... a 
 more in-depth game, with better strategy. In Gangsters2, you will find yourself in charge of "your" 
 own gang, with you at the helm barking orders "A game you can rarely find in the "Mafia" genre. 
 You can do all sorts of actions, form smashing up stores, to bribing political officials, and hitting 
 goons, but with all of this you can see a huge room for improvement. With the gameplay being repetitive, 
 and the failure to add in a sandbox mode, you can find this game repetitve and boring at times, 
 but since it's a one-of a kind you will likely enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlo_14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Gangsters 2 is a good game, but it has many ups and downs which could of been corrected.
  The storyline is about a gangster called Joey Bane, whose father gets killed in a gang war. Joey 
 sets out to find his father's killers and take over the city.
  In the game, you take control of up to 8 gangsters and order them to kill other gangsters or take 
 over your opponents sites. The game gets very repetitive, but if you like these sort of games, 
 then you will enjoy it. The game also has a business element to it, where you have to buy property 
 and then you have to hire a worker and allocate him to his desired destination. Most of the missions 
 require you to take over your opponents territory and kill the gang leader. You usually have to 
 complete each mission in a certain amount of time. The game also has three difficulty levels, easy, 
 normal &amp; hard, which should keep you occupied for many hours, if you are willing to go through 
 the game another two times.
  The sound and music are pretty lame, but you do get that 1920's feel with the graphics. Some good 
 features with the game is the day and night cycle, an assortment of different weapons and vehicles, 
 and many different kinds of gangsters with different skills, such as, assassin, getaway driver, 
 explosives expert, and a few others.
  Gangsters 2, delivers at a slow pace, and could of be a whole lot better. It's worth playing though 
 and you can find it quite cheap nowadays.
  Thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I treat games like this as my type of solitaire game. I enjoyed this game like crazy! I actually 
 almost beat this game before I had to quit, and reformat or something. Anyway. It was fun doing 
 drive bys, and running into buildings to rough up the owners, or take over them. Yes the bullet 
 proof cars are the best! I had so much mussel it was crazy. I liked the cheats that came along 
 with the game also. Just by naming your characters different gave you stuff. A little challenging 
 at first, but easy after that. Just make sure you maintain your businesses. Good solitaire replacement 
 in my opinion. The graphics are horrible, and the music isn't that great either, but it's fun. 
 I'd try it. That's if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric121
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Gangsters 2 is a strategy game where you are the character Joey Bane.
  
  You are the MobLeader & your missions are to rule the whole city.
  
  The game has a very good 
 Interface, A descent graphics.. 
  
  The Action in the game is pretty hard... The problem with this game is that the enemy gang can 
 have a lots & lots of gangs in it's team, whereas the Gang Leader Joey Bane has around 8 to 9 characters 
 with him who will help him in clearing out the enemy & as well as to take care the Legal & Illegal 
 Shops and whatever the places you hold......
  
  That is the only part where you will just piss off............. because the enemy keeps on atacking 
 you without giving you some relaxation to even piss...... 
  
  Moreover, the Hitman in the game is sometime very dumb enough to kill the targeted person. In one 
 such episode, i ordered him to deal with a enemy gang leader.... & guess what, THAT STUPID IS RUNNIG 
 ALL OVER THE STREETS HERE & THERE & NOT DOING THE DESIGNATED JOG GIVEN.......... Rest, this game 
 is overall good & equally DIFFICULT....
  
  So, thats all for now............ Will Meet sometime with More Stuff.....
  
  BY ERIC121. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Snake
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Gangsters 2: Vendetta is a sequel to the classic strategy game Gangsters: Organized Crime. Unfortunately 
 this follow up is not really that great then the previous game. The game is all divided up into 
 levels which are very annoying and you can not purchase many buildings like you could on the previous 
 game. The graphics are a bit better then the original though, the sound is still ok, the cutscenes 
 are quite good and the story line is quite interesting, its just that the gameplay has been limited.
 
  
  Overall the graphics are excellent; the sounds are quality and has a great storyline. Its just 
 the gameplay which is a bit dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piratealx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  Gansgsters 2: Vendeta
  
  Gangsters foi um desses jogo que encontrei por acaso, por estar um pouco empolgado pelo tema "Mfia". 
 Ao instalar o jogo, tive a impresso de que se tratava de um jogo "ruim", j que no tinha experimentado 
 nada parecido. Confesso que no gostei muito das "artes" que aparecem durante a instalao do jogo, 
 achei algo relativamente simples.
  
  Bom, sou do tipo mais old-school mesmo, prefiro jogabilidade e diverso a grficos super tunados. 
 A tela principal do jogo possui as opes para "nova campanha", "tutorial", "opes" e de "posio 
 na lista de fama". Nas opes  interessante colocar no ltimo. O jogo no lhe exigir uma placa 
 de vdeo ou um processamento ultra poderoso e as configuraes grficas se resumem e diminuir ou 
 almentar a quantidade de detalhes exibidos na tela. Legal tambm  que temos o efeito de passagem 
 do tempo, em que passamos do dia para a noite.
  
  Em "Tutorial", voc escutar seu consigliori explicando como funciona o jogo. Parece besteira e 
 pode ser chato, mas  interessante prestar bastante ateno nos tutoriais antes de cada mapa, que 
 com certeza lhe munir de informaes teis para completar as misses.
  
  Nova Campanha
  Iniciamos o jogo com Bane, e mais um capanga, a fim de eliminar o mafioso local. Como disse antes, 
 prestar ateno no tutorial do mapa e no que o consigliori fala  de suma importncia. Alis, o 
 consigliori  uma espcie de sensor, sempre avisando sobre os acontecimentos na cidade, que envolvem 
 voc e seus inimigos. As misses do jogo, basicamente so de matar, constriuir, tomar e matar.
 
  
  O enredo  simples tambm, nada de uma trama super complicada. Seu pai  morto por mafiosos enquanto 
 trabalhava vendendo bebidas ilegalmente e voc quer vingana. Isso j  motivo para que voc comece 
 seu imprio e se torne o no padrinho da mfia.
  
  O som  simples, mas totalmente de acordo com o tema, e isso  muito bom, pois vai prend-lo ao 
 clima mafioso.
  
  A jogabilidade no  das melhores, onde senti dificuldade em controlar grupos de personagens e 
 principalmente carros. Algumas vezes temos a sensao de que a I. A. no foi muito bem aprimorada. 
 Mas nada que se resolva. H um modo em que se configura como o personagen vai agir, como uma barra 
 de coragem, na qual no valor menor ele vai correr o mais loge que conseguir do perigo em quanto 
 que no modo mai insano ele  quem correr atrs do inimigos, at mat-los ou mesmo morrer.
  
  Gameplay
  Este  um jogo interessante, pois nele encontrei elemento de estrtgia e ao. 
 Temos que construir negcios ilegais, recrutar capangas, tomar estabelecimento com o uso da fora, 
 matar certas pessoas, sabotar propriedades inimigas e todo tipo de atividade ilegal. O legal desse 
 jogo  que  uma linguagem bem criminosa mesmo, di tipo, construa um bordel, mate o gangster "fulano" 
 quando este for l se divertir, tome os estabelecimentos inimigos e mate o chefe local.
  
  Temos um comrcio de armas, mas no chega a ser difcil se equipar com a melhores armas e carros 
 depois de uma estabilidade nos negcios. Voc poder contratar mais quatro gangsters que podero 
 levar consigo mais capangas, claro todos financiados pelo seu bolso. se os negcios no estiverem 
 indo bem, tenha certeza de que seu pessoal comear a ir embora.
  
  Interessante esse negcio de tomar as propriedades dos outros, estabelecimentos, ou mesmo veculos, 
 que podero inclusive serem vendidos para se levantar uma grana. Ao tomar alguma propriedade, voc 
 pode construir uma atividade ilegal nela, tendo que contratar um especialista para tocar o ramo. 
 temos destiliarias, cervejarias, casinos, bordis, enfim, atividades que lhe rendero uma boa grana 
 no fim das contas.
  
  O jogo  dividido por dias e a cada dia que se passa, um jornal com as ltimas notcias o mantem 
 informado obre os ltimos acontecimentos, quem chegou na cidade, quam morreu, que foi preso e um 
 tipo de classificados onde podemos contratar mais membros para a nossa famlia.
  
  A ao fica mesmo por conta dos acertos de contas entre sua famlia e a dos outros.  como montar 
 um exrcito e sair por a, coordenando ataques qo QG inimigo. Por isso mesmo,  bom que voc tenha 
 um cuidado especial com suas propriedades, pois famlias inimigas sempre estaro a lhe enviar avisos 
 hosts, seja tomando seus estabelecimentos ou mesmo matando seu pessoal. Coloque sempre algum capanga 
 de guarda ou deixe um grupo rondando a rea, para que d tempo de voc chegar  tempo quando for 
 preciso. A polcia tambm  um caso difcil, na qual costumam chegar em bando e atirando. havers 
 mapas em que voc, sozinho ter que lidar com duas ou trs famlias na cidade, alm da polcia, 
 qua pode estar comprada por algum dos inimigos, inclusive agindo em conjunto contra voc.
  
  Nem todas as misses so fceis e voc ter que ter pacincia em algumas delas para poder realizar 
 o que  preciso para completar o mapa. Apesar de toda violncia disponvel, este  um jogo de estratgia, 
 em que voc deve cuidar do crescimentos de sua famlia, gerenciar os negcios e resolver pendncias 
 com os outros, usando bastante estratgia.
  
  Grficos: tela vista por cima em modo diagonal, toda a cidade, roupas e carros representando uma 
 cidade nos anos 30;
  Som, timo combinando perfeitamente para o clima;
  Jogabilidade,  um pouco confusa no incio, mas depois fica tima;
  Desafio,  10, voc vai ficar 
 horas a fio sem perceber at terminar algum mapa;
  
  Minha avaliao final seria de um jogo que lhe trar muito desafio e destes em que eu gastei horas 
 jogando, com dores nas costas e bunda dormente. Sim, vale a pena, pode pegar sossegado se voc~e 
 gosta de jogos de estratgia e gostaria de experimentar a temtica mafiosa.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulishdoll
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  this game was the ultimate mobster experience i guess. Dealing with your businesses and protecting 
 them as weel as controlling each city, but it gets really repetive and the storyline gets really 
 boring after awhile. Nothing new ever happens in the game. Nothing much to write about this game, 
 except that you can buy it but i would really not suggest it unless u enjoy repetive gameplay and 
 lousy graphics along with the lousy ingame music that accompanys this game. I think gangsters part 
 1 was much better even though it was turn based, i guess it just had much more fun in it at that 
 point in time than gangsters 2 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
