-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gangsters
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/gangsters/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 378 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Hothouse Creations
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gangsters has many interesting features, but they don't come together in the big picture. 

 Hothouse Productions' Gangsters is part business simulation and part empire builder. It has at 
 its disposal an interesting premise: 1920s Chicago-style gang warfare. It's a promising setup, 
 but one that Gangsters fails to live up to.  

 A problematic interface starts everything off on the wrong foot. The game is a mishmash of buttons, 
 overlays, and icons. The complexity of accomplishing anything in the game is daunting, and it's 
 only made more so by the included tutorials, which only outline the very basics of playing. After 
 much experimentation, you learn that your primary goals are relatively simple: hire hoods, extort 
 businesses, and set up businesses of your own, both legitimate and otherwise. Once you get the 
 knack of this, you begin dealing with rival gangs who are trying to take over your territory, kill 
 your hoods, and destroy your businesses.   

 The game is divided into weeks. You split your hoods into teams and give them orders for the coming 
 week. Under your command, these teams visit the local hangouts for potential recruits, collect 
 protection money, expand your territory, run your businesses, and commit acts of violence (such 
 as arson and bombing) on those local stores unwilling to aid your cause. These orders are then 
 played out in real time, allowing you to watch your thugs in action and slightly modify their orders 
 when the need arises. Then the week ends, and you repeat the process.  

 Once you begin to understand the interface and the mechanics, things look a little brighter. The 
 combination of turn-based and real-time gameplay works well, and it's exciting to watch your territory 
 expand. But one of Gangsters' biggest failings is that the game does not provide ample feedback. 
 Finding out what happened in the preceding week can only be accomplished by consulting a variety 
 of sources, all of which are incomplete and inadequate. There's no simple report that shows you 
 who was killed, who paid you what, who isn't paying, and potential hotspots of rival gangster activity. 
 All of this information is available, but not at one time and not in one place, making what should 
 have been a simple task needlessly complex.  

 In fact, after numerous games it becomes apparent that Gangsters' complexity doesn't extend far 
 beyond its interface. The combat is neither strategic nor tactical. Your hoods simply respond to 
 the enemy based on a few factors, and you have little control. Diplomacy is almost nonexistent 
 (a shame, considering the subject matter) , consisting solely of a bar that allows you to set your 
 aggression level with rivals and hope they do the same. And though there are three possible victory 
 conditions, there is a proper path to victory - a path that is as dependent on you following a 
 relatively stringent set of actions as it is on a number of random factors in the game.  

 The latter point is perhaps the game's most frustrating design problem. Numerous aspects of Gangsters 
 are random, such as your starting location and the quality and quantity of hoods available to your 
 recruiters each week. Since these factors are among the most important in the game, it's possible 
 to find yourself in a hopeless situation within the first few weeks.   

 At least Gangsters looks good much of the time. The city is colorful, with detailed buildings, citizens 
 scuttling around in period clothing and cars, and nice explosions. The overhead map, on the other 
 hand, is a dull gray grid that provides little information. The sound effects are minimal, and 
 the occasional voices of your gang sound good but without much variety. But on the downside, it's 
 unfathomable why the designers chose a techno-tinged soundtrack instead of music that would have 
 seemed appropriate to the subject matter.  

 In many ways, Gangsters recalls MicroProse's X-COM: Apocalypse, a game with a similar structure 
 and a similarly bad interface. But a deep, rewarding game lurked beneath Apocalypse's murky top 
 layer. Gangsters, on the other hand, feels like a prototype. The groundwork has been laid for a 
 fascinating game, and Gangsters has many interesting features, but they don't come together in 
 the big picture. With some refinement, a great game could emerge from the system. But as it stands, 
 Gangsters opts for being complicated instead of complex.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  played this game way back when.
  
  it's a fun game. a little on the tedious side. a little on the difficult side.
  
  this game 
 must be bargain bin by now. it'd be worth checking out.
  
  only complaints? sitting through the week without doing much gets old. lost of waiting around and 
 watching. there's no real effective ways to keep enemy gangsters out of your territory. having 
 armed gangsters is not necessarily a good thing, they blow someone away even in self defense and 
 near by officers will start to shoot at them... and any of one's other armed gangsters around will 
 start shooting in defense and... blood bath, loss of all your gangsters, and an entire week worth 
 of work wasted.
  
  some of the actions... kinda suck. kidnapping sounds fun, but it's a needle in a haystack search 
 that largely doesn't get one much.
  
  finding someone's hideout is a little tough, but doing anything about it is even tougher. have 
 to send in all your teams armed to the teeth on pause orders to take someone down.
  
  it's a fun game... but... it could use some work to be a better game. kinda annoying at times though. 
 this has been one of our uninstall reinstall games we pull out every year or so. it's got its charm, 
 but it's no st. valentine's day massacre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  the game is just so great, its neat turn set real time, setting also built in, with great contorl 
 where you just feel like you are running your own family..
  
  giving orders and so forth, this is much better mobster style game then yets say, godfather which 
 to me was a total yet down, or even GTA series.
  
  I really wish someone would take up liinces and remake this classic.
  
  just as it is, gangsters 
 2 vendetta was such a yet down compared to this.
  
  only thing lacking was mutilplayer it supports it suppoly but when ever we have tryed to play we 
 get error with data being diffrent on two machines which dose not make any senes..
  
  we even tryed copying game dir from one to othere so every thing would be exactly same and it still 
 claim that stuff dosnt match.
  
  no idea why.
  
  this game is just a master pice that ha never been duplicated senes.
  I have been playing this 
 game senes 1998 when it came out best purchase of my life. for game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  We strategy gamers are the pickiest of players. We know what we like, and when we get it we buy 
 it in droves. But if we don't get it, we howl on Usenet or send angry emails to each other. Or 
 something.
  
  But what is exactly it that we're after?
  
  It's certainly not 3D flash or the thrill of the online kill. We don't want to join Quake Clans 
 or chat about the price of fish in Ultima Online. What we're after is pure challenge, served up 
 fresh, cruel, and replayable. Fresh, as is in it better not be just another C&amp; C with differently 
 drawn units -- no cookie cutter game design please. Cruel: as in the bloody AI works, the rule set 
 is consistent, and the thing's been play-tested enough to weed out cheap tactics like a tank rush. 
 It has to be a tough game.
  
  And finally a strategy game is replayable, infinitely so, meaning we can play it for years and 
 years and every time we play it's a new experience, because every outing is like a chess match -- the 
 pieces and the rules are the same, but the moves -- it's all in the moves.
  
  So it's hardly surprising that so few developers actually make honest-to-gosh strategy games. The 
 bar has been set very high by past games, the fans are nitpicking connoisseurs, and the box office 
 take is decidedly miniscule, especially compared to what you could make by whipping out another 
 buxomy 3D shooter.
  
  So if a developer, particularly a start-up like Hothouse Creations, gives something as rich and 
 tasty as this they certainly deserve a round of applause.
  
  I wouldn't have bothered with such an elaborate, preachy intro if Gangsters wasn't aiming to be 
 a real strategy game. But it is; it's aimed squarely at the Sid Meier set, and puts in a good show 
 of fulfilling all the demanding criteria outlined above. There are some nagging problems that keep 
 it from attaining the status of a Civilization or an X-COM, but overall it's a solid effort.
  
  The basic premise is that you are a Mafia boss in some generic 1920s Prohibition-era city. 
 Your objective is to take the city over completely, as a kind of virtual Al Capone. To do this, 
 you will have to extort, rob, murder, and bribe your way to the top.
  
  The bones of the game is the city itself. It's a fake city with no real correlation to actual geography 
 or urban development patterns, more like SimCity than anything else. The city of New Temperance 
 is delineated by a huge grid; within each square are either houses or businesses, or a few special 
 locations like the labor exchange or an FBI headquarters.
  
  You start off with one block, your headquarters, and job one is to send out your gang members into 
 other blocks and take them over. That sounds like the perfect set-up for a good old fashioned turn-based 
 strategy game, but Gangsters actually splits itself into two gameplay phases -- a turn-based planning 
 phase and the real-time working week.
  
  During the planning phase, you give orders to each lieutenant who works for you (you can have up 
 to eight of them) . The most basic orders are to either go extort from a fresh, uncontrolled block, 
 or to collect protection money from a block already under your control.
  
  That said, we hit on the first layer of the game's strategy. Each lieutenant is a randomly generated 
 character, with varying traits -- intelligence, intimidation, business savvy, firearms, etc. -- and 
 every gangster you assign to assist him has unique ratings as well.
  
  So you have a couple lieutenants, each of whom is more or less proficient in one area of skullduggery 
 or another. Collecting protection money from people who are already intimidated by your reputation 
 is fairly easy, so you assign your most worthless and stupid thugs to that lieutenant. Shooting 
 people is harder, so put your guys with the best gun skills in one group. Expanding your turf depends 
 on getting together a crew with high Intimidation ratings. Recruiting more gangsters every turn 
 is essential to long-term survival, so don't neglect that either. Then you need guys to patrol 
 your turf, to run your businesses, legal or illegal, and in the early days, robbing a few banks 
 gets you some much needed cash.
  
  You never seem to have enough gangsters to do all the things you want to do, and every turn you 
 run the risk of having some of the get shot, arrested, or kidnapped. And your gangsters can only 
 complete a limited number of jobs each week, depending on how many of them are on that team, how 
 many cars you've bought them, and how far from your base their destination is.
  
  And that's only the turn-based planning phase. Once you've doled out all the orders for the week, 
 you then enter into the real-time phase of the game. Here's where the game begins in earnest, and 
 where most of the problems arise. This part of the game is overwhelming at first, and it took a 
 lot of playing just to figure out how the heck to play. This definitely is not C&amp; C! You just 
 don't send people into gunfights willy-nilly. There is no profit in shooting cops.
  
  What you do is start the week, and then toggle back and forth between the street view and the neighborhood 
 view, with one finger poised over the 'P' key throughout. The 'P' key is essential. It pauses the 
 game. If someone starts shooting at your guys somewhere it pays to zoom in and give them orders 
 to either shoot back or hightail it out of there.
  
  This won't always work -- it depends on the number of people in the gunfight, the weapon you assigned 
 that gangster (assuming you could afford to arm that gangster) and what kind of back up you can 
 give him. Also, the city is crawling with cops, so you have to keep your firefights short and sweet 
 or you will lose those gangsters. So what you learn to do is arm skilled thugs with decent guns 
 and station them in strategic parts of your territory, so you can, during the real-time phase of 
 the game, order them into blocks where you've spotted a rival gangster.
  
  Now hopefully you're starting to get an idea of what playing the game is like, but that's only 
 the tip of the iceberg. Taking over blocks and managing gunfights is only part of what you have 
 to learn to do. You also have to hire lawyers to get your guys out of jail, employ an accountant 
 to evade the IRS, buy out legitimate businesses in order to launder your money and, if you ever 
 want to win the game, you have to create and protect highly illegal but extremely profitable operations -- things 
 like bookies, loan sharks, whorehouses and speakeasies. This way you can earn enough cash to bribe 
 judges and politicians and get yourself elected mayor. You even have to audit your own businesses 
 to make sure your lieutenants
  
  In other words, this is a huge game, but that's what makes it fun. You have to keep your wits about 
 you, juggle priorities, toggle resources, and beat the machine.
  
  That said, though, Gangsters is not perfect. Since this is such an elaborate game, the interface 
 is fairly daunting. Unfortunately, the manual does a poor job of explaining it. Pertinent information, 
 say on legal tactics or delegating authority to lieutenants, is inexplicably broken out over widely 
 scattered parts of the manual, if it is covered at all. The keyboard cue card is more helpful than 
 the manual, as is the developer's own web page of tips.
  
  Gangsters also has some other quirks. For one, neither the gangsters you control nor the opponents 
 you battle have any kind of personality whatsoever. Look, if you're going to have distinct AI playing 
 styles, why would you hide that from the player? This only subtracts from our enjoyment of the 
 game. Look at Civilization. If your city was near Genghis Khan and the Mongols, you knew you were 
 going to war. Not only by Genghis' historical repute, but also by his insulting dialogue boxes, 
 his disdain for you, the player. Nowhere does Gangsters implement personality, feeling, or character 
 into its NPCs, despite the fascinating era of the 1920s and its thugs, G-men and flappers.
  
  Your own gangsters are equally as uninteresting. Think about Jagged Alliance. You cared about 
 the people who worked for you. You knew their names, you knew their voices. Here, you're watching 
 little packs of pixels live or die, and not really caring all that much except that you're losing 
 money every time some idiot with a Tommy Gun (price tag, $2,000) gets shot.
  
  A larger problem is the hundreds and hundreds of useless message the game sends you constantly 
 during the real-time phases of the game. Whenever one of your orders fails, a gunfight breaks out, 
 or a rival gangsters is spotted, the game informs you of this fact so you can take appropriate 
 action. This is all fine and good, but the fact is there are so many rival gangsters walking around 
 that you're dinged with these messages every two seconds. Yes, there's a filter to weed out some 
 of these messages, but the tradeoff is that the occasional useful bit of information is then lost.
 
  
  Another problem seems to lie in the criminal justice system. It seems rather arbitrary as to whether 
 or not your gangsters are wanted for their crimes, even if you took great pains to commit the crime 
 when no one is looking. I could go on with a number of other minor complaints, but you get the 
 idea. There is plenty of nitpicking that can be done.
  
  So I guess what we have here is a maddeningly complex and involving strategy game, one that is 
 certainly fun to play and is genuinely unique. If you're a patient gamer, willing to wade through 
 an alien interface in the search for the next Civilization, you will be rewarded by this game. 
 But if you like things quick and dirty, steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkman555
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 6, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact this game came out in 1998, and is far back from what we play today, Gangsters 
 is a game that will leave you playing as one of four mob bosses in a living city that isn't too 
 bad for such an old game. Despite some bugs and hard to grasp system at first, after a little reading 
 and some trial and error, this game quickly becomes a fun expeirence that you can enjoy comming 
 back to, and taking over a city the mob way, your way
  
  I highly reccomend it, and can safely say, this is one good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgarden22
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you either love or hate, and the ones who love it, can not honestly say that 
 they enjoy the game in length, and you have to be in the mood and let loose your fantasy to enjoy 
 this game. The atmosphere in the game is quite unique, as the in-game sounds, buildings, and people 
 make you feel like you feel when watching an old gangster movie on your tv
  
  The game gives you the possibility to play as the ``don`` in a mobster family, and is set, of course 
 in the 1920-30` where, prostitution and moonshine are highly illegal, and you must use your cunning 
 wits and brute force, to best the other mafioso familys, aswell as the cops and FBI.
  
  The game is played in two parts
  First of all it is the management, which happens on a weekly 
 basis. This is where you gives your mobsters the main orders for the coming week. The orders you 
 can give are diverse and plentiful, as they reach from merely collecting ``protection`` money from 
 your territory, to bribing the law, and going to war. You must also recruit new wiseguys to your 
 family, set them into different squads, and outfit them with guns and cars. (The orders you give 
 will vary as you progress in the game, and just exploring the diverse orders and possibility's 
 of the game seems to be (?!) a major part of the game itself) When you have completed your weekly 
 orders, you will go in to a real time overview over the city. This is where the game gets really 
 special, because now all you do is actually just watch the game play itself.... its true, and alot 
 of times you will just push the fast forward button until you reach the end of the week. But don`t 
 get me wrong, this is an option (you will use allot) , but it is not necessarily how you have to 
 do it, because you can also give in-game orders. This can be very annoying, as your mobsters are 
 just flying around like ants, minding their own business, and you don`t have any freedom of movement, 
 but it is ment to be played this way - All the action will happen in this part of the game, as 
 your mobsters will suddenly find themselves in the middle of shot out between the other familys 
 and the cops, and you can choose to participate, and send more guys into the action. You can watch 
 as your guys are robbing banks, torching buildings, and exploring to find the headquarters of the 
 other familys
  
  The main objective in the game is to either, kill the other familys, or be elected mayor of the 
 city, you can do it legally, or blast down every one who oppose your ways. The final possibility 
 to win, is the lenghty one, and happens when the other bosses are broke
  
  One of the major aspects of this game is to explore the diversity of the orders and options on 
 how to run your growing empire. This game is kinda hard, and if you don`t give the game a proper 
 chance, you will not enjoy this game, i strongly suggest reading the manual first, so the game 
 will seem just alittle less confusing
  
  PS, i based my sound score solely on the ingame sounds, as i can`t remember the music, but what 
 i remember is that you will not rejoice of the quality of it, (the music is not an important part 
 of this game) - but enough said, this is a game you will not regret playing, if the description 
 above will not set you off in the negative way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I played Gangsters years ago on our old P3 piece of crap. I thought at the time that it was a fun 
 game, with interesting options and fun top view game style. even the graphics looked nice. However 
 now a days, the game has dried up and become stale. this is not an RTS SIM that i would go out 
 and get when there are so many more options. the game can be fun, but its really basic and outdated 
 now. not to mention that the cities you play in are small and basic. repition is strong.
  So I guess i would recommend this game to avide RTS/Sim fans, but otherwise check the newer releases. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  I got given Gangsters by a friend, and it isn't a game I've ever considered buying. Its lucky I 
 didn't spend too much money on it! I am a fan of Mafia-related games, and I was impressed at the 
 strategic depth in the game, but the general gameplay is frustrating. It's not easy to really get 
 into the game because the tutorial isn't much help, and the difficulty is quite hard, so players 
 have a hard time straight away. However, Gangsters has a few good features that kept me playing 
 for a day or two. As I mentioned earleir, there is a lot of strategic depth, and you can really 
 run your turf your way. The only major problem with the game is the difficulty, and you will find 
 yourself losing all your businesses to rival gangs without knowing how to get them back. If you 
 are a fan of the genre, try it if you want, but if you are not I dont reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmcvkycb
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  The game that if you get from sold-out, you would be getting a bargain. Personally, I would go 
 for the second. From the start, the game is slow but when you start getting into it, it does improve. 
 If you get this for the 5.99, you wouldn't beleive what you got for the money, but if you paid 
 the full price, you would try and make the most of it. The graphics are the best part of it. Full 
 zoom in and appreciate the minor details. They are even better than sim city 3000. The sounds could 
 be improved, but they are still quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I shouldn't like this game. As a rule I don't like strategy games, though this is strangely fun. 
 It has some flaws, however for a couple of days entertainment every once in a while Gangsters is 
 a fair enough option.
  
  The principle is that you are a wannabe crime lord operating in 1920's Chicago. The objective is 
 that you build up enough power to either wipe out your opposition or be voted in as Mayor. Wiping 
 out the opposition is the more complete way to win the game, however I personally found the elections 
 quite fun, especially if you are running against one of the other crime lords.
  
  You go about your nefarious day-to-day activities by controlling various groups of hoods (hired 
 goons) , and instructing them through Lieutenants to perform several activities, included getting 
 more goons, collecting protection money from businesses within your area of influence, intimidating 
 new businesses into paying protection, or engaging in acts of wanton violence against those who 
 disagree with you. The latter option is more spectacular though realistically just means you will 
 be weakened due to an expensive and unnecessary fight with a rival. I found that the only way to 
 really succeed was to co-exist peacefully with your rivals until you become so much more powerful 
 than them that you can wipe them off the map in one fell swoop. But different players will find 
 different styles best suited to themselves.
  
  This is quite an old game, and so you cannot expect that much from the graphics. They are simple 
 yet pleasant, with the affects of arson and bombings being particularly entertaining. The buildings, 
 characters and cars all have a look fitting with the period that the game is set in. 
  
  The sound is decidedly average, though in this sort of game it is not really an important factor. 
 The only real plus point of it is that it notifies you of a significant event happening that you 
 might not ordinarily notice due to being engaged in a different event at the time. 
  
  The game has a poor interface. It is good in that it tries to give you access to as much data as 
 possible and gives you a lot of control over activities, but on the whole the interface is jumbled, 
 confusing, and intimidating at first. The tutorials only teach you the basics and mostly you have 
 to learn through experience. Saying that, the instruction manual is really thick. Sadly it has 
 a lot of nice pictures but not enough information in it though. Once you get the hang of it the 
 interface becomes manageable, though at first it is too much.
  
  The first few times that you play the game it is pretty tough. The problem is that when you work 
 out how to win, it becomes too easy as it is possible to win every time. This is why the game is 
 best when you play it for a little while and then leave it a few months before you play again. 
 This way it remains a challenge.
  
  I have had no stability issues with the game to date, and the loading times are not lengthy.
 
  
  Overall, this is a pleasing little game. It will not be the best game that you ever buy, but for 
 a few days entertainment every now and then it is worthwhile. It is definitely the best strategy 
 game that I have played, though that is not a great compliment, considering my view on the particular 
 genre.
  
  If you don't expect too much from Gangsters then you won't be disappointed, - there are far worse 
 games available. Also, as it is quite old now you should be able to pick it up very cheap, and 
 it is well worth the 5 that you spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  Not much to say about this game but its fun to be the bad guys sometimes as long as a person stays 
 here in the real world and realizes its just a game. Whore houses, moonshine smuggling, beating 
 up people you hate, guns, bribes, and publicity all equal up to a fun game. The only real bad thing 
 about this game is a glitch in the game when I'm close to week 20 in the game and the game closes 
 me out of the game and there I sit looking at my desk top... it has happened to my other friends 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I know, I know. We've all heard it. 
  
  If you are reading this, chances are you have heard at least one game critic lambast Gangsters: 
 Organized Crime as a dull and often confusing series of mirco (and macro) managed events. 
  
  And to a point I can understand that. The amount of time and effort that is required to attain 
 greatness as a mob boss is, indeed, ridiculous. I have spent many a night trying to get my mobsters 
 to extort a fussy neighborhood, or execute the competition without getting my own hands bloody. 
 It is truly a difficult game, hard to learn and IMPOSSIBLE to master. I've been playing it for 
 nigh-on 6 years now and I still haven't learned the inner workings of it's engine.
  
  But does that REALLY make it a bad game? I personally don't think so. 
  
  Micromanagement and 
 endlessly difficult random tasks are okay in a game if it pulls off one thing correctly: Immersion. 
 
  
  I was willing to spend forever trying to get my rackets set up correctly, because they were MY 
 rackets. 
  
  I was willing to try really hard to stop the Fed's and the Chief of Police from shutting down my 
 illegal moonshine stills, because they were MY moonshine stills. 
  
  I could go on and on with situational examples like this, but it just goes to show how far you 
 are willing to go for a game when that game really makes you feel like you ARE what it's telling 
 you the game is about. 
  
  And I felt like a gangster, through and through. The endless conflict with other criminals, the 
 police, squealers, all seem like things that could have happened in the days of Al Capone. Even 
 the jazzy music put me in the mood for some drive-by's or running on down to the speakeasy. 
  
  Sure, the game had it's flaws, this is obvious. But those flaws were almost entirely STRUCTURAL. 
 We could have used a few more bells and whistles, maybe a better way to access lietenaunt commands, 
 but those problems were only skin deep.
  
  If you had the patience to look past those errors (however gaping they might seem) , underneath 
 you would have found a completely immersive and compelling game that has the potential to keep 
 in your "currently playing" box for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmaster13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  You start of with a few hoods, and 10 grand. You turn it into 100 hoods, over 1 million, and half 
 the city as your territory. Amazing what you can do.
  
  You are the new boss in town. 3 other gangs already rule this place. To win you must extort, kill, 
 assult, kidnap, bribe and do whatever you can to stop yourself from going to jail, or from dying. 
 In this town, crime pays, it pays alot.
  
  This game is basically a strategy game. You give your orders to the grunts, and they go and do 
 it in a week. There are many ways of winning. You can go straight, become mayor, or kill all the 
 rival bosses. Kidnapping rival hoods helps to locate the businesses the rivals have. The gyms and 
 docks have many people that can be employed as hoods. Almost all people with authority positions 
 can be bribed, apart from the FBI. You can give money to charity though to stop suspision. Kill 
 the snitches, or bribe the DAs and judges. This is what it's really like to be a mob boss.
  
  An amazing game, and is definitely worth buying. Nowadays it's amazingly cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rage_Of_Crow
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  In gangsters you take the roll of a mobster like the godfather, and control your thugs in a variety 
 of legal and illegal tasks. but you have to watch out because the police and the FBI is always 
 on the look out. 
  
  You have a large lists of order to give to your thugs, accountant and lawyer, you have to recruit 
 new hoods, extort people, collect the protection, buy business, open illegal business like counterfeit 
 press to make money and distribute it on your legal business, you can also put a whorehouse, make 
 raids, and assault business and people. The game is divided by work weeks, all the orders issued 
 will begin as soon as you hit the begin working week.
  
  You ca bribe police officers, civilians, judges... almost everyone can be bribed so you can get 
 to your goal. The only ones you can't bribe are FBI agents, so you have to look for them or they 
 will put your thugs in jail, and sometimes you won't be able to release them even with a very good 
 lawyer, or close a business and hurt your economy real good.
  
  Don't forget that you are competing with another 3 mob lords for the city. You can engage battle 
 with other gang members or with police officers. Reducing the manpower of the rival gang, causing 
 it to lower the income for the week.
  
  I recommend this game if you like RTS is not as the classic C&C but you will have a great time 
 building your empire recruiting and managing your people so you can own the city.
  The game can became frustrating because is very hard to beat the computers gangs, but in multi 
 player you can have a lot of fun with another 3 friends on a LAN or by the Internet.
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
