-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gangland
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/gangland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.9, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 551 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Whiptail Interactive
Developer: MediaMobsters
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 4, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The execution of many of Gangland's different elements falls short of its lofty promise, thus leaving 
 a game that has a lot of good ideas but is sometimes convoluted and often frustrating. 

  On the surface, it would seem like Gangland would be a surefire hit. It leverages the popular gangster 
 theme and melds it into a hybrid game that is part action, part strategy, and part simulation. 
 You can run a number of illegal businesses, like speakeasies, brothels, chop shops, and moonshine 
 distilleries, while also raising a family, putting out contract hits, and performing drive-bys. 
 So, in theory, there's something for everyone here. Unfortunately, the execution of many of Gangland's 
 different elements falls short of its lofty promise, thus leaving a game that has a lot of good 
 ideas but is sometimes convoluted and often frustrating.  

          The streets are all but devoid of cars.     

  Gangland's story isn't going to make 
 anyone forget about Mafia (the game) anytime soon, but the premise is solid enough. You play as 
 Mario Mangano, one of five brothers from Palermo, Sicily. One night your brother Chico is found 
 dead. Apparently, he met his fate at the hands of your three other brothers, Angelo, Romano, and 
 Sonny. Your three brothers soon disappear from the island and flee to Paradise City, which is in 
 the New World. As a result of their departure, you're sent to apprentice in the New World -- under 
 your uncle Vincenzo -- to seek vengeance for Chico's death. Gangland's modern-style music doesn't 
 seem to fit the '30s theme, but then again, neither do the ninjas, Humvees, bazookas, and Uzis 
 that you'll eventually come across. It's also strange that voice-overs weren't used to relate the 
 plot in between missions, but considering how terribly voiced the unit acknowledgments are, maybe 
 this is a good thing.  

  One of the first things you'll notice about the game is that it has a fairly capable graphics engine. 
 The city maps you play in are rendered in 3D, and the streets and buildings you explore have a 
 satisfying level of detail. Dozens of pedestrians roam about, and interior areas are fully fleshed-out 
 with furniture and other amenities. Other nice touches include steam that escapes from sewer drains 
 and a day-night cycle that appropriately affects your line of sight. You can zoom the viewpoint 
 in and out with the mouse wheel, and you can rotate your angle smoothly with the mouse by holding 
 down the Alt key. Usually, though, you'll rely on a couple of keys on the keyboard to quickly rotate 
 your view 90 degrees in either direction.  

  After just a few minutes of playing, you'll begin to notice what's missing more than what's there -- namely, 
 vehicular traffic. Every now and then you'll walk past a car parked on the street (that you can't 
 steal!) , but otherwise Gangland is devoid of vehicles, aside from those you drive and those your 
 enemies drive. The lack of civilian vehicles is a pretty big flaw for a game that boasts a "living 
 city." Even when you do get to drive a vehicle, the handling of these cars leaves a lot to be desired. 
 You can pull off drive-bys, but for some strange reason, cars are restricted to running on the 
 streets. If you attempt to drive up the curb, you get stopped cold, as though there are invisible 
 guardrails lining every sidewalk. If people are in the street, you can still run them over. However, 
 collision physics are pretty much nonexistent, so your car just pushes victims a short distance 
 before they die.  

  Another big issue is the fact that there doesn't seem to be much variation in the character models 
 for both your hired help and the nonplayer characters. Gangland has you interacting with and moving 
 among so many people that it's distracting when they end up all looking like clones of one another. 

  You'll start the game as a low-level gangster under your uncle Vincenzo. You've only got one goon 
 sidekick to start out with, and your missions begin slowly by having you extort nearby businesses, 
 like a gun shop and a restaurant, and having you carry out small hits for your uncle. As you gain 
 firsthand knowledge about running a protection racket and offing poor saps, you gain experience 
 that allows you to hire and simultaneously control more goons. The standard hired help varies from 
 burly bouncers, who excel in melee combat; to gunmen, who wield pistols and tommy guns; to fast-moving 
 street girls, who can use mace to incapacitate their quarries. If you complete the game's challenge 
 missions, you can unlock powerful special units, such as big mammas (shotgun-wielding fat women 
 who can heal your units) , ninjas, bazooka troops, and snipers (who tote their rifles in violin 
 cases) .  

          Street girls spray clouds of gas to temporarily stun enemies.     

  Initially, you can only hire people from restaurants you've taken over, so an immediately frustrating 
 issue is that the type of goons available to you is randomized. If you're looking for a tommy gunner, 
 you may end up waiting for a while if the only people looking for jobs in your restaurant are bouncers. 
 Having more restaurants under your control increases the applicant pool, but the inability at the 
 outset of the game to freely choose the troops you want can be irritating.  

  Gangland's combat is hit-or-miss. While you can (and must) use the environment to your advantage 
 by positioning your men behind cover, the action usually develops so fast that it can be very difficult 
 and frustrating to manage. The ability to issue orders while paused would have done a lot to mitigate 
 the chaos, but this feature isn't available in Gangland. Hundreds of bullets fill the air with 
 each pitched battle because it takes a ridiculous amount of gunfire to bring down just one man. 
 The fact that most of your men are such horrible shots makes matters even worse because ammunition 
 is one of the game's key resources. As a result, the more gun shops you have in the fold, the faster 
 you accumulate bullets.     

  Complicating things even more is the random manner in which NPC bystanders and nearby police participate 
 in gunfights. Most NPCs will simply run away from the area, but a good percentage of them carry 
 their own weapons and will often fight with you or against you. The same goes for the police, though 
 mostly they will shoot at gangsters of either side. However, at times it feels as though they  
 do  pick a side. It's frustrating when the police end up against you in a fight because it makes 
 you wonder why you've been paying them off in the first place. There appears to be little rhyme 
 or reason as to when these third parties will be with you or against you, which adds to the trial-and-error 
 nature of Gangland's underlying strategy. The enemy artificial intelligence feels pretty basic 
 as well. Damaged units will often try to run away and heal up with medkits, but sometimes enemies 
 stack together foolishly, thus making them ideal targets for bombs and dynamite attacks.  

          Garages will generate car parts for you to trade with international contacts.     

 
  You can expect to die often in Gangland because the normal difficulty level offers an intimidating 
 level of challenge. The game has a steep learning curve. For instance, right at the end of the 
 first mission, you're asked to start knocking off other bosses and told to walk right into heavily 
 fortified safe houses. All too often, these mission failures are the result of being unexpectedly 
 outnumbered due to police interference or other hard-to-avoid circumstances, like your thrown dynamite 
 exploding too close to your men. It would have been nice to have been able to save a game in the 
 middle of a mission, but for some reason, this feature has been left out of Gangland (though a 
 patch is apparently in the works to address this issue) . As it is, if you spend an hour or more 
 on a hard mission and get whacked at the end, you'll have to start it all over. The challenge missions, 
 in particular, seem all but impossible because dozens of enemies are flung at you, and you don't 
 even get a steady source of ammunition to fend them off. The game's default level of difficulty 
 may turn off some potential players, but thankfully, the developers have included three different 
 difficulty settings, which primarily affect the amount of damage your men can take.  

  If you can persevere through the first few missions, you'll reach a point where you can get out 
 from under your uncle's shadow and begin running your own mob. The game opens up from here because 
 you have more options available to you, and the game introduces different mobs, new units, and 
 different settings. You can also begin collecting secondary resources by taking over special businesses, 
 like chop shops, brothels, and distilleries. International mobsters will call you up on the phone 
 and offer money, other resources, and special units in exchange for your hot car parts, blackmail 
 photos, and liquor. You're also able to marry and have children. These children grow up to be underbosses 
 with special skills that allow you to hire more goons. You can also have your grown child watch 
 the headquarters while you roam around the city.  

  Unfortunately, these added features sometimes feel like they present more hassle than they're worth. 
 Managing a single battle is difficult enough, but attempting to protect a far-flung empire of businesses -- all 
 of which are potential targets for your enemies -- while attempting to organize your own attacks 
 is all but untenable. Protecting your wife from attack is also a pain because she cannot be controlled 
 directly. Like any good woman, she's got a mind of her own, so she'll wander around in public near 
 your safe house for amusement, which can be dangerous.  

  Gangland offers a ton of content. There are 16 conquest missions in the campaign, with 12 optional 
 challenge missions interspersed. While Mario's experience carries over from mission to mission, 
 your experienced henchmen and the businesses you own do not, so Gangland lacks a sense of continuity, 
 which is important for a game of this type.  

          Protecting your wife and child is a difficult priority in Gangland.     

  There are 
 a number of maps available for multiplayer action, and these can optionally be played with computer 
 opponents in a makeshift sandbox mode. Against human opponents, building up your empire in the 
 standard conquest mode feels somewhat slow, but a faster-paced shoot-out mode is also included 
 for those with shorter attention spans. Though the game touts online capabilities, like many real-time 
 strategy games, Gangland wasn't designed with dedicated servers in mind. As of this writing, we 
 haven't been able to find random players to compete against using the matchmaking tool. It's also 
 worth noting that multiplayer still seems a bit buggy as of patch 1.1. Specifically, the game routinely 
 crashes on us upon exiting a multiplayer match, thus requiring a hard reboot.  

  All told, Gangland is an unfortunate example of wasted potential. But don't take this as an outright 
 dismissal. Those who are very interested in gangster-themed games will still find plenty to like 
 about it, since its general design is fairly solid. There's an undeniable charm in taking over 
 businesses, running a protection racket, and interacting with international mobsters as you vie 
 for control of the city. Gangland certainly offers a lot of ambitious features to add depth to 
 the gameplay. However, it's too bad that the overly chaotic battles, some balancing issues, and 
 a lack of attention to vehicles keep us from giving it an unqualified recommendation.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zellgod
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This isn't your typical RTS. Yes, you still point and click to move units, and press different 
 keys to use special abilities and etc, but building wise its different. Instead of building like 
 in almost all other RTS, you capture buildings that are already there. So, if you steal a gun store, 
 then you can buy guns there and collect ammo. This is a great idea, but there isnt much more you 
 can do. If there was more you could upgrade about each building you captured this game would be 
 excellent. Don't get me wrong, I loved this game, but Its the kind of game that feels like it needed 
 an expansion. If they just added a few more features into the game, it would have been a lot better. 
 Plus the other downside to this game is the phone calling system. If you have a mob boss sitting 
 at the desk you can answer the phone whenever it rings, cool idea right? It truly is! but it makes 
 multiplayer completely luck of the draw by doing this. Some requests are much simpler than the 
 others and you can get so much more money by getting the right ones. The one I am thinking of in 
 particular is where itll be like Anonymous "Prove that your a badass by killing 5 cops" and then 
 you get 30k, which puts you clearly ahead of everyone else. It ultimately results in a luck based 
 winner for multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtGray
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Gangland takes place in modern day "Paradise City" were you, Mario Mangano from Palermo, Italy, 
 must avenge the death of your brother Chico. Chico was killed by his three other brothers Romano, 
 Angelo and Sonny.
  At the beginning of the game you start off working for your uncle Vincenzo as an enforcer. Throughout 
 the game you rise in Vincenzo's ranks, and soon begin building up your own criminal empire.
  The storyline in the game runs fairly smoothly, sending you to different parts of the city as you 
 follow the leads you get to reach your three surviving brothers.
  The combat system is fairly simple. Concentrating on simple things such as taking cover, although 
 this only applies when controlling Mario and one or two bodyguards. As your numbers rise, and larger 
 firefights are engaged, Management of your mobsters seems a near impossible task.
  During skirmish modes, and multiplayer games, skirmish modes obviously only being available after 
 a patch is installed, give more opportunity to focus on the buisness side of the game.
  Combat is only a small part of Gangland, extortion, bribery, trades and favors with foreign gang 
 leaders often play a large role in building your empire.
  Having your boss survive during the entire game is also a hard task as most of the time your mobsters 
 will be unavailable to do a task, or it would be unwise to send that mobster/s to do that task.
 
  Such situations do require a boss to get his hands dirty. Also your mobsters cannot make buisness 
 with store owners, and it will require a boss or underboss to be present.
  This is a frustrating situation, and in multiplayer, also results in your boss being encountered 
 by a triggerhappy bunch of goons inside a vehicle, ready to pump your boss or underboss full of 
 lead.
  Although frustrating, and hard to get the hang of, Gangland will at least be remembered as the 
 game that dodged a bullet at the censors office, besides that, it doesn't stand up to even old 
 RTS' like Age Of Empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukesRUs
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  really good game if its the kind of thing your into BUT there isnt really much of a storyline no 
 FMV's but the game is very addictive and easy to learn the controls, the graphics are pretty good 
 but not spectacular but the addictiveness of the game will be the best part i recommend playing 
 the skirmish although playing the story will be useful for unlocking the super characters, my favourite 
 character has to be the enforcer child which grows up to be a crazy guy with two tommy guns really 
 great for killing the enemies build your army and kill away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalasas
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  ok so this is a basic mafia RPG/STRATEGY each gang gets a safe house, there, you get called for 
 jobs, hits, weapons and ect, you can also expect that enemy family members will be in their safe 
 houses and its gonna be guarded
  
  features,- take over many different buildings, like garages, weapons shops, strip clubs, warehouses 
 (alcohol makers) , restruants and even police stations
  
  you got many different types of people, from thug to body guard to ninja assassin and sniper
 
  
  weapon upgrades for each type
  
  you can get children and have em be a gun runner, a lawyer or a female spy
  
  you can garrison 
 buildings and shoot out the windows
  
  - negatives
  the driving is horid, you use your arrow keys to drive (eeew)
  enemy AI is usually not smart, 
 they will run all in and get wooped, over and over in the smae spots (untill they get a bazooka 
 guy)
  many times you will get bored before a match is over, online play is very glitch prone
  no really 
 good updates , community or mods
  
  but overall its a good game.
  more games need to come out in the mafia rts/rpg type like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VP4391
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  All I can say about Gangland is that it kept me wanting more and to play more, expand your horizon 
 with a 8 family free for all, and try as hard as you can. Victory is accomplished by killing the 
 enemy boss, how simple, yet how enjoyable. Break into the base and start shooting at him, rush 
 the base with demolition experts and pulverize the base with the boss still inside (Ive done it.. LOL) 
 or even kill every single person of the family besides the boss and surround everything, enjoy 
 his death. The styles of the enemy and your fate is very choice, I recommend this game for enjoyability, 
 it crashes alot and was obviously created by B class amateurs. O well they made it fun, thats all 
 it is, FUN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elektroboy127
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I remember I got this game for Easter when I was 12 years old and I was as happy as can be. Reading 
 the preview article in PC Gamer Magazine a few months before-hand paid off as I loaded the game 
 to my computer. Right away I was quite pleased with the graphics and the micromanagement of Gangland 
 (which were outstanding during 2004) and the first few missions helped with learning the controls 
 and the basis of the game, working for Uncle Vinny and not having to worry about controlling businesses 
 and the annoying phone calls and requests for the godfather . Also with the slightly strategic 
 spin on unit control, I was very happy to find my guys crouched behind a wall of trashcans or a 
 newstand gunning down the attackers from another family. A highlight of this would be the first 
 challenge mission that, if successful, will grant you access to the Russian Sniper unit that picks 
 mobsters off the street like nothing.
  I will admit that Gangland did have a bit of a bumpy start in the beginning, but now at v1.4, I 
 think it has improved a bit now with newer skins for shopkeepers, blinking unit icons to signify 
 your men coming under fire, and other miscellaneous little things that make the game still, if 
 anything, a little bit fresh. It is saddening, however, that the multiplayer community has completely 
 dwindled, if it even existed in the first place, which I think it would be awesome if there was 
 a bit more activity. Patch 1.4 remedied such loneliness with the skirmish option, which is what 
 it says it is: player vs. computer open-fighting.
  So, being a three-year-old game, it would not hurt to pick it up if you are a fan of the Mafia, 
 RTS games, both, or neither. Just go play it and you will see what I am talking about. Now 15, 
 I cannot believe that it was three years ago I first played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webofvirtues
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  No in game save function? Dead-end gaming? One of the worst games I've ever played. Sorry, guys. 
 gameplay is redundant with awful car movement and no toggle shooting, graphics are sprite-ridden, 
 sound repetitive after fifteen seconds, value isn't worth the resin its made from. Better time 
 is spent watching water boil to make pasta than play this game. What else is there to say. a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haris82
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Guy in video rewiev obviosly played the game when it wasnt patched up. Most bugs are fixed, pause 
 button added so its not tedious anymore. Save option in single player campaign was added. And most 
 importantly skirmish mode and map editor was added to the game wich made it 10 times more fun than 
 it was when it was originally released and got all the bad ratings. Its still a hard game and it 
 takes some practice to get things runing but once you learn all the functions game becomes really 
 fun. It has everything you ever wished a gangster game should have. I have played rts games before 
 and this is one of the more adictive ones i tested specially in skirmish mode. Plus this is the 
 first Mafia/gangster game that i tested that was not boring and dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rufius89
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The games graphics are quite good as I don't think there's no more need for improvement on graphics, 
 but the game is quite short, and there's always the same objectives at almost every conquest, but 
 the story is quite good. I suggest not using cheats it destroys the game and you will get easily 
 bored and not experience the true nature of the game. The sound is good and the game play is quite 
 OK but it looks like they could of worked with the game a lot more and improve. The main game character 
 Mario is quite dumb I think he get's used by everyone in the beginning but I like his clothing 
 and he does fit well as a leader. The special characters you can recruit are funny and good in 
 my opinion, assassin, ninja, big momma, sniper etc, though it's quite bad that some of them can 
 only stun an opponent etc, and not do any damage at all. As I said I think the game could have 
 been improved alot more if it was I think it'd get at least 8/10.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ERASEDNFORGOTTE
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've played in a long time. The developers didn't exactly release a finished 
 version of the game. However the patches make up for that. If you played gangland before and were 
 dissatisfied I suggest you download and install the latest patch. It includes a map editor, save 
 game feature, and all the bug fixes. And supports cheats in single player mode which is great for 
 practice and gaining experience. Unfortunately this LATE addition to the game caused the player 
 population to shrink tremendously. Several players and I have gotten together to change this, and 
 make gangland one of the more played games out there. We offer full SUPPORT for the game that cant 
 be found anywhere on the internet. We also offer plenty of useful links to help you get the most 
 out of your Gangland gaming experience. We hope to expand the Gangland player community and provide 
 a place for all of the gangland players out there to get together and create clans, and all of 
 the other fun things that other games have. An organized player network with public and private 
 personalized forums, and plenty of guidelines to getting the most out of this amazing game. If 
 you play or used to play gangland I suggest you take a moment and check out our site at:
  
  
  
  And do us a favor! SPREAD THE WORD!!!!! Thanks! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  To be honest with each and everyone of you out there on Gamespot. I am not really into the shoot 
 em up games. But a friend of mine told me about this game and I had to go and check it out for 
 myself. I do have to admit that I do like it. The graphics are not bad at all. I have not played 
 it all that much but the parts of it I have seen ... I must admit I have liked. Not sure if I will 
 actually finish this game but for now I must say that I like what I have seen thus far.
  
  If you like the old Gang style kind of games. Then you will like this one. Working your way up 
 thru the family by taking on different tasks and impressing the bosses. ANyways... I hope this 
 help and to all of you out there ..... HAPPY GAMING!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon47
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  heres a list of the bad things about the game
  
  1. cant save in single player
  2. no civilian cars
  3. you can only choose one of 4 sicilian boss in multiplayer
  4. the different 
 ethnic mafia bosses are not uniqe at all exept for the super units heres an example the chinese 
 mob isnt gona have chinses looking gangsters and neither will the italian jewish russian or any 
 of the different ethnic bosses
  5. no drug dealing
  6. gang control sucks
  7. cant buy cars from car dealerships (you have to buy the cars from internationel mafia bosses 
 who call you up and give you deals)
  8. there are only 3 shop owner skins
  9. cant make your own phone calls to people making your own deals
  10. in multiplayer you cant 
 ally with someone in the game you have to ask the host of the game to ally you and the sed ally 
 before the game starts
  11. no shared vision for allies in a game
  12. they screwed up the whole family interface with the children and such
  13. cant choose one 
 of the ethnic bosses to play in multi player
  14. YOU CANT BUY NEW THREADS FOR YOUR GANGSTERS
  15. the weapons and guns interface is screwed 
 up
  16. casinos dont have any dealers in them
  17. in the game gangsters look more like hobos
  18. cant make deals with people in multiplayer 
 so if a friend of urs is in trouble you cant temporarily give him control of some of ur gangsters 
 and give him some money
  20. the differeny ethnic bosses are not unqie looking at all
  21. you have to shoot someone a milliom times before they die
  22. the children are ugly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I loved it. This game is all about you trying to kill your 3 brothers 
 beacuase he hates em I guess. But the gameplay is awsome, you can run to places take them over 
 but watch out for them another Mafia will try to take it, if it's in their turf. You can get married 
 and have children they can grow into adults and help you run your business. You can go to clubs 
 to hire guards and buy them new weapons at gun stores but you have to take em over first. I don't 
 really play on my pc but when I got this game I liked it. So if you liked Starcraft and Mafia games 
 this game will not dissapoint you. But it get's boring after awhile but you'll get the feeling 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the game, I really though this game would suck. Well my friends said I should 
 really get this game so I did. And I got to say my friends were right. This was an amazing game!
 
  Im not into strategy games but this was tons of fun.
  
  The gameplay was very fun. I liked the whole idea and the missions. When you get to run the gang, 
 thats when the fun begins. Its a very realistic game. (well except the bazooka guys) One thing 
 its missing however was traffic.
  Theres many different characters and weapons, and of course vehicles to choose from. There are 
 not much people playing this game online, so I can't tell you if it was fun or not. And make sure 
 to get the patch. It will help you a lot, since the game is hard as it is.
  
  The graphics arent the best you will see, but it has lots of detail.
  
  I liked the sound 
 too. The voices were cool, but short. And although the music did not fit in, it still sound very 
 good so I'm not complaining.
  
  The value is really good. I bought it for $17, and I think its worth it. However if you don't 
 have a lot of money or you don't want to waste it, then save your money for another game or if 
 the prices drop.
  
  Overall I believe this game is worth the money and that you will definitely enjoy this game. 
 
  
  Also if you liked this game, be on the look out for another cool gang video game called "Paradise 
 City". More info here: http://www. mediamobsters. com/
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: casan02
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  While looking through games under $20 in Gamestop shop, one game has caught my attention. There 
 it was, Gangland. I was one of those guys that where intrested in games that involves in the classic 
 1930 gangs, like the infamous Al Copone, so I decided to buy it. I mean the concept looks a pretty 
 good idea; you have a game that combines real-time strategy with role-playing element in it.
  
  First Impression
  
  After installing the game, the first thing I noticed was that there 
 were no introduction cinema before the menu select screen shows up. How can there be a game with 
 no intro? (With the exception of MMORPGs) . Looking through the menu, I noticed that you can create 
 a profile where it will save the progress of the game. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  It seems like this is going to be a fun game to play. While playing through the game little by 
 little I started to notice some things that caught me off-guard and really ticked me off and frustrated. 
 
  
  When I was playing without the Don, and had the phone option, I had the choice of either answering 
 the phone or ignore it. The phone offers oppurtunities to improve your gang activity or get great 
 offers, but in order to answer it, YOU HAVE TO BE NEAR THE PHONE. I leave the phone after the offer, 
 then five minutes later it rings again, and I am like a long reach from it, and no one else can 
 answer it but you, unless you have children. Why is this a big deal? Because every three or four 
 minutes, the phone starts to ring again.
  
  I also noticed that the AI that you have, are not very smart at all, nor are the opponent AI. When 
 in a battle the thugs that are expert in melee chrage directly to the opponent attacking you, without 
 your command, plus they will just run, and if a obstacle gets stuck in their way, they will stop 
 moving, forcing you to click at them and doing the process. Those that use guns are also in that 
 aswell. You try to tell them to attack them, but if they have a line of sight block, they will 
 not attack.
  
  The use of cars is a ecellent idea, but it has gone bad, because controlling the car is a very 
 hard task to do, and you will end up dead. The only time I use the car is when my group is taking 
 a beating and they need cover to shot with their tommy guns at the enemy until they are dead.
 
  
  Controlling your groups is also a hard task, because you cannot bind them with a hotkey , so you 
 have to click and drag the square just to send a squad. Also when a huge group moves at the same 
 time, they cluster together and stay like that after they finish moving.
  
  Why isn't there a saving option in the skirmish mode? I mean I understand that there's a auto-save 
 in story mode, but in skirmish mode when playing offline? That does not make any sense at all.
 
  
  Also the AI is very serious, even if you set them to very easy to beat, in about 30 minutes your 
 base is going to be attacked and you have nothing to defend them and they will be after you.
  
  Howeverm there are some good sides about the game, but not whole alot. You can get married 
 in the game, which is necessarry to expand your gang activity and have your kids take over if you 
 get killed.
  
  Also you can go and take over business like ammo shops, weapon shops, hotels, and other business 
 to increase your funds and the amount of ammos you can have.
  
  Graphics
  
  They are up to par, not that imprresive, but up to par.
  
  Sound
  
  The music is great 
 and changes rythim when you are in a battle, but it really doesn't match with the timeline of the 
 game that takes palce.
  
  Value
  
  Not ahole lot on that department.
  
  PROS: Has the 1930s style theme, most activities you do are what where what mafia gangs used to 
 do. The music is great rythm in the game. The NPCs have the attitudes of serious mafia gangsters.
 
  
  CON: Bad gameplay, no saving during skirmish mode, VERY difficult to beat the NPCs in skirmish 
 and scenerio. Poor AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 18, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Gangland is surprisingly good, but it isn't flawless. The soundtrack is very annoying, and there 
 is little speech in the game. On the back of the case it boasts a 'living environment', which is 
 not quite true. There are lots of pedestrians walking around, and a lot of parked vehicles, but 
 never any cars driving about. The game has some good ideas. You start off working for your uncle, 
 who goes missing after a few missions. After that, you run your own gang and can hire loads of 
 units, from bouncers to bazooka units. You can perform drive-bys on enemy gangs and can extort 
 and take over businesses.
  Overall, the game is quite fun, but can be frustrating at times. It is recommended that you download 
 the patch before playing the game, as it makes for a better experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2004 12:25 am PT
Review:  good game BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? 
 BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY 
 DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T 
 THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES 
 WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? 
 BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY 
 DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T 
 THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES 
 WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? 
 BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK? BUT WHY DON'T THE CODES WORK?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 9, 2004 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I just dont know about this game I mean I love the game but why did they make some of like they 
 did I mean Let me start off with the biggest problem. 1: Inaccurate firing make the 1,000 bullets 
 you have go fast too fast and sorta took the fun out of the combat because you have to be like 
 point blank range to kill someone but still its not too bad. Cops... I dont understand? The cops 
 come to the boss loooking like there taking a bribe but then you go out and shoot someone and they 
 open up on you then when you kill too many they start shooting on sight then shooting gang members 
 killing carriers that just carry suitcases of money then they kill managers and it just turns into 
 a mess but beside those two major problems this game was good it kept you wanting to play and urging 
 to get into power by continues play I thought it was worth it alot but I thought for the gameplay 
 I got they could of at least slapped 15 dollars off the price or something because its keeps you 
 going but once you quit its hard for you to get back into the feel of playing its strange but all 
 in all this game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 8, 2004 6:15 am PT
Review:  Sorry but I really dont get what the reviewers are talking about. This is an ok game but certainly 
 not worth the 50.00!!! It lack more control over your businesses. You really cant do anything but 
 sit back and collect resources.. Its more like your farm hands collecting your coal, food, lumber, 
 and other resources needed to run certain functions. The game lacks a sandbox mode... which would 
 make this much more fun.. You can save the game.. So you end up repeating levels over and over. 
 Not much of a story line to call this an RPG... I think it makes a better RTS anyway.. Sorry but 
 I wasnt that happy with it at all..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: digggd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2004 11:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. I highly recommend it. I love everything about the game. The graphics and 
 sound are excellent. My only gripes are that it is a bit buggy, such as the thugs are sometimes 
 missing their guns and shooting without them. My other gripe has to do with no save function in 
 the missions. You have to play an entire mission before it will auto-save for you. Which is a huge 
 problem since the missions are very long and can get very difficult. So when your main guy dies 
 it is over and you have to start all over. I read on their website that a patch to fix the bugs 
 and to add a save feature should be out later in March. I feel that after I get the patch that 
 this game would rate a 9.0-9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wprensky
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2004 7:55 pm PT
Review:  heres a list of the bad things about the game
  
  1. cant save in single player
  2. no civilian cars
  3. you can only choose one of 4 sicilian boss in multiplayer
  4. the different 
 ethnic mafia bosses are not uniqe at all exept for the super units heres an example the chinese 
 mob isnt gona have chinses looking gangsters and neither will the italian jewish russian or any 
 of the different ethnic bosses
  5. no drug dealing
  6. gang control sucks
  7. cant buy cars from car dealerships (you have to buy the cars from internationel mafia bosses 
 who call you up and give you deals)
  8. there are only 3 shop owner skins
  9. cant make your own phone calls to people making your own deals
  10. in multiplayer you cant 
 ally with someone in the game you have to ask the host of the game to ally you and the sed ally 
 before the game starts
  11. no shared vision for allies in a game
  12. they screwed up the whole family interface with the children and such
  13. cant choose one 
 of the ethnic bosses to play in multi player
  14. YOU CANT BUY NEW THREADS FOR YOUR GANGSTERS
  15. the weapons and guns interface is screwed 
 up 
  16. casinos dont have any dealers in them
  17. in the game gangsters look more like hobos
  18. cant make deals with people in multiplayer 
 so if a friend of urs is in trouble you cant temporarily give him control of some of ur gangsters 
 and give him some money
  20. the differeny ethnic bosses are not unqie looking at all
  21. you have to shoot someone a milliom times before they die
  22. the children are ugly
  
 
  and there is probably 1 or 2 maybe 3 more things i forgot to adress but despite all those things 
 i listed its a pretty decent game you would be surprised 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
