-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gary Grigsby's World at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/garygrigsbysworldatwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Models many nuances of the war without being too complicated.
 Rewards long-term planning.
 Good graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Battle animations are lame.
 Interface could be less cluttered.
 Fixed resolution.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  2, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 230 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: 2By3 Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 25, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World at War provides a very rewarding way to relive WWII from the perspective of its top leaders. 
 

  Don't let the screenshots from Gary Grigsby's World at War fool you. It may cover World War II 
 at a strategic level, but this isn't Axis &amp; Allies. Success in this game requires managing 
 everything from research and supplies to politics and production, with loads of epic battles simply 
 punctuating long hours of logistical planning.  

          Politically frozen regions on the map are like land mines waiting to be stepped on.    

  At the start of the game you take control of one of the five available world powers: China, Germany 
 (and its allies) , Japan, Russia, and the Western Alliance (composed of the US, the UK, Canada, 
 France, and other historical allies) . Beginners can focus on combat by leaving production chores 
 up to the AI, but it is also possible to assume complete control over every aspect of the game. 
 Several campaigns are available, including one that covers the entire war, and play by e-mail is 
 supported if you want to face off against some friends or play cooperatively against the AI.  

 
  The world map is divided into countries and regions that all conform to their political stances 
 during the war, so knowing a little bit about history helps immensely while playing. For example, 
 when beginning a campaign in the spring of 1940, Russia is politically frozen, and unless provoked 
 (or the German player leaves his eastern border exposed) , that power won't enter the conflict until 
 the winter of 1943, when it joins with the Western Alliance, regardless of whatever else is going 
 on. Similarly, if Japan fails to maintain a proper garrison in Manchuria, Russia will automatically 
 unfreeze its eastern zone and seize the opportunity to take territory. There are many frozen regions 
 and many conditions that will trigger their full-fledged entry into the conflict, so there is a 
 lot of political strategy to consider that also plagued historical figures.  

  Basic gameplay consists of researching new technology, producing units and supplies, and moving 
 those assets around the map to fight the enemy. Within each of those broad categories there are 
 many things to consider, including what upgrades to focus on for a variety of unit types, how many 
 of each type of unit to produce, and what type of movement is required to get all of those assets 
 where you need them. Rail networks, trucks, planes, and transport ships all provide the means to 
 perform "strategic" movement, where units are not forced to move under their own power and can 
 therefore travel over longer distances than is possible with their inherent "automatic" movement. 
 Moving units under their own power consumes supply points, but many times is unavoidable, while 
 using strategic movement doesn't consume any supply points. This makes it very important to produce 
 and maintain transportation assets and also to protect vital rail lines and sea lanes.  

  Combat is complicated by the sheer number of unit types that are available and all of the modifiers 
 that affect the behind-the-scenes dice rolls that are used to determine hits and misses, but a 
 combat-analyzer tooltip pops up when you mouse over a region to provide a quick overview of the 
 odds. While battles are obviously important, they require little thought compared to the means 
 it takes to prepare for them. Knowing the capabilities of your units and those of the enemy is 
 extremely helpful, but unless you have the production, transportation, and supply capacity to bring 
 your forces to bear, all of those facts are meaningless. This game is all about long-term planning, 
 and it is telling that there are tutorials focusing on movement and production but not on combat. 

  While some may feel that the game buries them in minutiae, it actually does a fairly elegant job 
 of re-creating many of the strategic nuances of the war that other games either fail to cover or 
 model in too much detail. The English Channel, for example, is modeled as a "narrow" in the game 
 so that ground artillery and air units stationed on either side can automatically bombard anything 
 that tries to pass through. Many ocean regions are much larger in reality than would fit neatly 
 on the map, so they are marked with double lines to show that they cost twice as many movement 
 points to traverse than other regions do. If the Germans take Paris, most remaining French regions 
 immediately switch to German control under the Vichy government, and a little video clip even pops 
 up to mark the occasion. There are many simple and intuitive additions like this that add a lot 
 to the historical flavor of the game without being needlessly complicated.  

  Playing with others offers the best challenge, but the AI is no slouch. It exploited practically 
 every opening we gave it and always kept us on our toes. There are several difficulty levels to 
 choose from, but they simply give or take away transportation and combat advantages. That's good, 
 because you know the AI will always fight smartly on the lowest level of difficulty, just not as 
 effectively as it does on the harder levels.  

  World at War looks terrific by wargame standards, but it suffers from a cluttered interface and 
 a low fixed resolution of 1024x768. Battles look cheesy, with a bunch of units that aren't to scale 
 trading shots on generic backgrounds, but this is the type of game where you turn off the battle 
 animations after a few fights so you can quickly see the outcome and get back to strategizing. 
 The in-game music is decent but repetitive (and can be turned off) , and the sound effects do their 
 job of alerting you to what's going on in the game.  

          Battles are abstracted and aren't that interesting to watch.     

  Those looking for 
 a simple strategic-level World War II game should pass on this one, as there is far more to the 
 game than simply slugging it out to change ownership of the various regions. You have to keep track 
 of the supplies required to maintain an offensive and be very selective about the types of research 
 that will be most beneficial to your overall strategy. You have to know your units (and the enemy's) 
 well enough to tell at a glance whether an attack can be successful, and when preparing for an 
 offensive you must know exactly how many units you can commit from other areas without destabilizing 
 the regions they were in or opening yourself up to attack. Above all, especially when playing as 
 the Germans, you must be ever-mindful of politically frozen regions and powers entering the war 
 and maintain the means to deal with them. Newcomers to this genre will simply be overwhelmed by 
 the amount of data this game throws at them, while students of the conflict will revel in the detail. 
 World at War isn't for everyone, but if you're willing to come to grips with the interface and 
 come in armed with some knowledge (or the will to learn) , it provides a very rewarding way to relive 
 WWII from the perspective of its top leaders.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bcsasso
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  This is a very enjoyable strategy game with complexity and detail on par with the Panzer General 
 series, but on a global scale. It's a reasonable step up in difficulty from Axis & Allies, but 
 not nearly as demanding as Hearts of Iron or The Operational Art of War. It likely won't appeal 
 to Grognards, but is a welcome change of pace from the typical RTS for the average gamer.
  
  Several aspects of the game such as "politically frozen" zones may frustrate some players, 
 but make the game more historically accurate. Units are graphically represented which is more interesting 
 than abstract icons. I find amphibious assaults to be difficult to execute at best. The most recent 
 patch fixes most bugs, but I still experience a few lockups and the fixed resolution is a detriment. 
 Skip the battle views and instead focus on the strategic aspect and you won't be disappointed. 
 I found the game on Amazon for under $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  First, Axis &amp; Allies similarity is the first thing charmed me about this game. Maps are very 
 similar the concept is the same. Production and research is very well organized and carried axis&amp; allies 
 system further ahead. Battle screens are somehow dull and unexciting. Pros:
  + Vey well interface clean and simple. Pop up explanations on commands and options fulfill your 
 question marks 80% of the time.
  + Excellent research and production screens especially production screen is extremely well designed.
 
  + Very nice idea not to tie the unit attack &amp; defence etc. values to fixed values. Research 
 allows you to increase any of the values due your interest.
  + A very comprehensive game from infrastructure to industry. + Superb sound fx and appropriate 
 in game music.
  
  Cons:
  - Extremely boring battle screens.
  - Most boring turn waits as you count other player's unit moves one by one. And there is no way 
 to skip them.
  - Somehow missing in the soul. Something is missing within this game as i couldnot feel the satisfaction 
 i was supposed to get.
  - In overall the details in the structure bogs you down in the first minute. Conlusion;
  I dont 
 know if it is right to compare this with Axis&amp; Allies but i definitely prefer Axis&amp; Allies 
 despite World at war offers more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarmanJones
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 27, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  My brother and I played GG world at war or tried to. I was barely getting the hang of it , but 
 my brother gave up because its way too complicated. 
  I would gladly and love to get my hands on a strategy guide but NONE to be found on gamespot or 
 web.
  Now two copies of GG world at war sit dusty on my gameshelf and not installed on my harddrive. 
 
  You have to be a wargaming geekazoid to want to try tolearn and play this game.
  I rate this game a 1 on fun factor and a 4 over all, because it looks like the game company is 
 supporting it with patches and the like.
  This is boring and not fun, 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This is my first real wargame, and as such I'm reviewing it not as an expert with the genre, but 
 as a newcomer. Please forgive any mess ups on terminology for war games or any errors I have with 
 strategy in advance.
  
  Gameplay: World at War consists of 4 scenarios. I primarily always did the one which started earliest, 
 in order to have the most time with the game. This scenario starts with the Germans poised to invade 
 France. 
  
  Essentially, World at War gives you control of the economic and military might of whatever factions 
 you choose. The AI is intense as well, easily able to outthink a newcomer like myself (thank you 
 for difficulty settings) . 
  
  The economic dealings are what you will have to do a lot of. Managing your supplies, resources, 
 and factories well leads to many rewards later on. It is imperative to plan ahead several turns 
 so you know what kind of units will be available to you.
  
  For example, if you plan on using Germany and leading a land campaign across Russia, you want to 
 build up Tanks and Infantry as soon as possible to facilitate this occurance. 
  
  You can play as Germany, Japan, The Western Allies (USA+Britain, etc.) , China, and the Soviet Union. 
 All of these factions provide very different gameplay experiences. I actually had a ton of fun 
 playing as China and trying to fight off Japan's superior forces. 
  
  The games can last many, many hours, especially if you take off a time limit and simply play it 
 through to the bitter end.
  
  I think the best thing about the game is exploring different possibilities with World War 2. What 
 if Germany had ignored Russia and focused instead on Africa and Great Britain? What if Japan had 
 launched an attack into Russia at the same time as Germany? What if the US had focused on the War 
 in the Pacific instead of taking care of Germany first?
  
  You can at least somewhat answer these questions as you duke it out with this fairly realistic 
 AI. 
  
  The only complaint I have with the game is that it has a very simplistic dimplomacy system, that 
 doesn't allow for any true manipulation of it. I was hoping for at least working out truces, cease 
 fires, and such, but to no avail.
  
  Graphics: The game has what are considered great graphics for a wargame I guess, but comparatively 
 they are mediocre at best. I recommend completely skipping battle animations.
  
  Sound: The sound is again average at best. While the music suits as a good background, it just 
 really doesn't have anything worth mentioning, and the sound effects are merely there to do the 
 job.
  
  Value: This game will satisfy you for entire day-long gaming sessions. I highly recommend it for 
 the money.
  
  Tilt: This is my first wargame, and it has caused me to fall in love with the genre. I would recommend 
 this readily to anyone who is trying to find a beginner level wargame to test out the genre. It 
 is fun that will last for many days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoturyo
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  It is said that it looks like axis and allie and is even better... wut??? You wait like 10 mins 
 each turn to see others moves, it takes lots of time to understand the full game on how to get 
 better economy, etc. 
  + When you attack or get attacked, you get this annoying battle reconstitution which takes bout 
 1-2 mins until you end it... and it's even more annoying because it stop the turn proggression 
 each time it loads.
  
  That is why I should be paid to play this... takes time to understand, takes time to play, is far 
 to costly for its gameplay, always remains the same moves to do in matter to win, you barely have 
 any control on the whole map because you don't praticipate much in fights (it's more like risk II 
 than anything else... even there risk II takes way much less time to play) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherwhisp
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been a devout player of Axis & Allies for many years. (c.1992) .
  
  The second edition board game was my first experiecne and it was THE BOMB. 
  
  Hooked I was 
 from the start. Since that time I've tried to reclaim that same wonder through the PC.
  
  I was taken in by the first Axis&Allies PC. (Not justly enthralled.) Then it was Axis & Allies: 
 Iron Blitz... Now that was bad-ass. I still have that edition if any wish to buy it... :-P
  
  Then I discovered the Third Edition Board Game (VBA=Very Bad Ass) . And I've also experienced 
 the let-down of Atari's Axis & Allies PC game. What a shame! I actually sold it on eBay for $12. 
 
  
  Ahem! Now I present my feelings on Gary Grigby's World at War Demo.
  
  I'm not saying that the demo is any indication of how the full-version will play. But if it does 
 play like the full version then it is not complete.
  
  For one thing, the order of play was bewildering. Non-Combat and Combat phases were during the 
 same phase. That's bewildering. Not to mention that the Purchase Phase was LAST, not first.
  
  For another, the combat resolution was simply not right. The computer AI decided which planes 
 or infantry or armor deserved to die on your side. That is not right. Now I can see where it might 
 be desireable for the computer to rack up the casualties at random for you. But I wish for more 
 control over which units to sacrifice.
  
  I simply could not cope with demo being a true representation of the board game. Now granted, It 
 is not supposed to be Axis & Aliies, but that is exactly what I was expecting.
  
  In essence, I think this game is more Axis & Allies oriented than Atari's latest verion but Gary 
 Grisby's World at War is still sub-par.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelixDaRat
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Real quick, 'cause I'm no writer. This is like "Super Axis and Allies". Symbols, movement rules, 
 advanced research for weapons, the map - the "concept". If you have played Axis and Allies you 
 will be right at home - but that is just the start. A lot more depth has been added and it is that 
 much more fun to play. It is not that it is hard to learn - it's simple - just a lot of new stuff 
 to become aware of.
  Nothing in the game ad's or manual, etc says anything about Axis & Allies (I mean the original 
 board and PC game, not the latest release that did so badly) - that's just my take on it, OK?
 
  Bottom line: It's a way fun "beer & pretzles" game that is easy to learn but is deep enouf to 
 keep your interest fot the next 900 times you play it.
  Should be one of the top 10 games of the year.
  
  F/X-D Rat 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
