-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gears of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/gearsofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Satisfying gameplay in story mode.
 Very addictive online offering.
 Really stellar graphics from both a technical and an artistic standpoint.
 Fully-featured level editor included.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 System requirements can be a little steep.
 New chapters added to this version don't fit quite so well with the old ones.
 Difficulty could have used some slight tuning.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.7, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 5,323 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Nov 6, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of Gears of War is everything the 360 version was and more. 

  Released near the end of the Xbox 360's first year on the market, Gears of War was a defining moment 
 for Microsoft's console. Its gameplay relied heavily on forcing you to take cover to avoid enemy 
 shots, which meant that it required a healthy dose of patience as well as a steady trigger finger. 
 It then beat that mechanic into your head over the course of its quality story mode, while also 
 letting you team up with a friend online to take on the nefarious Locust forces together. Of course, 
 it also had an amazing team-based multiplayer mode in which up to eight shooters could connect 
 and go at it in a variety of different modes. Over time, more multiplayer maps and modes were added 
 to the collection via the Xbox 360's download service. All of that great stuff is now available 
 on the PC, on which the game looks better than it ever did on the Xbox 360, and without sacrificing 
 anything in the process. If you've never played Gears of War, or if you just haven't played it 
 in a while, do yourself a favor and try this new version of the game.  

           The game scales fairly well, but when it's looking its best, Gears of War requires a pretty 
 heavy PC.      

  The game's story component puts you in the shoes of Marcus Fenix, who up until the very beginning 
 of the game was serving time in prison for treasonous behavior. But the war effort requires his 
 special brand of badness, so he's quickly set free, dressed up in his old soldier garb, and put 
 back into action with the members of Delta Squad. Your enemy is the menace known as the Locust, 
 which seems to be an amalgamation of different races and creatures, all seemingly devoted to exterminating 
 your kind and taking over your planet. The game's plot points are inconsequential and work in a 
 number of meaningless MacGuffin devices that serve as the only impetus you need to march from point 
 A to point B while gunning down bad guys the whole way. You'll blast even more bad guys in the 
 PC version of the game, which has a new section at the start of the final act that fills in a blank 
 left by the 360 version. It does a better job of explaining how you go from running away from a 
 huge beast with rocket launchers mounted on its head and shoulders to showing up at a train station 
 to take the battle to the enemy general before he ruins everything.  

  The new content in the campaign is significant because it's new, but it's not especially noteworthy 
 in the grand scheme of things. If anything, it probably would have worked better as a separate 
 "deleted scenes" mode than as an integrated part of the game because it changes things up a bit 
 in ways that betray the difficulty progression of the game. The new content often takes place in 
 wide-open areas that are larger than any areas found in the console version, and it also brings 
 together different combinations of enemies than you see in the rest of the game. Likewise, it forces 
 you to cover a lot of distance between most checkpoints, and it feels much harder overall than 
 anything in the "old" sections of the game. One section even features multiple paths to get to 
 the same location, which seems weird and out of place, given the rest of the game's extremely linear 
 nature. The new content is pretty good, but it's not so mind-blowing that you need to drop everything 
 immediately to see it.  

  Of course, the rest of Gears of War is completely intact here, as well. And the complete package, 
 done better than it was on the Xbox 360, is exactly the sort of mind-blowing that you might need 
 to drop everything if you haven't already played it. Aside from a few frustrating cases in which 
 the checkpoints are a little too far apart -- and perhaps the need for a difficulty setting that 
 falls between the too-easy "casual" and the occasionally punishing "hardcore" setting -- it's hard 
 to find many faults with the campaign, which will probably take new players around 12 or 13 hours 
 to complete. The war-torn world you navigate through looks really great, and you're always wondering 
 what will be around the next corner.  

  The gameplay is really satisfying, too, thanks to a very brutal graphical style that makes your 
 weapons look like they're doing extreme damage. Likewise, you'll appreciate the quality control 
 with a mouse/keyboard setup or an Xbox 360 gamepad, which is fully supported in the game. Your 
 main tactic in the game is to run up to an object and quickly hide behind it, then occasionally 
 pop out to fire off some shots and quickly get behind cover again before you take too much damage 
 and explode into a bloody mist with several meaty chunks. With a mouse and keyboard, you're mostly 
 using the standard WASD shooter control scheme, but the space bar is used to run and to get behind 
 cover, and you can hold down the right mouse button to pop up out of cover and take aimed shots. 
 With the gamepad, the left trigger is used to manage cover, the right trigger shoots, and A is 
 used for running. Both setups work just fine, though holding the space bar to run feels a little 
 awkward. Furthermore, the mouse lets you turn and aim much faster than a gamepad does, which means 
 that the mouse will probably be the control scheme of choice for online matches.  

  Up to eight players can come together online and break off into two teams for a handful of different 
 game types. Examples include warzone, which is the normal team-deathmatch style of play, and execution, 
 which forces you to run up and chainsaw or boot players who've been downed to finish them off. 
 Other modes, such as king of the hill and annex, make the game a little more tactical by requiring 
 you to claim and hold various points on the map. All in all, the multiplayer offering is just as 
 savage and great-looking as the single-player mode, and with plenty of maps to choose from, it 
 can keep you busy for a very long time.  

           About the only thing missing from the translation is split-screen multiplayer, but you 
 won't miss that one bit.      

  The graphics in Gears of War have never looked better than they do in the PC version, though that, 
 of course, depends on your machine. If you can exceed the game's system requirements, the game 
 looks pretty amazing at higher resolutions and delivers a good, smooth frame rate. It certainly 
 looks much better and sharper than the Xbox 360 version of the game, and it does so without looking 
 like the typical console-to-PC translation. The game also comes with a fully featured level editor, 
 another thing you don't typically see in console-to-PC translations. Though some players may still 
 prefer to play it with a gamepad, this feels like a PC game, top to bottom.  

  With a great loadout of weapons, a healthy multiplayer package, and an action-packed story mode, 
 Gears of War is a terrific action game that, even after a full year, still stands apart from the 
 pack. Whether you're a superfan of the first game who is looking for some additional content, or 
 a PC buff who's been wondering what the console kids have been up to, Gears of War on the PC is 
 most definitely worth your time and money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (293 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  First of all, i loved this game from the first time i played it. Gameplay is a masterpiece, perhaps 
 one of the best i've seen in video games. The cover system is also really helpful. Graphics are good, not 
 anything special.
  This game was a bit hard for me to finish. I finished the game in casual difficulty and I recall 
 moments where i found it difficult to win a fight, or revive my teammate, or reach a checkpoint on 
 time.
  The weapons are really well-designed. My favorite one was the chainsaw with which i could actually 
 slash enemies into pieces and this generated a wonderful satisfaction.
  The multiplayer part is highly addictive. I've played 3 hours without stopping and i didn't even 
 realise it. Time passes really fast when playing Gears Of War Multiplayer. Co-op is really addictive 
 too. However, not many people play gears of war online today. This is probably because of problems 
 with signing in Games For Windows. You must have an American account to play actually. I created 
 a second email in order to play, where i set my country to United States. Then i signed up to Games 
 For Windows with this second email.
  Anyways Gears Of War is worth buying. Really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenap_turan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:20 am PT
Review:  Great gameplaying, greater visuality, even greater entertainment. The concept is actually shallow 
 but it's kind of fun 'Big Guyz with Big Gunz' . It could be the greatest action game ever if it 
 wasn't for the bugs and windows live errors. We can call this game a new type of action games because 
 it gives us the combination of real tactics, sci-fi, and lots of fun. Unreal Tournament is like 
 this but when I play Unreal Tournament I don't feel like real soldier I feel like a computer program 
 or a super hero. But in this game I really feel like Marcus Fenix. There aren't many action games 
 which can give you this feeling. That's why I can say everyone must play this game. I really want 
 to say this but I can't say this thanks to the bugs except Locusts. If Epic can repair this game 
 then I could give a %100 to this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  At first i thought that this is just another overhyped Console-Game (like Metal Gear Solid or Gran 
 Turismo) 
  
  But its a good port, with better Graphics than the Xbox360 Version + Bonuschapter (Act 5) and with 
 Mouse+Keyboard its a little easier to play.
  
  One major thing thats really odd is the Copy-Protection, it prevents you from playing if the Date 
 on your PC is 2009 or later... To fix it, turn the year manually back to 2008, press the "play" 
 button, and turn it back to 2009 when ur in the Menu.
  Also there are several Bugs with the Savegames... they appear and disappear almost randomly in 
 the Retail-Version. So grab some Patches and backup your Savegames if you dont wanna play from 
 the 1st Chapter again...
  
                                      
  Lets get to the Graphics, 
 the Texture-Res. is high on the PC and the Shaders and Displacement-Maps seem to be deeper and 
 clearer compared to the Xbox360-Version. But the Game overall is pretty Dark, so maybe you need 
 to slide up the Brightness-Bar and set the Postprocessing to vivid or something. 
  
  The Sound, is good overall, but here comes another Bug... To get 5.1 Sound you have to edit the: 
 warengineusersettings. ini manually.
  
                                      
  Some People mentioned 
 the Gameplay is nothing special or gets old cause all you have to do is, get cover, shoot, cover, 
 shoot... But there are other Passages, where you have to drive an APC, flank Turrets, use a Satellite 
 Ray to kill the big Beasts or simply have to run and dodge or lure a Brumak into a Power Plant 
 to kill it. You get a good Value too (about 12-15 hours of gaming) 
  
  AND this Game supports Coop-Mode over LAN! (I dont get why there are so less PC-Games with a Coop-Mode...)
 
  
  Personally i dont like the look of the Main-Characters... they seem to be fat and their Heads 
 are much to small compared to their Bodies... XD and their sayings are wannabe-cool and pretty needles. 
 
  
  So i guess this Game will not get a literary prize, but its fun to play. 
  
                                      
  8.5 i would agree with 
 the Score of Gamespot, if there where less Bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  It was supposedly one of the best games on the xbox360 and it came to the PC. But there is something 
 about Gears Of War that makes you feel like you know the gameplay mechanics already. 
  
  The cover and shoot system has already been introduced before Gears Of War arrived on the PC but 
 it was probably one of the first games to use the cover and shoot system at the time it was released 
 on the xbox360. 
  
  The timing of this game's release on the PC affected the way I played it. I've played games like 
 Call Of Duty 4 and Crysis , which offer realistic combat and forces you to cover and shoot.
  
  What makes me enjoy playing this game though is the combat itself. It's cool to see your enemy's 
 blood splatter across your screen when you saw him in half. The game itself is gruesome but somehow 
 gives you the feel like as though it was a Hollywood war movie. 
  
  The visuals are pretty impressive but as I said earlier, the timing of the game lowers it's standard 
 amongst today's games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  this is a game made by epic games called gears of war, a third person shooter ported to the PC, 
 with a FAIL which i will explain why.
  
  at the moment, nobody with the PC version can play due to technical issues. 
  
  GOOD STUFF
 
  
  nice graphics, but could be better
  nice soundtrack
  cool looking weapons, makes you feel more "into it"
  nicely optimized cover system feels fun!
 
  
  BAD STUFF
  
  completely unexplained story line that makes no sense at all (all of epic's games are like this)
 
  terrible voice acting
  retarded looking characters 
  proves no challenge for people experienced with shooters, or even know the basic physics of hand 
 eye coordination (TOO EASY)
  weird looking and incredibly stupid AI
  windows live makes multiplayer a pain to get to
  not many weapons, and the ones that are there 
 aren't very distinct 
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  not that much content, average graphics, and only a few things that make it temporarily fun
  
 
  if you want a challenging game, play crysis. if you want to actually play the game, buy the console 
 version because the PC version is dead due to something in the coding being expired.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  You can not believe until you experience the true sensation of battling aliens from outer space. 
 it will blow your minds, both your conscience and sub-conscious.
  
  The game centers on the soldiers of Delta Squad As they fight to save the human inhabitants of 
 the fictional planet Sera from a relentless subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde. The player 
 assumes the role of Marcus Fenix, a former and war hardened soldier. The game is based on the use 
 of cover and stratigic fire for the player to advance through the story driven Scenarios; second 
 player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist. The game features several online 
 multiplayer game modes for up to eight players.
  
  
  Gears of War is an "over-the-shoulder" third-person shooter That places emphasis on using cover 
 to avoid taking damage while strategically moving towards enemy forces. The game uses a number 
 of weapon archetypes, but predominately featured is the Lancer, an assault rifle that has a mounted 
 chainsaw bayonet that can be used to instantly kill foes at close range. The player can attempt 
 an "Active Reload" of a weapon to reload it faster and temporarily boost the damage from the gun, 
 but failing to perform the Active Reload correctly will cause the gun to become momentarily jammed 
 while the player's character fixes it. When the player takes damage, the "Crimson Omen", representing 
 the player's health gauge, will fade into the screen, becoming more defined with larger amounts 
 of damage. The player can seek cover to recover their health, but if they take too much damage, 
 they will become incapacitated until either revived by a teammate, executed by an enemy, or "bleed 
 out" dying from blood loss depending on the game type.
  
  The game features a five-act campaign that can be played alone or co-operatively with one other 
 player. The campaign focuses on Marcus Fenix and Dominic "Dom" Santiago as part of their efforts 
 in the Delta Squad to wipe out the Locust forces. The players will be joined by computer-controlled 
 characters that will help fight the Locust. Certain sections of the campaign features two paths 
 that can be taken as selected by the first player. If there is a second player, their character 
 will automatically take the other path. Throughout the campaign, the players can find "COG tags" 
 of former fallen comrades to collect. The campaign can be played at three difficulty settings.
 
  
  Multiplayer Gears of War features up to four-on-four competitive gameplay, with teams representing 
 the Gears or the Locust. Matches can either be played in Ranked mode where one's performance is 
 tracked through leaderboards but prevents players from inviting friends or adjusting the settings 
 of the match, or in Player mode in which a player can adjust several settings of the game and invite 
 friends to join, but where performance in the game does not count towards tracking. Three match 
 types were available with the game as-shipped for the Xbox 360: "Warzone" and "Execution" modes 
 are standard deathmatch modes, with the only difference being that players must execute downed 
 foes in Execution otherwise they will revive after a time. "Assassination" assigned each team a 
 leader, who is the only one that can track the other team's leader and can pick up new weapons 
 after which teammates can then pick them up, with the goal to eliminate the foe's leader. An Xbox 
 360 patch added the "Annex" mode, which is similar to King of the Hill, in which players must try 
 to control a shifting control point for a certain amount of time to win. The PC version of Gears 
 introduced "King of the Hill", a mode not present in the Xbox 360 version, which uses a fixed control 
 point but varies the conditions on which it is controlled.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  Gears of War was insanely popular on the XBox 360, so the news of it being ported to the PC wasn't 
 too surprising, despite its 'exclusive' status. This sort of port usually faces stiffer competition 
 on the PC and usually has a harder time convincing the audience. Just take a look at Halo 1 and 
 2. They were very popular on the XBox, however, their PC ports were largly regarded as average 
 games by the PC audience. So what's the story with this Gears of War port? Did the translation 
 to the PC go well? Is it as impressive on the PC as it was on the 360?
  
  Epic has plenty of experience with PC games, it's where they started from. So it's no surprise 
 that GoW feels almost at home on the PC. There aren't that many third-person cover-based shooters 
 around either, so the game's take on the shooter genre feels pretty fresh. Of course, GoW isn't 
 the first game to use this sort of cover mechanic, Kill Switch did it back in 2004 for example. 
 However, it's not the originality of the idea that makes GoW good, it's the quality of the implementation.
 
  
  The game has a wide selection of moves you can perform from cover: popping out to shoot enemies, 
 blindshooting, switching between cover spots, mantling, slipping around the corner of a cover spot, 
 sprinting out of cover etc. It's all handled elegantly as far as controls go, you just use the 
 'stick to cover' key (the spacebar by default) in combination with directional keys or attack buttons 
 (mouse left and right click) . Overall, the system feels polished, responsive, like its undergone 
 plenty of playtesting. I have but one complaint, the 'stick to cover' and 'sprint' commands are 
 bound to the same key, so sometimes your character will stick to a cover spot although you intended 
 to sprint. Because of this, Epic have added a small lag to the sprint command, which partially 
 solves the problem, but still, it can get in the way in tighter areas. Besides that, the cover 
 system is pretty much optimal.
  
  Since this is a shooter, albeit not of the first-person variety, weapons play an important part 
 of the experience. And Epic delivered on this as well. There's a wide selection of 'toys', although 
 you can't carry more than 4 of them at a time. The first two weapon slots are reserved to the big 
 guns, the third one to the sidearm, and the forth to grenades. You'll come by the usual suspects, 
 like pistols, assault rifles, snipers, shotguns and rocket launchers, but you'll also get to play 
 with some other, more rare toys. The Torque Bow, for example, launches an arrow-like explosive 
 projectile with a delayed blast. It sticks to anything (or anyone) and it's basically a one-shot-kill 
 weapon. But it requires you to hold down the attack button in order to charge it up, so use it 
 with caution. There's also the Hammer of Dawn, basically a remote targeting weapon, like the Ion 
 Painter from Unreal Tournament 2003/2004. Finally, you'll also come by turrets, which are brutally 
 powerful, and a UV gun mounted on the junker jeep, the only drivable vehicle in the game.
  
  There's also an interesting feature regarding weapons. It's called active reload. Basically, 
 if you press the reload button again at just the right time while the character reloads his weapon, 
 you get a lower reload time. A perfect one will even give you a damage bonus for a short period 
 of time. It's a great feature that requires a bit of practice, but it can give you a slight edge 
 during the really intense fire fights. Overall, the weapon selection is rich, balanced, good looking, 
 and last but not least, they all feel really satisfying to fire. Also, getting used to the way 
 these weapons respond is pretty important, specially on the higher difficulty setting, where you'll 
 do a lot of blindshooting from cover. So get comfortable with them.
  
  So far I've laid out the basics, the features that must be good in order for the game to be good. 
 Now I'll discuss level design. So first off, I'll tell you that levels are linear. It's all about 
 getting from point A to point B without dying. There are a few areas where you get to choose between 
 two paths, and while I appreciate the effort, ultimately, it's only for short stints. Also, level 
 layout is usually deliberate in nature. The developers didn't try to mask cover spots too much, 
 chest-high walls are everywhere. And levels are more like collections of smaller arenas. Sure, 
 you might say that it isn't realistic, but it benefits gameplay greatly. It's all about preferences 
 on this one, but I've always been a fan of the pro-gameplay approach, I usually dislike the realistic 
 approach.
  
  On the visual side, things are even better, with levels looking war torn and depressing. GoW was 
 the first game that used the now famous next-gen gray and brown color scheme, but unlike many other 
 next-gen games, this lack of color really fits the tone and setting of the game. And speaking of 
 setting, GoW mostly takes place in battered urban areas, former cities destroyed on Emergence Day 
 - the day the dreaded Locust rose from the depths of the earth to kill the human race. Blah blah 
 blah... the story is really underdeveloped, and of little importance anyway. Generally, I think 
 that a good story can benefit almost any game, but I also believe that a good story is not part 
 of the requirements list for a good shooter. So, as far as this shooter goes, what you need to 
 know is to shoot first and.... well, shoot some more after that. There's no time for questions. 
 And the main characters are big, muscular, have the usual bad-ass one-liners, and little time for 
 questions, so yeah... I think you get the picture.
  
  AI is another aspect I'd like to discuss. GoW is a weird case, because companion AI is pretty undercooked, 
 while enemy AI
  is pretty wicked. It's great to see enemies try to flank you, or choosing to get up close and personal 
 right when you're reloading. It's not so great seeing your 3 companions being wiped out in under 
 a minute in the more difficult scenarios. They can also get in your way some times, but they're 
 never as annoying in this regard as Half-Life 2's AI controlled companions. Overall, this aspect 
 needs some improvements.
  
  So far I've presented the various components of the GoW experience, but I didn't really mentioned 
 what you'll be getting, as a whole. So, GoW offers a campaign mode, which is quite good. Not because 
 of story or characters, but because of the good variety of unique scenarios, sharp level design 
 and great atmosphere. And please give it a go on the Insane difficulty mode if you'll ever plan 
 a second playthrough, it really makes you appreciate the cover system to the max. There's also 
 the option to play this campaign with a friend in co-op mode, which is a huge thumbs up. Besides 
 the campaign, you'll also be getting a few multiplayer modes: Warzone (basically, team deathmatch) , 
 Execution (team deathmatch with a twist: players don't die if they reach 0 health points, they 
 need to be finished off with an execution move) , Assassination (it's basically a 'kill the team 
 leader' mode) , Annex (a control point based mode where players win by retaining control over key 
 map locations for a set amount of time) and King of the Hill (roughly, it's like Annex, but with 
 only one control point) . There's only one problem as far as multiplayer goes: you need a Windows 
 Live account in order to play. Since Windows Live is completely free as of mid 2008, it shouldn't 
 be that big of a problem though. Just be sure to install the Windows Live runtime, otherwise you 
 will experience crashes. Bottom line, whatever game mode you choose to play, you will have fun, 
 provided you like GoW's third-person, cover-based approach to shooters of course.
  
  So there you have it. Solid game mechanics, a wide variety of on and offline fun, great level design 
 for both the campaign and multiplayer, and good atmosphere definitely make GoW a seriously attractive 
 offer. And if that's not enough, you can also check out some mods on the net... or make your own, 
 because the game comes packed with the Unreal Editor as well. If you ask me, this is a must have 
 if you're into action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:49 am PT
Review:  This review is based upon my experience of the game where areas that don't work for me but might 
 for you. Other thoughts that are the same for everyone are genuine.
  
  Firstly, the broken areas of the game. My multiplayer does not work. I have a windows live account 
 and I sign into it but it just wont let me play it. It just send me to the Xbox360 website with 
 how to create an account that I already have! That just sucks.
  
  Secondly, The third and fourth chapters of the game just don't work. Now this could just be my 
 computer and probably is but still, that ruined mt game experience. I bought the game twice and 
 both copies 3rd and 4th chapters did not work. It just came up with some pathetic error. But the 
 game still let me play the 5th chapter when i hadn't unlocked it. But still after no multiplayer, 
 i get half a single player. Now that really sucked.
  
  With the actual game, I think that the gameplay was not what everyone said it was. It was boring 
 as you take cover and do the same cover shoot, cover shoot over and over again. The locust were 
 also annoyingly tough and the few weapons there were were pretty boring with your assualt rifle, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle and a couple of extremely rare extras to outfit yourself with. Throwing grenades 
 was too hard and sucked and the chainsaw melee that was supposed to be "awesome!" was stodgy, difficult, 
 rare and spattered some poor blood effects across your screen.
  
  Graphics were quite nice though and epic games gave the little bit of campaign i did get to play 
 decent objectives and ocstacles. The controls were also responsive.
  
  Overall, my game was broken and the gameplay was poor and boring, turning me off from third person 
 shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleetlordavtar
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not an elegant writer so let's cut to the chase.
  
  PRO: 
  1. GRAPHICS!!!! Especially on a 135 inch screen with 1080P resolutions
  2. Running sequences. 
 
  3. Personally because it's got a sci-fi theme.
  
  CONS: 
  1. Shooter on rails!! 
  2. Contrived battle sequences!!! You will know when a fight is coming because there will be an 
 increase in cover for you to hide, did I mention it was contrived?
  3. Inconsistent, example a gate had to be blown up by shooting propane tanks, a couple of hours 
 later I simply kicked in another, same type.
  4. Can't run OR jump, WTH!?! 
  5. AI & path finding is horrendous; your "team members" will get right in front of you, blocking 
 your shots!! The berserk er will stand right in front of Dom & vice versa & not do anything.
  6. Boss monster couldn't be hurt by grenade in "vulnerable" spot, yet any ballistic weapon could, 
 WTH again?!?
  7. Story is pretty weak & dialog (technologically it's dialog) is college level with male teen 
 machismo back & forth.
  
  summary... targeted for low IQ jock types between the ages of 14-29, but GRAPHICS good!! (read dumb 
 person trying to sound smart) . Play Mass Effect, Assassin, GTA 4, or Bioshock instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War is a fine third person shooter in my honest opinion. Gameplay wise it is linear in 
 every aspect but does a lot of things well like the cover system. I particularly like the storyline 
 compared to other games. Hordes of hellish stuff from under the earth want to rule the planet and 
 we are here to stop them. Character animation is very good and also the voice acting. I particularly 
 like the sense of humor of the characters in the game. Overall it feels like a hollywood blockbuster 
 with superb production. 
  This game is a hog on my system which has a quad core CPU (Phenom X4 9950BE) and 3.25Gigs of RAM 
 and an HD4850. My beef with this game is that it uses 1.5Gigs and still stutters like hell and 
 the textures are not even as good looking like most games that use that amount of Ram and the sound 
 is just ok. I understand that it is a console port but PCs should have gotten better textures.
 
  Overall it is a solid game and I think worth playing once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone-Star
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I saw the demo for this game on a 360 I wanted to play it. Luckily for me my dream was 
 finally realized when the game was finally released on the pc. Now when a game is first on console 
 and then ported to pc I am always very skeptical. However upon my first play all concerns disappeared, 
 because Gears of War on pc is a memorable experience. For one the graphics are incredible, I ran 
 in on my Dell single core P4 3 GHz with 1 GB ram an 8600gt video card and it ran and looked great. 
 The game play is what draws you in, the gun fights are so intense, as you hide and duck from cover 
 to cover avoiding gun fire from all angels trying to get the perfect vantage spot to take your 
 enemies down. The action is nothing short of breathless. I'd recommend this game to any fan of 
 shooters, action games and adrenalin junkies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellifort
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  A game that when released made 360 owners run for the shop to buy it, because it was the best looking 
 game for the console, with an awesome gameplay, a pretty nice multiplayer and a great co-op option 
 to complete the campaign, done its best for the pc, and the result is pretty beautiful. With everything 
 the xbox 360 version had and some more, this PC game is the most pretty non first-person shooter 
 game in a long time.
  
  The campaign has some new chapters, is a little harder than it was on xbox, but if you have a friend 
 that has Gears of War for Windows on his PC, you two can get through the bad guys and complete 
 the game easily - with the windows live feature to voice chat or using another voip program it 
 gets better than ever.
  The multiplayer option is really good, cause you play with more experienced players and learn their 
 tactics, but if you're new to the game, I'd say you better learn how to play well so you can try 
 something on versus mode.
  
  At all, the game is something to remember, though the basic of the game is a take cover, run, shoot, 
 and take cover again, it will make players wonder why they didn't buy it before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dipak_singh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of first person shooters. Third person shooters does not appeal much to me because of 
 difficulty in maneuvering and also pointing at objects. But my opinion totally changed when I played 
 "Gears of War". Thanks to Epic for releasing the game for PC. What a game!!!, amazing!!!, it has 
 all the ingredients of a "perfect game", the graphics is top-notch.. the scale of some maps are 
 huge. excellent sound design.. the animation not only of the lead character and its team mates 
 but the creatures from the locust horde is mind blowing. Good AI and last but not the least the 
 combat which mainly forces cover and shoot technique makes every action in the game worth remembering. 
 Only issue I found was with its save games, I lost all my previous checkpoint saves at one point 
 in the game but then I searched the net for answers and found a possible workaround. 
  
  So, overall an "AMAZING" game. I would definitely like to have more and more of games of this type 
 from the developer Epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironkitty64
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The game starts like the xbox 360 version does witch is ok but still, any way the new features 
 are game editor and five new game chapters witch is awsome. the game runs well on great mechines, 
 i mean i can run this on all settings set to high on a dell xps m1210 with a nvidia 7400 so dont 
 worry about it not working on your mechine, mulitie player is awsome and fun and the game looks 
 heaps better than the xbox 360 ever did, you can buy this for around 50-60 dollers so go out and 
 grab one of the bset pc games of all time...
  
  
  9.5 
  GOOD BAD
  1. awsome.. 1. A bit buggy
  2. the most fun ive had in agers 2................
  3. great story. 
 3. cant think of any thinh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  The pretty sweet thing about the game is that you can hide behind walls and stuff by leaning against 
 them and you can roll out of this cover or simply move to the wall near it. If your not all too 
 well to gore or if you think the blood is blocking the screen you can always switch it off in the 
 Game Settings. The amount of weapons isn't really what you call "wow" but the storyline is pretty 
 decent and you can actually blind shoot from behind a wall which is quite strategical at times. The 
 bosses have their own weaknesses and strengths which makes this game difficult but possible at 
 the same time. If your a big fan of stealth, this game won't entertain you as much due to the incredible 
 size of each character so you can't really hide well. It'll be like spotting a shark in a swimming 
 pool. The chainsaw gun is rather unique, it's lethal in terms of melee and can act as a rifle as 
 well though ofcourse it's best used if your opponent is alone because when your slicing the enemy 
 in half, your back is exposed for a couple of seconds. There is also no vehicles in the game unless 
 you count the special one in one of the missions which you have to ride through the Kryll with. In 
 Multiplayer, the game modes isn't really that epic. Small maps and the obstacles around the games, though 
 providing a edge to your team, kills the realism. In fact, almost every single part of the game, you 
 have a wall or car to hide behind which seriously kills the realism. Though the amount of weapons 
 is little, it holds the main, favourite types of weapons. Rifle, Sniper Rifle, Shotgun etc. You can 
 also tie up a grenade with your enemy by simply holding your grenade and hitting them with melee 
 which can be either strategical or suicide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atheno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  
  It is I, Atheno, back with another review. I'm taking it from my Army of 2 review that a lot of 
 people like reading mine, so here I am to clear up things with Gears of War, just like I did, once 
 again, with army of 2.
  
  Now let's start off here with my normal welcoming, I, Atheno, promise you that I have played this 
 game fully, all modes, and tested the game out for bugs, trying to find them on purpose to clear 
 things up. With that said, my golden rules out on the table, let us begin the review! If you like 
 this, and have questions, or advice for other reviews I should do, then send me a message. 
  
  Let's start with the ... mm.. graphics.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Simply breath taking, even 
 now. This game isn't the newest thing on the market, and I doubt it was improved that much beyond 
 the 360 version besides from your normal, higher rez, and so on. Though this game rarely has any 
 moments of, "ugly" or, "Oh lordy, I can't look at that crap!" though, I did encounter some of those. 
 Mostly tree's.. they just.. didn't look right to me, though everything else was sexual! I played 
 the game on everything high, besides textures, those were on medium (single core) But I did play 
 it on highest textures to see what it looked like, it ran, but it chugged, so I stopped. If you 
 have a rig that can max it (not that hard) then enjoy!
  
  Music:8.5/10
  
  Now, some of you might hate me for this but, yes, the music was over played. It was GREAT for the 
 tracks it had, man nothing like running into a locust with that chainsaw gun-a-mabob with the theme 
 song rocking the room. The problem is, at times, well I still enjoyed the music, I would be saying 
 to my self, "Wow this again?" Though, to sum it up once again to protect my self from fanboys, 
 the music is great, I just wish there was more of it.
  
  Sound:8.5/10
  
  The sound stands for foot steps, guns, gun reloading, grunting, blood, chain saws, moans, groans, 
 voice acting, and the cole train. I felt that, the sounds could have been more clear, and the guns 
 all seemed to sound the same. This also might be a problem because there are only a hand full of 
 guns. I really really wanted a mini gun but eh, I guess the gun placements will work. That's a 
 whole other issue though. The sound gets an 8.5 just because of the Cole train!
  
  Game play: 8.5/10 (again)
  
  Yeah this game was fun, don't get me wrong. It's a BLAST, but 
 to say it's the game that should rest at the side of a god, is over doing it. It's just another 
 tipical shooter game where you hide in cover and fire for the whole thing. Once again, DO NOT get 
 me wrong, this game was a blast, but you need more then, "a blast" to get me to give you a 9 or 
 higher. Not that it's important what I give the game, this is just an opinion, but they should 
 have added more. More vehicle scenes, just different things then running and gunning in cover. 
 I advise you, to get the most out of the game, play it in bursts, not full fire.
  
  Another thing is how hard the game is, it wasn't that hard for I, because I have played games for 
 so long, but for new comers, even on the easiest setting.. beware. It was written in the mighty 
 book of COG that you shall be ganged by locusts and every inch of your body shall hurt, as if hot 
 metal was poured down your throat.
  
  The co-op play is amazing if you can find a server, lag does occur if the distance is too great. 
 Same with versus, I couldn't really enjoy it because there was hardly any action, almost no servers. 
 Though when you do play, for what it's worth, it's a blast. 
  
  Glitches: 2/10
  
  After all the complaining about the glithces, this game was a disappointment! It didn't deliver 
 with this, first off if your pc can't run this, then check your settings. I was running on a 
 
  
  +Amd 3400+ working at 2.4 ghz. (single core)
  +2 gigs of ram
  +7800 GS Super Clocked (256 mb)
  
  It ran beautifully on 1280 X 1025, every thing on high but 
 textures, those were on medium. Seriously, if you have anything stronger then my Rig and you can't 
 play it, the game is just as confused as you are. Check your drivers, make sure cables are hooked 
 up right on the card, make sure your power supply is strong enough to "run" your card. Just because 
 your PC turns on, doesn't mean it's performing the way it should. Also, for those wanting to know, 
 Beautifully means 19-25 fps. 19 FPS only in intense fire fights near the last few levels.
  
  The game save problem.. yes I think I found it.. I think your saved game data poofs if you try 
 playing the game on another computer, and you sign into live. That is what happened to me when 
 I tested it on my laptop.. the next time I logged into live in the game on my gaming PC.. my saved 
 data was gone. Yet it never happened again, and I never touched the game on my laptop.. go figure? 
 I'm not sure if this is what happened for everyone but.. it could be one reason. 
  
  Anyway that sums up this review, please, go read my other ones. Once again, if you want me to review 
 any other games, send me a message. Of course, I would have to have played them, but I might rent 
 them (if it's for consoles) Until then, see you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  After the release of Gears for the 360, every gamer in the world was scremaing its legend from 
 the rooftops. And why shouldn't they, It has revoultionised 3rd person shooters ever sinced due 
 to its uniquness. Then, it hits the PC, nothing more special happened to be 100 percent honest, 
 although it is nothing less then the 360 version is. 
  
  You play as Marcus, a Jacinto Pentitentary immate sentenced for violation of captains orders after 
 he chose to save his doomed father, but he was too late. The Locust attacked and killed billions 
 of the humans population, but the humans denied their enemy control as they destroyed there environment. 
 Now, it is 14 years after Emergence Day - the day that the Locust horde attacked Sera - and Marcus 
 still dwells in his prison chamber, watching as locusts over run the jail. Dominic Santiago - A 
 phenomin lationo in search of his wife - Maria, after they witnessed their children be murded by 
 the Locusts -comes to extract Marcus from the Jacinto Pentitentary. They regroup with Alpha squad, 
 finding that Alpha's only members left are Augustus Cole, and Simon Baird, and form as Delta Squad. 
 Cole is a black private known for being a former talented football player. He gains a cockiness 
 from his famous backround. Baird is a conceit soldier who is an expert with electronic equipment. 
 He uses these skills to help Delta out by fixing broken equipment, and using his technical knowlodge 
 to the best. Delta Squad now must embark on an epic adventure for the Coalition of Ordered Governments 
 (COG) as they now have the fate of the Human Civilization resting in their hands.
  
  Gears of War includes a fair variety of absoulutally brutal weapons. One that is known for being 
 the most brutal is the Lancer Assualt Rifel. It is the standard issued primary weapon for all COG 
 soldiers and has a large clip. It's most fatal feature is it's confronting chainsaw bayonet. If 
 you press and hold the F key, Marcus will start up the chainsaw and when any enemny comes within 
 range you will witness a gory chainsaw animation, as you slice down your opponments body, as the 
 reslut is limbs fulling off everywhere, and the locusts dead. useless corpse dropping to the ground 
 in a heap. 
  
  Graphics in GoW are sensational. The facial texture is very realistic, as so is the colour textures. 
 There really isn't anything to complain about in it's graphics department.
  
  Gears of War features some dramtic, but fitting audio as when a competetive firefight starts, the 
 music intensifies, and fades out nicely when it ends. All other music and effects are excellents, 
 hands down.
  
  One thing that could of been toyed with is the length of the campaign. It consists os 5 reasonbly 
 long chapters, and can be played co-opperatively (2 player) online (aswell as single player) on 
 either, casual hardcore, or insane - which is unlocked after completing the game on a lower difficutly 
 level. Once you finish the game a few times on various difficults the campaign becomes shallow, 
 so the replay value is medium. But don't worry, Gears of War deatures many excitinf online modes 
 whether your playing co-op in the campiagn, or playing other modes such as warzone (featuring a 
 new bleed out time feature) .
  
  All in all, Gears of War will keep you throughly entertained oline and off for many decades of 
 hours, and features a very solid campaign to add some icing on the cake. The cherry on top would 
 have been a longer, more dedicated campaign. If you are considering purchasing this then fo it, 
 you can probabky pick it up for about $40 (Australian Dollars) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Gears of War is an impressive looking and performing shooter. It has some downsides but not enough 
 to really hurt the overall game. A quick plot summary would be that you are Marcus Fenix and you 
 need to shoot weird alien/mutant/locust things.
  
  Using duck and cover and an interesting reload and weapon system the game starts off a bit difficult 
 to but evolves into a great great game.
  
  I totally recommend using the X360 controller for Windows if you are going to play this. I love 
 Mouse and keyboard but for "Third Person Shooters" it just doesn't feel right to me. The only downsides 
 to this game are as follows:
  
  Choppy Cutscenes
  Occasionally weird Control
  The Stupid Berzerker levels (AWFUL)
  Dumb team AI
  
  Nothing too bad but just enough to make 
 it less then a 10.
  
  Do yourself a favor and grab this game if you have a PC that can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killkill3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  So the xbox 360's first triple A title on PC, I have to admit I was at first a little underwhelmed, 
 the shooting didn't feel too great, there was this annoying quirk where firing at something would 
 make the visor climb up, forcing you to retract the mouse to keep the aiming steady (a la Day of 
 Defeat for those who've played it) , the button mapping was infuriating, with some important ones 
 hard to reach and others being all in oneish so that using them will often make you do something 
 you didn't want, which seeing the huge difficulty (even on casual) end up with you dead.
  However the graphics are fabulous, being a port from a console game I wasn't expecting much but 
 wow I think this game looks as good as call of duty 4 which came out 1 year later, and the gameplay 
 all in all is also quite good if not repetitive. The presentation is top-notch and story is satisfactory 
 while underdeveloped. In conclusion I was very pleased with this game though it was a little too 
 short (and the last boss was a joke=not fun) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pim1994
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Well, i buyed this game for only 25 dollars, i installed it and.... BOOM!!
  My new addiction was born! Never in my life i played a game so long. Normally if i was dead, i 
 stopped, but now..... i died like 30 times and it was cool! The graphics, gameplay, story (sometimes 
 not impressive) , enemies, etc. I played the single player a week or something, but the multyplayer? 
 I can't stop with it! This is one of the shooters that has to be played by you if you are a bit 
 gamer!
  Do you have a good PC? You like (love) shooters? Do you want to buy the best badass shooter ever? 
 Buy it so fast as you can! What are you looking at this review? Play it! Allright, this was my 
 first review. Please comment and tell me what you think!
  gr. Pim
  
  Coming soon review: LOTR: Battle for Middle earth2, RCT3, God of War CoO and many more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll just cut to the chase: poor gun choice, poor gun dynamics theres no recoil or 'weight' 
 to them, poor variety of enemy, poor driving-vehicle levels, grenade throwing is too slow, enemy 
 spawns on top of you, ally AI is awful and normal too easy while next level up is frustratingly 
 hard due to one-shot-kill weapons enemy has. But most importanly is the shocking, disgracful, appalling 
 decision of Microsoft to enforce you to connect and register to their Live service in order to 
 save the game. YES SAVE THE GAME!!! You have to be connected to the internet to play this game!! 
 It's not the first and sure as hell won't be the last.
  
  Plus side it looks great, love the one button move into cover stuff, firing over your head style, 
 chain saw attacks, epic battles and moody graphics style.
  
  
  With a little more attention to detail could have been a classic but just misses mainly because 
 the normal mode is slightly too easy (except the last boss) and the next level up is too hard. 
 This is due to the fact your men are dim as s*** leaving you to fight epic battles by yourself 
 most the time and the graphical glitches in the game mean the rockets can damage you through the 
 wall youre covering behind or the enemy spawns behind or on top of you.
  The checkpoints arent right in may places as well. Sometimes the checkpoint will be before a cut 
 scenes and some walk away from a battle so when you die you have to endure all those cut scenes 
 and then run to the battle again, some battles on harder difficulties are pretty epic and dying 
 can be frequent especially if you have the wrong weapon.
  
  It's really one of games that you remember the bad points rather than it's good ones especially 
 when you find out you played for one hour and because your internet network went down and you didnt 
 realise before switching off it didn't save and you had to do the whole hour again!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war is a Awesome game that is made by Epic that is just amazing times 1000, its that amazing.
 
  
  gears of war is a game about this dude named Marcus fenix who is in prison on a planet called Sera. 
 You eventually get out of the prison by this dude named Dom and you relize that the enemy called 
 the locust who dont look like locust but looks like the boogie man. you meet up with delta squad 
 and you are trying to find alpha squad. The first thing you will like when you start the game are 
 the guns. the guns are just all-out powerful and will usually will kill a enemy quickly. The second 
 thing (or first) is that the game has a great cover system. you can hide behind a stone, couch, 
 crate and mostly anything that looks like you can go into cover and that is how you survive, even 
 if you are out of cover you will die so you must depend on the cover to help you
  
  the weapons are also cool. When you start the game, you get a hammerburst which fires short bursts. 
 The other cool and bloody gun is the Lancer, it's fully assult rifle very fun but it has a brutal 
 chainsaw that is hard to chainsaw dudes because they keep shooting you but it is worth it. Speaking 
 of brutal this game is brutal, it is not for kids you can curb stomp locust which breaks there 
 head which is violent.
  
  The other cool thing is minor but cool is what the charcters say, its just exciting to hear what 
 the charcters are saying to its just cool to hear that Dom owes 20 buck to Marcus for a play the 
 cloe train made. These guys also like to shoot locust. There just happy to shoot them. Cole will 
 say like "YA BRING IT ON SUCKERS!!" which is just cool
  
  The Gameplay is amazing but it could use some tweaks. sometimes it just doesnt feel fun to shoot 
 locust but overall its awesome to dive into cover.
  
  The graphics are awesome and uses the awesome unreal engine but still has texture pop ins but thats 
 just minor.
  
  In the end this is a sucessful that should be played by anybody. Too bad the second one will not 
 come out so i'll go get one. BYE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mda4000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  they really need gow 2 for pc because looking at how it handles on the xbox 360, it needs pc's 
 hardware to run it smoothly and they still cant have more than about 10 people on screen without 
 it laggin. the multiplayer is really lagtastic considering i dont know if its dedicated servers 
 now or player hosting and if it were player hosting, then no wonder people cant host a good game. 
 they're internet isnt fit for 10 people!... unlike mine. overall, i still play this game because 
 it looks better, the connections arent sooooo crappy AND THE SHOTGUN IS AMAZING IN THIS ONE!.. 
 not gow 2... now im just going to tell you an eazy fix for how to stop the stuttering in this game. 
 Go to  and look at the two engine files. the 
 defaultengine file is for DX9 ONLY so for you xp users out there, you use that one. and for vista 
 users (oh yeah!) , you go to the wargameengine file for DX10. now which ever file your using, find 
 the line in it that says Onlystreamintextures=false and change it to TRUE. save it and enjoy!.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-wing101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War.
  
 Iam ready to kick some a$$!"
  
  Gears of War pits you against the Locust as Marcus Fenix, a hardened war soldier who has recently 
 been busted out of prison from his friend Dom. Action, gore, and cinematic cut scenes makes this 
 game a must have for any PC gamer.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Graphics on GOW makes you feel like your right on the battlefield with your team fighting the Locust. 
 From fighting a gigantic Brumak in the streets of Europe, to the fine detail of your character 
 busting out in his large uniform. The only downside to this game is, that you need an extreme computer 
 to run the highest quality of graphics.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Sound simply just rocks for this game! You'll hear everything from your machine gun firing onto 
 enemies, to simply just hearing your chainsaw ripping apart the Locust in half, its just that good! 
 I also recommend having surround sound to get the full quality of sound!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Taking cover is the main theme in this game, because if not, you will keep 
 dying. There are a large variety of weapons to your disposal, so the game never gets boring. Just 
 imagine shooting an electrical bow with explosive shells, and just watching your enemies rip to 
 shreds! The AI is perfect, because they will pull off some crazy moves, so the game always makes 
 you think about what there gonna do next. Achievements is another big thing if you like to see 
 what you've accomplished within the game, so there's a lot of replay value to it. Multiplayer makes 
 the game even more fun online. A good addition they added is multiplayer co-op. You and another 
 friend can tackle the main story together as Marcus or Dom. There's just no stopping this game!
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you have a great computer that's willing to handle this game, an addiction to shooting the heck 
 out of enemies, or just taking it easy with a buddy online, then this game is definitely worth 
 buying!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekkoe
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  I got this game for free, that's right, on my doormat, so saying it's no good wouldn't really hurt 
 my wallet. It's the PC version of which I hear many people complain about bugs. To be honest, I 
 only had several, none of which were severe, but the checkpoint system made that kind of annoying. 
 Knowing you cannot save before dangerous moments is okay, but having to reload to the last checkpoint 
 after winning a major battle because of a BUG is just too 1990s for my taste.
  
  The game itself has a very nice feel to it. After getting used to the controls, the battles start 
 to look very cinematic, the controls and amazing visuals make you feel like you're actually wearing 
 that thick armour, and the graphics and shooting in general just feel amazing.
  
  The game is challenging enough, with it's occasional "WTF WHO KILLED ME?" moments, but it'd be 
 too easy if you could just walk through the game without dying on hardcore (couldn't be bothered 
 playing on insane mode, to be frank) .
  
  The cut scenes are nice and you really start feeling for the character and their witty, clich 
 personalities. There's not a lot of story to go around though and the last battle, I felt, was 
 a major disappointment. Good thing the other boss battles were nice enough.
  
  Microsoft's ironic lack of knowledge about software does show when trying to get on line, which 
 I couldn't. Logging in was an impossible task... maybe it would have bothered me more if the game 
 hadn't been free, but I really didn't feel like trying to figure out where Microsoft screwed up 
 AGAIN... I'm right when I say there's a free on line version AND a paid one, right? Windows Live 
 Silver and Gold? Eh, nevermind. I really don't care.
  
  The cons of this game are nicely covered by the flashy graphics, but those fooled by Crysis probably 
 see right through it. It's mainly the repetitive battles, the lack of different enemies and the 
 few guns. It may FEEL as though there's many ways to solve a problem, but in the end you're just 
 doing the same thing from a different angle. All these things gave me, as a player, a strong desire 
 to just go on line, but I couldn't. I can imagine someone who paid for the game is quite frustrated 
 by the Pay to Play system... come on Microsoft! The game isn't THAT good...
  
  Overall I'd probably cry if I bought this game for 60, 50 or even 40 bucks, 30 to 20 seems about 
 reasonable, free is just fantastic, but I won't rub it in your faces.
  
  No more than a 6/10 for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Its bloody, its gory and its great. This is probably the only game where you can stomp on someone's 
 head or rip him off with a chainsaw. The third person elements in this game is great, there is 
 the simple cover mechanic that allows you to pop your head from around a well and take well timed 
 shots, or just blind-fire. You have the roll mechanic which is pretty useful and you have the the 
 slide mechanic which only works when your near a cover spot. The shooting is simple and refined. 
 There is a multiplayer mode that is really good and original for a shooter which is one person 
 form each team has to be defended and when he dies, the game is over. The AI is great, taking cover 
 and moving in with caution. They are many different kinds of enemies and they each need a different 
 approach to be taken down so it makes each battle interesting. There are new and original weapons 
 which include the hammer of the dawn. This weapon sends down a laser beam from the sky but it takes 
 a few seconds to trigger and can be only used outside. But overall the gameplay delivers, the surroundings 
 are great for cover, and each battle is a great experience that shouldn't be skipped.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are good, when comparing them to other games sure they don't stretch 
 benchmark boundaries but they are great and the physics are excellent. The blood is one of the 
 main features in the game and it is magnificently executed through the dark colors and the way 
 it's spilled. Also the murder cam shots using the chainsaw or head stomping are excellent by most 
 accounts.
  
  Sound: 
  
  The sound is great, i have nothing to complain about here. Sure the accents arn't nailed perfectly 
 and there is little talking on the battlefield but at the same time when it comes to contacting 
 other squad members and sending out orders you can understand how the voice acting is handled with 
 care. The enemies screaming as their blood spills out is also great to hear and head stomping and 
 chainsaw tearing never gets old to listen to.
  
  Value:
  
  Yes, worth the money. Sure the single player campaign is a bit short. But your getting you money's 
 worth through the multiplayer. The experience is great, from death matches to the assassination 
 mode and the gory and bloody execution mode where each player is finished off with either a head 
 stomp or a torn in pieces by the chainsaw bayonet . Just seeing all this gore play out is enough 
 for the price.
  
  Lifespan:
  
  This game will last a lot. The single player is short and there isn't much downloadable content 
 or any mods, but the multiplayer will leave you playing this game for months and months to come. 
 With three gory and original modes you will truly find this game addicting. This game can be played 
 co-operatively online and with friends which is great to play after coming home from the nightclub 
 with friends. So overall the experience is fun and will be played along with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakotawolf
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I bought the pc version so I can't say anything about the 360 one (went the smart way and bought 
 the PS3) but as I said I wish had never bought it. The control's are a pain in the @#$$, I run 
 a Asus G2s with 4 gigs and even at the lower res's it stutter's and in the bigger fight's it become's 
 unplayable. Ok so I have'nt reached the required 100 word yet even though I've said all I wanted 
 to say, I don't know why they did that. well that still is'nt 100 words yet so I geuss I will just 
 repeat my self: I bought the pc version so I can't say anything about the 360 one (went the smart 
 way and bought the PS3) but as I said I wish had never bought it. The control's are a pain in the 
 @#$$, I run a Asus G2s with 4 gigs and even at the lower res's it stutter's and in the bigger fight's 
 it become's unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1DdL3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  In this game you control a war hero named Marcus Fenix doing jail time while an old friend of his 
 comes and saves him in the middle of an alien attack. This game truly shows how raw, hard and violent 
 a war is. The game took me around 17 hours the difficulty wasn't hard enough just you need some 
 time to figure out the bosses or you understand them from the start of the fight. The gameplay is 
 awesome it may be hard at the start but then it is quite easy to handle. The game is not too heavy 
 and gives an awesome graphic experience. I do believe that it also has replayability because no 
 matter how much you play it whenever you want to have a great time and hack some aliens that's 
 your game. Every part of the game is perfect. I like every stage of it. It will give you a feeling 
 that you are in deep trouble when you see aliens popping out of the earth, it will give you the 
 creeps when nightfall comes and everyone will enjoy every single moment with it if he is a fan 
 of third person shooters. I would certainly suggest it to anyone that likes this type of game and 
 likes the Alien invasion (at it's really violent and rough edition) scenery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immartinez
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This review is a bit late, but don't think the game is obsolete or dated. I predict this game will 
 stand the test of time with many fantastic features and an extremely rewarding multiplayer experience.
 
  
  We setup a killer home LAN and played this game until we mastered its insane mode.
  
  This one deserves its place right up there with Call of Duty 4 and the Halo series.
  
  If you 
 are a PC gaming enthusiast you will have no problem upgrading to a quad core and nvidia 9800 ultra 
 or whatever is the top of the line is at the moment. DirectX10 support is highly recommended.
 
  
  Check your video card box at your electronics store to ensure it provides DirectX10 support.
 
  
  You will also need a nice amount of ram. 2gb will work but 4gb is just right for smooth gameplay.
 
  
  The PC version of this game also supports Live for Windows. A service pretty much identical to 
 XBOX LIVE, however this one is FREE!!! Your xbox gamertag should work just fine here.
  
  I can't wait until Gears 2 is out.
  
  So in brief, do not attempt to play this game on your 
 old clunker PC. Upgrade before you play and you may even be able to play the new Crysis. If you 
 have an XBOX 360 then you already love Gears of War.
  
  
  This replay value of this game is VERY HIGH. A lot of the cutscenes will make more sense the second 
 time around.
  
  You can play alone or with your friends. In the main campaign you will fight a force known as the 
 locusts as you search to plant a bomb in their tunnels, all sorts of things go wrong and you will 
 need to use your brains to get past many levels. The enemy is strong and scary.
  
  For parents, this game is obviously not appropriate for kids, however, it does have an option to 
 eliminate profanity and "extreme content."
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jheo_lm
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Definitivamente los saltos cualitativos en calidad grafica sedan con el salto de generacion en 
 consolas, pero no siempre los motores graficos hacen todo el trabajo de efectos o calidad grafica 
 garantizada, asi como half life y el motor source hicieron de las sullas en la mente de los jugadores 
 gears y el motor grafico de EPIC hacen la mezcla perfecta de accion y calidad grafica, en cada 
 uno de sos escenarios bien detallados, la trama que es intensa desde el inicio y la jerarquia con 
 la que nacio, no son los unicos motivos por los que este juego esta destinado a permanecer indefinidamente 
 en el colectivo del videojugador sino al igual que su hermano de especie HALO debe ser un fenomeno 
 mediatico social que se expanda en las fronteras de la imaganiacion, secuelas a las cuales nos 
 volvemos adictos y que por la forma que adopta la industria no tiene para cuando dejar de llegarnos 
 las entregas y llamese trilogia (como minimo) y con las subsecuente reediciones especiales que 
 llegan con la nueva generacion de consolas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwardtoh
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Like it says up there, don't believe the hype. Or the gamespot score either. 9.0 = Politics. Simple. 
 Gears of War is not all it's hyped up to be. Terribly repetitive, thats said for the combat. Lack 
 of guns to choose from and about, say, 5 enemy types to choose from. And the game crashing seems 
 very common, though i've never experienced it. The worst though, are the number of bugs there are 
 in the game. Its incredibly buggy. Monsters spawning in locations where you are communicating (you 
 can't shoot and your movement is extremely slow) , timers starting much earlier than they are supposed 
 to (making it impossible to make it to the target location even if you sprint all the way there 
 and ignore the monsters, which is almost impossible) are just to name a few.
  
  On the plus side though, the graphics are great, though the blood looks really unrealistic, and 
 the cutscenes aren't too bad. Chainsaw-ing an opponent bring that adrenal rush too, though it gets 
 old quickly.
  
  The many flaws make this game almost an awful experience. My opinion on it? Don't waste your money 
 on it. And if you're really set on buying it, do yourself a favor and rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I tried the load this game on 5 different computers. They range for high end gaming to multimedia 
 to laptop. This included Windows XP latest version, to Vista 32 bit and 64 bit. Some computers 
 wouldn't even load it and the ones that did couldn't play it. The ones that would play it were 
 useless because the character was stuck in a constant left turn. It just went around in circles. 
 No amount of tweaking, resetting, reloading or upgrading did any good. The game website was totally 
 useless as it never even acknowledged problem. There were not patches or upgrades that addressed 
 the problem. Judging from the comments by other users this is not an uncommon situation for this 
 game. It's full of glitches, bugs and crashes. If I could have scored this game any lower it would 
 have been in the negative number range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War is one of my all time favorite games spent more time playing then any other besides 
 Pre-CU SWG's. The graphics are much better on PC even at medium looks the same or better then 360 
 version. AA is Bull**** but forced AA will fix the jagged lines. The sound is much better then 
 360 version and it great as always. Controls are easy and also better then 360 version very good. 
 Multiplayer is just to awesome although there needs to be more players playing ranked matches. 
 Single mode has a lot more bugs then 360 and sometime crash issues and this is well known. But 
 the better framerates are the biggest and best differences vs 360 version. Also the "host advantage" 
 is a bit easier to deal with and isn't as harsh on PC do to better hardware.
  
  Overall get it even if you own 360 version it's better in everyway except for the issues I'd give 
 it a 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Punisher25
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  We have to face it, shooters nowadays have become more and more similar to each other and there's 
 no way we can turn it back!
  OK, this type of games have all the same "aim&shoot" core but at least before there was an effort 
 to make them all different and with some new skills: But now there's no more need to make an original 
 (if I can dare) game, people are OK with it.
  I surely cannot complain about anything technical with this video-game: it's a good PC version, 
 the graphic is brilliant and it doesn't require NASA hardware.
  The characters are surprisingly well done same for the environments and all the different types 
 of hardware you interact with.
  The dialogues sound like ductus quotes from B-movies, so it's pretty deductible that the plot may 
 have been bed influenced from this.
  I'm absolutely sure that for those who have played this game that during the whole game there was 
 that that feeling of dj vu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game is third person shooter and in whole of game we have one participant the name of first 
 character is Marcus
  The name of participant is Dom and sometimes we have three escort the name of those escort is different 
 :
  1. Dom 2. Cole 3. Braid 4. Carmine 5. Kim
  Carmine and Kim died in act 1 
  This game include 5 act 
  And the gun of this game is : lancer , shotgun , snip , colt , pistol 
 , torque bow , troika
  Story :
  
  Some creature went outside from centre of earth and started for kill people and lord of them nothing 
 person retail was RAAM
  And alpha and delta group were ready for war with them and Marcus and Dom went for kill them and 
 in most time they won they killed 3 boss Cosper , Brumak and RAAM they thought 2 time kill all 
 of Lucast. 
  One in act 3 and two in act 5 but in act 3 not killed of them because the map's of them is not 
 complete
  They went in imaginary house for found the complete map and they escaped brumak in act 4.
  They 
 killed brumak in act 5 for went outside of power line and went to train.
  In train they killed RAAM and burst bomb but many Lucast were survive and this game is to be continue 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War
  Gears of War is a typical 3rd person shooter with loads of action and graphics. The game portrays 
 a soldier named Fenix marcus fighting to end the wrath of the locusts in the distant future, although 
 the game is not all Sci-Fi, it still has the same excitement as playing any other Sci-Fi game. The 
 main attraction is the brilliant graphics. the characters are awesome with interesting conversation 
 !! the sound keeps the adrenalin running along with easy controls and quite a wide variety of weapons 
 to choose from. The game also has gory scenes, where you can actually Rip the locusts apart with 
 the 'saw' attachment in the gun. The gameplay is interesting with 5 Acts. Each Act has around 9 
 stages, so keeps u wanting for more. the story does not bore an average gamer though.
  
  on the other side, the game has a few bugs. the frame rate skips randomly, where you experience 
 a slight hick-up while in game. Some also had issues with the save games vanishing. other than that, 
 the game is a must have. i guarantee you a ride of a lifetime ! Brilliant game really..... Cheers 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashmanalum
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Gears is the typical game for those who want a great looking, blood-spilling, action packed fun.
 
  
  There's no such things as LONG cutcenes/dialogs to explain the story, it goes like this: there're 
 Humans and there're Locusts, Humans kill Locusts and vice-versa... that's about it =D
  
  The core of the game are the stunning graphics allied with non stop action. Every level you play 
 there will have hundreds of enemies to kill... in a lot of ways... ALL THE TIME!!!
  
  Weapons like the Lancer, which has a chainsaw attached to it, will quench your thirst for blood 
 as you chop those silly Locusts in half and the large amount of ammo available will keep you going 
 forever to explode into pieces your enemies with the Torque Bow, for example.
  
  If you want a game that has a deep gameplay or a compelling history don't get anywhere near Gears 
 of War. My only REAL complain is the lack of crosshairs while in normal view, which makes a bit 
 harder to fire when you're being rushed by the enemy.
  
  In the end, Gears in a LOT of fun but I doubt that it will be a life-changing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiendling
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  I have recently discovered an interesting fact about Gears of War. Both its Xbox and PC supporters 
 are completely incapable of grasping the fact that it might not appeal to everyone. I have not 
 heard so much hype and commendations from friends and acquaintances since Myst. Now being a bit 
 of a cynic (and having played Myst) , I didn't pay too much attention to their views until my best 
 mate, whose game taste is very similar to my own, recommended it to me. Apparently, and I am using 
 his words verbatim, it is "freaking awesome!"
  
  Well, with that sterling endorsement I let him twist my arm into borrowing his copy of Gears of 
 War (PC) . It did not take long for my rose tinted lenses to start cracking. My doubts started with 
 the installation. Gears of War for PC probably has the slowest installation I have ever seen. Staring 
 at the progress bar creeping towards the left made continental drift seem fast by comparison. 
 
  
  After the subjectively experienced aeon of installation, I launched the game. I created my Microsoft 
 Live profile, to be able to save my campaign progress of course... DUH! This, in my admittedly 
 not so humble opinion, is pretty much a prerequisite since no sane individual would want to play 
 the campaign from the start every time they feel like a bit of Gears of War. Leave it to Microsoft 
 to think of something this diabolical to enforce on us poor beleaguered PC gamers. OK, that done, 
 I proceeded to set all the graphical settings to full. Why not, I thought. I am confident that 
 my PC should be able to handle anything a circa 2006 game can throw at it and not unjustifiably 
 so. My PC's intestines, amongst other things, contains a Core 2 Duo 6800 (3 GHz) processor, 4 GB 
 RAM, an Asus GeForce 8800GT TOP screen card and one medium sized dead spider. Before you rush off 
 to get your own dead spider (a tarantula so that you can brag that it is bigger and hairier than 
 mine) , it doesn't contribute measurably to performance on any of the benchmarks I have run subsequent 
 to its appearance.
  
  But I digress, back to Gears of War. The intro sequence starts off with Marcus Fenix (a fantastic 
 surname btw) waking up in what can only be a jail cell with something horrible jabbering and drooling 
 on him from an overhead grating above (as opposed to the overhead gratings below) . Maybe calling 
 it an intro is not quite appropriate since we aren't given any back story or even a passable explanation 
 as to why Marcus finds his massively muscular anabolic steroid enhanced self in jail and what has 
 happened to his world that it now produces such jabbering horrors as mentioned above (not below) .
 
  
  Now without providing any more spoilers let's move on to some more general categories:
  
  Story: What story? Something truly momentous must have occurred to reduce Marcus's world to 
 the ruins you see Delta squad fight, arrogantly strut, run and curse through in the game. We glean 
 minute intriguing morsels of this possibly intriguing story while completing the acts of the occasionally 
 repetitive campaign but never find out anything of real significance. The plot is also not helped 
 by the missions you go on. If I was a COG soldier having to follow the vague orders given again 
 and again to Delta squad with no explanation or even a hint as to what the big ultimate plan or 
 goal was, I would desert. Hence, I found myself at the end of the game with some fundamental questions 
 that begged answers. Where did the Locusts come from? Why are they there? What motivates them? 
 What is the yellow lava like liquid called "Imulsion" (spelling ?) and what is its significance 
 in the war between the Locust and Humans? Who/what is the mysterious female voice speaking for 
 the Locust, is it their queen? I can go on and on. We can only presume that Epic and Microsoft 
 thought that every gamer out there bought the Limited Collector's Edition. This magical edition 
 apparently includes bonus content that includes the back story of the Gears of War universe thus 
 absolving them from any further plot responsibilities in the game itself. 3/10
  
  Presentation: It is a well polished game that does a convincing job of immersing you in battle 
 on the ruin of a world that is Sera (Thank you Wikipedia) 8/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are still very good even measured by today's high standards, yes Crysis 
 we are looking at you. 8/10
  
  Sound: Overall very good. The music was sufficiently epic (pun intended) during pitched battles 
 and creepy in the dark claustrophobic tunnels. The Locust sounded appropriately monstrous and the 
 sounds of battle couldn't be much improved on. The weapons sounds especially are on par or better 
 than anything I've heard before. Voice Acting, while good, couldn't do much with the dialogue that 
 is barely above the level of troglodyte grunting. Where did they get their dialogue from? Recordings 
 from a football post victory locker-room celebration? Because of this I can't give it more than 
 8/10
  
  Gameplay: The duck and cover system is still amazing and must have been groundbreaking for its 
 time, but a lot of current games utilise the same mechanics. The combat is brutal, bloody, visceral 
 and extremely satisfying. I only have a couple of gripes with the gameplay of Gears. The first 
 is the AI of your squad mates. They rarely follow your orders and sometimes revert to what can 
 only be described as suicidal behaviour. My last and biggest gripe is the inaccuracy of the "Lancer" 
 assault rifle. The Locust assault rifle is vastly more accurate even though it has a much shorter 
 barrel?!? I guess the lowest bidder got the contract to manufacture the "Lancer" for COG and they 
 opted for a cheaper (and highly inaccurate) smooth barrel design to compensate for the extra cost 
 of the built-in chainsaw. Sorry I couldn't hit the 9, 8/10
  
  Lasting Appeal: I won't play it again. The frustration of trying to kill general Raam on hardcore 
 difficulty with the functional retard known as Dom doing his uncanny lemming imitation almost made 
 me uninstall the game then and there. My persistence eventually paid off, it only took me 33 attempts 
 to kill that bastard. I guess you could replay the game on insane difficulty but that necessitates 
 a human being and co-op play. The AI of your squad mates and their suicidal tendencies frequently 
 left me fighting hordes of Locust alone. It would be impossible to survive on insane difficulty 
 if you don't have some intelligent help. 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to summarize the plot of this game very quickly... You are up against this enemy that 
 comes from underground. You need to get a map of their tunnels so you can blow them up. Plan A 
 doesn't work, but Plan B does, and it turns out to be a lot easier than Plan A. Then you blow them 
 up... There's a lot of shooting a lot of guys, and there is definitely a lot of blood, but as far 
 as storytelling goes, that's it.
  I had a very hard time caring about what was going to happen next as I went through this game, 
 probably because I always knew... after I finish killing these guys, I'll move to the next location 
 and kill more guys. The characters were just a bunch of jocks, who didn't really have anything 
 intelligent to say, and were never really developed. The only attempt at any kind of character 
 history ***minor spoiler*** was that Marcus's father had a history of trying to defeat the enemy 
 as well. But that was so underdeveloped that it would have been better off if they had just left 
 it out, in my opinion ***spoiler over***. Anyways, the total lack of compelling storyline made 
 it very difficult for me to finish this game, but I did it anyways, pretty much just so I could 
 say I did. Hooray for me...
  That being said, the game did have some redeeming characteristics. The graphics are amazing... 
 seriously. It looks awesome. And the control scheme is really easy to pick up on and it makes sense 
 (I was using the Xbox 360 wireless controller for Windows) . The gameplay itself was actually fun. 
 There were enough shootouts to keep you busy almost all the way through the game. It's an intense 
 game, but like I chose to label it above, it's "all flash, no substance."
  Now if flash is enough to really keep your interest, then this game will definitely be for you, 
 but I guess I've come to expect a little something more from a game these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndOfThings
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  There are aliens in this game... And you have guns... You can not open doors, but your character 
 can kick them open instead... And you'll fight aliens, they're called Locust and they have petbirds 
 called Krylls... If you're scared of birds, then this game probably isn't for you...
  
  You play as Marcus Fenix... He's a slightly overweight criminal... But his slighty overweight friends 
 helps him escape prison and he has a chainsaw... The other guys and aliens also have chainsaws but 
 they're not named Marcus Fenix...
  
  In GOW you can use cover... There is always a grey something to take cover behind... The aliens looks 
 very cool and you can kill them with your guns...
  
  You can use spacebar to sprint, take cover and jump over obstacles, that's great... You can throw 
 grenades and kill aliens with your chainsaw or shoot them with your guns...
  
  There's a lot of grey buildings to see and some of the aliens explode after you have killed them...
 
  
  The game is very good and you have guns and aliens to shoot and you can also take cover...
  
 
  All the levels are kinda grey, but some of them are darker and theres also a level where you get 
 to shoot explosive canisters, it's very good...
  
  This game has a lot of boss fights and you can kill them with your guns...
  
  The game was 
 originaly released on Xbox, but now they ported it to pc and it's very good and grey and you have 
 guns and a chainsaw and grenades and you get to drive an apc, it's very fun...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanu958
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  You can smell the sewer water in the prison. Your comrade shows up to get you out of prison. You 
 breathe 
  the (not-so-fresh) air, get yourself a weapon, just when you are thrown in a war against the unstoppable 
 locust breed.
  Welcome to man's new neighbours inhabiting planet earth.
  Welcome to the inevitable locust breed.
  Welcome to Gears of War.
  
  You are Marcus Fenix. 
 You are scrawny. You're all muscle. And you are ready to kick some locust ass.
  
  Just what the doctor ordered for some insect infestation.
  
  The game starts off with fighting 
 a long war against the locust, with your squad, who are just as pumped-up as u are. The game makes 
 great use of cover-sytem, which is sumthing quite unique we haven't seen in third-person shooters 
 for a long time. Gameplay is tight, engaging and as enjoyable as ever.
  
  The visuals in the game are good and the game has been well optimised for mediocre cards like the 
 8600GT (yes, I'm talking about the PC version) .
  You can easily play on a resolution of 1280x1024 with all the bells and whistles turned on on an 
 8600GT.
  
  The music in the game pumps u up and so are Marcus's dialogs as he spits them throughout the game.
 
  You'll love the way Marcus orders "NEXT" as he guns down some locust.
  
  The storyline for the game is simple, you have to go in the depths of locust habitats and plant 
 a resonator (kinda bomb) and annihilate the breed forever.
  However, you'll find that this is no easy task, as you get through some of the tricky levels in 
 the game.
  You might find this game tough at first but later on you'll realise why I've rated the gameplay 
 of this game "Just Right".
  
  The multiplayer featurette of this game is simply FUN. You can team up with upto four friends to 
 complete the campaign or you can battle it out with players around the world in various multiplayer 
 modes. The multiplayer of this game is simple noteworthy and if hassle-free MP gaming is what u 
 ordered, this game will satisy your hunger.
  
  Overall, the game is a must-have experience , a game u simple have to play, and one the games that 
 shone in 2007 (on the PC, if u're wondering about the release dates of the console versions) .
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Gibbon
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Maybe I'm just too much of a die-hard PC gamer, but I didn't enjoy this game very much.
  
  I tried playing it with the mouse and keyboard. I tried playing it with an XBox 360 controller. 
 No control scheme could keep the game from feeling a bit clumsy.
  
  The story wasn't as compelling as I would have liked. It plays to a more adolescent audience, and 
 as a stodgy old PC gamer I felt like I was watching a really bad action movie intersticed between 
 some frustrating gunfights.
  
  Now multiplayer is another story. It is worse. It seems like even the veteran players online have 
 the same sense of frustrated confusion I had, but that they had come to terms with it.
  
  There have been a lot of great 3rd-person action shooters for the PC over the years. This is not 
 one of them.
  
  Even if I had found this in the bargain bin, I still don't think I would enjoy it very much. If 
 it wasn't for the serviceable story and all the pretty graphics, this game would not be interesting 
 enough to stay on my hard drive.
  
  I spend most of my time in this game wondering why I let a 0.5 point score difference convince 
 me to pass up Assassin's Creed in favor of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Game play: Loaded with action from start to end, I loved the boss fights, there are no combos here, 
 you only need your guns, this game is intense, you have limited weapons, but have lots of action 
 during the game, loved the camera angle. In this game you simply go from one mission to another 
 killing your enemies and advancing through the game. The game is very entertaining, you don't have 
 to do much thinking is basically get to the point, get the objective done and move on, pure action, 
 no time to breathe.
  Graphics: Awesome, loved they can be adjusted too but very nice and impressive.
  
  Story: not 
 that impressive, like I said this game is more about that action and not about the story.
  
  Cons:
  None. I loved this game. It's entertaining to no end. Keeps you getting ready to keep 
 on going killing monsters and getting on with all the fun. There is nothing like it. Looking forward 
 for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: familyguyrokz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first fired up Gears, I was excited to say the least. I had heard so much about it, all 
 of it positive. I was disappointed.
  
  General:
  Great. The graphics are superb, even running at medium settings. Even though the PC version boasted 
 improved graphics, my average system wasn't able to run the game with graphics comparable even 
 to the 360 version. The sound is also good, as the weapon sounds are high-quality and varied. The 
 music all blends together, but it doesn't make much of a difference either way.
  
  Single-player:
  Fantastic. The story of Marcus and the COGs is deep and interesting, as is the 
 universe surrounding it. The campaign took me about 12 hours alone on hardcore, as the difficulty 
 curve playing by yourself is more akin to climbing up a 20 foot wall than walking up a hill, like 
 a difficulty curve should be. The difficulty in this game could easily be offset by having a quick-save 
 system, like every other PC game made in the last ten years. Since every battle in Gears is drawn-out 
 it would be nice to save half-way through a particularly tough spot, but no, if you die you have 
 to kill all those enemies all over again. However, this doesn't detract too much from he overall 
 intense and exciting campaign, with a satisfying ending.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Garbage. The game's score took a full point hit for using Games for Windows: Live. Now even though 
 I have and Xbox Live Gold subscription before GfWL went free, it substantially cut down on people 
 playing online. If you can even find a game, the matches are filled with people who have apparently 
 been playing since launch day, and will kick your ass round after round after round. In addition, 
 expect loads of smack-talk and encountering the omnipresent bugs of multiplayer. First off, the 
 cover system doesn't do anything. Gears claims you must "use cover or die." While this is true 
 for the single-player, in multiplayer all you need to do is bum-rush an opponent with a shotgun 
 or Lancer (the insta-kill chainsaw weapon) . Another blemish on Gears' multiplayer is the amount 
 of players in a match. At max, you can play 4v4. While this may be ok for console gamers, who are 
 accustomed to a normal maximum of 8v8, PC games have have been playing 16v16 in multiplayer as 
 standard for years now. If the intent was to make the game tactical, that fails as the vast majority 
 of people in an online game don't strategize anyways.
  
  Conclusion:
  Good. Gears of War was a let-down for me. If you can appreciate the exceptional campaign and block 
 out the awful multiplayer, you will find a gem of a game, albeit a slightly overrated one. Unfortunately, 
 as the game's only real appeal is the single-player, replay value suffers and the game should only 
 be picked up if you can find it on the cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolation7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Huge, Huge let down. This is the second review ive ever written and it is only for the fact that 
 i thought I should warn people considering to buy this just how bad the Friendly AI is for this 
 version of gears of war. Time and time again in Hardcore mode I found my squadmates running ahead 
 and getting slaughtered without me when I pause to pickup weapons and ammo. Often to my horror 
 I would find that when mashing the regroup command the team member would state 'I cannot get there' 
 when I am 10 feet away in the safe zone. Many times running right up and camping next to heavy 
 turret fire. Leaving a corpse that is (in HC mode) situationally unrevivable. I wasnt a big fan 
 of the programmers choice of grenade throwing. Great for accuracy but awful for wasting time standing 
 in the open which in hardcore mode can be unforgiving.
  
  On the other hand when the graphics are maxed out and you custom set the settings in the nvidia 
 control panel to 16x FSAA, 16x AF, and set everything to ultra quality overriding the games texture 
 settings it makes the game look like a XBOX 1080 version. Its uncomparably better. Switching to 
 Mouse and keyboard setup instead of using a gamepad might just leave you smiling. Ive got the Xbox360 
 controller and found myself blown away how fast kills were using my gaming mouse instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  My first contact with this game was at xbox at my friends house. I was getting used to 360 controller 
 which is crap in my opinion, and couldn't play the game well, but now at PC, it is so much simple, 
 and it is more fun playing it now...
  Of course we get something, we have to give out something too, and at PC are the requirements, 
 the graphics with which i Play are Medium, while at xbox, well, were great, plus a big plasma screen...
 
  Anyway, i didn't finished the game yet, but I haven't seen a single diffrence yet from the 360 
 version, except the gameplay which is Better at PC, and Graphics which are better at 360.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The gameplay is really realistic, and i have to say congratulations. If you 
 sprint you can't shoot , and the camera moves from side to side, like you are really running , 
 which is great, not like most of the games, where you can run and shoot, sprint and shoot, and 
 whatsoever. We can get cover, we can o the Blindfire thinggy, so we can scare the enemy and get 
 a better cover spot, or heal or teammate. Well we cant blowup walls and stuff, but if we could 
 almost all PCs wouldnt be able to run the game because of these physix, but, we can blow up enemies, 
 and the blood just flies around, as I said before we give something , to receive another. If you 
 want to play a game, where you Kill shoot, and see blood all day, well this game is for you.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are amazing ( atleast on 360 ) with my older graphic card, Geforce 
 7500, i could only play it at Medium, and well, i must say are very good... except cinematics, 
 they could have been better, for example, recently i played Devil May Cry 4, and there, cinematics 
 were absolutely great. Like you were watching some movie or something like that. But well what 
 can we say... if I had a better graphic card, i guess cinematics would be also very good. But games, 
 are not about best graphics, what matters in a game is it's Gameplay and Sound. Graphics come last, 
 it is a bit important, but having a bad Soundtrack, or bad gameplay would ruin a game, while having 
 older graphics , NO! For example a game like Doom 1 or Duke Nukem 3D or Quake 1, those old graphics, 
 the very first 3d graphics, at that time it was great playing even all pixelated. So i think companies 
 should first think on a gamplay, and next graphics, there is no need on making games like crysis, 
 that most people can't even play, and then they will say PC Is dying, and no more exclusives for 
 PC; but it is they own fault.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well, the voice acting is great, the soundtrack is not so bad, i didn't get caught by it ... well 
 ... its Normal you can live with it
  
  Anyway, the game is good and it's worth getting, I don't have a very good PC, but i am still able 
 to play this game, i don't know why people are giving it scores of 1.0, and saying the game is 
 broken, and then showing the machines they've got, and most of them are way better than mine...
 
  I couln't actually play it at the begging, but when i got the right patch, everything went smoothly
 
  So stop whining and look for a patch...
  But indeed without patch #2, you will fail to play the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dweb567
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  on pc, single player -- i waited to buy the game until i upgraded my computer and for the price to 
 come down. i also waited because i thought that the glitches/crashes would have been worked out 
 by now. by now, the game should be patched up completely rather than crashing every so often. my 
 favorite weapon is the chainsaw. great graphics. i liked the growly dialogue and kicking in doors. 
 but i thought there should have been greater variety of bad guys and weapons. fighting was pretty 
 repetitive. the main strategy was "keep shooting" -- which was fine since there was plenty of ammo. 
 when i got better at using cover and the movement options, i enjoyed the game more. since i liked 
 the chainsaw the most of the weapons, i would have liked to be able to sneak around better to get 
 close enough to cut. great looking shooter without much depth. fun but not outstanding overall. 
 the movies were a bit too long, especially when i had to redo a section -- i would have preferred 
 shorter cutscenes -- but they do look very good. i will play it again, though. this feels like a 
 game much more fun to play multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMsGameSpot
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I tried the load this game on 5 different computers. They range for high end gaming to multimedia 
 to laptop. This included Windows XP latest version, to Vista 32 bit and 64 bit. Some computers 
 wouldn't even load it and the ones that did couldn't play it. The ones that would play it were 
 useless because the character was stuck in a constant left turn. It just went around in circles. 
 No amount of tweaking, resetting, reloading or upgrading did any good. The game website was totally 
 useless as it never even acknowledged problem. There were not patches or upgrades that addressed 
 the problem. Judging from the comments by other users this is not an uncommon situation for this 
 game. It's full of glitches, bugs and crashes. If I could have scored this game any lower it would 
 have been in the negative number range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrdarklight
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I don't know who writes the reviews for these games. When they do, they apparently failed to mention 
 that the game crashes on a lot of Vista machines within 30 seconds of launch, every time. I got 
 a patch to fix that, though. 
  
  Then, you want to go play the game, and so you start a campaign, and you're gleefully informed 
 that if you haven't signed in with a "gamer profile", you can't save your progress. What's a "gamer 
 profile"? It's a login name you have to get from "Games for Windows Live." So, you have to sign 
 up for this, or you can't even save the game. That's charming.
  
  The game also does not remember your custom keyboard control choices after you quit. Yep. It gets 
 fun typing those in every time.
  
  Then of course, there's the charming "Microsoft Games" and "Epic Games" mini-ads at the beginning 
 of the game. The beginning of each and every game. And you cannot escape out of them.
  
  Please, Microsoft. We know you rule the world, but can you have pity on us and, oh, I don't know, 
 design a game that works, and that we aren't forced to sign up with your membership systems to 
 play?
  
  And Gamespot, why don't you ever mention this stuff? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnomepickle
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  After getting a new computer I decided to purchase a few games that would really challenge its 
 potential. Here's my setup:
  
  -AMD 64X2 Dual-Core 3.0Ghz processor
  -3 Gb DDR2 RAM
  -NVIDIA GeForce 8500 GT (Not top of the line, but well over the requirement)
  -500 Gb Hard Drive 
 Space
  
  After getting this game home, I installed the program and tried to run it... Nothing. Thinking 
 this may just be a small problem, I promptly updated all of my drivers and downloaded the 1.2 patch 
 for the game. 2nd try... Nothing. Getting a bit irritated I tried running in compatability for 
 XP, once again nothing. 
  
  After a fresh install (thinking the first install might have been corrupt) I try running the game 
 again, this time the game boots up and as soon as I hit Enter to play... Crash.
  
  I eventually had to call customer support just to get the game to run. Even the guy I talked to 
 was completely confused as to why the game would not run.
  
  Overall the gameplay, graphics, story, yadda yadda yadda: Awesome. The game plays smooth, the animations 
 are fluid and realistic, and the character models are absolutely to die for. 
  
  However, no game is worth the hassle I went thru just to enjoy this product. Again, I may have 
 been sold a crap copy but the thousands of forum help threads with people reporting the same problems 
 as me make me think otherwise. If you don't mind a huge pain-in-the-arse setup, this game is what 
 every action gamer is looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way: Gears of War is one of the best games that has ever come out. If 
 you have a system that can handle it, this is the best version of Gears of War.
  
  Here are the Pro's and Con's:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  PRO'S:
  1. New stroy missions that make the campain make sense
  2. 3 exclusive multiplayer maps
  3. Built-in map editor
  4. Looks a hell of a lot better then 
 the 360 version
  5. A new multiplayer mode
  6. Everything else that was in the 360 version is here
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CON'S
  1. There are some bugs when trying to install it. (I had to install it 4 times to get it to work)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War is the one game that nearly tipped me into buying a 360. Here was a visceral, beautiful, 
 action-packed shooter getting tons of buzz from gamers and press. I could barely keep myself from 
 plunking down the $350 just so I could get a taste of this first-hand. Alas, the infatuation faded. 
 I couldn't seriously justify buying a console for one title, so I put it to the back of my mind. 
 Fortunately, Epic threw PC gamers a bone in late 2007 by announcing a PC port, alongside their 
 other humdrum release, Unreal Tournament 3.
  
  Now it needs to be said Gears of War on PC in 2008 is not Gears of War on 360 in 2006. They're 
 two completely different experiences, so while I am going to argue that Gears on PC right now is 
 fairly lackluster, in no way am I saying I don't see why this was such a huge deal on 360 two years 
 ago. I get it. I got it. OK. Moving on.
  
  So what's good about Gears on PC?
  
  First and foremost, you get 5 additional chapters at the end of the game (about 2 hours of gameplay 
 or so) , plus a satisfying (albeit simple) boss fight with a gigantic weaponized beast called a 
 Brumak. These levels also occur in larger spaces with less linear funneling as the core console 
 game, which gives you a greater feeling of general chaos and a little more immersion b/c the levels 
 feel more like actual real-world spaces, rather than tightly designed video game levels.
  
  The other nice perks on PC is simply the K / M controls (which work fine, don't listen to people 
 whining about the keyboard) for precise aiming, and cranking the graphics settings all the way 
 up for a incredibly impressive looking game that gives Crysis a run for its money.
  
  The core gameplay in Gears is enjoyable but simple. Small pitched battles in insanely detailed 
 environments with a lot of movement behind and around cover. Enemy variety is actually limited 
 to a half-dozen type, so battles do become repetitive as the game wears on. There are a few mini-boss 
 battles where you'll be using the Hammer of Dawn to call satellite barrages from the sky. And while 
 Gears is a game focused on much smaller battles than its XBox peer, Halo, it does carry some of 
 that same "epic" feeling of survival and helping your friends on the battlefield that Halo is known 
 for.
  
  Story-wise, there's not a lot going on in Gears. There's something about being imprisoned for something 
 and your father does something or another, but really it all just boils down to you and your buddies 
 shooting aliens in a post-apocalyptic future. Voice-acting ranges from decent tough-guy marine 
 talk for the protaganist, Marcus Fenix, to downright stiff and wooden for your sidekick.
  
  Unfortunately, there are some significant detractions to playing Gears on PC.
  
  Most notably 
 is -- the game engine runs like crap. Even on a current-gen PC, you'll suffer through occasional 
 screen lockup, stuttering, random texture pop-in. You also have to deal with Games for Windows 
 LIVE, a nebulous Microsoft service, just to keep track of your saved progress in the single-player 
 campaign, as well as all patching is done through GFW Live. If, like me, your GFW Live account 
 is unable to apply content patches b/c it kickstarts your motherboard's BIOS update instead, then 
 you're basically stuck with a game you can't patch.
  
  Online and co-op play must also be done through GFW Live, so good luck finding anyone on a server, 
 let alone convincing a friend to install that garbage on their PC and meeting up with you for a 
 session.
  
  Which is really too bad, because co-op gameplay is clearly where Gears of War shined brightest. 
 The ease and simplicity of playing co-op on 360 with friends cannot be duplicated on PC. (At least 
 not with GFW Live. If you could play the game over Steam ... that's another story.) So that's a 
 major strike against the game.
  
  It also doesn't help that Epic waited a year to release this port, so not only was all the release 
 buzz and anticipation dead in the water, but many gamers (myself included) have already played 
 other games with cover/shoot mechanics they stole from Gears, which completely steals the thunder 
 out of what was a true innovation in 2006 and is now just another expected feature in action games 
 in 2008.
  
  So all in all, if you can get Gears PC used, or borrow it from a friend, it's well worth a playthrough. 
 Just don't expect anything too deep or immersive and enjoy shooting the crap out of gnarly beasties 
 and grunting with your buddies in power armor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Camp camp camp... And shoot some. Shoot few headshots, they should die right? Naah, you need to shoot 
 full clip to kill him. Wonderful...
  You can drive some "tank" which shoots light. Yea. Great.
  I have to say this game is sooo over 
 hyped, just not good enough.
  Well good points are probably graphichs, boss fights and sometimes this game really sucks you in. 
 Like fighting Berserker... Freaky.
  And last match with at the mansion..
  Loading times take over minute, LOL.
  Stil i dont think you should play this game. There is no 
 story, something happened, now we kill them.
  Well ok you should play this game if you get it cheap. Or maybe not.
  -.-. - .- .- . . .. . .- 
 . -- .- .- .- -. -. -. -. -. -. -. -. -. -. - .- .- - .- .-. -. -. -. - .- - -. -. - - -.- .
  
  .. - .- . -.- - .- .- .- .- ............- ...........- . -. ------------- .........- .- .- 
 .- .- .- .- . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playwrite
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Gears of War was an important part of the Xbox 360 lineup. It helped to push the console along 
 and build up an install base before the release of the eminent Halo 3. A year later it was released 
 on the PC. However, the game goes against the paradigm in just about every way: It's a console 
 to PC port that's not only good (a rare feat) but actually better than its predecessor.
  
  GOW takes place in the war-ravaged future. A group of species known as the Locusts have emerged 
 from deep within the planet Sera, decimating the human population and eventually forcing the humans 
 to essentially destroy everything with their orbital weapons.
  
  The player takes control of Marcus Fenix, a hardcorps butt-kicking soldier who is released from 
 jail (why he was there in the first place is never fully explained) . He is enlisted by one of his 
 old friends to help fight the Locusts, thus setting off a series of incredibly violent events. 
 The story is omnipresent, but never so important that you can't focus on the main attraction: killing. 
 GOW has a toned down mode and an "extra gore" mode. Remember the "bloody mess" perk in Fallout? 
 That was nowhere near this violent. GOW feature regular exploding chunks of flesh, lots of blood 
 and the ability to cut enemies in half with a chainsaw. Sometimes this even has a gameplay impact: 
 If Marcus gets shot at point-blank by a shotgun, the screen becomes covered in blood making it 
 very hard to see where he is aiming.
  
  Gameplay in GOW falls into 2 categories. The first is an emphasis on cover, to the extent that 
 nearly every object can be hidden behind with the cover button. The game does a good job of figuring 
 out where you want to take cover and where you want to pop out to fire off a few shots. However, 
 at some points cover is not a viable option, which is when the second gameplay style becomes important. 
 From time to time, the player will have to leave cover and either blind fire, or melee attack, 
 the locusts. Since Marcus only has a small amount of (regenerative) health, he can't stay in the 
 open very long, but some of the best moments in the game are when he breaks cover and decimates 
 The Locusts with a few un-aimed shotgun blasts. Players can determine which style they want to 
 some degree, but most of the time cover will be far easier (and less frustrating) than a blind 
 rush.
  
  Speaking of frustrating, the difficulty level has been upped in this version for the game, presumably 
 to counter-act the precision of mouse use. Unfortunately, "hardcore" (the games normal mode) is, 
 at times, punishingly difficult. There is an easier mode (called casual) but it doesn't seem to 
 have been balanced very well, since it is fairly easy.
  
  The sound in GOW is superb. Enemies are suitably disgusting sounding, guns are nice and loud, voice 
 acting is excellent and music is always suitable. The only oddity worth mentioning is that when 
 characters with Marcus talk in-game, their voices always come from the proper direction and distance. 
 This is nice most of the time, but it becomes a problem when the Marcus moves ahead of the talking 
 character. This leads to some awkward conversations where Marcus appears to be talking to himself.
 
  The PC version of GOW has a number of nice improvements over its Xbox 360 counterpart. The most 
 obvious upgrade is in the graphics: GOW was already a great looking game, but the PC has some extra 
 effects and nicer models. The higher resolutions the game can achieve don't hurt the game either. 
 One little beef: Antialiasing requires DX10, and hence Windows Vista. Still, the game looks so 
 good that it really doesn't matter too much. In particular, the lighting and weather effects look 
 incredible.
  Another change that makes the PC experience superior is the controls. The mouse is infinitely more 
 precise than a controller, so aiming (and especially blind firing) is much more responsive. The 
 backlash to this is that there is no mouse smoothing, so the camera can look incredibly jittery 
 outside of combat. It's a minor complaint, but one that seems like it could have been easily solved.
 
  
  There are 2 more improvements that really make the PC version of GOW the game to own. The first 
 is some extra levels that have been added to the game. These add a few more hours to the game, 
 and culminate in an awesome, if absurd, boss fight. The second is full modding tools, a feature 
 that is rarely (if ever) included with console to PC ports.
  
  In comparison, let's look at another console to PC port. Resident Evil 4 is comparable to GOW in 
 many ways, including being a great game. However, the PC port featured washed out visuals, no mouse 
 support, no new features and no mod support. That's just par for the course in PC ports, but GOW 
 seems to have raised the bar. Let's hope this is a trend.
  
  Gears of War is a great game. Gears Of War on the PC is an even greater game. If you have the choice 
 between both versions, make sure this is the one you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:57 am PT
Review:  - Satisfying gameplay in story mode
  - Very addictive online offering - Really stellar graphics from both a technical and an artistic 
 standpoint - Fully-featured level editor included. gears of war is one of the best games ever!! 
 the graphics is not like the XBOX but its also great on PC, the game could be scary at some points
 
  like in ACT 3, so anyway:
  
  graphics: amazing!! looks awsome !!! simply awsome !!
  
  gameplay: good gameplay easy controlles great levels simply awsome game, everything in this game 
 is great
  
  sounds: they could have been better...
  
  multiplayer: its the best thing about gears of war i play the multiplayer everythay and its fantastic!! 
 great
  
  the difficult is OK it could have been better beacuse even if you play on easy there are times 
 when the game can be really hard...
  
  GEARS OF WAR IS REALLY GREAT GAME BUY NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AkSniperM6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are cool and the 3rd person view and cover is new and interesting for a while. After playing 
 through a few levels though, the novelty wears off and it starts to feel the same each time. The 
 whole xbox live experience makes you feel like you are playing a console game. I understand where 
 Microsoft wants the same look and feel, but if you aren't going to allow cross platform multiplay 
 why bother. Uninstalled it without getting to the end because it got to boring and predictable. 
 System requirements for this game to get the great graphics that everyone expects are steep. I 
 have an AthlonX2 2.8 GHz with 2GB and GTS8800, and the game really loads the system with occasional 
 choppy frame rates. If you have something less than that, you will be disappointed with your purchase. 
 The quality of this game also seemed to be lacking in some areas. I installed the game on a Vista 
 PC and there were some issues with the install, and system lockup. The game doesn't seem to play 
 well with other programs and when running in Window mode it's not even possible to move the Window. 
 These quality issues were kind of surprising given it is labeled "Games for Windows" and published 
 by Microsoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  A little known detail about Gears of War for Windows is that the porting was not done by the original 
 Xbox 360 team but by a subsidiary that is part of Epic Games which made the 2004 PC hit "Painkiller." 
 The studio, called "People Can Fly" have done most of the work for the Gears of War PC version. 
 
  
  Gameplay is of course identical to the award winning 360 version. The cover system is well-implemented 
 here. The deeply gripping story of the struggle of Sera's inhabitants against the Locust horde, 
 beautifully combined with amazing visuals and art design make one hell of a science-fiction game. 
 Epic's vision is truly creatively stunning. 
  
  More often than not, porting games to another platform results in slightly inferior version. While 
 arguably true for GoW for PC, this port still adds a few extra game chapters which makes it the 
 definitive, expanded version of the game. 
  
  Once you manage to conquer some game stuttering issues (according to numerous buyers and including 
 yours truly) , realize Gears of War on DX10 is no different from Gears of War DX 9, adapt to some 
 blockheaded enemy and squad AI with path finding problems, suffer frame rate slowdowns even on 
 a high-end PC setup, and disappearing game saves, PC Gears of War is still an exceptional port. 
 It should note noted though the multiplayer community is extremely small. You will find less than 
 10-15 users at any given time playing and only several available servers, none of which appear 
 dedicated but are user hosted.
  
  Just be sure to have computer hardware up to date and beefed up to get the most out of the game. 
 Gears of War for PC is magnificent if you can manage to get it up and running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superironic
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Gears of Wars might look like an ordinary shooter, but there is a lot more to it than meets the 
 eye. As soon as you begin the campaign, you soon find out that that you play as Marcus Fenix who 
 you get to play as the main character. You start off in a prison but Dom breaks you out. A lot 
 has changed while Marcus has been in there and it is time to kick some locust ass.
  
  Gameplay: Unlike most FPS, you don't just run in, kill a horde of enemies and go onto the the next 
 room. You have to take cover and use the environment to your advantage to kill your enemies. This 
 aspect of the game brings in strategy and you must plan each move to advance into the game. It 
 may sound difficult but once you get the knack of it, you will see how easy and fun it is. It is 
 quite cool to experiment with your enemies. They also bring reloading to the next level. In most 
 shooters, you usually press a button and you wait for the gun to reload. But in Gears of War, you 
 are in control of how fast your gun reloads. When reloading you will see a horizontal bar and a 
 thin vertical bar move across the horizontal bar. Your job is to press the button at the right 
 time to make it reload quicker. If you press the button at the perfect time, your gun will be slightly 
 more effective against enemies. You can play through the whole game and not even bother with this 
 feature but it is handy and will lower the time it takes for waiting for your weapon to reload. 
 Speaking of guns, you get a really cool selection. Half gun, half chainsaw, what else do you need? 
 Overall I give the gameplay a 9/10. It is fun and unique, but at times, and can be difficult and 
 awkward to play the game in some areas of the game. This has made the game slightly harder in some 
 ways.
  
  Story: This is the area of the game that I find most impressive. As soon as you get straight into 
 the game, you will get interested in the storyline. Each character you meet has their own personality 
 and you really get to like each main character. The enemies you face are unique as well with many 
 advantages and disadvantages. Basically the story is this, a enemy known as the locust horde have 
 launched a surprise attack on earth and are at war with the human race. It is up to Marcus Fenix 
 and the rest of the human forces to stop the Locust Horde before the human race is completely wiped 
 out and the locust take over. Overall I give the Story a 10/10. I can't wait till Gears of Wars 
 2 and what the storyline has in store.
  
  Multiplayer: If you are looking for a shooter solely for multiplayer, I wouldn't recommend Gears 
 of Wars. As much fun as playing online is, it may get repetitive after awhile and I personally 
 got bored of it easily. However multiplayer isn't a complete let down. It is fun to play with and 
 does extend on Gears of War. The only thing better than playing campaign, is playing campaign with 
 a friend. If you have played other co-op games such as Doom or Halo, then you know that Co-op can 
 be very fun. There is also of multiplayer modes where you go against other players and that can 
 be quite fun too. However, I personally found it hard to control since this isn't the regular FPS. 
 But it is up to you to decide. Overall, I give multiplayer 7/10 but I didn't find anything special 
 with it. It is just an extra feature of the game.
  
  Graphics: Not much I can say but the graphics in this game but it is really amazing. Whether it 
 is daytime, night time, raining or on a train. You really get a realistic view of the environment. 
 I give the graphics a 9/10
  
  Overall I give this game 9/10. I highly recommend you get this game if you have the chance because 
 if you like any shooter, you will absolutely like this one. It has everything you really need or 
 want in a shooter and I can guarantee that you will be hooked on the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biohazard112
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Graphics : Gears of War looks really good even a year later they don't look outdated. The textures 
 are sharp and you don't have texture popups or anything like that.
  
  Gameplay : The coversystem is great. Taking cover is easy and it works fine. Sometimes it's doesn't 
 works how you want to work it but nothing thats really bothering. De AI is good they take cover 
 and try to flank you. Sometimes the AI gets stuck for example in the last fight with the general 
 he gets stuck somewere sometimes and can't move any more. Also the learning curve is very low the 
 controls are easy and work perfect. 
  
  Sound : The music in gears of war fits really good and immerse you more in the game. The sound 
 of the guns and explosions are really good one of the best sounds in a game I ever heard. 
  
  Conclusion : gears of war is a must have if you didn't play the xbox version like me. The controls 
 are good and the graphics look great. But the best part is the gameplay with a few bugs but nothing 
 major and the sound is outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBestGamer758
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game it was on the 360 at a friends house. When I played it I thought 
 it was the best game i've ever played. It has AMAZING graphics and revolutionary gameplay. This 
 isn't to say that the gameplay has never been done before its just that in Gears its done in such 
 a fun way its like brand new and expertly done. When i bought this game for the pc I was glad that 
 I would be getting more content with better graphics and easier mouse and keyboard gameplay which 
 is better than controller gameplay (in my opinion) . The gameplay has you running for cover and 
 shooting down enemies called locusts while controlling your squad and completing objectives. The 
 gameplay is so seamless that everything runs smoothly and you can take cover, shoot, throw grenades, 
 and take cover somewhere else, sprint, and get new weapons quickly and easily. The games campaign 
 is fun and can be played co-operatively with friends on windows live or alone if you like. You 
 can also play online multiplayer through windows live which is free for the silver edition and 
 has a fee for the gold edition. Online you must kill enemies get new weapons and protect people 
 based on what mode you are playing. The game's real fun is playing with friends whether co-op campaign 
 or versus multiplayer through windows live. That's where the game really gets started. The game 
 really comes together any way you play with its fast paced, exhilarating, and fun gameplay. The 
 only thing i would like to mention is that the game has some requirements so you will need a good 
 pc to run it with a few GB of ram and a nice video card and some GB of memory and a nice processor 
 would be a good setup to play Gears. So if you know anybody with a good pc and who is 18 or older 
 you should recommend them this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogeoluz
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Gears of War is a third person action game that has you playing Marcus Fenix, an imprisoned soldier 
 who gets his freedom in order to fight the alien Locust Horde on planet Sera. He is joined by squadmates 
 that prove invaluable in combat. The game is divided into 5 Acts, just like the Xbox 360 version. 
 However, some chapters were added to Act 5 and they are definitely worth playing. These chapters 
 prepare you for an epic confrontation with the hulking Brumak. This boss battle is long and challenging 
 because you have to start blasting the arm guns, then the legs, and finally the drone riding on 
 it.
  The action is hot from start to finish and the combat is based on the ability to take cover. The 
 cover system is context sensitive and is essential to survival against the Locusts. The Locusts 
 consist of various monsters including Drones, Boomers, Wretches, and Theron Guards among others. 
 The Drones are the most common enemies, the Boomers carry rocket launchers, the Wretches crawl 
 on top of ceilings, and Theron Guards carry an explosive torque bow. These enemies can take cover 
 just like you and your squadmates.
  The weapons in Gears of War are generally conventional, including machine guns, pistols, and grenades. 
 One interesting, nonconventional weapon is the Hammer of Dawn. The Hammer of Dawn can only be used 
 outdoors and if there is a satellite in the sky. This weapon carries quite a punch and is quite 
 effective against the Berserkers and the Seeders. The game departs from the traditional health 
 and armor bar and you only need to look for a large red circle in the center of the screen to determine 
 whether you are wounded. Another departure from tradition is the reload feature. There is a reload 
 bar under each weapon so that you know when it is the perfect or right time to reload. This adds 
 to the game's challenge because a failed reload means it will take a long time to reload. It took 
 a little time for me to get used to the reload feature and saw the benefits of a perfect reload. 
 A perfect reload would result in greater firepower and more damage to the enemies. The machine 
 gun that Fenix carries has a chainsaw as a melee attack that is useful against enemies that get 
 too close. This melee attack proves to be quite gruesome.
  The squadmates exhibit good A. I. and effectively take cover during firefights. You can issue commands 
 and they will cooperate when possible. However, sometimes your squadmates may get in your way when 
 you are firing at your enemies. It is not a major problem because it does not happen too often.
 
  The visuals are very impressive, as it displays rundown streets and buildings. The baroque architecture 
 is very elaborate. Equally impressive is the details of the characters such as the deep scars on 
 Fenix's face. The visuals of the firefights are top-notch when you see muzzle flash from your weapon.
 
  My only gripe with Gears of War is the save system. You cannot quick save the game at any time 
 and it saves only at predetermined checkpoints. It can get a little frustrating when you get killed 
 several times and you have to reload at the latest checkpoint. The game could have had at least 
 a quick save feature.
  Other than the gripe regarding the save system, I enjoyed the action in Gears of War. The action 
 will not bore action fans because it is constantly violent and fast paced from beginning to end. 
 Action fans will enjoy all the gore that comes from plethora of shootouts from one chapter to the 
 next.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Xbox 360 users in November of 2006 got the premiere 360 game when Epic Games and Microsoft Game 
 Studios released Gears of War. PC users were left out in the cold until November of 2007, where 
 the PC version was finally released with 5 exclusive chapters and an editor. The game is excellent 
 and challenging but it's marred by some technical issues. Gears of War tells the story of Marcus 
 Fenix, who's sprung out from prison by his friend Dom to join Delta Squad in the fight against 
 the Locust, a race that lives underground who has overran the colony planet of Sera (Earth is never 
 mentioned) . Let me tell you, these guys are huge, and they wear one of the bulkiest armor ever 
 seen in a game, wielding machine guns with chainsaws attached. Now that's HARDCORE! =D The story 
 is pretty interesting and while it's nothing special, it will keep you engaged and see what happens 
 next. The game's default difficulty, hardcore is pretty hard and you'll find yourself repeating 
 sections due to the somewhat sparse checkpoints. You may get frustrated but you'll continue playing 
 because its Gears of War for Pete's sake! The game uses Epic Games' own Unreal Engine 3.0 and at 
 its highest settings, the graphics look stunning. It has a limited color palette but you can't 
 deny that it looks good. You may notice some stuttering but it lasts only a 2 seconds at most so 
 it's more of an annoyance. The sound is also good, and you may found yourself humming to some of 
 the themes (I will be getting the soundtrack too) . Now as for the technical issues. While I managed 
 to complete the game, 2 levels in Act 2 were bugged and suffered from a C++ error despite having 
 installed the latest version (2008) . I had to rename some level files and bypass the 2 levels but 
 this is inexcusable. Epic forums are filled to the brim with topics relating to this issue and 
 I do hope they release one more patch to fix it. As for the disappearing saves, make sure to install 
 the latest patch but it's not guaranteed to fix it since I still see people with this problem (I 
 never lost my saves) . Gears of War is one of those hardcore, manly games that you just go to play 
 and if you haven't played the 360 version, you should definitely pick it up despite the problems. 
 PC owners get 5 exclusive chapters in Act 5 and an exclusive boss fight with the visually impressive 
 Brumak, plus an editor. I did not play multiplayer too much since I really, really don't like LIVE 
 and its fees just to get all the goods. I urge everyone to stick with just basic Silver accounts 
 because LIVE is just not worth it. The game is pretty lengthy, about 15 hours so you get a lot 
 of content so everyone should go and get it, its only $29.99 now so go out and shoot some grubs!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  NOT MANY GAMES ACCOMPLISHED WHAT GEARS OF WAR DID, AFTER QUAKE 2,3 AND UNREAL TOURNAMENT 2 AND 
 2004, FEW SHOOTERS COULD BE WORTH PLAYING (FAR CRY, CRISIS) BUT STILL.... THIS GAME HAS A LOT TO 
 OFFER, GREAT GRAPHICS, GREAT STORY (A LITTLE BIT ROUGH BUT GREAT STORY) , GRATE GAME PLAY AND A VERY 
 GOOD AI, IT'S A GAME THE IT'S A MUST PLAY NOT A SHOULD PLAY OR A COULD BE TRIED . U MUST PLAY THE 
 GAME TO UNDERSTAND WHAT I AM SAYING. ENJOY, AND FOR ALL THE PEOPLE (GAMERS) THAT SEE SOME REVIEWS 
 THAT START WITH ALL GRAPHICS AND NOTHING MORE.... THRUST ME... PLAY THE GAME... GOOD GAME... COOL GAME... SOMETHING 
 THAT I HOPE TO SEE AGAIN WITH GEARS OF WAR 2 IF THEY MAKE IT FOR PC PLATFORMS.
  AND I SHOULD REMEMBER YOU THAT MICROSOFT HAS NOT BEEN SO GREAT AT MAKING GAMES (EXCEPTION AGE OF 
 EMPIRES) , IF THE KEEP IT LIKE THIS I THINK WE ARE GOING TO SEE LOTS OF THEM ON THE GAMERS MARKET... A 
 GAME WORTH BUYING AN PLAYING... AND THE MULTI PLAYER IS GREAT SO... PLEASE ENJOY IF U DON'T LIKE 
 SHOOTERS OR IF U DO NOT COMPREHEND THE WORLD OF SHOOTER GAMES STAY AWAY FROM IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Ok skip the storyline because by now after reading a couple of reviews, you would have know how 
 sucky the story is. In short, a futuristic marine named Marcus Fenix which you are going to control 
 got release to help save the world from a alien invasion known as Locust with a group of fellow 
 marines. 
  
  Now the highlight of the game which the producers emphasis is on the cover and fire system which 
 I think its fun and intense and supposedly to mimic a real firefight in an arcadish manner, but 
 all these only for the first maybe an hour or so. After your first virgin cover and fire fight, 
 you will gradually find yourself doing that for the next 85 percent of the game with different 
 mini to mid size battlefields so prepare to duck and fire all the way with some fairly easy boss 
 included. Someone mentioned about puzzles in this game. I am not exactly sure if I have come across 
 any puzzles or they are just too easy to be call puzzles. 
  
  The difficulty setting is rather unbalance if you play it on the casual mode, you would not need 
 so much covering and many a times you can run and gun if theres not much enemies but the next difficulty 
 mode which is Hardcore (from casual to hardcore??? Thats a great leap...) is actually Insane enough 
 for me (theres an insane mode after hardcore) . Mobs will need to consume the amount of bullets sufficient 
 to kill a platoon of human soldiers to die. Thats truely Hardcore and I suggest you would not play 
 that mode if you aren't some 1st/3rd pro in shooter games because its gonna frustrate you alot 
 by forcing you repeat the same fight over and over again because you will kill all except for the 
 last mob which you kill you and prevent you from proceeding on. 
  
  Controls wise is another frustration and don't be surprise half of the time trying to take cover 
 will have you end up rolling into open space instead. The space key + cover is just not intelligent 
 enough but I could understand because they want you to have 2 options either to just face front 
 behind a cover where you can take aims easier or to space button and have your back stick to the 
 cover for more protection. Many times I choose not to use the space key + cover especially behind 
 non-flat covers because I am afraid the great roll would be executed instead and get myself owned 
 and trust me after killing 10 mobs and get killed by 1 dumb wrong execution will realise you actually 
 want the main character's mum died and not the mobs.
  
  Now the part which scores needless to say is the graphics dept. Beautifully detailed environment 
 and zooming in using your gun at vehicles will revealed a realistic metal rather then a blurry 
 surface. However the surrounding somehow has a greenish and greyish feeling to it and can be dull 
 at times especially within enclosed areas.
  
  Overall I can say that the game is fun with top notch graphics but the highly repetitive gameplay 
 is enough to create more negatives for this game.
  
  6.5/10 for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infect999
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great atmosphere, fun cover system, great multiplayer and co-op, there's a friggin' chainsaw 
 on your assault rifle
  
  Cons: graphics tend to be bland shades of gray, weak story, bad boss fights, plenty of annoying 
 bugs, long installation, Games for Windows Live, it's a bit too easy on PC, don't you think?
  
  So, in 2006, Gears of War was all the rage, being praised by almost every gaming publication 
 known to man, and receiving "30+ Xbox 360 Game of the Year awards" according to the box. So of 
 course, I had to try this game out. Since I lacked the 360 at the time, and the PC version was 
 deemed better anyway, I bought a copy. What I found was a shooter with enough interesting gimmicks 
 to keep it from royally sucking.
  
  The single player is a surprisingly weak experience. You play as Marcus Fenix (or Dominic Santiago 
 if you joined a co-op game) , a marine of some sort who gets busted out of prison to help the "gears" 
 fight an army of ground-dwelling aliens called the Locust. The story does little more than provide 
 a reason for movement between one firefight and the next. The game does a horrible job of telling 
 it, and it moves much to quickly from one thing to the next. I'm surprised I cared enough to finish 
 the game.
  
  The single player does have it's moments, though. The game's cover system works remarkably well, 
 and it makes combat tense and exciting. There's a mild variety of enemies, but you'll generally 
 be facing drones, who are basically you except more stupid. The game also tries to mix things up 
 a bit from the run from one fight to the next by adding sections like a driving sequence and an 
 on-rails mine cart shoot. Sadly, these tend to feel poorly done and are more of an annoyance than 
 anything.
  
  Other than the first fight against a Berserker, a blind beast that hunts it's prey by sound and 
 scent, the boss fights are dull, and involve puzzles that a six year old could solve. The bosses 
 look nice though. While the additional chapters for PC add a whole lot more gameplay, they don't 
 feel any different than the other chapters. The story is still weak, and the additional boss fight 
 doesn't change the rules. Heck, the game even tells you how to beat it. When going through the 
 single player experience, I found that it's best when played with a friend via online co-op. That 
 way, you have a bit of help (not that you'll really need it) and you'll have someone to make fun 
 of the game with.
  
  I'm torn about the graphics in the game. On the one hand, they do look great, and they create a 
 great atmosphere. On the other, they seem to be comprised almost entirely of shades of gray, making 
 them seem a bit bland. The blood also looks like cell-shaded jelly as gallons upon gallons fly 
 from your enemies as they take 300 bullets to die. The sound is alright as well. Some of the weapons 
 feel and sound underpowered. Hearing the chainsaw that happens to be attached to an assault rifle 
 tear through the flesh of your victim sounds great.
  
  The game's ultraviolence really adds to the experience, and helps to make it worth playing. Body 
 parts fly everywhere. Heads explode. Blood splatters on the screen as the chainsaw cuts your enemy 
 in half. It all looks great when executed, and makes it more exciting.
  
  Where the game shines, or at least where it would've shined, is it's multiplayer component. The 
 cover system transfers well into the 4 v 4 battles, and you can do all sorts of brutal things to 
 your opponents. It's too bad it's held back by Games for Windows Live, Microsoft's attempt to bring 
 XBL over to the PC. Microsoft expects payment for a complete online experience. It's also very 
 clunky, and more of an annoyance than anything. It won't be much of a problem for Xbox 360 owners, 
 but it does keep the multiplayer from going to its full potential.
  
  I also ran into quite a few technical issues with the game. For starters, it has an inexcusably 
 long install time. After that, I ran into things like not being able to use cover in a section 
 of the game, issues with voice chat over GFWL, not being able to move after using the chainsaw, 
 crashes, and more.
  
  It all adds together to feel like a somewhat sloppy port of an already underwhelming game. What 
 hits with the 360 audience doesn't necessarily work with the PC audience, and this is one of those 
 cases. If more time had been taken to iron out the technical bugs, and if Microsoft wasn't trying 
 to push GFWL upon us, this would be an easily recommendable game. Instead, it's a passable experience 
 who's recommendability depends on your own patience, and whether you can stomach the fact that 
 things like this are the new embodiment of what Game of the Year is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invictuslemming
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  What can I say, if you've tried Gears of War on the 360, you'll probably know whats coming.
  
  The gameplay is fun and very challenging, somewhat unforgiving since checkpoints have been 
 spaced out further in the PC version than in the 360 version.
  
  Graphics are simply amazing, 
  I'm running a core2 e6600, 2gigs of ram, 8800gts. Everything's 
 maxed out, no hiccups, very smooth. This definitely isn't your common console port, the developers 
 have done their job and made the engine run on PC like it should. 
  Comparing graphics to the 360 version is unfair, the PC game is just phenominal.
  
  So... why 
 the bad rating?
  
  One word - Installation!
  
  Gears of War has been by far the worst game to install on my system. It took me a solid hour after 
 the game was installed to start playing it.
  
  First off, you HAVE to make a Live Silver account, mainly because you have to register your serial 
 number with Live, then of course, you can't save or load any of your progress, unless you have 
 an internet connection and are signed into Live.
  
  The most annoying part is that the Live interface is completely unintuitive. Trying to get myself 
 signed into Live while in Gears of War was a complete chore, I must have started the campaign about 
 4 times before it finally loaded with a profile that would save my data properly.
  
  Another point on Live support, if you want to play co-op and save your progress you need to pay 
 for Live gold. I've never been a fan for any annual payment for a game I've already spend $60 on, 
 most definitely not a First Person Shooter. Microsoft is forcing in a dangerous precedent here... 
 Not for themselves of course, but for us. If we accept this type of pay to play service now, don't 
 be surprised to see other developers bringing this in with their games as well. Personally I think 
 the one-time fee of buying the game is plenty good already.
  
  Conclusion: Decent game, great graphics, Live! for PC is garbage, it shouldn't exist. If they insist 
 on doing it, at least make it intuitive so the average user can use it. Right now this service 
 is broken at best.
  
  
  Edit: 
  
  I've since been informed that it is possible to play the single player campaign in "Offline mode" 
 which apparently will save your progress, minus the online achievement system of course.
  
  Thanks to Corrosion for bringing this to my attention. 
  
  Although my personal experience 
 was tainted by this PC live experience, I've raised my initial score of 4.0 (Which was due to the 
 shear amount of problems i had with PC Live) to a more representative score of 7.0 to reflect that 
 the game itself is actually decent and worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benx009
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War is an awesome game. When I first got this game on my PC, I was just absolutely blown 
 away by the graphics. Everything looks so crisp and clear and you can tell that my main guys over 
 at Epic worked really hard to make this game look as good-looking as it is. The gameplay is pretty 
 much straight-forward. You are Marcus, and you are in charge of a squad that has to blast through 
 a squad of Locust while completing various objectives in order to sway the war going on in the 
 background in your favor. You are given a host of weapons that are fairly simple to use and most 
 of while come with some sort of melee attack. Everyone who has played this game probably still 
 remembers how fun killing Locust with the chainsaw is, it is absolutely unforgettable. That, along 
 with a bunch of other things, added to why this game was just so amazingly fun to play. Sound and 
 music are done right, and controls are easy to adapt to, even if you've never played a PC shooter 
 before. 
  
  I was on the final boss when MY HARD DRIVE GOT CORRUPTED AND I WAS FORCED TO REFORMAT! WAAAAAHHHH.... 
 Oh well, I'll have to give this game another shot sometime soon... like I said, it's pretty short 
 though, so the fun will eventually have to come to an end sooner or later:) Overall great game, 
 anyone can enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallofman1337
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I have played this game, (Of course) and I would call it ambitious for Epic Games to release Gears 
 of war for the PC, The controls are fine, gameplay is great and the graphics are amazing. NOW for 
 the bad news: this sucker crashes every few minutes on 3 different PCs. Microsoft Studios has continued 
 their tradition of burning users and not releasing patches. This game should have been great on 
 the PC, but it really a giant pile of trash.
  
  The games difficulty is just right to me and squad based shooters are fun. You will end up hiding 
 behind walls and shooting around corners. The controls and gameplay is much better on the XBOX 
 360.
  
  The Games for Windows initiative has failed. Ported PC games like Halo 2 and Gears of War ARE A 
 DISGRACE. I hope this changed your mind about Vista games. Consle gaming is the way of the future, 
 exept for online MMO's which still rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  So I finally manage to get my hands on gears of war.
  I buy it, install it, sign up with the dumb windows live feature (pointless in my opinion) and 
 play single player for a couple hours.... i take a break and realize.... why exactly is this game 
 supposed to be good?
  
  The cover system? Overrated, its been done before countless times and better in my opinion. I got 
 killed so many times because my character prefered to dive and roll in the wrong direction instead 
 of sticking to the wall automatically like every other cover system out there. Since the spacebar 
 apparently does every single thing in the game it gets really clunky to run fast, dive and take 
 cover if you have to press the same button 3 or 4 times in a row just to do that. Mass Effect didnt 
 even evolve around the whole cover system and yet it works brilliantly there, just run up to a 
 wall and he'll put his back to it, thats it, works fine.
  
  The great story? Yea, maybe if you're 10. Apparently somewhere, maybe Earth, maybe somewhere else 
 theres aliens called Locusts that started a war and killed lots of people, so now you're a soldier 
 fighting them looking for something that is supposed to kill them somehow. Yea i know, not really 
 clear but hey, thats the story for you. Plain, uninteresting and yet confusing.
  
  The awesome weapons? Ok i get the deal of the chainsaw. Its cool the first time you do it, maybe 
 the second and third time, but honestly, its the same thing happening over and over. Gets really 
 boring after a while and i would honestly just stick to my rifle when it works. Oh and yea i forgot, 
 get ready to shoot a bad guy for about a minute before killing him. With all the blood flying, 
 how can he possibly not die? Only weapon worth the credit is the Hammer of Dawn, kinda cool that 
 you get to shoot a death ray from a satellite but jeez why is even this underpowered?
  
  The cool graphics? Now heres a part that actually helps the game, really neat architectural design 
 and concept art, defenetly points on my book. They make the game that more interesting, kept me 
 playing for a while longer.
  
  In the end, I'm not exactly sure why people think this is such a great game in the first place, 
 maybe since there arent many really good games out there anymore people just start to like rubbish 
 like this.
  Maybe its just better on the 360 since the mouse and keyboard arent involved. I think this might 
 just be the case of a bad port. I can see how that can happen, i surely cant imagine playing Half-Life 
 2 on the xbox instead of the PC.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillOBKilled
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't played this game, but had heard so much about it, so I decided to give it a go now that 
 Gears of War 2 is coming soon. It took me about three deaths to get used to the over the shoulder/use 
 of cover aspect of the game, but I love it! One of the problems with FPS, that separate them from 
 reality, is the lack of sense perception other than basic visual and aural presentation. Being 
 an avid paintball player, I know first hand that when you're in the center of a fight, you have 
 much more awareness than in a video game. I'm always interested to see how the newer games deal 
 with this, because so many didn't and some still don't. The over the shoulder use of cover is a 
 decent way of providing this, while you can see things coming, in one direction, often times in 
 GoW you need to be concerned with several different directions. Blind firing is something that's 
 pretty much impossible in most other first person shooters, so I also enjoyed that ability! I also 
 LOVED the graphics, just awesome. My rig can't run it on high, but medium was still pretty sweet. 
 The one thing that disappointed me, as it did with most others was the length and scope of the 
 game. While I didn't beat the game as fast as some have, it was still much shorter than I would 
 have liked. I would also have appreciated a few more weapon types, or even different grenade types. 
 The variation of opponents also sort of lacked, as I think I can count the different type of opponents 
 on my toes... if you include weapon type, that may bump it up a little, but I still like more variation. 
 Those reasons are why I didn't give this game a 10. Otherwise, this game ROCKS!!!
  I loved the grit, humor, and blood splattered everywhere, and can't wait till GoW2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This is an arcade game. If you're looking for a Rainbow Six style shooter , you'll be majorly irked 
 if you buy this. There's thick cartoon style blood that sprays out, nonsenical bodily explosions, 
 and VERY linear gameplay. You can't run around and take a lot of different routes as in Half Life 
 2 or even the fairly linear Call of Duty 4. You are stuck in tight, small bottlenecks and you are 
 only able to go in 1 direction.
  
  The constant cover/shoot/cover is very repetitive and boring.
  
  The graphics, the Unreal Tournament 
 3 engine can't be beat. It's slick, interesting, and pleasing to the eye. If you like graphic novels, 
 that is. I think they're a 9.5 or so.
  
  The gameplay is below average, maybe mediocre at best.
  
  Gears of War really doesn't deliver. 
 I think the port from the console is awful. Maybe if I had 10 buttons such as "hit x to cover" 
 it would be better. Having to use the spacebar for 100 different moves is clumsy and very non-intuitive. 
 It's just clunky.
  
  I think Mass Effect had a better shooter feel and its an RPG.
  
  Gears of War is a major disappointment for me. The storyline, although disjointed, features great 
 voice acting and avatar expression. 
  
  Beyond the eye candy, Gears of War is one you'd be much better off ignoring altogether, or picking 
 up for 9 dollars in a bargain bin.
  
  If you like boss fights, tight bottleneck levels where a 1 inch tall brick can stop your super 
 hero stallion, and are into the old Namco style shooters, you might like this.
  
  if you're into tactical shooters, depth, and the free reign feel of an open world, you'll be seriously 
 p. o'd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This was an unbelievably great game on console but on PC with better graphics and about twice as 
 much chapters, this game is worth owning on PC if you own it on console. This game is revolutionary 
 in graphics and game play but keep this in mind it DID NOT CREATE RUN GOING TO COVER AND BLIND 
 FIRING AND STUFF LIKE THAT THE ONE TO FIRST DO THAT WAS KILLSWITCH ON PS2. This games graphics 
 are perfect the sound phanominal. the game play with extream content adds comedy to killing and 
 just makes this game more enjoyable though it sucks that the locusts have the same blood color 
 as the humans. But this game is inventive and is like a dark horror movie with an action packed 
 twist. This game is great the controls are great. finally a game port were you don't need that 
 dang PC controller. The enemies are even more inventive from the corpser the the brewmac this game 
 never fails to impress the gamer and adds great twists with the enemies so game play never gets 
 repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Yes, indeed, once you sit on you gaming rig and start to go thorough the destroyed city enviroment 
 and kill the Locust soldiers nothing like you can feel the intense of the gameplay... amazing graphic 
 in all levels. Cinematic gamplay, environment and personage design from graphical point of view 
 is just amazing. 
  
  Game play keep you always under pressure, once you have complete the game it worth to play it with 
 difficulty level of "Insane" to get all the juice of the game.
  
  Big fellows (boss battles) are really fun to kill, the intense of the game goes high and high. 
 It is probably the best tactical shooter I have ever played and enjoyed. Very addictive game!
 
  
  Shooting types like hiding behind the obstacle and perform "blind shoot" is one of the great features, 
 also performing certain moves while hiding behind the obstacles is great as well, some how it gives 
 you early impression over the Killzone 2 that on the way.. and would be great to such a games upcoming 
 in near feature. GOW2 is also waited to be the best sequel.
  
  Great fun to play and interact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireandcloud
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  this is a review of the single-player game. this review does not take into consideration the coop 
 mode or the multiplayer.
  
  first off, the good parts:
  
  the game features what's actually not bad gunplay. going from cover to cover is a great game mechanic, 
 and this game uses it often. the graphics are absolutely gorgeous. not only is it crisp and (semi-) 
 realistic, it's also good art direction. the setting and atmosphere works for this game. it's a 
 whole bunch of gray, to be sure, but that's to be expected for a game set in a world such as this. 
 some of the buildings are very pretty, and i'm sure many architects would be interested in just 
 looking around and admiring the design (ok, maybe not, but still - pretty nice looking) . i really 
 liked using the sniper gun in this game, more than i did in most games. it has a very satisfying 
 'thump' to it, and emerging from cover and getting in a quick shot and ducking behind cover immediately 
 thereafter is a lot of fun.
  
  but the bad far outweighs the good:
  
  going from cover to cover is a lot of fun, but if it's just staying behind cover and shooting people, 
 then it's not as fun. there's really no compelling reason to pop out of your cover and move to 
 another. the enemies don't use grenades all that effectively. they don't have really a means to 
 flank behind you and force you to keep moving, because the maps in which you battle mostly consist 
 of corridors, and they can't get close enough from one end of the corridor to the next to try and 
 get me from my left or right side, let alone from my back. the game plays just like space invaders 
 - there are lines of enemies lined up near the top (end of one corridor) , and they move a little 
 bit closer and closer, with the occasional locust or whatever they're called making a charge at 
 me. and all you have to do is get them before they get too close, cuz they're not going to get 
 you from afar, since being behind cover basically makes you invulnerable.
  
  it's a shame, really, cuz some of the cover mechanics are great and i can easily imagine it being 
 put to better use. if you were, say, forced to move or if there were an incentive to move more 
 often, then the game would have been a lot more exciting. take taking cover behind a door for example 
 - you can quickly switch from being behind the left side of the door to the right side. it's a 
 great cover mechanic, because in all other games, it's not that easy to switch from one side to 
 the other. but there's really no reason to switch from the left side to the right, because peering 
 through the door to shoot gives you the same perspective or view whether you're on the left or 
 right side of the door. so if you didn't have a line of sight on the right side, you're not going 
 to have a line of sight on the left side, no matter how unreasonable that may seem based on your 
 geometric calculations. and because the fights don't occur in large areas but in narrow corridors, 
 the game feels extremely 2-d. you can't circle around an enemy, and the enemy can't circle around 
 you. there's absolutely no reason to move from your spot until you kill everyone around you, because 
 moving to another cover won't give you a tactical advantage, because the ONLY tactical advantage 
 you can find in this game is a cover, and the best cover is the one nearest you. the cover system 
 is still fun, but nowhere near as fun as it could have been, or even as fun as the one you can 
 find in, say, vegas. vegas is guilty of the same, but at least there aren't 10 enemies rushing 
 at you like there are in gears. there's usually only 3-5 enemies in vegas to deal with at one time, 
 and you move to the next area afterwards, so it at least feels like you're continually on the move, 
 unlike in gears.
  
  another problem i have with the game is that it uses what i can only call mini-games. the game 
 tries to keep things varied, and that's not a bad idea, since staying behind cover all day can 
 feel quite repetitive. but these mini-games are just dull and pointless. there's the mini-game 
 in which you walk around slowly - you're in an area where the floor consists of wooden planks; 
 some of the planks are rotten or whatever and they fall apart. all you have to do is to go close 
 enough to an individual wooden plank and if the wooden plank is rotten, it will break on its own 
 before you step on it. so basically, you're just walking slowly and stopping briefly before each 
 plank, seeing if it breaks or doesn't. if it doesn't, you continue to walk slowly. if it does break, 
 you backtrack and try another route. it's just retarded and boring. another is the vehicle section. 
 you 'drive' around for about 10 seconds. then you stop when the 'bats' start attacking. and then 
 you switch to the gun mode. you 'shoot' the bats with light. when they're dead, you switch to drive 
 mode and you drive again. and you repeat this 5 or 6 times. it's ****ing stupid. and there are 
 other sections like these throughout the game.
  
  and the save mechanism is stupid as well. i don't mind the checkpoint system, but epic must have 
 temporarily gone insane when implementing it, because it just doesn't make any sense. the game 
 saves BEFORE a cutscene, so if you were to die before reaching another checkpoint, you're forced 
 to re-watch the cutscene every ****ing time! maybe they were really proud of their cutscenes and 
 thought that we'd want to watch them over and over again, but it just gets ****ing annoying, because 
 you're forced to watch them, and after the second or third time, you just want to break your own 
 pc and use the parts to invade epic headquarters and throw them at whoever is responsible for this 
 poorly implemented system. and the worst part is, some of the cutscenes are so ****ing long.
  
  and another thing i disliked is all the puzzles! an example of a puzzle - say you're in a room 
 with no obvious exits; you don't know what to do; the game doesn't tell you what to do. so you 
 start shooting things to see if it will trigger something. nothing. then you try to find some kind 
 of knob or lever, even though at first glance there weren't any. then you just get frustrated enough 
 that you go to gamefaqs to find the answer, and you find that you were supposed to find, say, a 
 bookshelf among 20 bookshelves that's looser than the other. of course, the bookshelf doesn't look 
 loose; the only thing different about it is that this bookshelf has a book or two on it while the 
 others don't. i mean, the puzzle is retarded and has nothing to do with solving something cleverly 
 implemented; instead, it's dependent entirely on whether or not you happen to pass by the bookshelf 
 and the game tells you that you can press the 'e' key to kick it down. and another example of a 
 puzzle - there's a monster that you can't kill with your bullets. there's a sequence of means to 
 hit the monster that can hurt it. but the sequence doesn't make intuitive sense, because you are 
 given no clue as to which part of the monster is the sensitive one. for one monster, it could be 
 its balls; for another, it could be its arms. it's entirely arbitrary and you discover the answers 
 to the puzzles purely by chance. there's just nothing intelligent about the puzzles and their design.
 
  
  and the worst thing about the game is the a. i. and i don't even mean enemy a. i., which isn't great 
 either (why they decide to take cover but leave a bit of themselves exposed is beyond me; and how 
 they know EVERY SINGLE TIME i pop out to take a shot (so they move their focus from whoever they 
 were shooting at to me almost immediately) can't be reasonably explained) . i'm talking about friendly 
 a. i. specifically, i'm talking about that ****ing *****, dom. he gets hurt in every ****ing battle, 
 so he's totally worthless in a fight. in one fight, i got rid of every monster except one, which 
 was hiding somewhere (or, more likely, stuck somewhere) . i looked at dom and he was shooting at 
 something. so i looked over to the direction he was shooting at. he was shooting at a pillar. so 
 i went behind the pillar. nothing. i went a little further in the direction. nothing. but dom was 
 still shooting at the pillar. later on, i found that monster standing about for no reason in another 
 area and killed it, and dom stopped shooting at the pillar at that point. great, dom. thanks for 
 keeping that pillar in check. not only is he worthless, he's pretty annoying as well. i guess epic 
 wanted to use him to give hints to the player on how to solve certain puzzles. but he says stupid 
 things that are of no help. he would say, for example, 'shoot the ceiling. but you look up and 
 the ceiling is huge and shooting at it doesn't accomplish anything. after much trial and error 
 in which you shoot almost every part of the ceiling, you find out that dom meant that i should 
 shoot at this particular part of the ceiling at the far end of the room. during that entire time, 
 dom keeps yelling, 'shoot the celing,' but doesn't have the sense to shoot at it himself or explain 
 further what he means by shooting the ceiling. i mean, he couldn't say 'shoot the blue colored 
 portion of the ceiling' or 'shoot those metal bars at the far left corner of the ceiling.' instead, 
 he keeps saying the same thing and even dares to tell me to hurry up.****ing dom - the worst teammate 
 of all time.
  
  the pc's exclusive content is actually better than the rest of the game. for one thing, the areas 
 in which you fight are usually bigger than found anywhere else, so you have the room to move around, 
 though you may still lack the incentive to do so. and the brumak fight is the best in the game. 
 you're in a big square arena, and it plays a bit like if you were stuck in a big room with a cyberdemon. 
 you just try and keep something in between you and the brumak and shoot at it while avoiding its 
 own fire. but by that time, i was so tired of the game that i just wanted to get it over with, 
 so playing the few extra hours just made me curse epic for including them. at least it might mean 
 that gears 2 will be more fun to play, if it ever comes to the pc (and if i feel compelled to buy 
 it, which i don't see how i would be after my experience with gears 1) .
  
  now, the game as a whole is extremely polished (except a handful of bugs, including the end battle 
 - the boss keeps getting stuck whenever he tries to climb on top of things) . and obviously epic 
 is proud of their game, and they should be, since it's extremely well-made and beautiful to look 
 at. so it's a shame that i can't give it a higher score, because the game just isn't as fun as 
 it could or should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War, when it was the 360 it shocked gamers around the globe with the graphics never seen 
 before and a cover system that now has been implemented into most games now. A year later it is 
 now ported to the PC with 5 new single player chapters, a new multiplayer gamemode and a new map.
 
  
  The gameplay is the same as in the 360 version, using a cover system first seen in Killswitch. 
 for the PS2, its flexible, fast and refreshing, even after a year, there hasn't been a game released 
 with a better system.
  
  There are 5 new single player chapters, that fit in nicely and don't seem out of place, the highlight 
 of the chapters is the battle with the Brumak, a 5 story monster with guns. In multiplayer there 
 is a new gamemode called King of The Hill, which is like annex, only this time you have to stay 
 in the circle and execution rules. A new map is also introduced, Gold Rush which is an easy favorite.
 
  
  Hope you got the rig to run this baby smoothly, with Unreal Tournament 3, I could run it on Max 
 settings and 1440x900 resolution, and getting a fabulous 60 frames, while with Gears of War i could 
 get 30-40 tops, with excessive amounts of stuttering. Those aren't the only problems, as multiplayer 
 is dreaded with some connection issues, lag, and the server list can take a while to refresh.
 
  
  The audio is all intact, but with other games out such as BioShock and Call of Duty 4, Gears of 
 War doesn't really live up to what they've brought.
  
  The graphics have been improved, and depending on your hardware, you can get above 30 frames, which 
 was the 360's framerate. As well, higher resolution textures and better lighting.
  
  Geas of War, a year later has taken a step backwards, with techincal issues and multiplayer issues, 
 the 5 new chapters don't really make up for that. The Xbox360 version of the game is the better 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sphere-
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  On November 7th 2006, video game history was made with the release of Gears of War on the Xbox 
 360. History was written again as possibly the greatest game of all time was released to PC gamers 
 with more content, better graphics, another control scheme, and free multiplayer. No matter which 
 system it is released on, Gears of War constantly receives several very high ratings and several 
 awards. According to the cover of the PC version, the game has received 30+ GoTY Awards. But that 
 is enough about the history of the game, now onto the review.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics for this game are outstanding, there is no other way to put it. Everything looks amazing 
 and is detailed perfectly to even the smallest thing. The game is optimized very well so you do 
 not need the most powerful graphics card on the market to run the game and still get the same mind 
 blowing experience. The lighting in this game is the best I have ever seen in any game and helps 
 make the environment seem that much better. You will feel as if you are part of the game and it 
 will stick with you for a while after you play it. There is nothing bad I can say about the graphics 
 for this game.
  
  Control
  
  I have used both the keyboard with the standard WASD control scheme was well as my Xbox 360 game 
 pad. I enjoyed both, but would suggest the game pad over the keyboard and mouse for this shooter. 
 I feel that the advantage of keyboard and mouse made the game to easy and you lost the feel of 
 the force feedback. When using the 360 control, the game is made a little bit tougher by the reduced 
 aiming ability. But all that doesn't matter due to the rumbling capability of the 360 game pad. 
 When you are standing behind a Troika and firing like crazy the control is shaking like mad adding 
 so much more to the experience. It is up to you on which you like to use and both will provide 
 and exceptional gaming experience.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay for Gears of War is nothing you have ever seen before and is now being copied and 
 used in most new games such as GTA IV. This game adds the element of being able to hide behind 
 things so that you can protect yourself from enemy fire. If you do not, you will be torn to shreds 
 by enemy bullets and will not get very far in the game. This adds a whole new dynamic to gaming 
 and makes this game more realistic than any other shooter I have played. Think about it, in real 
 life would you stand in the open or try to duck behind boxes and walls. Personally I would choose 
 the later. The gameplay of this game is outstanding and will keep you attached to the game for 
 hours on end.
  
  Sound
  
  The sounds for Gears of War are the best I have ever heard in a video game and will stick with 
 you. All of the cut scenes have excellent voice acting and look as if the character is actually 
 speaking that words that are being said. There is no reading in this game which makes the experience 
 even better. All of the shooting sounds great as well as the screams of pain from the enemies as 
 you fill them with bullets. There eerie music also adds to the suspense of this game.
  
  Replay Value
  
  I have played through this game countless times and still don't get bored of 
 it. The story and gameplay are so great, you just want to keep coming back for more. The ability 
 to choose which path you will take to get to the goal really makes the game more exciting the second 
 time you play it and face all new challenges. I would suggest taking all the right paths on you 
 first play through and all left on the second. The second play through will seem like an entirely 
 different game with different cut scenes too.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The ability to play through the entire single player mode in a co-op style makes Gears of War even 
 more amazing than it already is. The game is much more fun if you play with a friend controlling 
 Dom and makes the game seem more realistic because you and a friend are "in it together". If some 
 how you ever seem to get bored of the single player campaign there is an amazing multiplayer option 
 to go along with it. You have all the standard modes from other shooters as well as some new ones. 
 The only quarrel I have is that you have to make a Windows Live account, but if you are too lazy 
 to do that then you have problems.
  
  Conclusion
  
  If I were given one game to play in a solitary confinement cell I would choose Gears of War. This 
 game is perfect in all respects and deserves ever point of the 10 that I gave it. I am usually 
 a pretty harsh reviewer but this is one game that I couldn't find anything bad about it. I consider 
 this to be the greatest video game of all time and should be played by everyone. Even the commercial 
 for the game won awards and is, in my opinion the greatest and most emotional commercial ever. 
 But remember, this is my opinion and I have the right to it, if you don't agree with this review 
 that is your opinion and I respect that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo_Zeon
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Tired of the repetitive FPS games where you run out in the open and just mindlessly shoot? If you 
 think about it, those games are very unrealistic (meaning that if you were in that situation, you 
 wouldn't just run out and shoot people) . However, Gears of War takes us to a whole new level of 
 shooting. Instead of relying all on firepower, objects are now your best friend when playing this 
 game. With a simple tap of the spacebar, it allows you slam into an object (such as a car) and 
 hide behind it. During that time you can switch guns, or even stick your gun out, only exposing 
 your hand, and randomly shoot (quite useless but cool feature) . Once you are ready, you right-click 
 and the character stands back up for you to aim and shoot. Yet that doesn't mean that you're invincible. 
 If you hide in a not so well position, small parts of your body (maybe your knee or elbow) would 
 stick out, and with a sniper, you could easily be taken out.
  
  Even in reloading, it takes skills to do a good one. If you "active-reload" (sometimes loading 
 screens tell you how) , the bullets become much stronger. However, if you attempted to active reload 
 and failed, the weapon is jammed, and takes extra long to recover. The graphics in Gears of War 
 is also very amazing. The environment has a realistic feel to it, and just the surroundings can 
 give you the mood of the situation. One of the most attractive feature of this game, to me, is 
 the co-op mode. It is where you LAN with another human player to do the story. It is much more 
 realistic, and it really feels like war.
  
  Although Gears of War has everything a shooting game needs, and more, there are some drawbacks. 
 The one I must mention, is the fact that the game crashes. A lot. It is definitely not my computer, 
 because I have checked Epic Forums and they are claiming the same problem too. Apparently, you 
 launch the game, and 10 seconds later, it crashes. Some fixes include messing around with your 
 systems registry values and such, and others require installation of microsoft programs. Really, 
 a customer already spent 50 bucks, and can't even run the game.
  
  There are also some gameplay drawbacks as well. I must mention that the story mode is extremely 
 short. I finished the story in co-op in under 8 hours, not to mention I'm horrible at shooting 
 games. The lack of weapons also annoy me greatly. In the story mode, I've been using 2 same weapons 
 the whole time. There are... like 10 weapons? Although the graphic is very pleasing, it demands 
 a lot - (Fastest AMD Dual Core, 4GB RAM, Nvidia 8800GTS 512mb superclocked) there are still some 
 occasional lags. Last but not least, the game's replayability isn't so great. There's no instant 
 action like other games where you just play one single deathmatch game to kill time. So all you 
 have is the story mode. 
  
  To conclude this review, I would say Gears of War is one of the most unique and fun games to come 
 out in these few year. Although there are some technical issues, and a short story, this is still 
 a game that must be bought. 
  
  Have fun gaming!
  -NeoZeon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psiho246
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. Lots of action with great action camera that gives you a movie action kind of 
 feeling.
  Good AI that actually does something and can kill on it's own.
  Graphics are up to date with any current game released.
  Badass characters and good long story 
 that will give you hours of fun.
  Really worth playing even if you are not a shooter fan, as it really feels unique and superior 
 to other shooters out there.
  Lots of blood and gore too for all the bloodthirsty gamers out there.
  Also great multi player 
 and co-op that adds a whole new dimension to the game.
  Id especially recommend it to the Warhammer 40k fans as it feels much like that world, being a 
 bad ass marine with a rifle and built in chainsaw.
  Definitely worth buying, you will get your money's worth.
  
  Hmmm, don't know what else to 
 write except that it's a great game. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfSparda018
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a Playstation guy, but Gears of War had fascinated me since the day it came out 
 on XBOX360. So when I read that the game was going to be ported on the PC I loved the idea and 
 I got my own copy.
  
  To cut it short, GOW on PC plays great. System requirements are a bit high. I opted for medium 
 quality settings and downloaded the latest video card update and the game's patch. Doing this made 
 my game experience much better
  
  The storyline and cutscenes in my opinion are the game's best element. They pin you in your seat 
 following through, and you'll always want to play that level more before taking a break. I'm still 
 in the early stages of the game, but I have the impression that this game will not disappoint me 
 at all.
  
  If you own a pc with good specs and you're looking for a great action game than this game is definitely 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negator59
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I have heard nothing but "amazing" about this game since it came out for 360. I have to admit I 
 was envious of 360 owners because of this game. Then it finally came to PC and I was like - woot! 
 Too bad my 1st personal experience had me scouring many HUGE threads on the Epic forums on "How 
 To Get Gears PC To Work". Thsi left a rather bad taste in my mouth.
  
  As I tried to get this game to work on my AMD X2 desktop machine I was pulling my hair out thinking 
 it would be easier to get OS X installed on a P4. I eventually gave up and threw it in my XPS M1530 
 laptop to see what might happen. Lo-and-behold it worked! Although I get some stuttering in the 
 game. But it looks great and plays alright.
  
  The story, voice acting, and graphics are great. It's very cinematic and all are done with high 
 standards. The game play is pretty cool. I don't mind the control scheme. Using one key to rule 
 all the special moves actually works quite well and lets you pay attention to everything else around 
 you without fumbling around a convoluted binding scheme.
  
  If it wasn't so buggy this game would be a 9/10. But carrying the "Games For Windows" moniker is 
 hardly funny considering how badly this game was ported from the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinganthony1991
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War was a game that played well for a long time on the console, and still plays well today, 
 but the great control scheme and higher frame rate on better computers gives this game a perfect 
 in my book. The mouse took a little bit of time to get used to after playing this game with the 
 controller, but it seems to carry over better to the mouse than it does the 360 game pad. If you 
 have a very precise mouse, sniping, as well as all around game play is MUCH more accurate. Load 
 times are faster than the original, at least on my computer, and the graphics running even closer 
 to 60 FPS or more give the motions that sharp movement that makes it seem real. When you tye that 
 in with slightly more gore with the more powerful systems, and a high speed online connection, 
 you are set with one of, what I think, is the best game to come to any platform so far this year.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I really had some high hopes for this one. Working in a shop with 360 gamers (myself an avid PC 
 gamer) , it was very hard when GOW came out. I had it coming from all angles, "You cant get THIS 
 on pc!" was the call cry. Now, I could have come back with the many assortment of games, that are 
 PC exclusive, but I knew that it would come to PC one day. This day is here, and i can tell them 
 that, hands down, you should have played it on PC from the start. The controls, for one, are so 
 much more refined and useable on the PC. I remember bumbling around with the 360 controler with 
 GOW. This is not an issue with a good mouse and keyboard. You can react so much quicker, and the 
 cover mechanics just seem to make more sense when they are done on the PC version. The graphics 
 too, are that much better. Running it at high settings and resolutions, it leaves the 360 version 
 in shame. It looks mor vibran, engaing and just plain prettier. The online features are good, but 
 the Xbox style pay for the service is a kick in the nuts for us PC faithful. We have beendoing 
 this mplayer thing for years, and now, we are expected to pay for the right. I guess it comes down 
 to it being a console port. It is a 360 game, so the utter crap that is paying for online functionality, 
 reamins. The missions and general gameplay is the same as the console version, but it just seems 
 to belong on the PC. The controls are better. The graphics are better and the online functionality 
 is greatly improved over the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Those kind of games must come out more often.. I mean In the beginning I didn't realized that the 
 cut scene was over and the game started. It is an immersive experience that will make you stuck 
 in place until you finish it.
  Of course that won't be easy especially if you are playing on a higher difficulty. And of course 
 that is one of the worst and at the same time most challenging things. But apart from that all 
 the other aspects of the game are just AWESOME. The graphics are Terrific and the landscapes are 
 so big that make you think if this is an alternative reality (Just kidding, i overrate things sometimes 
 xD) . Anyway the great thing about this game apart from the graphics is the addictiveness. It can 
 make you think about it all the time (which is not so good, by the way) , but don't worry, after 
 you've finished it those thoughts will go away, just like any other game that after time gets lost 
 in space :P. The sound is great especially the dialogue of Mr. Fenix which, by the way, is not 
 very appropriate for a soldier like him. 
  
  Anyway in summary the game is a great experience and an absolute must-play for whoever missed the 
 version on the Xbox 4 years ago (!) , just like myself. :D. Although I don't like FPS, TPS games 
 in total, this game made me rethink my stance against this genre and I will surely buy GeaRs of 
 WaR 2! Just to see what happens with the Locust :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HavocEbonlore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War can only be described by one word; mayhem. Despite the chaotic nature of the game, 
 it manages to not wreck itself, but instead surprisingly pulls itself together into a solid game.
 
  
  (played the game on hardcore, PC version. I haven't had a single problem with the game at all. 
 It ran very well.
  
  
  Story:
  To be honest, I'm not really sure what the story is about in Gears of War. I know that humanity 
 is in an epic struggle in a war against the Locust, but what started the war in the first place, 
 as well as where the Locust are from, is something I was never able to figure out.... I don't think 
 it was even mentioned. I feels like you're dropped in the middle of everything and the game says, 
 "just go with it".
  
  Gameplay:
  Gears of War's gameplay is as fast-paced as it is intense. The game uses very unique mechanics 
 and concepts that I've never seen in any other game, and it uses them extremely well, and they 
 handle well, too. Innovative is what I'd describe GoW's design as. The game can eventually feel 
 linear to some though, and.... well.... it is. The game may sometimes feel linear, but it does such 
 a great job with its' dynamic detailed level designs, as well as giving the player the occasional 
 choice in regards to how they can proceed ("go left or go right" choices) , that it's something 
 that is almost never an issue.
  
  
  Music:
  The music is epic and orchestra-like that always manages to stay in step with the action. It's 
 about as intense as the game's action and never feels out of place.
  
  
  Dialogue:
  The game's dialogue and voice-acting is top notch, painting the perfect picture of all the characters 
 in the game, it's obvious that the voice-actors are very talented. You'll get to know the personalities 
 of each of your squad members with some memorable moments here and there.
  
  
  Artificial intelligence:
  The enemy AI is very smart, coordinating eachother pretty efficiently 
 in efforts to beat you down. The AI will adjust depending on how well you do, or how badly you 
 do, depending on the circumstances. It will use aggressive tactics, flanking maneuvers, regrouping, 
 retreats, etc.... The AI is very flexible.
  
  Your squad AI, on the other hand, is a double edged sword that'll cut your hand off no matter what 
 side you touch. At times they're effective, at other times they'll blindly rush in getting themselves 
 incapacitated. If killed, then it's game over. Squad control is very basic with only three commands; 
 regroup, attack, cease fire. I would've liked to have more control over their actions and movements, 
 atleast a "hold here and fire" defensive command would've balanced things out, but they tend to 
 do well when you leave them to their own devices... mostly. Sometimes their performance heavily 
 influences the battle, and that can be frustrating.
  
  
  Annoyances:
  1) Death. You will die alot. I don't care how much of a Mc. Badass you think you are, you will 
 die alot. The game can start to feel like trial and error sometimes, taking as many as five or 
 ten tries to accomplish certain areas. The game is very difficult and if you don't play smart and 
 keep your wits about you, expect to see the loading-screen like you see the bathroom mirror. Alot.
 
  
  2) The game's save-system is checkpoint based, meaning there's no quicksaving here PC guys. This 
 is all well and good sometimes as the checkpoints are usually close, but some areas can be big, 
 meaning a challenging area can repeatedly go something like this, "ok, fifth try.... kill him, get 
 passed this, easy easy, do that, easy.... okay, here's the tough part.... dead". When you finally 
 do get passed the tough part, an enemy will kick a door down behind you (scripted event) and shotgun 
 your face off. I've only seen this cheap trick twice. I was not impressed, and rage-quited on 5 
 different occasions.
  
  Annoyances summary:
  Combine the save-system with the game's roadbump style periodic obscene difficulty, and you can 
 have a very frustrating experience if you don't play smart. I can't imagine playing this game on 
 INSANE difficulty, and I'm not in the mood to try it anytime soon either. I love life too much.
 
  
  
  Other thoughts:
  The game boasts more content than the 360 version, and I would expect it to handle much easier 
 with a keyboard and mouse than with the controller. I would've liked to have a quicksave feature, 
 but it probably would have messed with the game's alluring difficulty feel. The scores that the 
 360 and the PC version received should be switched around, to be honest.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  Combine the game's unique conceptual gameplay, great dialogue, and epic soundtrack, 
 and you have an intense cinematic experience that'll keep you amped from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  The gamespot score says it all. This game stood out from among the crowd of games released in 2007 
 and shines brightly along with the likes of COD4 and Airborne. I had hoped this game would be a 
 first-person shooter and was a bit disappointed when i found out it was in the third-person. But 
 whatever doubt i had about this game quickly left me as soon as i began playing it. The action 
 is intense and the gunshots unforgiving. The story is believable enough, not it's strong point 
 though. The characters and the guns looked like they're from action comics but fans of the unreal 
 stuff will love it. The graphics are beautifully done and the gameplay is solid. The AI does a 
 pretty good job of getting to you. The health regeneration system complimented the gameplay and 
 is a relief for players ( i still don't get why certain games won't adopt this formula even though 
 it's a confirmed success for action shooters) . The wall hugging cover system felt nice. The controls 
 are easy and you feel right at home after a few minutes. This is a must-have for all action shooter 
 lovers and for those who want in on those kind of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dule89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting so long for the PC-version of "Gears of War" like so many other people.
  This game rocks!!!
  In GoW you play Marcus Fenix (a former prisoner and war-hardened soldier) 
 from the Delta Squad (consisting of Marcus, Dominic, Augustus "Cole Train" Cole, and Damon Baird) 
 and you have to fight an Alien race called the Locust Horde. 
  The gameplay is really smooth, even on the PC!!
  I would say that GoW is the best game brought 
 from a console to PC and this version includes three new multi-player maps, five new single-player 
 chapters, new game modes, a game editor, and Games for Windows - Live support integrated into Unreal 
 Engine 3. Someone who doesn't own a XBox 360 won't be disappointed with the PC-version. Thank you 
 Epic for GoW.
  GoW got so many positive reviews.
  WE WANT GEARS OF WAR 2!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supreme_Fantasy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Cons:
  
  First of all, i would like to say this game could have been better. I really get excited when i 
 get a copy of this. The control is very simple, u can get used to it juz right in time. But really 
 really in the game, i have no idea how to save the game. I quit the game then somehow gonna start 
 off the campaign again. Wat The Heck is this?!! 
  
  Out of that , generally it's kind of repetitive gameplay, run until certain checkpoint then enemy 
 come. Then wat? shoot and cover then shoot. I really get tiring after awhile. Somehow i think that 
 the Locust Horde very very like to shoot me even though they are concentrating on shooting at my 
 AI team. Wat the heck is this about?! I cant even backstab my enemy and im dying lots of times 
 and the weapon is way too weak. I dunno how, it's like taking lots of ammo to take down a Locust. 
 And i dont really like the grenades system.
  
  And one thing is that ur AI loves to be tanker. So brave to run in and solo with about 5 Locusts. 
 then wat? I need to save him... sigh... really want me to show off my solo shooting skills. lol.
 
  
  Pros:
  
  A very nice graphic game but not a very nice graphic on my pc from the fact that i got noob pc. 
 And the combat cover mechanics are very nice. On the other hand, you can also blind shooting ur 
 enemy which is not really accurate but it's fun though. And the sprint move with nice camera shot, 
 i very like it. it's like in real movie action. 
  
  Overall this game very nice to play but get boring fast. Should rent it before u really want to 
 get it. Hope everything change in Gears of War 2 which is releasing soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Gears Of War
  
  
  What's to like:
  - Coop Mode
  - Chainsaw Kills
  - Good Graphics
  - Good Ending
  - Great Animations
  
  What you may not like:
  - Long 
 exchanges
  - Weak guns
  - Weak story
  - Unnecessary cover system for the PC
  - Terribly cheesy voice-over script
  - Requires a Windows Live Account for everything
  
  
 If played @ Hardcore:
  - Terribly long and exhausting combat that doesn't add neither challenge nor fun
  
  
  Installation
 
  
  The setup didn't work the first few times I tried to run it. This is a bit awkward considering 
 this is Microsoft Game on a Windows Vista system. Eventually it did install (took more than an 
 hour) . It also required creating a Windows Live Account, which is necessary to be able to save 
 your progress. You also need to be online to continue a game.
  
  
  Story
  
  There is an Alien threat, the Locust. You have been released from prison in order to help your 
 squad eliminate that threat. There isn't much information given about you, your location, the enemy 
 or pretty much anything going on.
  
  The protagonist and its squad members all share the same over-the-top-bad-ass attitude. They look 
 and sound extremely clichd and unfortunately, don't show any depth of character aside from your 
 typical grunt personality.
  
  It will take you about 10-12 hours to complete the single player campaign. There are a considerable 
 amount of cut scenes, most of them being very well done aside from the actual cheesy script. On 
 the plus side, it is refreshing to see a game with a decent ending, especially for a shooter.
 
  
  
  Difficulty setting
  
  I normally don't mention the difficulty settings in a game, but in Gears of War, the difficulty 
 level has a huge impact on how enjoyable, or tedious, the game experience can be.
  
  There are 3 difficulty levels. Two are available at first, they are:
  
  - Casual Gamer
  - 
 Hardcore 
  
  The difference between the two modes is significant. The former mode will make the game feel like 
 a walk in the park with some ok action and a steady fast-paced sense of progression. The latter 
 choice will turn Gears of War into a drag. This is because the actual enemies are not really smarter 
 or in bigger numbers, but instead have a huge amount of health.
  
  The impact is that instead of taking you a few seconds to take an enemy down, it will take you 
 close to a minute per target, especially if he's getting good cover. Combat, and hence the game, 
 at Hardcore level can easily become tedious, long and simply, not fun. Add to the equation the 
 fact that your comrades will go down more often in a fight and you end up with a simply, tiresome 
 game.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Just in case you don't know this already, this is a console port from the XBOX to the PC. This 
 means that it wasn't intended for the keyboard + mouse and so we end up with a shooter that doesn't 
 require fast aiming, making the mouse + keyboard combination a bit too over-powered. Despite the 
 easy aiming, you will still be spending a considerable amount of time per target.
  
  This is because the weapons themselves don't do much damage, or don't feel like they do, especially 
 in Hardcore mode. If you ever get hurt, you just wait a bit more before attacking again. You don't 
 need to move, dodge or aim rapidly. Fights are more often than not, only a matter of time.
  
  
  Squad
  
  Combat: Cover system
  
  GOW completely relies on the covering system. 
 This means if you don't find yourself some cover, the odds of your survival get drastically lower. 
 This is because all the enemies will automatically and instantly target you if you are not using 
 it.
  
  The way it works is rather simple but unpredictable at times. You see, there is one special key 
 (SPACE) to tell your character to find some cover. Considering this all-purpose key relies on your 
 current surrounding, you will sometimes dive-roll further past the actual object you wanted to 
 take cover with, leaving you in the open for anyone to shoot.
  
  This control scheme, even when you will be more familiar with it, will lead you to die more often 
 than you would like to. 
  
  Also, it is not necessary to have such a cover system for the PC considering the well-established 
 crouch and lean left or right standards. It's actually more a fault than a merit on the PC.
  
  
  Weapons
  
  The pistol, the chainsaw and the sniper rifle are probably the most fun 
 weapons to use. There are also a few other weapons, but since you can only have 2 on you at any 
 time (pistol doesn't count) , you will probably end up using the same two through out the game: 
 the chainsaw-gun and the sniper rifle. Simply because the chainsaw gun is actually good at close 
 and medium range while the sniper rifle takes care of farther enemies.
  
  One of the best aspects of Gears of Wars is definitely the chainsaw kills. They are a lot of fun 
 to do and you will probably die a few times just trying to get _just one more_ monster with it.
 
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Well, it's hard not to say a few words about the graphics. They are extremely detailed and for 
 the most part, rich. Unfortunately, the colors are unsaturated, so you don't get to see any vibrant 
 colors  which is a shame. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  Check your garbage bin, there is just not enough under the hood to justify the investment.
  
 
  6.3/10 
  Gears of war gets all its points from:
  - Graphics, Cinematics and the Chainsaw, but none for its gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtickner
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  I got this game feeling excited and complete because I was finally going to play Gears of War! 
 Finally I would be able to fill the gap that had GoW all over it... Sadly, I was wrong.
  
  After the 7 hour long installation of the game and MS stupid 'Live' for PC's I was finally ready 
 to play this 'great game that is so good' 
  
  Great game?... Masterpiece?... I was severely misled by the people hyping this game. After playing 
 the 1st level I only knew one thing.. This game is not great at all, it's pathetic.
  
  It made me almost angry to realise how poor this game was. So poor it was hard to fathom why people 
 had said such good things about it. So I thought... and thought and I still do think about how 
 and why this game is often praised and does not feel the anvil of hatred slam down upon it.
  
  When I first started playing I almost reached for the colour correction on my monitor.. 'Where 
 had all the colour gone?' After fiddling around with the cable and coming to the conclusion that 
 my monitor was fine I was severely disappointed in the lack of colour and life this game possessed. 
 It was like I had a fresh pallet of lushious paint ready to do a great painting when all of a sudden 
 the hand of God struck down and ruined my fun by removing all colours apart from brown.. black 
 and another shade of brown. 
  Seriously though.. I understand the vibe Epic were trying to pull but it just fails. 
  Lack of 
 colour = fail.
  
  The gameplay is lame, overrated and boring. I see people compare Uncharted: DF to this game. Now, 
 I love Uncharted so you may call me a hypcrite for praising that game and slandering this because 
 of the similarities in the cover 'n' shoot type of gameplay they both employ. But.. I like Uncharted 
 because of it's environment, it's colour, it's visual artistic style, it's enemies (I get more 
 satisfaction from killing a pirate vs some alien named after an earth insect) and the adventure 
 aspect Uncharted brings with it. 
  I'll write a walkthrough for GoW now;
  Run
  Cover
  Shoot
  Run
  Cover
  Shoot
  Run
  Run
  Shoot
  Cover
  And so on and so forth.
  The 
 only weapon I have a problem with in this game is the grenade.. It's a carbon copy of a toy my 
 dog throws around the house when in an alien killing rampage.
  
  Sound is fine with this game but that's all I'll say. I wont attempt to glorify this abomination 
 with a paragrah on it's audio.
  
  Now in this case, this isn't one of those games where I can see other people enjoying it, I can't 
 see anyone enjoying it but if you must try this game at least buy it from a store where you are 
 able to get your wasted money back. That was the only smart move I made when buying this game.
 
  
  This review is for the 2% of the gaming population you can see the truth.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  No matter which genre of games we like the most, be it strategies, sport sims, driving sims or role 
 playing games, we each feel sometimes the need to shoot & kill. A game to kill our anger. There are 
 two types of cathegories games of this type are divised in. One of them contains Painkiller, Serious 
 Sam & Will Rock. The other gathegory is Gears of War.
  Gears of War probably needs no introduction, being the most popular game on X360 for a long time. But 
 we all know that its exclusivity for the 360 is exactly for the same reason why the new Metal Gear 
 Solid is only for PS3: selling more consoles, making more money. But when the PC version of Gears 
 of War came it was clear that GoW was ment for the PC, not the 360. Every shooter actually is much 
 better with a mouse & a keyboard than with a stupid gamepad with with it takes 5 minutes to target 
 the enamies... Well, but we're talking about Gears here so let's do it.
  
  Graphics:9/10
  
  For the graphics the Unreal Engine 3 was used, thing that came out naturally, considering that 
 the producers of Gears of War are in the same time the producers of Unreal Engine 3, Epic Games. As 
 a mix fact, People Can Fly, the producers of Painkiller-Heaven's got a Hitman contributed in the 
 making of GoW. Back to the graphics, they are very good. It looked good last year on the console, now 
 on the PC it looks much better. I'd say it's the best optimized version of the popular engine, as 
 it offers the best graphical experience done with Unreal Engine 3,&, in the same time, is not very 
 demanding on your PC as Crysis, The Witcher or Assassin's Creed are. The textures really look awesome, the 
 explosion are spectacular & so is the dynamic lighting. It doesn't compare with Crysis or Lost Via 
 Domus, but overall is an amzing graphical experience. The only bad thing to talk about is how blood 
 is textured. I mean, such a violent & full of gore game like Gears of War demands good-looking blood. 
 & yeah, there is good looking blood when you come close to your enamies & cut them to pieces with 
 the chainsaw on your gun... maybe the most violent, amazing & pleasure-giving animation ever included 
 in a game before. But when you shoot your enamies with ranged fire, red circles with black interior 
 come out...& this with max settings & DX 10 support activated. It is one of the most horrible textured 
 blood types in the games I played & that's very sad. Fortunatelly, it doesn't affest the pleasure 
 of playing Gears of War because you'll soon forget about it, but stil... .Getting back to all the 
 gore, it is really amazing. Very violent content, I mean everyone can be blown to pieces,& you can 
 actually play football with arms or head parts from your enamies. The chainsaw kills are as I said 
 before, perfectly designed,& it occured very often to me that I died just because "I wanted to cut 
 that guy to pieces". The physiscs are quite bad, because only some boxes or other few decorative 
 objects can be  cannot be destroyed, pieces don't fall out of 
 them,& physics don't affect combat at all, which is quite disappointing.
  
  Sound:10/10
  
  On the other hand, the sound is perfectly implemented. The music & soundtrack are very well chosen 
 & representative to the game's atmosphere & key moments from it. Except the end credits music, which 
 I really don't like, everything else is great. The sound effects are, let's say, majestic. OK, the gunshots 
 don't sound everytime very convincing, but the other elements are great. & the voice acting is amazing, everyone 
 sound very very convincing & everything blends perfectly with the sombre atmosphere surrounding 
 the game.
  
  Story:8/10
  
  On a prospere planet, some kind of violent creatures come out of the ground & start massacring the 
 people. Military actions are taken in this day called Emergence Day, but Marcus Fenix, a squad commander, disobeys 
 a dirrect order & is imprisoned. The people try to kill the locust by frying the surface of the 
 planet with Ultra-Violet rays, also killing many people with them. They don't quite succed, for more 
 & more locust come from their underground tunnels. Marcus Fenix, who you'll control trough the whole 
 game, is released from prison, joins a squad which he'll later lead trough many urban & underground 
 fights. The story is not bad, but it's not the main attraction of Gears of War & it's quite poor 
 when compared to the other elements of this fantastic game.
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  
  This is quite a straightforward shooter. The game gives you guns, enamies who want to kill you & 
 covers. You can take cover against almost every object & wall in the game, with a very intuitive 
 & easy control sceme. You can than easily fire from the cover, move from that cover immediatly to 
 another cover, jump & roll left or right, run up against the nearest cover & immediatly enter it. When 
 in cover basically no one can hit you, only with grenades or if they come sideways. Not very real 
 & quite aracdish, but it makes the game easier on the high difficulties, where the game is really 
 hard & challenging. There are several guns in Gears of War, but you won't change them too much. The 
 standard machine gun with the chainsaw equipped is the best & most exciting game troughout the 
 whole game, but a shotgun ,sniper rifle & pistol come very handy in some difficult situations. These 
 weapons have a reload bar, something like the bar in FIFA World Cup 2006. While reloading, if you 
 press "R" again when the pointer goes across a white bar on that gray bar, you'll reload much faster 
 & it also gives you a damage bonus. If you press it wrong, your gun can jam, but you can always let 
 it reload the classic way if you feel you can't manage that when guys are shooting you. The basic 
 enamies, soldiers with guns, come out of grub holes (which can be collapsed with grenades they say, but 
 I can't manage to do that) can be killed without much effort. They know to take cover, throw grenades 
 & even surprise you with some squad based tactics, but most of the time they are not a problem. Then 
 there are the wretches. Very similar to the snorks in STALKER-Shadow of Chernobyl, these guys attack 
 in packs, but they can easily be killed with one or two shots, as long as you don't get close. But 
 you will be tempted to get close seeking some "cool chainsaw kills" & you will often die, because 
 their melee attack is very bad for you. The boomers are big beasts with a rocket launcher,& they 
 shoot rockets at you while yelling "BOOOOOM". Quite funny but dangerous in the same time, they need 
 a lot of bullets till they fall, but they're quite easy to abord if you run around them while shooting, because 
 they are slow & stupid. The drones are equipped with a crossbow with explosive arrows, which can 
 easily blow you to pieces if you are hit, but they fall quite easily. By the way, you can also use 
 the crossbow, but the lack of a crosshair for it really annoyed me. The Kryll look like bats, they 
 attack in hug, but the thing that prevents them from attacking you is light. They are met just in 
 a level of the game that generates cool puzzles where you get to light your way. You will also get 
 to drive a jeep & kill them wit UV rays. The biggest trouble of all is the Beserker. She is a very 
 ugly & huge beast which can destroy walls & other obstacles in her way. She's blind but hunts trough 
 sound & smell ,so be warned. She is invulnerable to bullets so you'll have to lure her carefully 
 outside in order to burn her with the Hammer of Dawn, the most powerful weapon in the game, which 
 shoots huge circles of fire from orbital stations. You will have to smartly lure, avoid her & use 
 her in order to create your path trough walls. You will always be accompanied by your team, sometimes 
 one member (when you split up in half) , other times all three. When you get to crossed roads you can 
 always decide which path to take, which contributes to replayability & makes the game less linear. Speaking 
 of your companions, they are very capable & you will start to care for them & their life. When one 
 gets hurt you can go & heal him as in Kane & Lynch-Dead Men, but the mad thing is that you always 
 die, you never can be healed by your friends. Also, the PC version features some more content at the 
 beggining of Chapter 5, consisting in Brumak moments in wide open spaces, more battles & a boss battle 
 with the Brumak itself. Cool
  
  Multiplayer:10/10
  
  Not very various, the multiplayer consists in a Co-op mode, which means you can play the whole game 
 accompanied by a friend, which is an exciting experience. I love it.
  
  Overall:9.5/10
  
  Gears of War (PC) is a fantastic experience overall, with a lot of good stuff & only a few, insignificant 
 negative things. It is quite short (13 hours max) , because, don't worry, it doesn't get boring & you'll 
 love to play trough it again everytime. So, don't just sit there, buy it & go do some chainsaw kills!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDuntBanMe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  That name says it all. The world in Gears of War is demolished, but at the same time utterly beautiful 
 because it doesn't look fabricated. It looks like our world would if it fell under such an attack. 
 The detail is absolutely absurd. It's painfully evident that EPIC poured their hearts into every 
 staircase, floor, ravaged ceiling, obliterated structure, clogged artery, vehicle, puddle, and 
 cavern in the game. Every inch has detail. No matter how beautiful, so many other elements need 
 to click; and here, they bellow. The cinematography, pacing, script, and AI, all do their parts 
 respectively. The single-player campaign certainly begins as superb duck 'n cover, but duck 'n 
 cover alone a great game does not make. In one area in particular they use a rickety wood floor 
 to great effect. Things go from manic, to eerily quiet, to horrific, to pant-wettingand the dialogs 
 supports it all in stride, as does the in-game cinematography, and the cut-scenes. You live this 
 game; you care about your squad and when you're offered a choice of routes you think long and hard 
 about what awaits you depending on the lay of the land. Tight corridors and open streets both pose 
 formidable yet different challenges. You will die in Gears and have to use head to overcome certain 
 situations. EPIC has built a non-linear world into a linear adventure. They utilize not only day 
 and night cycles but the world in a way I've never experienced. I've seen multiple paths and evolving 
 gameplay before, just never at this level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War was released in 2006 for the Xbox 360 and became an instant hit with gamers and critics 
 and can be considered the Xbox equivalent to resident Evil 4 for GameCube, and PS2. Gears starts 
 out with Marcus Fenix in his prison cell, imprisoned for disobeying orders and attempting to save 
 his dad's life. He failed and was sentenced to forty years, but the sentence was cut short as the 
 prison was emptied and the inmates were all recruited to join the C. O. G. army to fight against 
 the Locust Horde, a large army of mole like creatures without the fur and with sharp pointy teeth. 
 The Locust have one goal in mind: the complete anhilation of human life on the planet Sera. The 
 game goes from the prison scenery to several other areas including and underground mining facility, 
 a refugee campsite flooded with Kryll, a bat like ravenous bird that will kill you, fast.
  
  The gameplay in Gears isn't anything special or groundbreaking but it uses a duck and cover 
 system used by going against any flat surface and tapping the space bar. Melee attacks are preformed 
 by either the B of F keys (and if you're smart you'll change it to the left Shift key of some other 
 more comfortable position.) Most weapons have a basic whack your opponent with the side of your 
 gun melee attack, but the lancer assault rifle has a chainsaw bayonet which provides an instant 
 kill. Grenades also have a special melee ability in that they stick to the enemy that is in your 
 sights. The final special attack is the blade on the torque bow but it's the least interesting 
 of the trio.
  
  The game consists of five acts with numerous chapters in each. Roughly 80% of these chapters are 
 the same as the 360 version but the beginning of act five starts off the new chapters which more 
 than doubles the length of the final act which normally could of been completed within an hour. 
 The new chapters are well made and provide closure to the Brumak scene at the end of act four but 
 are by no mean a reason to trade your 360 version in and pick up the PC version. The Brumak boss 
 battle is disappointingly easy for a game with such a high difficulty level, but it is fun to play 
 and shows promise for a large scale conflict with two or three Brumaks in the sequel.
  
  In addition to the new chapters there is also two new multiplayer maps and a new game mode, if 
 you can find anyone to play it with. Seriously, the multiplayer is a whole lot of fun in this game, 
 it's just there aren't enough people playing at once to really get a good game going. And as for 
 the online co-op, forget about it. Very rarely will you find one, thats ONE, co-op game that you 
 can join to try and get the Dom themed achievements.
  
  Dell recently scrapped the dimension line of PCs and have replaced them with the Inspiron series 
 which are the bare basics for Windows Vista PCs. Running on one you can get near Xbox 360 quality 
 gameplay with minor lag (mostly minor) and some jaggies here and there if you just play with it 
 for a while. Be forewarned though, integrated graphics are not your friend. For those who mock 
 those like me with fairly weak PCs, Gears will look beautiful. There are more details in this version 
 than the 360 version although there is still some very minor lag even with the greatest of PCs.
 
  
  The soundtrack is very atmospheric and moody which works well in its favor. The sound effects are 
 usually dead on with some stuttering during the cut scenes, something Half Life 2 player may know 
 a little bit about.
  
  To do anything in this game requires a Games for Windows LIVE account which is the same service 
 as Xbox LIVE. In fact the only difference between the Windows LIVE service and the Xbox LIVE service 
 is that PC gamers get the benefit of typing on a keyboard in full complete sentences while our 
 console inferiors are stuck with an on screen keyboard. The LIVE multiplayer components require 
 a Gold account, a month of which is free after registering your code online, and achievements for 
 multiplayer (save for the co-op ones) cannot be earned without Gold.
  
  Achievements in this game are not hard to get for the single player experience but the multiplayer 
 achievements require a tedious amount of hours to unlock all of them. The most notable is a required 
 10,000 kill on a ranked match which requires LIVE Gold. The achievements are separate from the 
 360 version so buying both will earn you 2 sets of achievements.
  
  All of the controls of the 360 version are available with the use of a 360 controller. All in all 
 the keyboard and mouse add very little to the experience but at the same time take nothing away. 
 This is a very solid port with several glitches, very few of which are game ruining, but can be 
 overcome on nearly all occasions. One moment in my history stands out as I went to walk forward 
 to hug a wall when I was lifted three feet above the ground unable to be moved from my position. 
 On a humorous occasion I was hurled 15 feet directly to the right which worked out as I was headed 
 that way anyways.
  
  Basically it comes down to this: While the LIVE service is a drag for PC gamers it is a good way 
 to keep in touch with friends. If you have any intention of buying a 360 later on this game will 
 make you feel better about buying a years worth of the LIVE service for your console with only 
 one or two games on it. There is also a map editor with all the tool Epic used to create the game, 
 but you have to search the installation process to install it and even then it might not install. 
 Despite the glitches and the occasional lag this is a solid purchase that any PC gamer should be 
 glad to have in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  In Gears of War, a giant block of concrete is your best friend. And if that isn't available, you 
 can always make do with a destroyed vehicle, a wall just around a corner, or even a pile of debris. 
 Why you ask would a simple piece of rubble be your guardian angel? Over a trusty rifle or even 
 your squad members that have your back? Because you might as well be i six feet under without it. 
 Albeit the exciting singleplayer campaign or the well-done team based multiplayer, this game delivers.
 
  
  The story revolves around the head of the main man Marcus Fenix. Like the rest of his posse, he's 
 a thick minister of death, with no time to bleed. As soon as you drop in, you are set in a post-apocalyptic 
 world overrun by the grotesque creatures called the Locus. Marcus is a former COG soldier (short 
 for Coalition of Organized Governments) , and these soldiers wear absurdly huge armor, wield excellent 
 futuristic weapons such as an assault rifle with a chainsaw on it (Yes!!!) , and of course can't 
 be bothered to wear helmets. Just that tough, or just that stupid. You decide. Fenix is busted 
 out of jail after being deemed a traitor, and right away is thrown into some action. You learn 
 that the enemy is in possession of a weapon that could change their fortunes in the war.
  
  It may be exciting, but the campaign isn't very deep. There is really no background on how these 
 locusts came to be, and why they're pissed off at the world. There are upsides to the story, the 
 humour for instance is great. Completed by a great voice acting class, there are plenty of one-liners 
 in there to give you a few chuckles. 
  
  More impressive in fact, is the brilliant gameplay. Every fight seems to be different thanks to 
 the great AI. The boss fights as well can be really great. You will fight anything from the standard 
 "grubs" to the arachnid-like Corpsers. The greatest part of the campaign is that it has good re-play 
 value, and it can also be done co-op online. Not to forget to mention the great graphics, not a 
 single feature is over-looked. To the glow-in-the-dark lights on your weapons and armor, to the 
 war-torn environments, Gears of War can be best described as eye-candy.
  
  The only true down-side to this FPS thriller is the difficulty settings, which could use quite 
 a bit of tuning, despite being better balance than the XBOX. Considering that's the only real ugly 
 part of the game, there isn't really a lot on the plate to ruin it. The PC version for Gears of 
 War is just as good as its XBOX counterpart. It's a bloody, gruesome, and awesome shooter that 
 absolutely cannot be missed by fans of the genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colsonc2
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Another shooter with what appears to be a rich story and good mix of action and tactics. But I'll 
 never know if the story lives up to its potential because the charater control is INFURIATING!!! 
 Why can't I throw a grenade overhand? Why does it always bounce off the low wall in front of me? 
 If I'm such a kick ass soldier, why does my aim suck so bad? Isn't a head shot still a head shot? 
 This just begins to describe my frustration. I'll spare you the rest.
  
  The scenery is dark, uninspired and low res. Definetly looks like a console port. The combat sounds 
 are lame, circa 1990 arcade at the mall? I guess it's cool to run around and take cover in different 
 ways, but after an hour that got boring. And why do I have to login into Windows LIVE just to save 
 my progress. Annoying.
  
  Bottom line: with so many great shooters out there like Crysis, Bioshock, Halflife 2, Halo 2, Fry 
 Cry, and yes even Stalker, why waste you time on this one? Simple, don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxmicahxx
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  This game was fun to play through, but only once.
  
  I don't think this game has much replay value, but it was pretty damn good the first time through.
 
  
  I beat the game in one day.
  
  Probably took less the 10 hours, so it is a pretty short game if you know what you are doing!
 
  
  Fun to go back and just shoot through a level or two sometimes, but that's only when I'm really 
 bored haha.
  
  Graphics are pretty darn good with this game.
  
  Reminds me too much of UT3... oh maybe that's because it's made by the same people and engine?
 
  
  Not really a bad thing though because UT3 is a sick game alone!
  
  I would say get this game if you are into 3rd person or 1st person FPS games, a good play through 
 and nice graphics!
  
  
  Played through at 1024x768 resolution, all maxed settings.
  
  7900gt ko
  e6750 @ 2.66 [stock]
  2gb ocz ddr2 800 ram. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Gears of War (GOW) takes place in a future time when new creatures called Lokust take control of 
 the earth and perform a full attack n the human being. You play as Marcus Fenix, one of the patriots 
 of the recent years. However, at the beginning of the game you find yourself in a friendly prison 
 because of your recent acts. The good people ran out of warriors so they decide to free you to 
 help them and this is how everything begins.
  
  Your task is to reach certain locations, clean the areas and perform certain engineering jobs. 
 GOW has the same progress as of those in first person shooter genre. However there are some differences 
 which worth noticing. You play from the third person view so it gives you a better view of the 
 battle field when you hide behind covers. Another interesting difference is that the game is basically 
 based on using covers. Most of the objects in the game can be used for covers from enemy fires 
 then you should take tactical shoots behind the cover to hit the enemy.
  
  There are different types of firearms which you can equip like machine gun, assault rifle, sniper 
 riffle, rocket launcher and etc. The good part is that you can equip two of these weapons at a 
 time so you should pick one which is appropriate for the heading fields. The normal enemies have 
 no bonus for hitting special parts of the bodies like a head shot. You can shoot any part of them 
 without making any difference in how many shots they take to die which makes it easier to hit them 
 from behind the covers.
  
  The grenade handling is not comfortable. You hardly can throw it to the location you want and the 
 damage is not that string than you expect from the grenades in the future. Beside a good graphic 
 and cut scenes, there is no special thinking in the game you should just move and kill the enemies 
 but it worths a try to cheer yourself up by killing ugly enemies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louisg0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I saw Gears of War on Xbox 360, and thought it looked great. Ever since, i've waited until it came 
 out on PC to be able to play it properly. Now I have it, its one of my favourite games. Great story, 
 great action, great gore! Every fan of Shooters should not go without playing this game, and I 
 recommend it to anyone. The graphics are especially good, using the Unreal Engine. And the difficulties 
 will keep you coming back until you've masterd it. The voice acting is pretty well done, done well 
 enough to make you think about the characters and hope you all get through this alive. As for the 
 online multiplayer, there's only one word to describe it... Addictive. With new modes on the PC 
 version, its enough to make you cling on to this game. The only downside I found to the PC version, 
 was the fact that Microsoft put Xbox live onto it. Its great on the Xbox 360, and I think thats 
 where it should stay. Because of this, I found a few bugs when trying to set up my account. But 
 the multiplayer makes up for the time spent on setting up Xbox Live. Overall, the game is brilliant, 
 with enough game content that will last you a long time, you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenshinhimura16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, thats it, I finished Gears of War for the first time (never did so before cause my 360 broke 
 for a third time, so I decided it was time to say goodbye) . Now, last time I got stuck on the cave 
 levels, but now (PC edition) I mangaed to finishe it.
  
  So far, its a good game, not the 9.6-10 or gods gift to gaming many want to make it look. The game 
 has a lot, and I do mean a lot of issues, the worser being BRAINDEAD AI!!!. And that gets you angry, 
 mostly cause I played it after Uncharted which in Hard and Crushing has a really challenging AI. 
 Here, the AI for the enemies is basically bigger HP and deadlier shots with more aim. They wont 
 try any fancies moves, except running straight to your chainsaw or to the barrels of a shotgun. 
 Most of the time they will stay were they appeared or near the closest cover point, and in some 
 others, you will see a door, and it just feels like duck hunting. Do they not realise that each 
 and every one of them that comes gets a headshot from my sniper???
  
  Now, the other AI problem, and imo the biggest. Your partners AI. Are they braindead or what? Where 
 they hitten on teh head with a frying pan or something? They just stand there, go in circles and 
 get killed all the time, meaning that YOU have to turn into the one man army, which in both of 
 the higher diffiuclties, is not the ideal thing, though doable.
  
  The other problem is glitches, some enemies have glitches, for example, the first time I passed 
 it, the final boss go like stucked in his place without doing anything, I felt like killing baby 
 seals. The other is coding error with the cover system, that sometimes doesnt respond to the command, 
 and when you are in big gunfights, not working cover equals death. The other error is that in some 
 places, the one that bothered me the most is in the caves chapter, you can get past an invisible 
 wall. I know, IW have existed alway, but the thing here is that if you go from one way to the object, 
 you cant get in teh back of it; go from the other way, and voila you can. Also, in those places 
 its common that Marcus (main character) gets stuck on one spot, meaning you have to restart the 
 chapter.
  
  Now, that is basically the bad about the game, not taking into consideration a couple of slowdowns 
 that happen in isolated places (meaning that only there happens, and I tried several times on those 
 places to check if it was my rig, but it was the game) the game is pure greatness. Well, not greatness 
 but its really good.
  
  Now, I have played little online, mostly cause I couldnt stand my first 20 rounds with pre-pubscent 
 kinds cursing the hell of of everything, not that I have something against bad words, but keep 
 them to yourself, and stop feeling like the world is You, God then everyone else. Its a game, play 
 to enjoy it. I guess thats what I liked about Resistance and Warhawk online, most of the talkers 
 just go about tactics and such, though its not cursing free either.
  
  The single player is really nice, with nice sequences and cool boss fights. Fighting the big guy 
 (expansion extra episodes) is really good, though he is terribly easy and quite stupid also. The 
 final guys is a little bit thougher, mostly because of the Kril that he sends flying to you which 
 means "Almost instant death". The sprint button was also something good to have, but not being 
 able to change weapons during its execution is kinda stupid.
  
  The gunplay works fine, no weapon has perfect aiming which is great, since nobody can hold a machine 
 gun on a 10cm target while unloading a full clip. The weapons were good and useful, except for 
 the Locust assault rifle which is kinda useless cause it only fires rounds of 3. Good fore precise 
 shooting but the Lancer beats the crap of it. My favourite gun was the sniper rifle, cant beat 
 it. 100% accuracy, 2-3 bullets to kill an enemy in Crazy or madness or whatever is the english 
 name for the hardest difficulty (friggin game came in spanish) and the Explosive Arc is really 
 usefull, though its kind of slow. The magnum also works, but fires really slowly. The active reload 
 was nice, since it gave more participation during reloads.
  
  Now, for what most people cares nowadays, graphics. For those graphics lovers, teh game offers 
 really good graphics, very detailed especially if you can run everything on max. The shadows work 
 well, though sometimes you can see those crazy shadows that act "un-naturally". Some pieces could 
 have used more work though, but all in all it just looks great.
  
  The music really fits the game atmosphere, and unlicke other games were you had to lower the FX 
 sound to hear it (cough Halo cough) , here it has more presence, even with all the gun fire noices, 
 screams, cursing, and Locust saying "I shee you". It has some pieces that really stand out, specially 
 the one that you hear near the ending scene that gives you a feeling of keep on fighting.
  
  Conclution? 
  
  All in all, Gears is a great game, though it was given more laurels than 
 it should have received, specially those regarding the story, since its just another "Summer blockbuster" 
 story as found in other games as Lair, CoD4 (though those special playable scenes make it better) , 
 Turok, Uncharted. Gears of Wars gives more power to the 3rd person shooters (TPS) which imo are 
 much better than the FPS games. It perfects the cover system (though in Uncharted it works better, 
 but its a year later, so its expectable) an probes to be a really exiting experience. Sometimes 
 you will have to choose paths, which also gives you more replay time. Plus you have the online 
 mode, which if you can get past the brats, its really good (I normally think of the Ramones song, 
 "Hit on the Brat, hit on the brat, hit on the brat with a baseball bat oh yeah, oh yeah, ohhh") 
 
  
  Epic managed to pull another outsanding game, and made a really used engine. Too bad that they 
 didnt took care of the AI, since it can turn things frustrating, specially when you are getting 
 holed, and you see Dom or Cole or Baird running like little girls in circles. Lets hope for Gears 
 2 to have an improved AI aside of "nicer graphics".
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TANGJUICE81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  I got this game after my brother-in-law to be showed me this game and on XBOX 360. We played a 
 few levels, and it got my interest. So far I've gone through some of the levels and found it's 
 not a hard game just challenging in some areas. The keys take a while to get used to, but the the 
 game play is pretty cool. I don't really like the 3rd person view, hence I usually prefer 1st person 
 shooters but the characters look pretty stunning with all the armor and weapons. The scenery is 
 amazing on PC. The backgrounds and textures are in very high detail. The enemies can be a bit annoying 
 to kill, but they're not so easy to kill thus giving the game some challenging aspects. So far 
 so good, but it's no Crysis at all. It has a good feel to it, and it'll probably grow on me. I 
 think it has alot of potential, but there's still room for improvement. I would recommend this 
 game but to those who like the big flash and bang you won't see it. Besides the really big enemies 
 and pretty good cut scene that's about for me. It seems that you always end up in the same type 
 of engagement with the enemy. There can be more scenarios and situations to make this game boom. 
 Maybe, they'll improve on the next game. But overall, it's a fun game, won't mind at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diako_lorddm
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  after years We saw Gears Of War On PC ! 
  Epic's year-old action beast proves just as enjoyable on PC as it was on Xbox 360. The mouse and 
 keyboard allow for more precise control, and the graphics have been improved as well. With the 
 additional single-player content, King of the Hill multiplayer mode, extra maps, and a map editor, 
 Gears offers an even more impressive feature set than before .
  
  
  Another thing this game has it's consistency in design. The levels are properly tied together, 
 it feels that the campaign was thought out by people who know what the "other guy" is doing, instead 
 of having separate level designers doing their own thing, not having any idea about the work of 
 the rest. You feel you're progressing, you feel you're accomplishing something. And then there's 
 the little things; for example, at some point during the campaign you're being warned continuously 
 that the "night's coming". 
  
  
  at last I can Say It is one of the best game of 2007 for PC ! but maby It's FPS sometimes become 
 low . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoflol
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war for pc is an winner, it may look like an fps with Rambo tendency, but thats just an 
 illusion. It dosen`t take much too take mr Fenix and his buddys down. But thats actually very entertaining 
 sinse its an sci fi game it is an hint of realism all between loads of nasty looking aliens. 
 
  
  The visuals are stunning with dramatic surroundings such as aristocratic buildnings to creepy tunnels. 
 The sound is atmospheric and blends good in witht the game. The game is very linear and shouldn`t 
 take much time to complete. The controls are easy to master and should be used in every third-person 
 game. The story dosen`t give much answers but is entertaining for the only thing you need to know 
 is that you are going to kick some Locust butt. The downside with the game is the long installation 
 and the blasted Live profile that is an pain in the ass. Other than that is probly its too linear 
 at times and too many unanswered questions about the history.
  
  Many think the game is bad because you die too easy and that your enemies can take alot of pounding. 
 The only thing I can say too them is that the theres a reason why theres alot of cover in the game.
 
  
  I really recommend it even tho the long installation and live may give it a frustrating beginning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidpearsonj21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for about 20 and i can honestly say that i should have put my money with UT3. 
 I thought the game was going to be something new and different, but all it has is a not bad cover 
 system and a few cool guns, the story is really hard to get into and a a lot of the time the game 
 will crash upon joining multiplayer matches. I do quite like the LIVE thats built into it as i 
 can talk to my friends who own them, console, things.
  
  As a summary this game gets old way to quick, and has some terrible bugs and the game is dead, 
 no patches arer going to be produced anymore and hardly any multiplayer matches are up compared 
 to other games, try to avoid this game unless its going for ten quid.
  
  I really dont beleive it was thee winner of many game of the year awards, although that was 2006. 
 If i had to compare this to another game it would have to be rainbow six vegas for PC mainly because 
 somewhere along the lines ubisoft threw the towel in with the pc version and it ended up with a 
 terrible server browser and no dual core support which made that game also, broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLeverette
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Gears of war is supposed to be awesome, the best game ever. It's not. Playing it is nothing like 
 that. Levels are more linear than call of duty. The cover system is decent, and the guns are all 
 bland assault rifles. The levels are even worse, as going through set cover to cover just doesn't 
 feel right. Don't forget to take into account crashes and bugs. The sound is decent, cutscenes 
 aren't bad, yet the fact that everyone has giant feet looks stupid. Grenades are just about impossible 
 to use, yet enemies are easy to kill if you simply spray them. Multiplayer is alright, yet feels 
 very pointless, with pretty decent graphics. The lack of any customization or choice in guns really 
 kills the almost awesome multiplayer of this game. Overall, please don't waste your time with this 
 game. If you want a good shooter with cover, buy Rainbow Six, or Call of Duty 4. Both of those 
 are better shooters than this in many cases. Maybe Gears of War 2 will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War was great for the X Box 360 and it looks like Epic left it that way when they finished 
 this "thing".
  
  First off the controlls are terrible and evan the offline is full of bugs and lags. Which is a 
 fact that Epic games rushed this game. It will be hard enough enough just to install it to your 
 computer. During gameplay you will have problems evan shooting your weapon. Secondly when you aim 
 your gun sometimes the crosshair might not evan appear. 
  
  I did not evan get past the first lvl of this game. The weapons are very weak and takes about 500 
 shots to kill one alien. Which s very annoying. The lvl hardness is also very screwed up. I died 
 so many time on casual thats it's not evan funny. I dont know if it's me or what. But it's realy 
 messed up if you ask me. Over all save your money with this game Buy Crysis instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I really find it funny that people would say that this game is a bad port! Because in my opinion 
 the PC version is quite possibly better than the 360 version. Well as you all know in this game 
 you are Marcus Fenix ( and his friend Dom ) fighting against the Locust Horde. Also you might know 
 is that the PC version includes a ALL NEW fight against a new boss, the Brumak. In short the game 
 is great, but thats not to say it doesnt have its problems. Such problems would be laggy multiplayer, 
 some strange and unexplainable crashs ( I experianced Two in my play through ) , a nearly impossible 
 to access Map Editor, and it requires a lot of ram to play on better settings. 
  Other than these problems though its a great game.
  
  This is Half-Doom signing off.
  
 
  P. S
  There are lots of forums that are dedicated to the Editor Problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viron_Berserker
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets get a few things out in the open, my computer is pretty damn good for games. Sure it 
 is not the best and won't be unless I go and destroy all better computers in the whole world. But, 
 it can still run this so that it looks like the 360 version with only tiny spots of frame rate 
 lag. And so far I have found that nothing core to the game is different, it is a almost perfect 
 copy of the 360 version (except for all the crashing, lower frame rates and graphical settings, 
 Games for Windows live, and theBuy your own damn mic" thing when they should sell a version 
 that works well with this game) .
  
  Now here comes the storm of hate. For some god-awful reason my game refuses to allow me to play 
 the main thing that had me hooked on the 360 version (which is still a lot better than this version!) 
 was the multi-player. If you look on the forums you will find a lot of people who are having problems 
 with this game. And honestly, I don't feel like playing through the whole game again. I want to 
 play on the new content. Which I can do for the multi-player not , however, for the single-player. 
 Also, I feel like I have been cheated. I mean if the extra content was going to be released on 
 the Xbox 360 I would not have spent $50 for this. I have seen no effort on Epics part to fix the 
 problems with this game and I am beginning to lose faith in computer gaming ( and Epics skill with 
 making computer games) .
  
  In short, it seems like Epic had the perfect road map for this game when it came out on the 360, 
 but when the time came around for it's release on the computer they let small children draw on 
 the map, walked on it in muddy boots and put it in the oven and let it cook at 1000000000000 degrees 
 for 1 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archtal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to FPS games, I can be really, really picky. When it comes to Third Person Shooters, 
 then I'm even pickier. Up until now, the only Third Person shooting even worth mentioning was Max 
 Payne. However, I think I've found another one I can clearly say belongs in the "Games-You-Must-Buy." 
 
  
  Gears of War combines the fast-paced action of an FPS shooter and the combat strategy know-how 
 of an RTS. Knowing when and where an opponent will be can make a game too predictable and just 
 plain boring. Gears, however, may have some of that, but the enemy AI is sufficiently smart and 
 will always make the situation different no matter how many times you die (such as the stupid Wretches) . 
 For the most part, the enemy AI provided a challenging enough experience, and it just seemed right 
 for this kind of game.
  
  I would have to comment on the duck and cover mechanics of the game because it is worth mentioning. 
 My initial reaction when they first released Gears was indifference because I heard that there 
 was just going to be just shooting and ducking behind cover, rinse and repeat. My reaction changed 
 when I started playing the game, when I experienced the intenseness and urgency to duck and cover. 
 Gears proves to be the best game, in my opinion, to really make ducking and covering a smooth flowing 
 strategy and then it combines it with the great shooting mechanics. The animations and different 
 techniques of performing these feats made the game fun and unpredictable.
  
  Only downside to the game, the weapons. Unfortunately in my opinion, the weapons seemed a bit unbalanced 
 and not as awesome as I thought it could be. Granted, the Torque Bow seemed to be the only weapon 
 that brought a smile to my face as Locust pieces flew everywhere. The saw was great too only if 
 you got close enough. As for the grenades and other guns, just wasn't impressive to me, and after 
 pumping 3 clips of bullets into a Locust until it died was just too much of a hassle and really 
 slowed the progress of the game. 
  
  Overall, I'd recommend this game to any PC Shooter gamer. It's got beautiful graphics, nice shooting 
 mechanics, and utilizes the duck and cover strategy almost perfectly. Worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  so i was playing this on my computer and the thought crossed my mind, that the campain only adds 
 a few more missions, then i got thinking, well... that means tha PC players are cooler, then i 
 tried on line, wow, i got torn to pieces, shot up, and my most favorite, cut up. The chainsaw ability 
 is the best in the game, i use that to release my stress, nothing like sawing off your foe's head, 
 and half of his body, the sniper needs to be better overall a great game. The ally AI could be 
 better, they could come and heal you faster, and they could try to kill some of the locust. by 
 the way, locust is a awesome name for the bad guys, all i have to say now is....... LANCER, AND 
 GERNADES  and there could be vechiles 
 in the multiplayer, and there should bo some better maps for 1 v 1 games, and there needs to be 
 better guns, and dom is still my best bud!!!
  =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  When the game came out for a first time I was little sceptical, I didn't think it will be something 
 I will be interested in. I guess I was wrong! The game Rocks! It is relly different from the games 
 I ussusally play and it was nice change of pace!
  I loved it! I played it at lowest difficulty first-wasn't too hard, now I play it at medium and 
 it is a chalange at some point! 
  The graphics, the gameplay, the music, the voices-everything is awesome!
  I am impressed! The gameplay 
 was fun, there is plenty of violence, blood, and shooting-nice action!
  I have encountered a couple of really annoing bugs however, sometimes my character get stuck in 
 between walls, or other objects-this can be really annoing!
  I had some problems with instalation also-it running fine and then all of a sudden just stopped 
 installing, I had to restart my pc and start over-everything worked out fine after this!
  Overall-very good game! Fun with nice graphics! A couple of annoying bugs are not enough to ruin 
 this good title!
  I recommend it to evryone who's into good action and shooting!
  I will rate it 8,5 jsut because there is a few bugs that sometimes may get on your nerves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayden_Davies
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Overall this game was well done! Great graphics, with blood spilling everywhere, locusts being 
 split in half by chainsaws and a clean, well constructed environment. Computer AI was challenging 
 at times, using fire and cover techniques, well placed grenades and flanking strategies to keep 
 you (the player) always moving. As well, the characters in the game were some up interesting in 
 a stereotypical shooting game fashion.
  
  My only comment was at some points you go from using cover and shoot tactics to getting a power 
 reload for pressing the reload button twice. By removing the power reload, the ability to withstand 
 heavy gunfire at times (on the harder settings) and finally the someone unrealistic melee attacks, 
 i think this game would be a bit more difficult and rewarding.
  
  However, despite the arcade feel, I still love the game and will continue to enjoy playing it. 
 I defiantly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Vil
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  when this game was released on the X360 , I didn't give it much attention , because I wasn't much 
 of third person shooter fan , ( and because I don't have an X360) .
  after it was released on the PC , I watched some vids , played the demo .
  right then I fell 
 in love with this game . I bought the game and finished it in one day ! , I simply couldn't stop 
 playing !!
  I wanted to know wtf is going to happen !.. the sory is captivating , and fantastic . (that's why 
 they're making a GOW movie) .
  anyways , the story was great , but I think the best thing about this game is the awesome gameplay 
 , you have to solve puzzles , kill larg enemies , and of course control your squads .
  and don't forget about the great gfx and the 'well-acted' voice acting , and , of course , the 
 GREAT weapons ! (the shotgun is my favourite cuz you can tear enemies into pieces with one shot) .
 
  
  all these things are great , but there's only one thing I hated about GOW, IT'S TOO *#&*** SHORT 
 !! it took me 7-8 hours to beat it .
  it's something you'll have to live with , but the multiplayer will make it up for you .
  
  
 
  I heavily advise all of the gamers to get this game . 
  THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY/PLAY/GET AND KEEP !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peet85
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game after seeing the gamespot. com review. The install was not just simply annoying: 
 it took three retries, two XP reinstalls, and nothing. Then I tried on Vista, and about an hour 
 later I could play. But really: I thought a game released by Microsoft will run AND install well 
 on a Microsoft OS.
  
  Started playing and reached the end of Act 1, then quit for taking a brake... and then all my saved 
 games are gone!!!! I was like: what the hell? Started again, and lost my saves, again. I didn't 
 dare to mention the repetitive gameplay, and after Crysis, it's bad, bad, bad. And then? Uninstall 
 of course.
  
  Thank you Microsoft, I didn't really expect anything else from you. But Epic: after the Unreal 
 series, this piece of crap is really disappointing. And there's no patch in sight. Next time spend 
 a little extra hours finding bugs, before releasing something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say I played this because of all the hype around it and boy am I glad I did. Missing out 
 on this game, imho, would've been like missing out on Doom way back in the day when I was but a 
 lad. Thats just for me, you may or may not share my love for FPS/TPS and thats ok. I personally 
 love games equally, either its fun or its not, genre doesnt matter.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are beautiful. They have taken a post-apopolyptic approach 
 to this game (very sci-fi based story as well) which is used alot in games. They didnt really add 
 anything new to the ideal really although the Bad Guys they created are very cool and I cant wait 
 to see where this story goes in part 2. That being said, I thought they did wonders with certain 
 screen blurs and usage of light that really helped bring out some really intense moments of the 
 game. They seemed to really focus alot on the graphics in this and it looks great. Beautiful game 
 in its dreery-ness.
  
  Sound: The sound in this is good. I feel it's important to note though that some weapons feel weaker 
 then I thought they should (my opinoin of course as none of the weapons in this are real in any 
 way) . I like when devs put an emphasis on power of a weapon in the sounds and in this I thought 
 that in particular was actually lacking. Overall, though, the game sounds were spot on. With battles 
 feeling intense, with wonderful action sequence scores that really add to the tension. You really 
 feel the heat when the action starts and it never truly lets up (only slows down) .
  
  Maps: (This doesnt include multiplayer, I wanted to play Multi but I play on PC and it wouldnt 
 let me use the multiplayer stuff always gave me trouble running the Live stuff) Every Map in this 
 game felt very planned. A big complaint I personally had was that there wasnt much exploration 
 to this game. It's im-possible to get lost and there are times you just wish you could explore 
 a little more (for instance near the beginning a big chasm opens up to the SW on the screen but 
 you cant relly get to close to see it) as I personally love the layout of all the maps. As I said 
 though all maps feel very planned, and really do setup for the action that always takes place. 
 Because of the games gimmick it always had things to hide behind and sometimes (not very often 
 but sometimes) you kinda had to wonder if something was placed where it was JUST because they want 
 you to take cover.
  
  Taking Cover: I hope I explained fully, I do like the maps in this game BTW. That being said I 
 felt I needed to move into this gimmick as it's one I like alot. The ideal of taking cover isnt 
 new but for some reason is new to video games (ok not really, any game buff will remember a little 
 game called kill. switch, the first game I played that was actually big on taking cover. If you 
 dont remember it, go play it its a decent game although not super great so it faded into infamy 
 because of its lack of interest in story telling) and this game went with it hardcore. So much 
 so, unfortunately, the levels all feel setup to be usable in a cover based action game. I only 
 continually point this out because it doesnt feel right when some places that have cover have it 
 and you always did get the sense that you were going to be attacked- it was never a surprise (not 
 a bad thing though, as this game is set in the middle of a huge war) . None of these things really 
 detract from gameplay but I felt it necessary to point them out. The tactics provided from taking 
 cover alone, though, make the game worth playing. You have so much more to play with when you can 
 press your back to a wall and duck for cover. Its great to have that and makes this game so much 
 fun.
  
  Overall "Gameplay"/Fun Factor: This game is a blast to play and I suggest anyone who hasnt played 
 it by now to do so. It focuses alot on strategy and cover tactics, tho, so if your style is more 
 run and gun cowboy then you may not like it. The game had a decent learning curve to me (took me 
 about 2 hours to get the hang of it) but once I got it the game became super easy (except the final 
 boss) . This, to me, is a shame. I think a game should be easy to learn to play but hard to master, 
 and sadly this game just isnt. You can master this game, once you figure it out, its fairly straight 
 forward. But oh man is it fun.
  
  If you shooters, and are looking for something different (like I always am) then this is one I 
 can suggest. For PC or whichever console you may play. Its a fun game, and while not the first 
 a definite breath of fresh air. It was a pleasure to play this game, I think they may have made 
 history (again... bum-bum-bum) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: othelios
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - Great graphics
  - Good cover mechanic
  - Good weapons
  - Good dialogue
  - Good sound/music
  - Good design (if a bit bland)
  
  Cons:
  
  - A bad port (lots of 
 glitches and audio/video distortions)
  - Unbelievably long install time
  - Some levels are badly designed (thankfully not all of them)
  - Too much of a console game (with 
 overall 'feel' and general game mechanics and design)
  - You're going to die a lot
  - Creates a lot of frustration
  - Repetitive
  - Bad AI (friendly and enemy)
  - Plot (something 
 always gets in your way or you get something and then you lose it. Basically nothing happens the 
 way it should)
  
  Whilst enjoyable, this game feels like a console port and and plays like one. The game is generally 
 repetitive, making it very tiring when playing for long periods of time. The friendly AI is abysmal. 
 It's incredibly frustrating to see your AI squad mate run off and get killed, leaving you to fend 
 for yourself or try and rescue him, which sometimes ends up with you getting killed in the process. 
 
  
  If you're really into PC FPS then this is NOT the game for you.
  
  Stick to The Orange Box, Crysis, COD4, etc, and leave this to the console kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Gears of War... Hm... I've heard so much about this game, when they said it was coming to PC I 
 just HAD to play it. When I managed to get hold of a copy, i installed it (took bloody ages BTW) 
 and started a new game. 
  One thing I thought was "That isn't a very good beginning at all" and continued playing. Levels 
 went by, and I enjoyed playing through them, but I just couldn't find that sweet spot that makes 
 a game really good.
  
  Then I found out I had a chainsaw. That was definetly what made so many gamers stick with this 
 game. Not me, though. I thought the chainsaw was a really hard to use weapon, only to be used if 
 you're leaning on a wall and a stupid enemy comes looking for you. Any other time, they shot me 
 dead before I could cut them, or they'd cut me. 
  Anyway, let's review the game step by step:
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Great cover system and granade 
 aiming system.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Not that impressive, actually. Reminded me of RE4.
  
  SOUND:
  Decent voice acting.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  So the 2006 GotY makes a return on the PC. A good return at that. Let's break it in chapters here 
 a bit.
  
  The Graphics. They are awesome and very optimized. It worked like a treat on my P4 2.8 GHZ 2GB of 
 ram and a 6800 Ultra but before I accsesd some areas the game would freeze resume slowly and freeze 
 again for a couple of seconds. I think that was because the new area didn't load when I wanted to 
 go in it but luckily this only lasts a couple of seconds. On the artistic side the enviorments look 
 very good and believeble. And so does the armor and the guns. And the faces of the characters look 
 great.
  
  The sounds. They are OK for the most part but the guns all sound the same and some of the actors 
 sounded like they had a stick up their a**es so they wanted to do them quick. Other than that they 
 are OK.
  
  The Gameplay. Now here is the most annoying thing about this game. It's hard. I mean even on casual 
 it was very hard cause you have so little health and you can't control much of your AI friends. On 
 the ammo side you get enough to get the job done. The locust AI leaves a bit to desire I mean some 
 of them just charge upon you like idiots and some go tactical and flank you whilst the other ones 
 got killed in 3 secs. Also the Locusts have much health too and most of their weapons are useless. The 
 only good weapon you will be using are the Lancer, Hammer of Dawn and Torque Bow if you can aim 
 it. And the game hasn't much weapon variety either. The overall difficulty needs to get rebalanced.
 
  
  Overall the game is good but with an ending that you dunno what to expect. I'l be waiting on Gears 
 2 on PC when it comes out in 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Prior to reading all the recent reviews and ratings that it has received, I began playing this 
 game a week ago and found that it has a compelling story along with the action.
  
  It's a world war against monsters! You are Fenix, your job is to sort out the problem at a blinks 
 of a eye!.
  
  I found the controls were so ideal that I nearly smashed the keyboard at the very end - its to 
 do with suddenly having an idea that the layout was flimsy when facing the ultimate bad ass. So 
 if you end up like that - calm your nerves and replan your tactics!
  
  God! the game is filled with action packed drama and there's no way to rest until the end. It lives 
 with the idea being war and the war sees no end even if you can play solid for the whole day.
 
  
  What dawned on me was that the graphics was sweet, a little glitch here and there but nothing too 
 critical. Yep, it's idea for the next generation computer and anything else just won't do.
  
  What I like about the game was that being homegrown from England, it had a touch of hot chicks 
 that rule the airwaves with an impact here that would certainly leave a good awe - God save the 
 Queen!!!
  
  Anyway, I rate this game pretty high and is worth playing. So if you require to upgrade your PC 
 in the immediate future just to play the darn game, then you must be prepared that the upgrading 
 just for this game is short. Yet good.
  
  I write this to reflect the gaming society that is IMMENSE and I assure you this game kicks ass.
 
  
  So that's my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marctheman87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Gears of War is an outstanding third person shooter experience. The PC port is actually a decent 
 port. I'm not going to write you a long boring review; instead I'm going to list the pros and cons 
 of the pc port.
  
  Here are just a few of the pros and cons for Gears of War for the PC
  
  Pros:
  Five more chapters in the single player game
  Resolution can be pumped up way higher 
 than the Xbox 360 version
  Mouse-keyboard controls are well put together and fully customizable
  Ability to play against 
 Xbox 360 players in multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  Subscription fee for Xbox live to play on live servers
  Frame rate drops considerable at some 
 parts in game
  AI is dim at times for squad mates
  Very long installation time
  
  Specifications:
  Processor: AMD Athlon (tm) 64 Processor 3200+, ~2.0GHz
  Memory: 1024MB RAM
 
  Video Card: NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT 512MB
  OS: Windows XP 64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MWILDRICK
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game on the score that gamespot gave it. I really did not like it and wished I 
 never purchased it. I think the kids out there will like it because its like a arcade game at the 
 mall.
  Also its way to easy and you can blast through the whole game in one sitting.
  xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 
 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
  xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
  XXX 
 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 
  xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 
  xxx 
 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4077
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  these are the required spec's for a pc to run this game:
  
  Minimum: (aka required to run)
  CPU: Intel 2.4 GHz+ / AMD 2.0 GHz+
  CPU Speed: 2.4 GHz
  System 
 RAM: 1 GB
  Operating System: Windows XP or Vista
  Video Card: NVIDIA Geforce 6600+ / ATI x700+
  
  which means that the requirements for this 
 game are its biggest down fall
  the game its self is $50 add to it the $100 - $300 you could spend JUST for a video card to run 
 game (not to mention the other things you may need) makes the game not worth the purchase. 
  
  the game its self is great... the use of cover and squad tactics really works.
  the levels 
 are stunning from the opening in the ruined city to the nightfall to the search of the mines; the 
 levels are varied and interesting. wish i could say the same for the enemies, unfortunately you 
 face about 10 enemies and 5 of them are boss fights, 3 of them you fight the entire game, and the 
 other two are only seen in certain parts of the game. which while it adds to the games "world" 
 constantly fighting the same enemies gets boring very quickly. on the plus side the pc version 
 includes the latest gears of war content... stuff that had been released on microsofts xbox live 
 service, which includes a new chapter in the single player story. 
  
  the gameplay and "world" of the game are done very well,
  however the repetitive enemies and 
 i said before the system requirements can have you spending more money on your system just to play 
 the game then the game actually costs which means this game gets a 6.5
  
  bottom line
  if you have the system for it then consider 
  buying this game;
  if you don't have the system 
 for it your best option is 
  getting the 360 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Well, I haven't actually played the 360 version, but from what I understand this version looks 
 better, and also controls better if you like mouse and keyboard. So, fair enough, I enjoyed it. 
 It was a great game, storywise it's good, but I kinda felt careless for the main characters, you 
 know, they weren't all that emotional as characters in other games, they're more bad a$$. That's 
 explainable because their in war and they have muscles and all that $h1T, not really feeling so 
 dramatic, bla, bla, you know what I mean. The game is fast pased but also uses tactics a little, 
 wich is good, cause I rarely see a game that utilises both of these things togheter. Graphics, 
 I already told you, they're great, but the most bad a$$ effect is when you have blood all over 
 your screen. Overall, almost everything is cool, only minor glitches, that's all. So, buy this 
 beast if you have a PC that can run it xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgoth2006
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  As one of the first games set for release on the XBOX 360, Gears of War certainly set the standards 
 for the next-gen consoles and gave the industry a solid foundation on which to develop. The game 
 certainly doesn't push any boundaries, but that may not come as a surprise to those who have witnessed 
 the release of previous consoles. What Gears of War does is take the 3rd person shooter format 
 and bring it forward to a next-gen console; doing so with style and vigour.
  
  By playing this game with the 8800gtx video card I was able to experience the full graphical force 
 of the game, accompanied by sound pumping through the X-FI extreme gamer sound card. Graphically, 
 the PC version of this game outperforms its console predecessor, but the sound is on par with that 
 of the 360. Although the sound is about the same as the 360 version, it still has the same impact 
 that it did when released for the console. The voice acting is superb, and it is accompanied by 
 a musical score that really does the upmost to create tension during darker sections of the game, 
 and a sense of high intensity during the long (and in some cases arduous) gun fights. Playing this 
 sound through a surround sound or home entertainment system increases this audio experience to 
 a new level. The dialogue itself really does shed some light on exactly what is going on, and this 
 enables the player to become really immersed in the game.
  
  The game play for Gears of War differs on the PC to that of the console equivalent. The majority 
 of PC gamers will opt for the keyboard and mouse combination, rather that the gamepad option. Although 
 the wireless controller for the 360 is available for use with the PC, the majority of users will 
 still prefer to use the keyboard and mouse. This choice of control changes the way that the game 
 is played, especially during online play as the level of play among PC gamers is generally higher 
 due to the accuracy of a mouse over the joysticks of a gamepad. This means the level of play online 
 is at a higher standard and users who wish to use the XBOX gamepad on the PC will have to work 
 harder to compensate for the accuracy deficit. 
  
  As for the story mode of the game, it remains much the same as the original 360 game, but there 
 are some notable changes. The PC version does indeed have some extra levels within some chapters 
 in areas that jumped in the original, and these chapters aim to make sense of how they arrived 
 in a new location. Overall, these levels do their job but they are very different to the original 
 levels of the game. The levels designed exclusively for the PC version of the game are much larger 
 and more open ended and this really does make use of the greater capabilities of the PC hardware 
 of the console hardware. 
  
  The game play within the story mode has some really nice ideas coming together in single play or 
 two forms of co-op (live and co-op [in the case of the 360, same console] played over a LAN) . No 
 matter which way you play the game you will still appreciate the effort that has clearly been put 
 into developing certain areas of the game play. One notable area which is clearly outstanding is 
 the cover mechanics. When fighting the AI, or other uses in multiplayer matches, it is key for 
 the player to find cover and use it to their own benefit. Gears of War makes this as easy as possible, 
 using a single button to get into cover. When behind cover players can stay behind their and reload 
 or gain health, they can blind fire (and blind throw grenades) or they can stick their head out 
 and actually aim at the enemy. All of these options are useful at some point when in a gun fight, 
 and it is really made to feel natural. Another area that has clearly had effort poured into it 
 is the way players can kill enemies after they have been "downed". Both the curb stomp and the 
 chainsaw bayonet are excellently animated and really make you feel like you've just brutally killed 
 a guy. The chainsaw bayonet is especially nice as the blood splashes all over the players screen 
 (and on the PC version with some nice hardware this is particularly nice!) .
  
  The storyline itself seems to be slightly drawn out, but this is only a minor set back when you 
 consider some of the amazing work that has been put into the game. Some of the acts have very extended 
 gun fighting scenes to get through specific areas and levels, and some of these really could do 
 with being slightly shorter. 
  
  Online play from Gears of War doesn't really seem to attract as many players as it did for the 
 360, but you can always find a game to join. The variety of game modes that are available allow 
 all players to find something that they enjoy; from the basic team death match (Warzone) to king 
 of the hill, point capture modes (Anex) and Assassination. Assassination is an interesting mode 
 when you consider the nature of the game. In this mode a team wins by killing the leader of the 
 opposing team, and other players can re-spawn as many times as they wish until they game has been 
 finished. This is unusual because in all other game modes, once a player has been killed, they 
 cannot re-spawn. This gives an interesting new look at the multiplayer portion of this game, and 
 it gives it a fresh new feel.
  
  With the impressive graphics and sound, the decent single player game play and the nice online 
 game play, Gears of War has some technical issues which have been partly ironed out with recent 
 patches, but some areas still remain to lag and drop in frame rate which can get really annoying 
 (especially during large gun fights) . Apart from this, the game is superb and has some brilliant 
 features that have been developed well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theminence
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game to come out for the PC since the day it was launched on the 360. After a while 
 it did come out for PC and it hasn't disappointed me (yet) .
  
  The graphics are great, and luckily you won't need a killer-machine to run this game smoothly. 
 I was actually surprised by the performance. If I max it out, ok, then my fps will drop severely 
 but that doesn't surprise me cause my rig is already 1,5 years old. I'm looking forward to getting 
 my new rig (should arrive within a week or so) . Maybe then I will be able to max out the settings.
 
  
  I think the game-play feels very good, and I love the cover system. It adds such a lot of possibilities 
 while in a firefight. (When I play a game without such a cover system it even feels a little stiff) . 
 You could take cover behind any low or high wall, peek around corners (aiming or just spraying 
 aimless) , stand straight up, or crouch making your way around your enemies to flank them.
  
  Unfortunately there seems to be one downside, the bugs. I've heard a lot of rumors and complaints 
 about disappearing save games. I have not encountered any problems yet though, so for me it just 
 stays to be a great game. For all those people suffering from bugs.. let's just hope they'll fix 
 it ASAP.
  
  And for the rest of y'all, go get this game!
  
  The game may be a little short by the way. But I don't think that it's bad because it might all 
 get a little repeating if the single-player campaign is longer than it is now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alivenight
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how gamespot has given 9.0 and editor's choice for gears of war. It certainly deserves 
 a lot of credit for visual and gameplay but the techinical side of the game lets down. For example, 
 AI of the mobs and your members are horrible!! Mobs act with so predictable way that you could 
 always expect them to do this or that 100%. An example would be when you are sharing the cover, 
 mob on the opposite side and you are leaning against the other side, the mob will certainly climb 
 over the debris or come closer to you. Also AI of your members are pretty stupid too. There is 
 a function which you can command them to attack or regroup but they are hardly influenced by the 
 command you give. Even sometimes they refuge to move (stuck on the spot) and the cut scene wouldn't 
 play and forced me to start from the last check point. 
  
  Despite all that GoW contains varies of fun playing parts and many challneges to offer. The sound 
 effect and the background music was very good and it suited with the amazing visual graphic. However 
 the voice of characters are hard to hear sometimes during combat (maybe that's why there's subtitile) . 
 I really liked variety of mobs, well just different guns they carry, especially berserker. It really 
 scared me when it first appeared haha.
  
  The another set-back would be storyline. Maybe i'm missing something but i never got to find out 
 why Phoenix was in prison except he betrayed or something. Also how did those locusts got to invade 
 the Earth or whatever. It was just go out and shoot and kill mobs without any specific reason except 
 to survive.
  
  More frustrating part of this game was the game itself. Sometimes my saved games would magically 
 vanish or some specific part like chapter 14 or chapter 34 the game would get error and cant go 
 on. It really pisses me off that i cannot finish the game =_= 
  
  All in all, the game is worth playing and time spending. There are many great features in the game 
 but many problems to encounter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  After I have played it for awhile, the it looks more then great, more like fantastic. I have ever 
 never thought that i will play so great game and with that kind on graphic and sound. I totally 
 recommend this game to every player who like kill! The story is gorgeous, you have to kill un-humans 
 , and also berserks, huge ant's and so on. Weapons are just like they have to be, sound is good 
 and also look is very good, but aiming is the best. The fastest you will play this game then the 
 more fastest you will get to play it and feel it yourself! Also, this game should get 9.5, not 
 9. The game is too good. It's one of the best. I wonder how will be Gears of War 2 on PC. It should 
 be a success like this one. Everybody should get this game no matter  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  I have just finished this very weekend Gears of War. The game that showed the real potential of 
 the X360. I couldn't do anything else but buy it.
  And it was definitely worth purchase. 
  Before Xmas I had a little problem with my video card. It was useless. I couldn't even play some 
 of the best games in the market including Bioshock and Crysis. So I boutght a 512 mb Ati X1950. 
 Not the best but good enough. And leveled up my RAM memory up to 3GB. Along with a 3ghz cpu the 
 game looks really well and it's gameplay it's amazing. 
  
  My impressions on the game: I have finished it, so I laugh in the face of the newbies. I am happy 
 to have finished it. My eyes have witnessed many, many memorable moments along the road. So I envy 
 you, you rookies, a little bit. This game is about overcoming difficulties. Several difficulties. 
 But do not worry, the game will show you the road in a very efficient manner. It won't show how 
 to overcome the difficulties but do not worry about losing the tracks. It is not that type of game.
 
  From the very begining of this 3rd person shooter, you will realize that you can only count on 
 your skills, on simple mechanics about taking cover for there are several points where alien weapons 
 will kill you in seconds and, and this is the very point of the game, on THE ENVIRONMENT. Environment 
 is your ally ALWAYS. Find the best approach to overcome the difficulties always taking advantage 
 on the environment characteristics. It sounds like a useless advise or counsel (Like the tapa, 
 tapa, tapa from the simpsons episode, dancing Lisa) But it's not. 
  If you get into the game and are patient enough, you'll discovered one of the most beautifully 
 designed postnuclear city that I have ever seen.
  I repeat, this game is beautiful in a very objetive way. It will try your patience (Mainly due 
 to the long loading times. Epic team should do something on this behalf) for it is a tough one. 
 He. Show it you are tougher ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  The game is very enjoyable and fast-paced and the graphics are amazing but the game is exceptionally 
 difficult. The first level is even so hard but even when you get used to it it'll still get you 
 killed! I really like the game because of the phenominal graphics and great gameplay but the only 
 problem is its I dunno just so hard! The game puts you in the role of Marcus Helix who is a tough 
 x con and wants to kick some alien butt! Literally!
  
  One thing I really like about the game is the cool chainsaw and the way blood comes on the screen! 
 Thats amazing. It might be one of the best third person shooters out there but its not one of the 
 easiest! I mean if you have to empty half a cartridge for taking out one alien freak!
  
  Btw I don't own the game I played it at my friend's house.
  
  I hope Gears 2 is doesn't give 
 you a headache when your playing! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since the game was release on the Xbox 360, everyone was waiting for the game 
 to arrive and now its here. Was it worth the wait?
  Many were afraid of another bad conversion, was microsoft capable of doing a good conversion?
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game already proved on the Xbox 360 that the graphics are great and in the PC they continue 
 great, the unreal 3 graphics engine its trully impressive and has a great relation graphics - performance. 
 The graphics are slight better on the PC with some Direct X10 effects and higher resolutions, so 
 if they were great on the Xbox 360 they are even better on the PC.
  10.
  
  Sound:
  
  Gears of war its pure action and nothing more, many explosions and shots will be heard and all 
 sounds good, the chainsaw sound its pretty cool and cutting down enemies with it listening them 
 suffering its outstanding.
  9.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay centers in the cover, you just move around from cover to cover and sneaking to shoot 
 at the enemies, you can also shoot without looking, of course you'll fail most of the shots if 
 not everyshot. This cover to cover gameplay system works pretty well and its a lot fun but doing 
 this the whole game can get very repetitive. You can also instruct your team to regroup and other 
 few options, but you won't use this to much since its not really necessary, more work on the tactical 
 aspects of the game would help a lot in the gameplay.
  8.
  
  Value:
  
  The game its pretty short, you take the whole game shooting locust and in no time the game its 
 finished. If you are an hardcore player maybe you would like to play the game in the Insane dificulty, 
 its a really hard mode that offers you quite a challenge and its only unlocked when you finish 
 the game.
  Gears of war doesn't have many replay value but its great while it lasts.
  7.
  
  Overall:
  
  Gears of war its a great great shooter and will appeal to the most of the players, 
 casual or hardcore you should definetly own this, unlike other console convertions to the PC gears 
 of war its pretty well optimized and will run great and look great on mid range computers, it was 
 really worth the wait to play such a good game, lets just hope that gears of war 2 will have a 
 bigger campaign and will have a not so repetitive gameplay.
  8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastik01
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Buying Gears of war for PC is like buying a brand new car straight from the factory that doesn't 
 even make it off the dealership lot. So far there hasn't been any public say from Microsoft about 
 this issue, it is pretty much as if it doesn't exist to them. They might be working on it, but 
 they surely have not shown any signs of doing so. So far everyone has had a problem. There are 
 numerous problems people have had, including crashes once the game begins, drive errors, xlive 
 errors, english errors, etc. It makes you even wonder if they tested it before they shipped it. 
 So far keeping customers in the dark has been a problem, with no refund in sight nor a fix, It 
 seems more like thousands were extorted and robbed rather than victims of a harmless error. Just 
 like more than 30% (a grossly underestimated figure provided by MS) of Xbox's fail, the number 
 is even higher with Gears of War for PC. One even wonders how gamespot can review a game that is 
 broken for more than half its users, and probably more around 90%. I don't even see how the developers 
 ran the game, if they even attempted to do so. It is obvious that this is one of 2 things. It can 
 be that MS purposely made the game like this, to boost its stocks value temporarily, companies 
 do this all the time. ever get mail in rebates? why can't they just take the money off the price? 
 because they 'borrow' that money and use it for themselves, make a profit from it, and 'pay' you 
 back. That can be the same thing going on here. Or someone made a VERY big mistake and didn't evaluate 
 the game properly before releasing it. MS continues to disappoint. They never come close to compensating 
 their customers for their own flaws. Even when xbox live failed for over a month, they only offered 
 a free dashboard game, and only one game choice at that. which coincidentally was well below the 
 value of a months worth of xbox live account. They basically get paid whether they provide a service 
 or not, whether they mess up or not. With as large as MS is, and with as much resources as it has 
 you would think it would be on top of these things and have them solved almost immediately. And 
 they should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakShow11
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The whole idea of gears going to the PC could have been great but they completly ruined it. First 
 off it never should have been released there are so many bugs that it really dosnt matter how great 
 your rig is your still gonna have problems. As far as the story go's its just like the xbox 360 
 only better the extra hour of content is pretty cool but so unlike the rest of the game. The game 
 go's from a small area where there really isnt anywhere to go but to keep moving forward to a much 
 larger area with more room to work with. So story wise if you can handle the frustration that starts 
 to build while playing co-op with a friends and all the crashing that go's on the new content is 
 worth seeing. Now to the online this is where its a complet joke you have to have a Live gamertag 
 to play. Now for all the xbox gears members that bought this have no problem, But most people who 
 buy computer games dont have a Live membership so they can play unranked or ranked games all they 
 can play is this silver freebie gametype that no one plays and there are online bugs aswell. So 
 in the end the games has a lot of bugs and the online between the bugs and people not being able 
 to play without a live id = very poor online most likely there isnt more then one game out there 
 now. Its just overall a waste of time just stick with the xbox 360 version unless your a big big 
 fan and want to see the new content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobmitchell
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  The game has had a bug since day 1. Saved games disappear with no warning. You can be halfway through 
 the game... pause for a second and poof... your saved game is gone and you are back at the beginning. 
 On the Epic forums, there are over 30 pages of complaints and pleas to Epic and Microsoft to fix 
 the saved game bug... all being ignored. 
  
  Then... Gamespot has the Audacity to give the game a 9.0 rating stating how wonderful the PC version 
 is. How can it be wonderful if it doesn't work properly Why are people constantly running around 
 in circles trying to get past certain levels, only to have their saved games wiped again???? This 
 is not a good game... it is a Class Action Lawsuit waiting to happen
  
  
  Shame on Epic Games. Shame on Microsoft. But, mostly shame on Gamespot... where taking advertising 
 money is more important tnan telling it's readers the truth. THIS GAME IS BROKEN and no one want 
 to take responsibility and rfix it. Don't believe me... READ
  
  http://gearsforums. epicgames. com/showthread. php? t=583531
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  I was initially surprised to see what GOW had to offer.. As it offered tooo much excitement too 
 quickly and was not able to keep up to the initial excitement, as after a few hours the gameplay 
 gets a tag repetative, but not sooo repetative that u will get bugged.. Mainly as even though the 
 gameplay is repetative it just provides too much fun, too much gore and too much blood.. Who wouldn 
 like to see the enemies get torn to pieces or blood all over ur screen when u draw the chain saw 
 dow ur enemies spine.. Its just awesome.. It is mainly due to these awesome moments that GOW will 
 not get on ur nerves cos of its repetativeness and you will want to finish the game.. Apart from 
 all the blood and gore the other cool concept of GOW is the cover mechanics.. The cover mechanics 
 keeps things very realistic as without taking cover it is nearly impossible to take down ur enemy 
 as in real life.. There are some really cool weapons in GOW.. Using a gun is really satisfying..
 
  
  The graphics of GOW is just breathtaking.. Especially the cutscenes, they look stunning.. Even the 
 blood splashing on the screen looks gr8.. The character models are top notch.. The enemy designs 
 are just superb and also sometimes scary.. Could have done a better job on the texture i guess.. 
 But make no mistake GOW is right up there with CRYSIS, BIOSHOCK, COD4 as far as graphics are concerned..
 
  
  The voice acting is superb and u can feel the nature of every cahracter from the voice.. The music 
 is cool and fits the game well.. The weapons too sounds gr8.. And the best part is when a chainsaw 
 goes deep down your enemy's spine.. Wow it just sounds as cool as it looks.. Even better..
  
  The story is pretty stright forwarrd.. But its engaging nevertheless.. The game is on the difficult 
 side.. Even on the easiest difficulty u may die quite a few times.. U can also change ur difficulty 
 anytime during the game.. The story as a whole is short but considering the difficulty u will be 
 spending somewhere around 15 hrs with this game.. The game is not soo difficult that u will start 
 plucking hair out of ur head out frustration, once u get a hang of it u will surely enjoy it.. 
 I was never a fan of the checkpoint system.. But this game proves that even if bad things are done 
 right , then it can turn out ot be good.. The game has a really cool checkpoint system keeping 
 in mind that u don end up repeating the scenarios over and over...
  
  GOW also provides good multiplayer.. But can be serious pain sometimes cos of the Microsoft Live 
 thing.. Man that sucks.. Anywayz if u can get the game online then oh boy u r in for a treat..
 
  
  Another prob with GOW is that there is not much of exploration in the game.. And this also adds 
 the repetative gameplay mentioned earlier.. Make one thing clear if u r into games where u just 
 gun down enemies then this is surely not ur cup of tea.. But if u r a gamer who enjoys a bit of 
 challenge and loves to see realistic action then this surely is ur game.. I would suggest this 
 game to gamers who love to see violence as GOW is violence blood and gore to the fullest.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War is built on the Unreal 3 engine - the review deck above says it all - This is so much 
 better than UT3.
  
  The game has usual Unreal engine graphics (i. e fantastic) including the annoying glow that can 
 be seen in other unreal games such as Rainbow 6 vegas, but otherwise this is top notch stuff. The 
 story is good with levels cut together with excellent cut screens. The character models are amazing 
 - the best I've seen in a game to date.
  
  Sound is awesome with good voice acting and lots of humour.
  
  Where this gameplay falls down 
 is in the controls and the combat system - much of the game relies on taking cover but you often 
 finding yourself "sticking" to walls - particularly at times you don't want to which leads to you 
 doing unintended forward rolls and getting killed. This makes the controls awkward and makes it 
 obvious this is a console port.
  
  The weapons really good and satisfyingly powerful.
  
  The game is also quite hard and with an annoying checkpoint save system you find yourself playing 
 the same bit over and over again in ground hog day fashion. Due to the difficulty ogf the game 
 it should have check points much closer together.
  
  The game does take some time to get into, but as you progress it gets better and better. Much of 
 this game is completely new and innovative which makes a nice change. In some respects, parts of 
 it are very much like Doom 3 and can be quite scary when fighting the likes of Beserkers in darkened 
 corridors.
  
  This game was terrible to install - it took 1.5 hours and the installation took up 12gb of hard 
 drive space. You must also sign up to the Windows live service which is completely unnecessary.
 
  
  Other than that, the gameplay is fantastic, excellent story line interpersed with a great deal 
 of comedy. This game brings out a number of emotions - awe at the graphics, racing pulses at the 
 sacriness (dont play in the dark) and lauchter at the one offs by the NPC's.
  
  Multiplayer appears to be very good, but the problem is, that much like UT3 there is hardly anyone 
 ever playing.
  
  If it hadn't been for the checkpoint system and the cover controls, this would be as near perfect 
 game as you could get. Overall this is a fantastic game which is not to be missed.
  
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Stability 10
  Gameplay 9
  Value for money 9
  
  Overall 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Even though everyone knows that Gears of War (GoW) was well played and appreciated on the Xbox 
 360... It's nice to see a company put a lot of effort into trying their hands at making a good console 
 port over to PC.
  
  Any PC gamer that owns a monitor that can make use of 1280 x 1024 resolution and a computer that 
 allows them to put all settings on high (or even medium for that matter) knows that no next gen 
 console can touch what a computer is capable of. After playing GoW on my PC and then trying to 
 play the 360 version, the game looks kinda blocky. 
  
  Epic does a very good job in making sure that controls are smooth and easy to use, just like on 
 the 360. If you have enough buttons on your mouse, you can set up almost all of the needed action 
 keys there. Learning the keys is quick and easy. Or, if you are not comfortable with the mouse 
 and keyboard, then you can hook up a 360 controler and play that way, too.
  
  Graphics are stunningly beautiful and they are way out of the 360's capabilities.
  
  The AI 
 has been beefed up a bit and the new chapter added to the PC version makes good use of this.
  
  The ability to play co-op via Live Silver or Gold is good, but there never seems to be anyone 
 around to join up with. So, unless you're playing via LAN or you and a buddy work out a time to 
 play co-op, you're pretty much stuck playing solo.
  
  Time it takes to beat the game on Hardcore solo is about 6-8 hours; depending on how long it takes 
 to get through certain spots or how much lag/stuttering you experience. So, even with the new chapter 
 added on, the gameplay is still rather short and it actually kind of feels like it lacks the feeling 
 of achivement when you're playing solo.
  
  With my computer, I experienced a lot of lagging and stuttering. My specs are: 
  
  AMD 64 X2 
 5600+ (2.81GHz) , 4GB memory (only 3.25GB recognized in my Windows XP) , 2x 8800GTS 640MB in SLI.
 
  
  With my resolution at 1650 x 1080 and all settings at max, I was getting 50-60 frames per second 
 (fps) , but for some reason I was experiencing a lot of stuttering and lagging. I even tried turning 
 down all settings to meduim and I'd get 60+fps, but I still experienced a lot of lagging.
  
  I suffered through it and beat the game on Hardcore, but I won't be playing through again until 
 GoW is better optimized to handle dual core processors and SLI setup.
  
  Overall, the game is one of the best looking games out there and it packs a lot of action into 
 a short timeframe. So if you're looking for something fun to do and a weekend of time to kill, 
 pick up a copy. I even strongly suggest any 360 owners that have GoW for their 360, to pick up 
 copy for PC and play through the added chapter. You won't be disappointed with the new addition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  "Gears of War" has arrived on the PC after making quite a splash on the Xbox 360. In addition to 
 widespread critical acclaim and numerous Game of the Year awards, the game also enjoyed huge sales 
 numbers as one of the most popular games of 2006. After playing the it, I don't quite understand 
 why. It's a fantastic-looking game and an impressive showcase for the Unreal 3 engine, but underneath 
 the incredible presentation lie some problems. Chief among them are an annoying control scheme 
 and a weak weapon selection. It can be fun, and it's worth playing if you have a high end machine 
 with which to enjoy it, but Gears of War is still an overrated game that takes second place to 
 some other recent great games on the PC.
  
  First impressions are important, and Gears of War certainly hits a home run in this department. 
 The graphics are beautiful  almost perfect. Were it not for Crysis, Gears of War would be the 
 finest looking game on the PC. The visuals are a breathtaking marriage of art direction, technology, 
 and animation. The Delta squad members are intricately detailed and move convincingly taking cover, 
 aiming, running, crouching, and using a chainsaw to slice enemies into a bloody mess. The lighting 
 is truly superb  some of the most convincing to date. The environments are awe-inspiring and they 
 beautifully convey a picture of a bombed-out, war-torn world. The game excels not only in its technical 
 qualities, but in its cinematic qualities as well. Everything in the game is presented like an 
 over-the-top action movie. You don't just open doors. You rear back and kick them in. When you 
 chainsaw an enemy, dark blood splatters all over the screen. When you sprint from cover to cover, 
 the camera follows you up close, as if you were the subject of a History Channel documentary. One 
 thing that you cannot say about "Gears of War" is that the presentation isn't fantastic.
  
  The great presentation carries over into the audio as well. The voice acting for the game is great. 
 All of the Delta squad members have deep gravelly voices that perfectly match their bald, meathead, 
 space marine looks. The banter between them is highly entertaining and the music is great. The 
 soundtrack perfectly fits the game's "Summer Blockbuster action movie" vibe. The only part of the 
 audio that doesn't excel is the weapon sounds, many of which sound weak or underpowered -- more 
 on the weapons later.
  
  "Gears of War" offers a third person version of the "stop and pop", cover-and-shoot gameplay mechanics 
 that are rapidly becoming popular in the shooter world. You quickly run from cover point to cover 
 point, popping out to aim and shoot quickly and then taking cover again. When you shoot, the camera 
 zooms in so that it is almost first person. If you take some damage, you avoid taking any more 
 for a few seconds, and it goes away. These are fun mechanics around which to design a game, but 
 Gears of War botches it in a few major ways.
  
  The worst problem with this game is that it has one of the dumbest control schemes ever implemented 
 on the PC. Specifically, the run, cover, and evade functions are all mapped to one context-sensitive 
 key. This may have been a great idea on the Xbox 360, but it's downright idiotic on the PC, which 
 can easily accommodate more hotkeys. "Gears of War" will have you fighting with the controls almost 
 as much as the enemies on the screen. A simple task like getting out from behind cover and running 
 to another cover point is way harder than it should be. Sometimes, you will try to dive out of 
 the way of danger and you will end up hugging a nearby wall instead. Sometimes, you will try to 
 sprint forward but get stuck to a nearby cover point instead. The game is pretty unforgiving once 
 you get halfway through, so these common mistakes can easily get you killed. This awful control 
 setup will have you pulling your hair out during the game's tougher moments, unless you put the 
 game on the easiest difficulty level. How hard would it have been to map just one function to another 
 key? Too hard, apparently, for Epic.
  
  "Gears of War" also half-heartedly attempts to implement squad mechanics by giving you some simple 
 "attack" and "regroup" commands. This part of the game is completely worthless, since you can't 
 direct your squad anywhere or give them any specific instructions. During tough battles, your squad 
 mates are usually down on the ground within about 5-10 seconds, since they do a lousy job of staying 
 out of the line of fire.
  
  The weapons in "Gears of War" also leave a lot to be desired. The pistols are pretty much worthless. 
 Grenades take a long time to throw, exposing you to a lot of risk. There is a three-shot burst 
 rifle that you will probably never use because it is a piece of junk. The shotgun has no range 
 beyond about six feet, and since it's not a one shot kill, you probably won't use that one much 
 either. That leaves the automatic rifle/chainsaw combo that you will probably use for 75% of the 
 game. Even the automatic rifle is a weak weapon that apparently shoots Tic-Tacs instead of bullets. 
 It takes an entire clip of head shots to bring down an enemy grunt on Hardcore difficulty. Enemies 
 will exploit this constantly by bum rushing you when you are behind cover, and there is little 
 that you can do about this since emptying half a clip into a guy's face doesn't kill him. You can 
 also pick up rocket launchers occasionally, but you won't find much ammunition for them.
  
  Your enemies, on the other hand, once you get halfway through the game, have all kinds of one-shot 
 kill weapons such as rockets and exploding bolts. These weapons will kill you if you leave your 
 head outside of cover for about a second too long on Hardcore difficulty. Combine these problems 
 with Gears of War's console-inspired checkpoint save system, and you have a game that can be irritating 
 and not fun for long periods of time.
  
  
  The graphics in this game are top-notch, but some other aspects of the technology aren't. Level 
 sizes are small and usually pretty cramped, with generally just one path through each level, maybe 
 two at the most. With a few exceptions, environments are mostly static and devoid of Havok physics 
 or destructible elements. Heavy use of physics has become standard fare in PC shooters nowadays. 
 In this game, you can have a ten minute fight in an environment and it will leave little or no 
 evidence that it ever happened.
  
  "Gears of War" should take you the standard 8-10 hours to complete the single player campaign. 
 A few uninspired boss battles don't add much value to the game. The level design is fairly repetitive 
 and enemy variety is pretty low, so you will probably have had enough by the time that you finish 
 it. That's if you can put up with the annoying "Games for Windows Live", which makes you sign in 
 every time you play, even if you just want to play the single player game. GFW Live doesn't appear 
 to be very popular for multiplayer either, as there is hardly anyone playing on-line.
  
  "Gears of War" is still a moderately fun game, but it is overrated, and it is not as good as some 
 of the great games that have shown up on the PC within the past year. Rainbow Six: Vegas is a better 
 "stop and pop" game. Even though its graphics are not as good, it has better controls, better squad 
 tactics, and creative level design that allows you to approach tough situations in a number of 
 ways. Games like Crysis and S. T. A. L. K. E. R. have raised the bar for what qualifies as a superb shooter 
 nowadays. This game falls short. The "stop-and-pop" gameplay combined and the fantastic, cinematic 
 presentation make the game somewhat fun when it works. The game's awful control scheme keeps rearing 
 its ugly head though, and when you combine that problem with a few other nagging issues, "Gears 
 of War" is not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernardofd
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  * Excellent graphics, run smooth in max resolution and detail on most scenes in a mid-end computer, 
 great texture detailing.
  * Convincing voice-play, although somewhat annoying in battle.
  * The "hide and shoot" style combined with the unusual 3rd person view adds a different experience 
 in shooters.
  * For those who like gory game-play, this has plenty.
  
  Cons:
  * The storyline is nice, but the game gets somewhat repetitive over time.
  * Your party's IA 
 is a pain, specially when you depend on them to cover you. They get knocked down several times 
 and put you in danger while trying to revive them, just to be killed seconds after. Mostly, the 
 best use of your companions is to draw fire for them (and buy you some time to flank) and detect 
 some cornered and hidden enemies
  * I'm not a fan of checkpoints saving, but GoW have some unbalanced saving points. There are several 
 points in the game when you have to go through lots and lots of locusts just to 20 minutes later 
 an unseen Boomer or Theron Guard blast you with a lucky shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple_ronny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I've read lots of reviews and found many people saying it's buggy, slow, 
 looses game saves and in general very poor, but i have had no problems at all. I don't know if 
 it's because I'm running a pretty powerful set up but like i said it works great on mine system. 
 For reference purposes here is what I'm running in my system:
  
  CPU: Intel core 2 duo E6700 @ 2.6Ghz
  GPU: Nvidia Gforce 8800 GTS 380MB
  Ram: 2GB
  500gb 
 SATA2 HD
  
  Non of the hardware has been over clocked just bog standard out of the box.
  
  I hope this might help a few people towards making this game work properly as it would be a 
 great shame if you've bought it and can not play as, like i said earlier, it's just awesome. And 
 as for people's comments about EPIC releasing their "usual garbage"??? What planet are they on, 
 EPIC have only consistently released the best first person shooter of all time.... The Unreal Tournament 
 series. Need i say more.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Gears of Snore is a great looking game that could be worth playing after a few patches. 
  
  But it's got issues. I mean issues like that ex-girlfriend who calls you every night at 3:30 in 
 the morning to see if your home issues.
  
  First of all, it's a console port in all the worst ways, stupid controls, and no ability to save 
 when you want to. The save isn't always a bad thing, but it is when it's buggy. Can you imagine 
 finishing the final boss battle, getting the end video only to have the game crash? Okay it happens, 
 and the end boss battle was a breeze. I'd have done it again just to watch the end video but all 
 my saves were gone. In fact, only the very beginning of the game and the start of the last act 
 were available.
  
  That's unforgivable.
  
  The controls are over simplified, thats always a potential issue with a console port. In this case, 
 it's the space bar. By the end of the game, I just didn't care. I didn't want to die as I'd have 
 to reply a ton of stuff, but in the end it was just a matter of pressing the space bar at random. 
 Sometimes you'd duck behind cover, other times you'd do a commando roll, but you couldn't never 
 be quite sure which.
  
  The graphics and sound are great, the story is fair (but the author of it is excellent, so from 
 that perspective, I was disappointed. He can and has done better.)
  
  The game play is divided into two sections, shooting and healing. Basically you're either firing 
 from cover, or hiding behind it so that you can heal up enough to continue. At some point you just 
 want to press the space bar so that you can advance the story, press the space bar to shoot, press 
 the space bar while reading a good book so that the game will progress. Then you press the space 
 bar some more.
  
  The game isn't bad in the end, but it's not ready for prime time, and it's a budget title at best. 
 Oh there's multiplayer, but after your single player is wasted, do you care? I stopped. Look for 
 this game in my next garage sale. Cheap.
  
  -1 for Microsoft Live because there is no reason for it (ever) .
  -1 for lack of save
  -1 for 
 crashing
  -.5 for wonky controls
  -.5 for tiring game play
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no-scoped_jfk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  This is just a accurate, quick review.
  
  I was playing this on 
  amd 3200+ (single core cpu)
  2gbs ddr400 ram
  x1650 pro 512mb overclocked
  
  i was playing 
 this game close to max, resolution was at 1680x1050 all details were on the highest they could 
 go, i only had vsync turned off and AA was at x8.
  
  At these settings the gameplay was fairly smooth, their was a tiny bit of lag as you walked and 
 fired, but i was happy what i got out of my rig. The graphics were stunning - beautiful mist and 
 blur effects.
  
  The only downside to the game would have to be the repetitiveness of it. You just keep shooting 
 and ducking and shooting and ducking. With the occasional different thing.
  
  If your a casual gamer or don't play shooters often - you WILL LOVE IT, i just play shooters all 
 the time and this was over hyped for me.
  
  Also, if you have a rig with really new parts or like a quad core cpu, it probably won't run well, 
 driver's don't seem to be working well with the game for people who have dream rigs. thats why 
 play it on a fairly old machine. Mines be running great, i thought i would need to upgrade to a 
 dual core but i'll wait till i find a game i want that i can't run.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Simply amazing. It's very hard (as all reviewers said) but it's awesome. 
 It's that kinda game where you suck, then you get better, then you become godlike, then HOLY S*** 
 and you start to feel like it's the best game in the world.
  
  I love it. I don't play it on my PC because it won't work... XD but I play it in a nearby lanhouse 
 with my friend over the internet and it's one of the best games I've ever played. I'm so sad I 
 don't have a 360, but I wasn't going to buy a 360 just for one game, now was I?
  
  I just made this short review cuz there's not much to talk about this game. Just know it as a medium-paced, 
 great multiplayer 3PS that everyone must have. It's not fast paced but it's very fun. it's kinda 
 like kane & lynch, but it's not that sucky garbage... Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rzanini
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  At first I thought it wasn't a nice game... Different angles, it is not ACTUALLY a FPS game... 
 Then I started playing and have found out it is a GREAT GAME! I just can't stop playing!! The only 
 cons is that you cannot SAVE your own progress. It should be nice if guys on Epic and MS let us 
 save it offline for future "reinstall", so our progress could be also "reinstalled" from a previous 
 backup. Another con is that I have played it on a notebook equipped with a 7950GTX Go and WIndows 
 Vista, so, there isn't a specific driver for my video and game crashes sometimes. Worse than that, 
 I also have to start from the beginning everything, unless after playing, I create a "System restore 
 point". Hope there will be a fix for that very soon!!
  Game is very nice, I liked it very much and I recommend it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devils_Destiny
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  whoa... wat to say bout this game.. i can speak if there is anything left to speak... everything is 
 just too  
 went almost close to reality with this one.. gr8 game... truly a marvel.... u gotta have a gr8 machine 
 to play this one tho. if you wanna enjoy this game to the fullest then make sure u got a solid machine 
 for it to run... u gotta have good fuel to boost up ur car... i was unable to overcome its aftermath 
 when i finished the game... the teamplay is awesome.. i havent really tried the multiplayer yet... but 
 single player is gr8.... i hope to see some more games like this one from microsoft... n yeah m hell 
 excited about GEARS 2.. cant wait to play it... i dont know wat to say... all i can say is.. this is 
 the game u are looking for if you want some real action with gr8 graphics.. awesome sound effects 
 n ofcourse breath taking gameplay.. Rock On !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basantainlfc
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because of all the media and people commenting on how great this game is. Perhaps 
 I was expecting too much. I did like the game play. The story line however wasn't that interesting. 
 It just felt like a shooting game. This game has great graphics especially with the direct x 10 
 units. I tried both versions to see the difference.
  The game is easy to play; it doesn't have a lot of puzzles pretty straight forward game.
  I haven't 
 had the opportunity to play it online because I got sick from playing this game in a single player 
 campaign. The screen shakes too much which made me nauseous. I first played it on a 42 inch screen 
 to end up with a bad headache about an hour later, I then moved it to my smaller screen the 19 
 inch, it still shook too much, especially when you make your unit squat down and run. It would 
 have been better if the screen didn't shook too much. I don't know but that's just my point of 
 view.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War for the PC brings nothing new, other than new modes and the Brumak fight. The game 
 itself is a breathtaking view, especially since it can run so flawlessly even on older systems. 
 The new engine brings new detail to the game, but not much else is added.
  
  As stated before, the Brumak battle is not that hard. In fact, it's just outright too easy. If 
 you know how to play Gears, then the Brumak should be no trouble, not matter which difficulty you 
 play it on.
  
  The Live system also has glitches. For me, the Live system only updates to 99% and pauses there 
 indefinitely. Most people have had other problems with it too, showing that the Live system is 
 not that effective for the PC.
  
  Multiplayer is also the same as the 360. Nothing new, nothing much.
  
  All in all, if you've 
 already played the 360 version, don't buy this. For first-time PC gamers, this is a good choice 
 to buy, although there are better alternatives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  It is truly amazing how some games lack one things but have an abudance of others. It is very hard 
 to find games that give you everything you want. I want good quality graphics, good storyline, 
 innovation, immersiveness and not to get bored. I suppose there are a few other things like the 
 overal effect of all of those put together and some other things that I haven; t thought about (these 
 5 were off the top of my head - others could include controls, bugs/glitches...) . 
  
  Starting with the graphics, Gears of Wars has absolutely brilliant graphics with some great effects. 
 The only let down in this bit is that the graphics of the immediate surroundings are good but nothing 
 too wow, and there isn't much interactivness with the items around. 
  
  However, this is a straight up shooter, kind of like Painkiller (the game) where you kill , kill 
 , kill and kill some more. So, having pretty interactive objects isn't of much use. 
  
  The enemies are hard to beat even on casual difficulty. I'm very glad I played it on casual. One 
 of them alone can kill you on a face off shootout, if you only make a mistake or two. 
  
  It takes approximately a full charger on avergae to kill one enemy and with a few enemies around 
 it's not nice having to recharge all the time but this doesn; t cause to many problems in the game. 
 
  
  So, I just wanted to let future players know that this is not a couple of bullets kill such as 
 you can find with First person shooters such as Half Life for instance. 
  
  The storyline is rubbish, because you just get out of jail (rescued) and start fighting. You have 
 no idea on anybody's background, not even yours and they keep talkung about your father. None the 
 less, the developers really put their minds together and came up with a reasonably good gameplay 
 and following storyline, which in turn made it fun to play, and I was never bored for more than 
 a few seconds. 
  
  The gameplay is unusual because of the game mechanics because you have to find cover all the time 
 which is actually refresshing compared to aim-all-the-time shooters. 
  
  There is cover everywhere and you have your squad so it is more fun because you feel as if you 
 are brothers in arms fighting together, although they are of very little use. You can even control 
 them although this aspect is useless, but hey at least an attempt at diversifying was made. 
  
  As for the linearity of the game, it is completely linear and you follow the path and that; s 
 it. A couple of times you can choose whether to go left or right which is not much of a choice, 
 but personally I think that if the choice is so limited, then it may as well only appear a couple 
 of times. 
  
  There is some degree of innovation in the sense of controls and some other bits and bobs of small 
 ideas but nothing really too major. 
  
  Immesivness - for me, this is how well you get into the game and starting identifying yourself 
 with the character. There is some extent of this but limited, but still better than many and I 
 mean many shooters. Your character actually talks which is nice and you can see him shoot and run 
 in the between segment video clips. 
  
  As I said, I didn; t get bored, especially since the length of the game is not too long. I finished 
 it in two days although not playing whole two days but for about 7 hours per day effective play 
 tops. So it is not too long, but shooters rarely are and the timing for it to end was just right 
 because such senseless shooting can to most people be entertaining for only so long. 
  
  All in all, a very nice shooter, but that is all it is, just a senseless shooter with a bit of 
 spice, to differentiate it from most other seneless shooters increase the bar for all such FPS 
 senseless shooting games. 
  
  This means that it didn; t thrill me and I think it deserves between 8 and 8.5. I gave some games 
 that required less programming effect an 8 so I think this one may deserve 8.5 but then again those 
 games that got 8 managed to thrill me with other things such as storyline, innovation or other 
 bits. That's why it is so very hard to judge this game because in some aspects it deserves a 9 
 but in some a 7 or perhaps even a bit below. 
  
  I forgot to mention the sound. This is pretty standard. Interesting voices but nothing too extravagant. 
 
  
  Anyways, back to business. I will have to give it 8 because even though I disliked the controles 
 in the begining but was thrilled with them later on, I still prefer a game with more essence to 
 it not just an aim and shoot shooter with loads of brilliant make up and some attempts at drawing 
 you into the game. 
  
  Don; t get me wrong, this is an excellent game, and congratulations to developers., but it could 
 have achieved so much more had more thourhg been put into the storyline rather than just the looks. 
 
  
  I don't play multiplayer so I cannot judge this aspect of any game and I think multiplayer should 
 be a separate review for each game.
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  There is no other way to put this, GoW is an incredible game in damn near ever aspect. Gritty, 
 realistic visual and amazing gameplay are just 2 of its many spectacular features.
  
  To start of with the visuals, they are simply great. If you have a decent PC they will never freeze 
 up and all of the cutscenes and in-game characters look great. 
  
  While this game may basically be the same as on the 360 it has a few new levels, slightly better 
 graphics and new features so still worth the buy if you have already played the original.
  
  On gameplay side, GoW is fantastic, the cover feature is not common in alot of games but works 
 extremely well in the game and surprisingly does not get tiresome seeing as how frequently it is 
 used. Camera angles during play are very good. The majority of the view is 3rd person showing you 
 but if you want a more accurate shot you are able to switch to an over-the-shoulder gun cam. This 
 feature works well.
  
  On the weapons scale GoW is pretty great, there aren't a huge variety of weapons but the ones included 
 are pretty realistic and just are loads of fun to use. Basic shooter weapons are in the game including 
 shotguns, pistols, assault rifles but some uncommon ones have been added such as the Hammer of 
 Dawn (a type of beam that comes down from the sky disintegrating enemies. Probably most peoples 
 favourite weapon will be the assault rifle with a chainsaw bayonet on the end for close combat. 
 This gives an extremely satisfying feel especially when the blood bursts on the screen.
  
  The difficulty setting can be slightly misleading as the easiest, "Casual" is still quite a challenge 
 at times while "Hardcore" is obviously for the more hardcore games.
  
  In game dialogue is pretty amusing as your team will taunt the enemy after a particularing gruesome 
 kill or simply say thinks like "That all you Got?"
  The story of Gears of War is well designed and is very unique but is none the less a good one.
 
  
  The level design can be slightly repetitive but it is generally well done. A good feature is that 
 is some cases it will give you the choice of going left or right, the first example is in the first 
 level in which you can go into the fight or tutorial. For the most part of the game you will be 
 with Alpha and Delta which is handy because the Locust always travel in usually large groups so 
 its alot easier.
  
  The AI in this game aren't stupid, your team mates will do well in fights and take down enemies 
 while the Locusts will flank you and use cover to their advantage so it makes the game a challenge.
 
  
  Controls in this game work well once you slightly tweak them but if still feel uncomfortable or 
 if you are more used to the Xbox 360 version then you can link up your 360 controller to it.
  
  Overall this game is insane and definitely worth the purchase and anyone who loves, shooting, 
 tactics or just plain old videogames should buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Good Points:
  
  Entertaining gameplay with lots of Blood and gore! :D
  Excellent graphics and artistic style,
  Good sound,
  
  Bad Points:
  
  Intenet multiplayer 
 is Windows Live only (Microsoft this isn't the XBox) ,
  Bugs, such as scripts not running, squad ignore you etc etc.
  Crashes (on a few occasions I was 
 returned to the desktop with an application error) ,
  Checkpoint system (this is a PC not a console!) ,
  The story isn't explained at all.
  
  Gears 
 of War has great and they really show off the excellent artistic style Epic wanted to use for the 
 game. The characters both Cog and Locust are superbly detailed and fit in well with the dark game 
 world.
  
  The sound effects are great, with excellent explosions and decent sounding gunfire. I can't complain 
 about any of the voice overs in the game, none seem to stick as as particularly bad but none stick 
 out as particularly good either.
  
  The Gears of War campaign mode is fast, fun, bloody and it takes about 10 hours to fully complete 
 it. During those 10 hours you will be shooting, chainsawing and exploding your enemies while trying 
 to stay under cover. The first problem i'd say would be the keyboard controls, you have to use 
 space for pretty much most of the covering system mechanics. The PC has 101 keys (excluding Windows 
 keys) that can be used, why was everything made to use the space bar?
  
  Multiplayer is available as you would expect. Co-op and Versus modes are available on local LAN 
 and internet. Second big problem with the game, internet multiplayer requires you to have a Windows 
 LIVE account. Sorry Microsoft but i'm not paying for LIVE when the multiplayer should be free like 
 most other PC games.
  
  Now let's talk about bugs! Well scripts not running correctly is one of the issues and i've had 
 that numerous times, I had to backtrack and then go back to the part in the level with the trigger. 
 Another bug is the squad sometimes ignores your commands, when I say I want them to regroup I expect 
 them to regroup on me not just stand there. 
  
  Many people have complained about crashes and slowdowns. I've had two crashes and quite a few slowdowns. 
 
  
  Overall Gears of War is an entertaining bloodbath, that makes no attempt to be something that it 
 isn't. The story isn't well explained at all, who are the Locust? What's the war about? How did 
 it start? All these questions are left unanswered and at the end I felt a little let down by that. 
 If you like your action fast and bloody then this is the game for you but if you want something 
 a little bit deeper then you're looking in the wrong place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XlagooferX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game actually was pretty good. a good online 3rd person shooter. the campaign is ok, as long 
 as you want achievments from it. But the only thing i hate about it is updates! But dont get me 
 wrong, very good game for people who love online shooters, that want to be stealthy. But if you 
 have a Xbox 360 and a gaming pc go for it on the pc! Also the game could have been alot better! 
 for example campaign was too short. more players to play in a game instead of 8. Also it would 
 be cool if you could have ranks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I have now played through this game three times in campaign mode. I have solved it on Casual, Hardcore 
 and Insane difficulty levels. It doesn't get old. I have not played a game more than three times 
 over since the first Tomb Raider on the original PlayStation back in 1996-97. Now after over a 
 year since this game came out and playing other titles such as BioShock, Lost Planet, GRAW, GRAW 
 2, Rainbow 6 Vegas, Medal of Honor: Airborne and now Halo 3... it is my opinion that this is THE 
 best title that the Xbox 360 system has to offer! If you have a 360, then you should be required 
 to have this game... actually Microsoft should just load this game on the hard drive of all 360s 
 from now on...
  
  The graphics are the most amazing and impressive I have seen on any game console ever! The story 
 is well written and compelling. Your earth-like world is being taken over by creatures from underground... and 
 you have some cool weapons to use in the fight. A machine gun that has a chainsaw bayonet is the 
 main weapon... and my favorite. You can blindly shoot over walls while taking cover or you can zero 
 in with the sights with your finger on the trigger. For close quarters, you fire up the chainsaw 
 and hack your enemies in half. The action is non-stop! There are grenades that stick to your enemies, 
 smoke grenades, grenade launchers, shotguns, sniper rifles, pistols and crossbow styled weapons 
 that shoot exploding arrows that stick to your targets!
  
  The online features are packed with replay value... you can play the campaign in CO-OP mode with 
 a friend from Windows LIVE, or in a death match Windows LIVE mode with multiple players. I just 
 have to say again that the REPLAY VALUE is great with this game... there are essentially three ways 
 to play... by yourself in campaign, online with a friend in CO-OP campaign mode, or online in team 
 based multilayer games. There are multiple maps and even more from the Xbox 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealUku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  ok i see varied opinions on this pc version , from my personal standpoint its a very good portover 
 , having keyboard and mouse helps a great deal and online is better due to the strength of the 
 pc online avialability , on a note about graphics , its better than the 360 only if your running 
 vista + dx10 on a good machine , were talking 8800 geforce and dual core with 2gb+ ram , if your 
 scraping recommended and cant help writing reviews saying 360 is better graphically , just dont 
 bother , for xbox and ps3 beating . ultimate systems only need apply and if you can afford that 
 you wont bother with the consoles for graphics opting for a Wii instead like i did. so overall 
 a good game well worth a look if you like a fast paced 3rd person (nice idea viewing from behind 
 character) with a great co-op multiplayer which is well worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:02 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for Gears of War. Really. Personally, I defy third person shooters, but there has 
 been too many of bad games in the market (remember DIRT? How could they even release it?) to earn 
 my trust (and my wallet) , so after the loud Gears of War port announcement, I was counting days 
 until it appeared in market. Unfortunately this game didn`t give me what I expected.
  
  Lost Planet - one of the first Xbox360 ports - was quite interesting and I enjoyed it, but it had 
 it`s own problems, even not related with porting. However, despite the scepticism, I got the game 
 and installed it.
  
  The first shadow of doubt was during the installation process - no, the game installed with no 
 errors (unlike some of GameSpot`s members) , but the sound my PC was giving during it made me to 
 belive that my fellow was going to blow up. After this absurd idea a new demon rose in my mind 
 - The Optimization. Could my PC run it? Will it run at all? Of course it would. Only 3 months old 
 and packed with the latest (maybe not THE latest) stuff. No doubt it would. Sure. Right. Ohh, what 
 a dissappointment.
  
  The first thing I noticed was the bleak main screen and music. It felt like a good game. I selected 
 the `New Game` option and put it on `Casual` difficulty - God knows monster what Epic had made. 
 Then loading.... Slide show, probably devised to be the game - what the hell? Back to the main 
 menu, to the `Options`. Oh, I see. Graphics setting - high. I lowered some unnecessarry stuff and 
 started it again. Slide show again. Okay, now everything to medium. Still lags and framerate loses. 
 But at least I could play it now. To the battle, lads!
  
  The first thing i noticed - the ultra badass setting. Badass clothes, badass guns, badass voices. 
 Even the main character - Marcus Fenix (ultra badass as you can guess) is so... OK, you got the 
 idea. Future .Humans ar fighting against evil aliens (the original planet inhabitants as I understood) 
 called the Locust Horde. We`re losing. The setting is apocalyptic and dark, enemies ain`t taking 
 captives. The story isn`t told like this happened then, that happened then. When we`re out of our 
 warm prison cell, nobody takes us with open arms. Soldier - your mission, your guns - to the fight! 
 That`s one good thing.
  
  What do we do? Kill. And it`s fun. Sharp controls, great and handy cover seeking mechanism, cinematic 
 scenes, that feels like a real battle - and I give this game only 6.5? First of all - unbalanced 
 difficulty - too easy on Casual, too hard on Medicore - fill Locoust filthy bodies with a magazine 
 of plumbum and they hardly depart from life - without headshots you won`t live long. Also grenades 
 are too weak, we can carry only two guns (the useless pistol cannot be swapped) , also when your 
 teammates get shot, they get up when all enemies are dead. Unless if it`s a very furious firefight, 
 then they might die.
  
  Nothing much about sounds - boom, bang, grr - the standard set. Music is good, at least I liked 
 it.
  
  And now to the graphics. They look great - in the screenshots. While my settings were on High it 
 looked nice. On Medium - not really. Blood effects are simply ridiculous - looks like ketchup with 
 black ink dropped in the middle. And the bolld doesn`t spill on the ground - you call that a bloody 
 shooter? Did I mention the disproportionate system requirements? Boys, you are Epic Games, right? 
 Why don`t do your optimization wonder with GoW like with Unreal Tournament 3? The game is also 
 buggy - it stopped in the middle of my crusade and threw me out to Desktop. Did I mention that 
 the game has checkpoint saves?
  
  Disappointed. I can`t say anything else. I belive that it is a good game for the Bill`s beloved 
 console, but I think that the porting was rushed. Maybe one day I`ll buy myself an Xbox360 and 
 check Gears of War, but that won`t be today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LXRUBI1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  I dont understand why everyone says its so buggy. Ive had this game eversice it came out and its 
 worked fine. I have this on XP and a Evga 8600 GT and i play it med to high settings. I have never 
 found any glitches like the Xbox version. If i had to choose whether the pc or xbox version i would 
 choose the pc. Because 3 reasons. 1) Multiplayer is much smoother (2) Campain is a lot loooooonger 
 (3) The smoothness and the Great graphics. So there you go! If you want to talk to me send me a 
 message on Live. My gamertage is "Local poptarts2" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrewer1
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I won't waste text blasting microsoft, but you have it admit it is very typical. They latch onto 
 a great game, and then structure some lame, bug-filled, intrusive web site that you are forced 
 to log in to play.
  
  The good: Awesome gameplay, great twist with the duck-and-cover routine, good weapons, entertaining 
 plot that doesn't get in the way of the mayhem, great graphics (on a decent rig) . So good I started 
 playing it over the minute I finished the first time. And I don't play games twice.
  
  The bad: Extremely long install time. Can't play it until you log into Windows Live, create an 
 account where they want your NAME, ADDRESS, and PHONE NUMBER and if you don't give it to them you 
 can't play. Requires you to log into Live every time to play. On top of all this, me (and many 
 others - check the game website forum) experienced glitches that deleted all saved games without 
 warning! You have to be kidding me, how can you release a major title with such a fatal flaw?
 
  
  So you to can have the privilege of giving Microshaft your $50, giving them your personal contact 
 info, and then you can play for hours and hours only to have all your progress disappear without 
 warning and have to start over. I don't think so! Once I realized they were not releasing a patch 
 for this I quit playing the game. I warn you to read the forums on the game website before buying! 
 Many others are having problems! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostownguru
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is Great. Finally a true co-op game that works the same as the single player. I wished 
 more xbox games are ported to PC because this game played very well on my PC. I don't know if there 
 are plans to make a part two or an expansion pack. But I will be the first to pre order is they 
 do. First the story was nice and it kept the action following. I loved the way people were actually 
 killed in the game. I like the way we got to use vehicles but they didn't overkill that part of 
 the game. They gave us just enough of the vehicles to keep us from getting bored. I liked how we 
 could only carry 4 weapons at a time. I like how we had to help up our teammates. This game is 
 a wnner. If you are looking for a nice co-op game that actually works then this is the game for 
 you. The only thing I didn't like is that we could only have 2 players playing at a time due to 
 the story. But other than that, like Cole saysthis game is my kinda $ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  You are a 3rd person shooter enthusiast? Then you gotta play Epic game's Gears of War. Great game 
 play, lovely cinematic, fabulous design, interesting music, and anything more a great shooter needs.
 
  In Gears of War you are a super hero -as usual- whom has to rescue the world from monsters to 
 gain his freedom. In the meantime, your commander dies, and you become in charge of the epic group 
 to do the mission. You face various kind of monsters which can be eliminated with special weapons.
 
  Team work was a nice experience, the main character -Marcus- was a real warrior in all aspects, 
 and the weapons was huge and fancy.
  I really enjoined playing this game and I recommend it to any game enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixman03
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I listened to my 360 owning friends rant about how good this game was for the longest time. When 
 it came out on the PC, I picked it up expecting an amazing gaming experience.
  
  The over-the-shoulder third person shooting style is something new and different. I also enjoyed 
 using the cover system. The graphics are top notch and the war like atmosphere was done well. 
 
  
  However, after a while I just got totally bored with the game. The story was shallow and the gameplay 
 became repetitive. It's the same stuff over and over again. Take cover, pop back up and shoot, 
 take cover, shoot. The weapon selection is bland (besides the hammer of dawn) and killing locusts 
 with your chainsaw attachment gets old after a while. There are a few interesting fights and situations 
 in the game, but that's about it. The only thing that makes this game fun is the multiplayer co-op. 
 My advice is rent the game, or try it out at a friends house before you dish out the $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantey1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  After a year of its original release on the Xbox 360, Gears of War is available on PC. It was a 
 great game then, and it is a great game now. But still, how do you port a console shooter to the 
 high standards of the PC? Well, if you are from Epic Games, then you know how. I did not play the 
 original, but I can feel that Epic made a very good job porting this game, plus the added new content 
 to the game.
  
  The story in this game is very simple. You play as Marcus Fenix, a solder that is in a prison for 
 not obeying orders. But now he is set free, and has to help free people from the Locust. The Locust 
 is an alien race, which main goal is to war and kill people. The story is week in this game and 
 its main propose is to give you an explanation of what are you doing. And you can really feel that 
 the story is not the main attraction here. It is the gameplay that makes you play this game.
  
  The whole game is based on cover mechanics. When you encounter an enemy, you can run to something 
 that can provide defense and press a button to take cover. If you do not do that, then you will 
 get killed pretty quickly. This system works well, because of two things. First, there are a lot 
 of places to take cover. You can use walls, sandbags, big blocks of rock, and pieces of furniture. 
 Secondly, because there is this big choice of cover providing objects, you have tactical layer 
 to this game. You always think about things like, where to take cover best, or what path would 
 be the safest to a specific enemy. Although you may want for something refreshing in the late stages 
 of the game, this mechanic really helps to keep the battles interesting and satisfying.
  
  Another thing which makes the battles interesting, are the weapons them self. Of course you have 
 your standard pistol, shotgun, sniper rifle and machine gun. But then you have some interesting 
 weapons too. First, there is this Hammer of Dawn. It is a device that makes a laser beam. This 
 beam is a signal for allay satellites, and makes them to fire a big heat ray for burning some of 
 the bigger enemies you will face. Then you have the Torque Bow. It has laser based aiming too. 
 But you have to wait for the laser to straight out before shooting, which can make the shooting 
 a bit difficult. But if you manage to hit the enemy, then it is as good as dead. That because the 
 Torque Bow has explosives on its arrows. So after few moments you hit the enemy, it will explode. 
 But that's not all. Every weapon has a melee attack. For all weapons it is the same. You just hit 
 them whit you weapon. For all except one. Your main machine gun has a chainsaw on it. So if get 
 up close to your enemy and press the melee attack button, then you slice your enemy in half. Although, 
 it may be difficult to kill your opponents this way, it is easily one of the best moments it this 
 game and it never gets old.
  
  The games new content is a new mission in the start of chapter five. It shows how Marcus and his 
 team mates got away from this big monster named Brumac. The new mission isn't very different from 
 the rest of the game, but if you have played the original, then you may feel some differences. 
 And another new thing on the PC version is the updated graphics. The game looked terrific last 
 year, and now it is even better. But everything has a price. And this time are requirements. You 
 will need a very good PC to run this game at its maximum. But if you can, then you will have a 
 treat for your eyes.
  
  The verdict here is very simple as this games story. It is a superb game, but not perfect. The 
 only big problem here is its story. But the rest is more than enough to make you play this game. 
 So if you are a shooter fan, then this is a must have for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claudyu1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Like almost any PC game made after a PS2/PS3/X360, Gears of War is a bit disappointing comparative 
 with its console variant. But this thing don't make Gears of War boring or nasty.
  
  Let's start with the good things : 
  
  The graphics are great ,the post-processing effect is 
 very well realized. The game's atmosphere is great and is griping you in, it's like you're in a real 
 war with monsters. The graphics of characters are very well defined, you can see every scar or blood 
 artery on them. And when you shot an enemy, his blood is jumping everywhere and your blood when you're 
 shotted.
  The gameplay is the hot spot of the game. The guns are wielding very easy and you can very easy 
 shot the monsters, mostly aiming for the head. The chainsaw from your weapon is great, you can cut 
 in half your enemy .... NICEEEE.... But the greatest weapon is the Hammer of The Down, which is great 
 for killing or roasting big enemies (like that Bersek or the giant bug) or ordinary monsters .
 
  It's nasty that the weapon can be used only outside. And the fighting system is nice (stay close 
 to walls and when your enemy is showing his face..... make a hole through his head) . And also the 
 machine-gun, a great weapon encountered in any great shooter. With this great weapon you can rip 
 your enemy into pieces.
  The sounds are also great. The characters voices are very well interpreted and also the language 
 used, for example when you don't recharge your weapon in time.
  The system requirements aren't so huge. 
  
  
  And now let's talk about bad things :
  
 
  When you're killed, the character's body looks like it's made by jelly. Or the monsters body.
  The profile you create, sometime doesn't save your last checkpoint before you quited the game.
 
  The target (I'm not sure how it's called, but is the target of your weapon) cannot be changed.
 
  Anything else, i didn't detected any major bug.
  
  
  Gears of War is a great game that you should try. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikegillis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Well what a treat! Just picked up this game 2 days ago.
  Went home and flipped the disk in my drive and waited for it to install.
  It took forever. But 
 that's the price of an awesome game right?
  Then when it finally installed, I rubbed my hands with glee and hit
  the gears of war executable. 
 Nothing. Hit it again a couple times and 
  finally GOW started up. Kind of. It crashed right away and I got some error message. Well I tried 
 again. This time it loaded up but it crashed when I tried to get in the video settings. After several 
 attempts I was able to get in the game again and tried to make a profile only that option was blacked 
 out and the game wouldn't let me make a profile. Fine, I'll just play this awesome game and not 
 be able to save. So I start the game and what? No sound. After a few more attempts I get the executable 
 to start again. Still can't make a profile but at least I have sound. Wow, now I can't set my keyboard 
 controls. Or rather I set them then the game resets them whenever I try to play. Since now I can 
 neither save my game or control my character I go into my add/remove programs and remove this marvelous 
 wonder of a gem that seems to have caught the gaming worlds imagination. 
  
  And my highly deserved score that I gave this game? Well I noticed that when I gave another game 
 a low score Gamespot removed my review. I put the review back in and gamespot removed it again. 
 Thats what I love about player reviews, they represent a fair and unbiased spectrum of gamers AT 
 GAMESPOTS DISCRETION where they cull out reviews that don't $upport their bottom line. And so I 
 buy another game that ROCKS. Yay gamespot.
  
  Maybe it was my hardware, I have an AMD X2 6000+ with 2gigs of ram and an 8600 gt vid card. All 
 my drivers are up to date as is my winXP. Seems above spec to me but who knows. I know it isn't 
 the baby poop code in game.
  Whatever, I'm out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  So here is another console game for the PC, you think. You are right, but wrong at the same time... 
 Gears Of War for PC is something strange in our day ang age in gaming because it truly works. The 
 developers have redone mostly everything to fit the PC, and have done it wonderfully... Your character 
 "MF" is seen from a 3rd perspective view. You find your weapons fast and easy, throw grenades, 
 run like hell, and have the best time enjoying the game...
  
  The guns sound ok, although, the recoil is somethings enoying, the graphics are overall wonderful, 
 the design perfect for such a game like this... The story, we'll, it is decent enough to get you 
 through. Don't compare this game to COD4 for example or even Crysis, since it is a totally different 
 deal.
  
  I have a high-end computer, everything on MAX worked fine for me.
  
  Thumbs up for a nice game... Try it if you like the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I have to say my first impression of Gears was lukewarm. I dismissed it as just another shooter 
 coming to the pc. When it comes to shooters, we pc gamers are spoiled and I figured Gears would 
 be just another 7 out of 10 port. 
  
  I was wrong, wonderfully wrong.
  
  Combat is intense. Gears combines a more tactical style with a still frantic combat pace, you need 
 to use and stay under cover during combat, or you'll end up a smear on the floor very quickly. 
 Enemies are varied enough to keep it interesting and the ai is quite good. Enemies will use cover 
 to their advantage as much as you do, and it's fairly hard to catch them unawares.
  
  The story of gears isn't anything new, a world destroyed by tunneling monsters that the main character 
 is fighting. That said, the story is well told and the voice acting is really good through out 
 the game.
  
  Graphically Gears is top notch, and the art is good. You really feel like your walking through 
 a burned out, destroyed city.
  
  I only have two problems with the game, the first is the fact that you need to have a windows live 
 account to go online for multi-player and use the achievements. The second problem is the fact 
 that it is a console port, which uses a checkpoint system for saving.
  
  Minor problems aside, Gears is a worthwhile addition to any shooter collection.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Much to be enjoyed. Does everything it says and a little more. But LIVE ruins any hope of multiplayer.
 
  
  I'm not going to go through all the good points of this game as I'm sure everyone has had enough 
 of it and all the flashy advertising. What I will write about is how much of a pain LIVE is, and 
 why this game would be near-perfect without it.
  
  First off, this is without question an excellent shooter. There are a few major issues due to the 
 patches, system requirements, and hardware issues. However most of this can be solved by patching, 
 getting a decent rig, and updating all your drivers.
  
  Once you get the game up and kicking, it pushes you straight into the action, and PC gamers familiar 
 with Half Life 2, Call of Duty & Unreal shooters will have to compromise their style of play so 
 they won't die often in this game. In short, there is a very steep learning curve. This shouldn't 
 be an issue but at Hardcore difficulty, you will die much more often. And at Insane, the enemies 
 you face are just too powerful that the guns and teammates become obsolete.
  
  A minor issue as long as you are not pulled into accomplishing every single achievement which includes 
 beating the game at Insane.
  
  The more serious fall of this game is the multiplayer. It disappoints me more than any part of 
 the game that I have to update via LIVE, and I have to be a Gold LIVE member just to play ranked 
 servers and score achievements online.
  
  Valve has dedicated ranked servers for free for Team Fortress 2. If you are buying this for the 
 multiplayer, don't bother unless you already have LIVE Gold.
  
  Regardless, there is much to be enjoyed about Gears of War. It's an excellent shooter, a great 
 storyline, graphics and gameplay that were tailored for each other, and offers an experience that 
 you can't miss. The primary letdown however, is that you're paying full price for a game that only 
 does half of what it's supposed to (ie. Singleplayer) , therefore it loses much points on the value 
 end. Play to your money's worth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for my "late" XBox360, may it rest in piece, and just could not get into it. 
 I thought maybe being a PC guy it was trying to play a shooter with a controller. I gave people 
 the benefit of the doubt that it was good, just not for me. My son played it instead and that was 
 that. Now it came out for the PC and instantly when I heard I knew I would get it. Here I play 
 with my trusty mouse and keyboard and enjoy what is suppose to be the most hyped game in memory 
 (pre-Crysis) . Well after installing it and not being able to run it I thought bad start, after 
 searching I found out I had to jump through hoops to play this game in Vista. No problem, here 
 I go. I have a great rig so I could max this thing out no problem, looked great. Got to  
 It wasn't the Xbox. I just don't see the hype for this game, it reminds me of an old arcade shooter, 
 just top notch graphics instead of cheesy 2D stuff. I feel like I should have the Ninetendo Duckhunter 
 gun in my hand. Just too arcade-like for my tastes, I don't see the appeal, and I was bored playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaTa9192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  Planet Earth was invaded by locust... a sort of alien lifeforms. Earth was getting destroyed. You 
 play Marcus Fenix..... a former soldier in a jail cell... a traitor. He disobeyed orders to save his 
 father but still failed. After many years your ally lets you out.. And this is where the game starts. It 
 turns out they are gonna need every help they can get. Marcus.... like everyone in this game.. is 
 a strong person in a urm..... some sort of armor.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Now this is one of the best graphics ever that i seen in a game...... i was drooling while playing.... Extremely 
 detailed models........ enemies look like they should. Rag dolls fall like they should. I love playing 
 with ragdolls and GoW uses the amazing Unreal engine 3 which makes this an absolutely AMAZING experience.. oh.. and 
 theres hdr of course. And the blood splats on the screen when you chainsaw them... hmmmmm blood.. The 
 game doesn't even need a Super Duper Magical Computer.. Even my 7600GS could run it on medium 30-40fps 
 playable.. although sometimes there are stuttering.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound is great!!!! from gunshots whizzing past you to the grenade that explodes nearby.... and 
 the explosion of an enemy from the splatter of blood... my only complain is the music is limited.
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  The game is killin killin and killin locust which is really fun. Hide behind the wall and blind 
 fire at the enemies.... Now the best part is the gore.... Your gun also comes equipped with a chainsaw...... watch 
 as your enemy gets cut in half and look at his guts. The game uses the rechargeable hp system... just 
 like call of duty. I bought this for the extra levels which was still worth it [I have the Xbox360 
 version too] The multiplayer is where the fun really begins.... Two teams... locust and humans battle.... when 
 you are killed you become downed [wounded and unable to move] . Your ally can heal you or you might 
 bleed to death.. If an enemy comes to you while you are downed.... he can do anythig to you [Shotgun 
 your head off, Step on your head, etc. etc. etc] .. And the Chainsaw gun 'Lancer' is usable in Multiplayer 
 mode too.... The game uses Live [Which sucks] ... and you can also play on LAN.
  
  A. I 8/10
  The AI is really really tough.. even on casual mode... in this game.. running towards the enemy will 
 result in instant death..... try to chainsaw the enemy and you might get chainsawed back..... enemys 
 take cover and blindfire and even flank... but sometimes the ai gets a bit too rough.
  
  Overall this is one game you must buy... seriously...... get THIS GAME.....
  
  Pros: Great graphics. sound 
 and a. i are good too........ chainsaw on gun is useful. Great Multiplayer... Very optimized game..
 
  
  Cons: A. i are sometimes too good even on casual... Game is too short... even with the extra levels.... ending 
 leaves me wanting more!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halBU
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  Having never played the Xbox 360 version of Gears, I have no basis on which to recommend the PC 
 version to a current owner of the original. I can, however, say that Gears of War qualifies as 
 a must-purchase if you don't already own the game and the idea of a semi-third-person shooter appeals 
 to you at all. As a certified first-person junkie I found myself disliking the viewpoint Gears 
 offers for probably the first fifth of the game. Progressing, I grew much more comfortable with 
 the mechanics and began to appreciate the reasoning behind that decision (plus you always get to 
 see how cool you look) . The duck and shoot game play would be much less effective in first-person 
 and that, in a nutshell, is mostly what the game is about. Quick button combinations will have 
 you rolling and dashing like an action movie veteran in no time and, as a long-time Unreal series 
 devotee, I really appreciated the implementation of double-tapping movement keys to perform many 
 of them. Reloading your weapon requires precise timing. Doing it correctly will yield a quicker 
 reload time and a damage bonus, but if you flub it up, you'll find yourself praying for a reload 
 before you're totally overwhelmed by locusts. It's a nice minigame that adds some risk/reward depth 
 to the experience. 
  
  Gears of War is a pretty linear game. Though you are occasionally given alternate pathways to take, 
 you'll ultimately end up in the same location and nothing you can do during the game affects the 
 unfolding of the storyline. The alternate routes do give the game a bit of replayability, as they 
 offer a chance to take a different role in fixed scenarios. Pick one pathway and you may end up 
 playing the role of the marine grunt, battling up close against unbelievable odds, while the other 
 pathway may offer you the chance to dole out suppressing fire from high ground. These kinds of 
 choices really shine in co-op play which is the method of choice in which to experience this game. 
 Teaming up with a buddy online will give you a chance to try out strategies that just aren't possible 
 with your AI squad mates. Not to say that your computer controlled allies are hapless by any means 
 I found them to be much better than in most games that have tried this approach. In fact, they 
 can't die in most chapters, so you can either plow ahead or hang back and let them do some of the 
 rushing for you. The enemy AI is mostly decent too as they'll attempt to rush you if they have 
 the numbers, flank you if the terrain is favorable, or toss a grenade into your hidey-hole if you 
 get too comfy in one spot. There are occasional gaffes, but for the most part they remain solid. 
 
  
  The online experience is going to largely depend on its adoption rate. Gears ships with a whopping 
 19 unique multiplayer maps and five variations of deathmatch, which is pretty impressive considering 
 the singleplayer campaign clocks in around 12 hours and has loads of replayability in co-op. For 
 those that like to hunt for secrets, over 30 cogtags (similar to dog-tags of fallen soldiers) have 
 been hidden about the game and you'll have to do a thorough search to find them all. 
  
  It's actually pretty amazing that the title is a year old already, because it still looks as stunning 
 as most of the top PC titles being released today. The art direction overall is just outstanding 
 and the character animation is superb. 
  
  It's true that the storyline in Gears is not going to win a Pulitzer Prize, but it doesn't really 
 need to. It's unapologetically macho in its delivery and serves well enough to move you from place 
 to place. Just be aware that you aren't going to be moved to tears or come away with a life-altering 
 epiphany if that sort of thing is important to you in your games. 
  
  I'd be remiss if I neglected to mention the slight stutters during level loading which seems to 
 affect some more than others. To me (AMD 64 x2 4200, 2 GB RAM, 7800 GT, Win XP SP2) it was noticeable, 
 but didn't detract from the experience overall. Also in the negative column is the limited matchmaking 
  that is unless you subscribe to Xbox LIVE Gold, which I don't. You can find a few players online 
 simply enough otherwise, but you can't escape the feeling that you're missing part of the game 
 if you're a lowly free Silver subscriber. Be aware also, that as of this time, there is no dedicated 
 server and I am not aware of any plans for one. Despite all that, there's a tremendous amount of 
 fun stuff here and it's all beautifully done. If the gameplay I described sounds like your thing, 
 then there's a good chance you'll enjoy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomal_rocks
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Gears of War is one of the most enjoyable shooters i have played in recent years. The shooting 
 and cover system is fun and the weapons pack punch and feel powerful. The coop mode is fun too 
 and it feels great to play the campaign with some1 on the lan, which makes the overall experience 
 much better. Graphics is top notch, even with my radeon 9800 pro. I could use medium details at 
 1024x768 with very less stuttering. Difficulty is hard but enjoyable. Sound is also great. The 
 boss fights are also satisfying.
  
  The only problem is that the game crashes very often but you can use alt-tab function to get back 
 into the game without sending the error report. I think this problem is common in windows live 
 enabled games like eg Universe at War but sadly there have been no fixes yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biplob168
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Well i've brought this game to play on my pc and honestly i can play this game with highest setting. It's 
 a awesome game. You can enjoy this game really i don't like third person games i'm fps gamer but 
 i played this game and it's satisfied me. If u'r a real game then u'll enjoy gears of war. Good graphics, effective 
 sounds, With Nice level and great game play will win your u'r heart. So don't wait juz go and get 
 it. Well When u'll play it first time it seems it's a boring game but u'll enjoy it gradually take 
 u'r time and play as a real gamer thanks to microsoft to release such a good game on pc. In this 
 game u can enjoy lots of new feature. I intend to advise u to play this game with u'r brain. I notice 
 few level was really awesome if u really want to enjoy a third person game then plz don't miss 
 this one. I also compare dx9 and dx10 it seems there was no difference. The tactics they used in 
 this game was really exciting to play. Well u can notice that bloods in this game r strange but 
 this a game u playing it's their own blood style in this game so don't underestimate this. After 
 all we can this is a really good game with new feature and style. Highly Recommend To Play This 
 Game For Every Gamer!
  
  Thanks for u'r consideration ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game is like being in the lead role of a Hollywood action movie. Complete with cheesy 
 American dialogue and an over-the-top musical score. After having recently completed Clive Barker's 
 Jericho, I can say it has a very similar feeling to it, although as I am a horror fan I enjoyed 
 Jericho more as it felt better at a story level.
  
  It takes a bit to get used to spamming the sapce bar so often - most shooters have no such thing, 
 so it did take almost the entire first Act for me to effectively know all my cover-moves and combos 
 that the space bar provded. Once you get the hang of it though, it is very slick indeed. My only 
 complaint is that sometimes you will want to do something (ie do a running roll, or take cover) , 
 and because you are facing the wrong way or the wrong object, your glorious move turns into the 
 chevy chase tumble of death. Can get rather frustrating when being overwhelmed by Locust Grubby 
 things.
  
  Graphics are top notch, again though I feel Jericho is just as good, and still to this day cannot 
 fathom why that game got rated so low. Sorry for the comparison but both games do have a very similar 
 feel - both console ports, both cinematic, both squad-based, both using DirectX 10 (in fact possibly 
 the same engine) , etc, etc.
  
  All-in-all, not a perfect game, but very rewarding once you complete it, especially on Hardcore 
 mode, which is truly difficult. If you had to decide between this and COD4, go for COD4. But if 
 you're a shooter fan you'll definately want to take this one for a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsworld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, good action, nice graphics, decent dark enough vibe to it etc, and generally 
 it feels better for the pc when it plays out, as the pc's extra power really does shine.
  
  But this is the main problem for me, 3/5 mins into the game it crashes, everytime, without fail, 
 even with a new patch, well far as am aware this is the newest one out, from epics site, and it 
 still crashes, i get winwar. exe something long those lines error and has to shut down program, 
 but if you just click on the gears of war pop up icon, it manages to play still, all be it with 
 the error notice in the background on my desktop screen still.
  
  This is still very annoying, that mircosoft can release games with errors and bugs on them, the 
 fact this game is still waiting for epic to release a full and functional patch, to fix these problems, 
 is pretty lame, it feels like well we made our money off you and those xbox 360 children, so we 
 not in a rush to fix this attitude, which again is a shame as this is a soilid game, oh and windows 
 live thing, i didnt even wanna use it anyway, but it doesnt work, or exist from what i read on 
 epic forums, so god knows, but yea you got a monster machine, or are fully loaded this is a blast, 
 just expect to crash/freak out a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djarken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  ok i have read so many problems with this game on pc. i have vista ultimate 32bit and this would 
 not work after loading onto the first menu, then it crashed back to desktop. dont despair it will 
 work! go into the folder where your gears of war is saved. double click binaries. scroll down and 
 you will find 'Startup' rightclick it and send to desktop. dont try to run as admin. just double 
 click it and then when you get to main menu goto your live account or create one and install the 
 live update. leave for a couple of minutes and run the install. to load again doubleclick the Startup 
 shortcut, when you come to load gears of war it will start in a window, just min/max screen and 
 it will run fine. follow any other instructions from live if promted and bingo your Gears of War 
 will work. it worked for me anyway and it looks amazing and is better than Crysis. hope this helps. 
 
  Vista Ultimate
  intel duo core
  Asus 8800 GTX
  3.25gb ram
  250gb hhd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Last year on the 360, Gears was both a fresh face with a refreshing reminder that shooting games 
 can still be refined to be entertaining even after around 17 years ago when DOOM exploded into 
 the PC market and made shooters mainstream. Gears of War is by all means an accessible shooter 
 that is provides a fully packaged singleplayer campaign that can be played cooperatively and the 
 competitive 8 player multiplayer component. This game practically requires a beefy computer that 
 can still experience Gears with a smooth framerate and finally you have to go through the trouble 
 of actually making the game work.
  
  Gears of War takes place in a post-apocalyptic world in a planet called "Sera", where out of nowhere 
 a gray humanoid alien or undead looking figure pops out of the ground and starts wrecking havok. 
 The military beings to draft citizens to fight the locust horde and its up to this point where 
 you can stop caring about the game's story by dropping the manual and then simply playing the game. 
 The game starts off with you playing Marcus Fenix who has been rescued by his best friend Dom in 
 a prison cell and that level serves as a tutorial then afterwords Marcus is drafted into the war 
 and made soldier. The game quickly drops off it's serious tone in favor of a story that pits 4 
 guys against the world having the time of their lives.
  
  Gears of War plays like a thirdperson shooter with a very strong emphasis on cover and if you're 
 not behind cover, you would probably die within a few seconds. When behind cover, you can pop up, 
 take a few pot shots at the Locust and when you start feeling the pain you can snap down back into 
 cover and wait until your health regenerates completely until you can repeat the process over and 
 over again. Thankfully Gears has several twists to it's game dynamics. As an alternative, Marcus 
 can put his gun over at the edge of the wall while still maintaining cover but losing his accuracy 
 significantly. 
  
  Of all things though, what makes Gears exciting is definitely it's fun to use weapons. You have 
 your alien burst rifle that deals pretty big damage, you have your Lancer that shoots like an automatic 
 SMG but with a chainsaw bayonet that turns anything in it's way into 2 bloody pieces, a gun that 
 paints the ground when held long enough shoots a giant beam from the sky that like the chainsaw 
 turns things into a bloody mess. You also have your more conventional weapons like the shotgun 
 that rips apart enemies in close range which is expected, your sniper rifle and two variety of 
 pistols you can carry such as the standard pistol and a slow firing magnum. Finally you have your 
 grenades, one is your standard smoke grenade that obviously creates a puff of smoke which is in 
 the game's multiplayer component only (not useful at all) and then your grenade that you can throw 
 or "tag" someone with causing the grenade to blow up seconds later. All these weapons really makes 
 Gears something special of what would otherwise be an ordinary game.
  
  The game's enemy AI is also pretty smart, running into cover like you can and can perform almost 
 everything you could do. They do get into the habit of getting near you and then after a few seconds 
 jumps over to your side of the cover constantly but the enemies in this game knows how to shoot. 
 Like I stated previously, you will die if your not behind cover often. These guys can shoot you 
 down with relative ease or can instantly finish you off with a chainsaw of their own. While good 
 things can be said about the game's enemy AI, the same cant be said about your comrades. You have 
 three commands such as attack aggresively, play defense or regroup but your A. I doesnt respond 
 to them well and they would occasionally try to move in to the Locust getting shot at and would 
 kneel down asking for your help. They are good dummies and worth actually saving because of the 
 fact that they take more bullets then you do and somehow does NOT die by getting chainsawed although 
 from a gameplay perspective this is probably needed. 
  
  Given you have the beefy PC to run it reasonably high, the game is just a pure bliss to look at. 
 The game definitely looks better then it's 360 counterpart if you run it in the medium-high or 
 higher settings and considering that there are alot of things coming at your in the later acts, 
 it wouldnt be surprising if you were actually immersed in the Gear's world. There are several ugly 
 texture pop-ins here and there and reasonable load times but otherwise its safe to say that Gears 
 is one of the best looking games period. The games audio is no slouch either, the games audio is 
 inline with those Hollywood soundtracks that fits perfectly with whats going on in the game and 
 the voice acting is great although the dialogue can be really corny at times. 
  
  The PC version of the game also has an exclusive chapter which basically consists of the Brumak 
 chasing you until you finally have the chance to fight it back. Although the fight itself is pretty 
 disappointingly easy. The game's new chapters is there to provide a little more insight on the 
 backstory but the problem is that the game's pace from Act 4 to the new chapters is abrupt. The 
 game is suddenly more difficult to even biggest Gears aficionado but with that said the chapters 
 are still very intense although it is very possible for the 360 owners to live without it. The 
 game also has it's fair share of achievements for anyone of those people that are actually interested 
 in it.
  
  What makes Gears for the PC kinda hard to swallow is that the game is frustrating to actually load 
 up and play. The game has a huge installation time that ranges from 30 minutes to an hour and even 
 with that said your bound to go through the painful process of troubleshooting for even more hours. 
 The game also has it's fair share of crashing randomly and several framerate problems rear it's 
 ugly head even when your running the game with a strong P. C. Its interesting to actually see that 
 even about a month after the game was released, Epic still has NOT made any patch to fix these 
 huge issues. Also another problem that the PC users has to deal with is the of an online community. 
 You're most likely able to find one to two servers tops and unless you have a friend that has Gears 
 for the PC you might as well throw co-op online out the door as well. You need an Xbox silver account 
 to actually play the game's online component or you can play with a gold account and gain all the 
 features such as the neat leaderboards and ranked online matches.... too bad that noone is online 
 in ranked matches either.
  
  With all said and done, if you can forgive the game's technical problems and somehow fix it then 
 I whole heartedly recommend this title. The gameplay is fresh and exciting even today. If you have 
 another buddy that wants in on the ride then thats all the better because Gear's coop campaign 
 is superb or if your just have a itch for those ultra-violent shooters then Gears for the PC is 
 definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerhardtscriven
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Forget for a moment about all the technical issues with installing and running the game:
  
  Take GoW`s pretty graphics away, and all that is left is another repetative shooter. It`s like 
 Space Invaders 2007, and at core, the gameplay is simply 
  
  b o r i n g 
  
  Compared to juggernauts such as Crysis with its sandbox mode, Unreal Tournament's exciting multiplayer, 
 and Bioshock`s innovative ways of killing the bad guys, GoW simply lacks any innovation. And yes, 
 GoW is a 3rd person shooter, and the others are first person shooters, but that ain`t no excuse. 
 GTA 3 is effectively a 3rd person shooter too, but added a lot more gameplay than GoW does. FIVE 
 YEARS AGO. 
  
  GoW looks pretty, and no mistake, but it sadly consists mostly of hiding, shooting, and running 
 to the next cover. And repeat. And repeat. And repeat...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipo_epyon
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I already have the game for X360, but I wanted to play the new levels. Try to install it but no 
 matter how many times I tried, it alwalys install in C and I couldn't move it to other Hard Disk. 
 Later i found a solution but stiil have some problems, one file was missing so i copied it from 
 the disc.
  Started the game, and configurate the video options, but I can't understand why AA is deactivated 
 in XP. It looks better that on a X360. Controls are easy to use. Story it's ok, not too simple 
 or complex. Need a lot of patient to play and install.
  
  This is a game every shooter fan should try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  I was wondering what is so special about Gears of War and finally it comes to my PC. I must say 
 it was a completely new experience for me... and I have played many shooters. The way cover is 
 utilized in this game is something else. It just works here. Moreover, you are forced to take cover 
 if you want to survive. Locusts are not particularly hard enemies but they are sharp shooters. 
 They also look great and seem intelligent enough as well.
  
  I was really charmed how well, this game run considering the marvelous graphics it presents. It 
 must have been over 60 fps all the time all maxed out, 1280X1024. It is really gory, too. Just 
 pop a boomer's head with the sniper rifle, and see what I mean!
  
  Some effects are unique as well. I mean the low camera when running for cover. It really builds 
 up tension during firefights.
  
  A little more interactiveness would have helped the game, but levels are good as they are, too.
 
  
  Another flaw is the way the story is told. It has potential but it is so incoherent one barely 
 figures out who the Locusts are somewhere by the middle of the game. Good thing is no one needs 
 a story in this fast-paced, dynamic shooter.
  
  Cut scenes are great though, mainly thanks to Fenix's bad-ass attitude and even more so face. He 
 is easily one of the most likable anti-heroes this side of Caleb. The game is packed with nice 
 humour - in the middle of a shitty situation, Fenix to HQ: "OK, going to plan B", then to his partner, 
 "You got a plan B...?" ROFL!
  
  Overall, Gears of War is what must rate closest to "guilty pleasure" on the gaming scene. Whether 
 you are a casual gamer, or a hardcore one, you are bound to like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvz12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, but it is boring and stupid, the same action all the time, same weapons, bad 
 sound , nothing new, and bad gameplay, the game is easy, i dont know but the people that think 
 that this is a great game, should take sometime, and play a real game as half life 2, crysis, doom, 
 quake, unreal the game is goog but not a big deal. 
  The story is kind of boring, and the effects are not good enough. 
  the character is so stupid 
 a big guy trying to be rude that's an old thing on videogames I think this is just a version with 
 new graphics of old kind of videogames just kill and kill and kill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaranN
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The game's good, through and through. I've heard of people having crashes, but I've never experienced 
 one.
  The main problem with the game is that it's supported by Games for Windows, which is a one way 
 relationship with corrupt Microsoft. There aren't any clear directions of how to log into Games 
 for Windows Live. Live just doesn't work. You just can't connect to Live.
  On the other side of the user agreement, Microsoft can easily get you to join the survey crap. 
 There are numerous pop ups to get you to join the survey, and no way to disable them. The survey 
 sends all your computer info to Microsoft's database. If it's that easy for Microsoft to get what 
 it wants, why couldn't they make it easier to log into Live? Multiplayer is a major deal in Gears, 
 but you can only join through Live. And Live doesn't work. So, half the game doesn't work.
  Microsoft is quick to get things from you, but doesn't do anything to support the games it creates 
 to get those things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  I've been interested in this game since it arrived for the xbox 360 last year, and since then I've 
 been praying that the game will arrive for the PC... and lo and behold, my prayers were answered.
 
  Gears of War is an action packed 3rd person shooter that revolves around a war between human race 
 and a invasive alien force, the Locust.
  The main hero is Marcus Fenix, a imprisoned war veteran, who was rescued by a mysterious man, named 
 Dom. Together with Dom, and two more comrades, Baird and Cole you fight your way with the Locust in 
 order to save human race, pretty standard, though it has some differences which I won't mention due 
 to spoilers;)
  On to the review:
  Graphics - 10
  SIMPLY AMAZING. A true UE3.0 masterpiece. The characters looks amazing and are well animated, and 
 so are the enemies. The environment looks great, everything is very well detailed, the buildings, the 
 plants, vehicles and so on...
  The visual effects are great, and the motion blur really helps to give the game a cinematic feeling.
 
  Audio - 10
  The voice overs are probably one of the best I've seen, the actors are really great and most importantly, the 
 inside jokes, are HILARIOUS in my opinion.
  The music is also amazing, a symphonic, full of excitement soundtrack, that really brings the battlefield 
 to life!
  The sound effect are great and the weapons sound perfect, not like SOME games (yes Blacksite, I am 
 talking to you) .
  Gameplay - 9
  The main feast, the heart, the core of any game with no exception with this one.
  The gameplay 
 is great. The cover system is really unique and fun, and it's not so hard to master, and most importantly, it 
 WILL save your ass a few hundred times, cause this game, is pretty challenging, even on casual, so 
 mastering the cover system is a prior objective for newbies. The weapons are great, even though there 
 are only like 9 of them (I've counted: D) , and the active reload is pretty fun and also can save your 
 ass many times.
  The story is pretty standard as I've mentioned, but you won't be bored from it, though you will not 
 be blown away by it either. It's simply good, nothing more, nothing less.
  HOWEVER, the BEST thing, and the most bloody addictive (and I mean BLOODY!) about this game and it's 
 weapons, is the chainsaw bayonet.
  Already sounds fun? RIGHT? The Lancer, which is the submachine gun in this game, has a very fun side 
 weapon, a chainsaw attached to it, so basically, in close combat it can be used to... well....... you 
 already got the idea, and it's HELL OF A TIME to watch. I've done it so many times, and NEVER I've 
 got bored and I even said to myself "ouch" a few times.
  Value - 10
  The single player campaign is pretty lengthy, and it has some choices along the way, not to mention 
 the game is fun.
  The multiplayer is simply a blast, probably one of the best I've seen since Halo.
  So basically, you'll 
 be able to burn hours with this game, especially because of the difficulty.
  Overall: Another amazing game from Epic. The fact that they've moved from FPS to 3rd person is a 
 fresh change, and for the good. The multiplayer is fun and the CHAINSAW BAYONET!!! is probably one 
 of the best kills in gaming history. It's just hurts that the game has little variety of weapons, and 
 the story could've got some twists.
  So basically, this game is definitely worth a try, and I can already say, prepare for some bloody, fun 
 and challenging experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navchap
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Seriously, this is the buggiest program I have ever played. I will never complain about the delays 
 in games like Crysis at least it played the first time every time. This game has such potential. 
 There is no excuse for this game being released prior to the bugs being worked out. The patch was 
 basically useless. I am still in search of the right correction. I looked at the Epic site and 
 so far out of 55 individuals, all but 5 said the program didn't work. Microsoft and Epic need to 
 release a working patch ASAP. I have no doubt that this game will be outstanding once it works. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmersenne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  the installation takes about an hour and after that someone in this earth can hardly run the because 
 of buggy exe file and games for windows system. Game continuously crashes after running 2-3 minutes. What 
 a crap!
  
  But after going through epic forum for about a day i finally found a solution by removing kaspersky 
 IS from pc. Surely epic didn't test this game on pc very well.
  the recent patch can't even help u if still have problems like me.
  
  If the first two paras 
 were removed then it would have been a great game. its shame that the reviewers didn't found out 
 this buggy issue. but if anyone can solve this problem its still a great game better than 360.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makukiko
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  If you don't own a Xbox 360, but you have a PC.... This is a MUST PLAY game of the year!
  The visuals, the graphics, the settings are all breathtaking!
  The gameplay with the dodge and 
 shoot mechanic is just great.
  The story is a bit shallow and not crazily deep, however, it's like a great
  hollywood high budget 
 action film!
  I've played Gears of War went it first came out for the XBox 360.
  Together, with my friend we played the co-op Campaign without stopping!
  This game was seriously 
 the best co-op game I have ever played.
  Shouting orders and advice back and forth from your friend as you run for cover and throw gernades, 
 running through enemy gun fire trying to reach your friend on the ground? This was the funnest 
 game I have ever played!
  Now the PC version isn't that hard to play Co-op with, but this time around I decided to go solo 
 and it was just worth it. The replayablitly gives you the satisfaction as the first time one plays 
 it.
  Overall, a masterpiece and one that all FPS games should try to dictate and improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prashweb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Gears of War is a great game for the PC. It was released for the X-BOX a year ago and made phenomenal 
 progress there. The PC version has more added to it! So overall its better. In the Game you play 
 as Marcus Fenix, a soldier who is roughened by war and apparently has no soft side. The co-op mode 
 of the game is also amazing. In this mode the other player plays as Dominic Santiago. Dom is Fenix's 
 best bud. PLaying this game as either one of them yeilds the same experience. It is so much fun 
 working as a team and playing through differnt parts of the game.
  This story of the game is mainly about a planet called Sera. Where humans used to live until, a 
 terrible locust herd destroyed the place. This day is referred to as Emergence Day. You play after 
 Emergence day, taking out the entire locust herd little at a time.
  You will encounter many different locust minions. They will in fact scare the crap outta you at 
 times. You encounter different beasts etc.
  You have quite a few weapons that are unique. One very unique weapon is the Chainsaw gun that is 
 extremely cool to shoot with and even more ultra cool to chainsaw with. When close to an enemy, 
 hold out your chainsaw gun and press the melee button. It will gear up ur chaisaw and u can shredd 
 the beast into pieces. That is so cool.
  When u get shot a lot or attacked, u shall be hurt badly and will start to bleed. The screen will 
 become red, at this time u will have to be revived by ur team mate (co-op-the other player)
  This game is one helluva action packed game that has the caption of pop and stop (gamespot review.) 
 I call it run, take cover, blow brains out/kill locust. It is one of the best 3rd person shooters 
 and has a brilliant story.
  It is a must buy for all PC owners. and definitely try the game on co-op mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johny2giant
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Simply put, Gears of War is spectacular. M$ isn't. But I shall ignore the fact that they have put 
 their dirty hands on this awesome game, and get right to the pros rather than cons.
  
  Gameplay- Slow paced, highly exciting shooting action, with some great mechanics. PC controls feel 
 slightly better than gamepad's. Some great boss fights, gruesome chainsaw kills, and BIG guns. Sadly 
 even with the added content, it feels short. 9/10 here.
  
  Graphics- Is it necessary to even comment them? One look at them and you get the picture. Forgiving 
 system requirements, that strike a neat balance between steady framerate and pretty visuals on medium-end 
 machines.
  How much here? You guessed it. 10/10.
  
  Sound- Here's where it gets a little underwhelming. The sound effects, voice acting are good, (albeit 
 some a bit cheesy) but the music is just your typical action movie/war movie type, and gets repetitive 
 after a while. 8/10
  
  Value- A somewhat short campaign, that's highly replayable, addictive multiplayer, level editor, make 
 this a great purchase. 9/10
  
  
  Numerous other players have complained about severe bugs/crashes, ect, but my review is toward the 
 game itself, not its stability. Luckily I was blessed to have it crash only once throughout the 
 entire campaign. Overall, the game is superb from gameplay and presentation standpoint, marred down 
 by some rather unfortunate stability issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GP1mil
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game (although a year old) is fantastic on the PC. Nice graphics, great characters and fantastic 
 visuals. Its exactly like the 360 version besides the obvious visual overhaul and higher resolution, 
 but it delivers extra content that is only found on the PC. There are currently some issues with 
 Live for Windows and logging into game and some stuttering here and there but overall this game 
 should not be missed if your a PC gamer or even if you have already played it on the 360 a year 
 ago (like me) its still worth running through again to see the extra content.
  
  Specs:
  AMD Athlon 64-bit X2 6000+
  G. Skill DDR2-800
  nVidia GeForce 7800GTX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMontana1004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very challenging, great multiplayer, amazing campaign, solid story, good start to an 
 amazing series, fun cover system, beautifully-ugly graphics, a thrill ride from beginning to end, 
 will scare the crap out of you at times (which is always fun :P) , plenty of blood and gore to go 
 around, badass weaponry, badass characters, badass story, and a badass game overall.
  
  The Bad: Multiplayer is definitely not for everyone (I prefer Halo 3 and COD4) , at the moment there 
 is not a lot of backstory, sometimes the game can be a little TOO challenging.
  
  Overall, Gears of War is simply amazing. If you haven't played this game, I suggest you go out 
 and buy it right now. There will be plenty of twists, plenty "holy ****!" moments, and plenty of 
 memorable scenes that will have you laughing. To add, the voice acting is great, the characters 
 are superb, the enemies are ferocious and will give you the drive to rip them to shreds (quite 
 literally) , and the graphics are dark and gloomy, which may seem bad but it totally fits in with 
 the game and is actually very cool to look at. In conclusion, Gears of War is just the game to 
 get. Everything comes together perfectly and makes you always coming back for more. GO GET THIS 
 GAME BEFORE GOW2 ARRIVES! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captcindy
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  that's why groups like "reloaded" are so popular with their releases. shame on MS and Epic for doing 
 this to their gamers. i will NEVER! buy a "windows live" game again. i will purposely look for the 
 blue ball and stay FAR away from it and tell everyone else in the game section about my experience 
 with this game and the kane&lynch fiasco. yes,2 games in two weeks, both live both don't work. now 
 it can't be me, my pc is well into the minimum specs
  to run either game but, i get a big fat NOTHING, yet they have my $100.00 and will not fix or offer 
 any help. maybe i should seek council, you think that will get a response?
  what ever happen to QUALITY?.
  
  good bye:
  Cindy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlos_2100
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited about this game but to my surprise the game is a no starter on my brand new 
 rig on which I play COD 4 and Crysis with no problems. Tried to install and start the game for 
 more than a week and finally succeeded but the game kept crashing after maybe 10 minutes of play. 
 Bummer. A total disappointment. Ok, so I pull out my 3 year old rig out of retirement and the game 
 starts with no problems. Amazing. Nice graphics, great shooting. I really started enjoying it and 
 played about six hours. Next day I try to continue and F..., no "saved games on this device" or 
 something like that message pops up. Ok, so maybe a minor bug or something, so I ran the game again. 
 This time went Ok all the way to somewhere around "ACT 5" where I fought that huge beast. I'm not 
 very good at these things so it took me like 20 or more tries before I finally succeeded in destroying 
 the arm guns and the rider. Ok, great. Today, I update "Windows Live" thinking maybe they fixed 
 bugs and start the game --- oh, my freaking god, no checkpoints saved AGAIN. I'm not gonna played 
 the same chapters again. So I thought maybe if I go into multiplayer maybe I'll have some fun and 
 make some quick progress. Nobody's playing this game or maybe I can't see any servers. Thanks whoever 
 is responsible for wasting my time and money. At the end I just feel like a fool trying so hard 
 to make this game work. A piece of programing junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielbg19
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing pc based games for the past 18 years and never have I once encountered a game 
 that has fustrated me as much as Gears of War on PC. This is a pretty big title thats quite popular, 
 you'd think they would have taken better care when porting it to the PC.
  
  It just doesn't work. The actual .exe file has an error and crashes the game. I know computer and 
 have tried every possible thing to get it to work and 8 hours later, have just wasted my time. 
 I feel like I basically gave my money away to them. They haven't responded or mentioned anything 
 on the boards about working on it. They could at least apologize and mention that they are working 
 on a patch or pretend that they care about their customers. Game stores won't take back my PC game 
 because the box is open. So now I'm stuck with a nice case with pretty art on the cover that I 
 payed $80 for.
  
  And no, nothing is wrong with my comptuer because every other game works perfectly (with maximum 
 settings too) - Call of Duty 4, Jericho, Bioshock, Rainbow Six Vegas, Stalker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willowmanson
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst release ever as far as bugs and errors go. I cannot even complete the install 
 cause of a windows live error. When i buy a game I expect to be able to install and play even if 
 I am at the bare bones minimum specs required, which is not the case right now. My system is slightly 
 better than what is recommended. i have tried every fix on the Epic forums and still no luck. Needless 
 to say, I will be returning this game asap. I am not waiting for a patch to be able to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Wolf_86
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  (CAMPAIGN)
  Very happy with the improved graphics. Also, the new chapters definately caught me off guard, in 
 a good way. I was running through the game actually wishing that there were more grubs and then 
 the bridge level happened. Yeah, they kinda stretched it a bit but it added some unpredictability 
 to the mix. 
  I've taken the time to analyze the game's difficulties. I've beaten the game numerous times all 
 the way through "Casual", "Hardcore", and "Insane". Now since my goal here is not to boast, I would 
 just like to say that the creators really did a great job differentiating between the three difficulties.
 
  
  The coop is very smoothe and I enjoy having my whole screen while having a "Dom" or "Marcus" who 
 is actually useful during hard events in the gameplay.
  
  
  (ONLINE MULTIPLAYER)
  Definately an improvement from the console version. Not only did we PC gamers get all the new maps 
 FIRST, but we also have the option of creating, playing, and even hosting our own custom maps.
 
  Also, the caliber of player that the PC version brings to the plate is generally much higher than 
 the majority that you may see on the console version. These are guys/girls that have taken time 
 to build/buy a custom PC specifically made for gaming. (Not too many snot-nosed punks here)
  
  (NOW FOR THE CONS)
  
  -------BULLET LAG ----------
  --BULLET LAG ---------------
  -----------BULLET 
 LAG ------
  
  The still existing bullet lag that you find on the console version is still here on the PC. Although 
 you are able to monitor your connection much more precisely (which allows you to know which host 
 has the better connection) , the bullet lag is still so very intense. Those of us who have made 
 our way up the leaderboards have learned to adapt much better than others but it still doesn't 
 make it fair to the other players.
  It appears that most players that experience higher bullet lag than others will resort to very 
 primitive (nooby) tactics while in a match. 
  "To tell you the truth, sometimes it's the only way to survive the horrible connections."
  
 
  
  All in all, it is an AMAZING shooter with great handling (and a few glitches) that attracts all 
 types of shooter gamers out there.
  
  I give this game a 9.5 out of 10.0
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightmare22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War is an amazing third person shoter originally only for xbox 360. I am not much of a 
 PC gamer and I didn't have a 360 so I got this game. The game is very well designed, small details 
 in gameplay like the active reload make even reloading fun. I am on Act 5 but I haven't played 
 all of the new chapters but they are pretty much the same as the original game. If you have a PC 
 that can run this game at medium with a good framerate buy it. I use the controller because I am 
 a "Console Noob" and there again is no advantage or disadvantages to that. It is a must buy. If 
 you like Gore, Tactical shooters or you want to have insane fun this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dysehunter
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game and as its unreal engine it really makes the most out of the available hardware, 
 the introduction of the new chapters is great but i do think that the 360 players should at least 
 get a chance to see what they're like by being able to download the extra content through xbox 
 live marketplace.
  Apart from that the games highly addictive, amazing graphics, fantastic co-op, oh so addictive 
 multi player and i cant rrally say anything else about it without repeating my self, if you like 
 action, fast paced combat, great story line and amazing graphics this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This may as well be the best third person shooter on the market right now. And I bet this would 
 be a great first person shooter if that camera view is enabled. But OK, this is playable even for 
 me who strongly prefers an FPS. The game features a rather good story, immersive game environment, 
 and lots of action along the way.
  
  Visually this game is stunning, and by that I don't mean that the graphics are perfect since they 
 rarely exceed a few colors in any part of the game with some nice blurring to cover up a lack of 
 details. Weapons are pretty nicely done and feel very well when fired. They are larger than life 
 as are the beefy guys carrying them. There is a quite a bit of a comic book feel to this game but 
 for some reason everything fits well, even the cheesy dialogs. And the main part, the action, is 
 extremely well done with lots of spectacular firefights along the way.
  
  And now the crappy part ... or the things that really suck in this game.
  
  First, obviously 
 this a console-to-PC port game. Some limitations are understandable, but some are inexcusable and 
 could have been done with a little bit more work. List: no regular crouch; no standard jump; no 
 upright sprint. It's funny that in the game you can sprint crouched but actually there is no upright 
 sprint. To pass a "jump over" obstacle you have to first hide behind it and then jump over it, 
 instead of simply jumping over. Developer should have thought about a keyboard and mouse that most 
 PC users use instead of gamepad.
  
  Second, ... bugs ... very annoying indeed. Game runs smoothly and then suddenly the frame rate 
 drops to nothing. Or, you are in the middle of a firefight and you get stuck to an object (box, 
 crate, pipe, wall) and can't move at all. And you never know when that will happen since it seems 
 to be a random thing which could be serious if you are close to reaching the next checkpoint and 
 now you have to repeat the entire thing from the last saved checkpoint (see below) .
  
  Third, the developer's catastrophic mistake of not having the ability to save your progress at 
 will or at any point. This problem gets even more serious when the game loses its own checkpoints 
 and you have to go back and replay entire chapter to get back to where you were before. To me this 
 happened and I lost my progress (checkpoints) , weapons (easily replaceable) , and COG tags (would 
 have to start the game from the beginning again to get them back) . Anyways, an unforgivable mistake 
 on the developers part that only a quick patch could make it less embarrassing for them.
  
  Overall, this could have been a great and memorable PC game but because of some very lame decisions 
 on the developers or publisher's part it's simply not much more than an average game. The game 
 itself is not that difficult and the biggest challenge during the gameplay are not your enemies 
 but rather not to die before the next checkpoint -- this becomes a chore instead of fun, running 
 the same game section over and again instead of using manual saves after each major firefight. 
 If the developer counted on the arbitrary and buggy checkpoint system to artificially inflate the 
 game difficulty level, then the result is very disappointing since the game is not more difficult 
 just more buggy and repetitious. I think a solid patch or two could make this game a must have, 
 but for right now is simply too un-PC-like and too buggy to be among the top shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aoki_squared
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Not bad, but not great. Graphics are good, though bloom is overused like whenever there's a chance. 
 The Unreal 3 Engine doesn't support anti-aliasing either, unless you're using Vista and dropping 
 20% of your frame rate. The art direction is spot on, though. Gameplay-wise, it's mostly pretty 
 similar. You take cover and spray at enemies, then continue taking cover and repeat. The gameplay 
 lacks the finesse that makes PC shooters shine (for me at least) . The crosshair is huge, and it 
 makes aiming just too easy. You can tell it was meant to be a console shooter. The characters/story/music 
 are forgettable, but get the job done well enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShafTatsu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  I don't understand all the people that are complaining about the game. People that say the graphics 
 are bad or the AI is not too advanced or the game is just not good enough. 
  
  I heard all these non true comments right before i played the game and i was prepared for something 
 bad. 
  
  When i started playing though i realized that the game is wonderful. But i still was cautious and 
 was waiting for something disappointing to happen.
  
  Well that thing never happened because the game left me the best taste that it could. And as i 
 said before, if you like a good shooter you will love this game.
  
  Everything is timed so correctly and it keeps you on your feet all through the game. 
  
  The 
 biggest disadvantage is that you have to take cover before you jump an obstacle, and if that was 
 fixed I'd give a 9.5 for sure.
  
  I think its a very balanced game that you have to play because its one of the top 3d person shooters 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabroman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best 3rd person view games since the release of freedom fighters . when 
 you first look at the game you can see that amazing enviroment it is destructable and with really 
 nice backgrounds that make the gamer fell like it is a real battlefield . also the game effects 
 are realy revolutionary [as these that get out from the weapon] . 
  
  the other thing gears of war is the voices of the characters they are so tough that htey make a 
 great adrenaline rush during the battle with the glorious music of the game .
  
  but one thing doesn't makes gears of the game of the year is that once 
  the game is seen it 
 appears that it wasn't for pc but just was reconstructed to work on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomisSandthief
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Lets just say first that this was an amazing game. The graphics are superb even when running on 
 a low end system. I played this game on the 360 at a friends place when it first came out and it 
 was fantastic so when it came out for PC I was very happy.
  
  The story is nothing to write home about but I did get attached to my squad and enjoyed hearing 
 the playful banter between the soldiers. Several things did detract from the game which include 
 a very limited amount of bad guys. 90% of the guys you kill are essentially lizardy humans with 
 the same array of guns as you. 5% are the crawling locusts which are like mutated apes and the 
 other 5% are the bosses or big bad guys which are not even all that varied in themselves.
  
  The guns used in the game include your standard array of machine gun, shotgun, grenade launcher, 
 etc. The save system is lacking like in most shooters and you can only respawn at checkpoints and 
 not at any point you want.
  
  Now I have basically just said how basic and normal this game is so why the 9.5 you ask. Well the 
 gameplay works really well. The fighting is fun and challenging. When you die you aren't like "that 
 was stupid" and get frustrated with the game. Instead you easily see how you can replay that sequence 
 of events so that you can beat the level.
  
  This is where the game shines not in new and intriguing ways but in good solid fun and tactics. 
 The game deserves a 9.5 not for innovation or story but in good solid fun. Something that many 
 game developers don't seem to understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War was one of the main reasons that I was going to buy an X Box 360 last year, but I 
 decided that Gears of War may come to the PC, so I waited, and I'm glade I waited.
  
  Gears of War is the X Box 360 version done over again with better graphics, 5 new single player 
 chapters, 3 new multi player maps, one new multi player mode which king of the hill, and a map 
 editor.
  
  The single player is about the human race fighting a bunch of creatures called the Locust. You 
 play a character named Marcus Fenix, who is busted out of prison by is friend Dom. You go through 
 a bunch of areas fighting the Locust. 
  
  The combat in Gears of War is a duck and cover style, you just have to up against something or 
 else you are dead. Basically you pop up and take your shots, and then you hide behind cover waiting 
 fro your health to recharge. The duck and cover machanics work really well, and fit this game.
 
  
  There are a bunch of cool weapons in Gears of War, like the Lancer which is a assault rifle with 
 a chain saw on the end of it. There is also a weapon called the Torque Bow which shoots out an 
 arrow that explodes. One of the coolest weapons is the Hammer of Dawn. The Hammer of Dawn lets 
 you control a huge leaser which comes down through a satilite. All the weapons in Gears of War 
 are Really cool and are fun to shoot.
  
  The graphics in Gears of War are amazing. The environments look really good, and the character 
 models look really realistic. Gears of War is one of the best looking games out there.
  
  The sound in Gears is pretty good. The guns sound good when they fire and the explosions sound 
 good. The voices sometimes sound a bit like a cave man, but it matches the characters.
  
  The multi player in Gears of War is really fun. You either play as the COG or the Locusts. There 
 are a bunch of different maps and a bunch of different game types. Most of the game types are round 
 base like Counter Strike. The multi player in Gears of War is almost the whole package!
  
  If you want a great game to play this holiday then you need to check out Gears of War, it will 
 be one of the best gameing experiences that you will have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeusZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  I was highly skeptical about Gears of War when I first grabbed it but I was entranced as soon as 
 I started playing. The hide and shoot system works perfectly, and it never lost its charm for me. 
 
  
  The gameplay was a bit short; it lasted me around 6-7 hours on hardcore difficulty. Another complaint 
 is that the monsters and weapons lacked variety. I was running through one of the later levels 
 and when a berserker jump out at me, I remember that I sighed. Same techniques to kill the same 
 monsters. The colors are a bit drab until you hit the PC exclusive levels. The trees were a sight 
 for sore eyes.
  
  I went into the game hoping that I would get scared, but I was wrong. The game might try to surprise 
 you but the checkpoint system assures you that dying isn't a problem. I just wasn't scared.
  
  Even though I stressed the bad points, it's a great game. A must have for all PC gamers!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  I have played this title on my xbox and when I thought that it's nothing better, I was purely wrong...
 
  
  The pc version of gears of war is way better. Of course if you have a super high end pc, then you 
 will surely notice the difference. In this version, the graphics is way better. Because it's on 
 pc, you can adjust the graphics depending on how your pc can take the game. But again... If you 
 have a super high end pc that can maximize the full potential of Gears of War, you will surely 
 agree that this is the best looking game in pc.
  
  While the gameplay didn't change, it is still as satisfying as the console counter part. You can 
 still enjoy the brutality of chansawing a locust in half or blasting the guts out of wretches with 
 you gnasher all thanks to great graphics and great controls. There are five new chapters added 
 and within this chapters, you will encounter a gigantic brumak. A new boss encouter and a new treat 
 from gears of war.
  
  Other additions are new multiplayer maps and modes, 50 achivements and a game editor which lets 
 you create your own level and design of a map.
  
  Overall, this is the best version of gears of war. It offers a whole new experience both to those 
 who are familiar with the game and those who are about to get familiar with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic-Blade
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  If something is really impressive, Gears is even more. I never played the XBOX version, but I always 
 wanted to, since this game comes from Epic.
  
  Finally I got it and I must say.. I'm already addicted to it. Gameplay is great, the graphics are 
 absurd, the whole concept of the game is really cool. And the gore! The violent language and behavior 
 of the characters, everything fits on this game.
  
  There isn't much to say, since it's out for a year now, but this one will always be among the best.
 
  
  Every game running on Unreal Engine 3 is worth a look, but this one (and Unreal Tournament 3 of 
 course) is a must-have for those who enjoy shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  well gears of war has just come by in a new era of FPS.
  in the end it is good because the game have quite big diferences between the great titles that 
 just launched in november.
  while you play in third-person shooter, gears of war manages to bring a world of nothing but beatiful 
 and very well shaped scenarios.
  it is amazing to see the destroy world in the game, it really brings down that cool feeling of 
 war.
  the sound doesnt stay behind too, with a great voice acting and great special effetcs such as explosions.
 
  the problem about gears of war in pc is the gameplay.
  even if it is simple it fails sometimes, especially when moving out or into cover.
  it is hard 
 to get used to it and mainly it is hard to use it in some situations.
  the frame rate of the game fails a little to.
  it is not rare to have some heavy slowdowns after 
 the shortmovies.
  but in the end gears of war is still powerful, because the game creates a amazing atmosphere with 
 the realistic scenarios and the great actions sequences, making the player to stay really focused 
 and closed in the game.
  gears of war is remarkable and great, it realy worths it... all things considered... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunain_Hunny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Well I had heard alot about GOW on the 360. Fanboys crying about it all the time, as soon as I 
 saw it on shelves got it without a second thought, I actually didnt expect much out of it, I personally 
 didnt like other alien bashing games like *HELO*.... so I thought maybe it would be something of 
 the sort, but i was pleasantly surprised by the intensity of the gameplay, downright gritty I would 
 say... pure action, the cover mechanics work very well and are fun to use. The gun play is good 
 too, the guns seem to be doing alot of damage, very nice in my books and a must get, plus with 
 the additional content in the PC version Id say go for it! I had a big WOW thing going on when I 
 played for the first time.
  
  Something that surprised me in the graphics was AA, it was only allowed with DX10... but even without 
 AA the graphics are very very nice. Nike, just do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  It will all come down to how you set up your system. Latest drivers is a must. Medium level PC 
 is a must. You will find that all the "Bugs" that you have been reading about simply do not exist. 
 They only exist on the warez versions and there is a reason for that. So anyone stupid enough to 
 complain about these so called bugs are doing it at there own stupid sake. I had no bugs whatsoever. 
 Instead, I had an absoloute blast of a time playing this monstrous hard hitting action blockbuster. 
 It definately is the best port I have ever seen and the reason why this is so, is that it is a 
 Microsoft coded game in the end. The new features alone put it above the Xbox and running Direct 
 X 10 with settings on full at a reasonable high res with that turd of a feature Anti Aliasing switched 
 off completely, makes this a highly addictive and amazing game. 
  Excellent work of art and an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4emic
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Before I say anything else, let me make it clear that the installation and setup of the game with 
 windows live took nearly three hours before I was allowed to save my progress. The amount of known 
 bugs is disastrous and Epic Games sold their soul to Microsoft in this case. I suggest that potential 
 buyers heads off to check the epicgames forums to see some more detail about the current situation 
 since EG hasn't really given any response to the many complaints.
  Also, note that even if you have a computer with alien technology in it, the framerate will take 
 the same ups and downs as prostitute on crack and there's no helping it.
  
  Now that the technical issues are out of the way, let's move on.
  
  The game starts with the 
 decisions of whether the player would like to 'work out the kinks' AKA go over a basic tutorial 
 or jump right into the action. The game contains a fair amount of the 'go left or right' choices 
 which gives a bit of replay value of some rather obvious reasons.
  The feel of the atmosphere is good, the voice-acting is a tad over 'decent' and the graphics varies 
 from 'ugly' to 'pretty' depending on your hardware specifications.
  The plot itself is shrouded in mystery and if almost forced into the backseat due to various reasons. 
 The most significant one is that the player never gets to know why that the aliens attacked the 
 earth in the first place.
  The AI is.. like the framerate - It seems completely random from minute to minute whether your 
 companion decides to be an intelligent bastard that takes out series of enemies and performs smart 
 moves or if he chooses to be the worst crackhead in the world that has ever held a gun. This is 
 mostly evident by their poor prioritization and lack of logic. Whether they start shooting at the 
 alien that is feasting on the smell of their sweat or the one half a mile away seems like a decision 
 they make as they hit themselves in the head with something awfully heavy. Fear not though, two 
 players can team up and complete the campaign in co-op mode which I'm hoping to try out sometime 
 soon. The only complaint I can make about this is the missing split-screen mode which would have 
 been ideal for someone who possessed two controllers and would like to invite someone over to try 
 it out. The worst part is the misguiding description on the back of the cover that announces that 
 players are able to play together offline which is a big fat lie.
  The level design is generally good and it keeps you glued to the monitor throughout the ~15 hours 
 of gameplay that the easiest setting offers you. Most boss battles are fun and rather nostalgic 
 in a 'expose the weak point' way. The very last boss battle is completely dissapointing though 
 and I must say that I killed the sucker somewhat by pure accident in a matter of seconds by using 
 a nearby machinegun.
  
  Multiplayer is rather fun but the missing 'ping' and 'location' column can make it a challenge 
 just to find a decent server.
  Also, you will have to pay for an xbox live gold membership to play ranked games which is mostly 
 where all of the fun is going on.
  Nevertheless, it's fun but most matches are quickly over due to the small amount of players allowed 
 (8) which is quite a killer since I would have loved to run around on a chaotic battlefield with 
 32 (or more) players.
  
  ~K4emic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatguyslim
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Gears of war on Xbox 360 but I am really confident to say that on PC this game 
 looks so good. I have definitely not played anything like this before. I can't acually compare 
 this to Half Life 2 but this game has definitely gave me everything I could have asked for.... 
 I did indeed waited for this game for a full goddamn year and it was truly worth the wait..... 
 The best thing I liked about this game is the Unreal Engine because it runs so smooth on my laptop 
 and I honestly played this game on Max resolution, with 50+ FPS.... Now that is how an engine should 
 be made, I could see how Crysis graphics would look like and I think if they would have worked 
 a bit harder on the Cryengine, it would have been a good game to run as well!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naveh3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  GOW for pc is pretty good game, as one that didnt played it on the xbox, i watched movies of it 
 on the xbox and it looks good very good but still looked kinda repetetive or something, but on 
 the pc i got to play it and i still do, and its really nice, kinda "drill" in the mind but it's 
 still alot of fun.
  
  the voice and sound effects are sweet, cursing and gives a feeling of a badass team going on there, 
 realistic acting, graphics is very nice on the high level, with 1 GIG RAM and 256 VGA memory i 
 get anoying jumps from time to time and hardisks load so it's somewhat anoying but it doesnt happen 
 all the time.
  
  not a big varity of weapons or moves but the one that exist are really nice , the chainsaw is the 
 coolest, u can cut enemies really nice with blood and everything :) we lack gore in today games, 
 graphics gettin better but the gore stays the same.
  
  bottom line, it's worth buying and playing on the net it's even more fun, and if you like FPS this 
 one is for you!
  
  good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I am not a 360 owner, so I jumped out of my seat when I found a GOW PC preview. The game looked 
 so good on 360, and still does, but in the graphics department, Pc blows the flying %$^# out of 
 the 360, the game is suitably gritty, with a very grey type of filter, the Locusts are as cool 
 as ever and the COGs (especially Coletrain) are absolutely massive. This game will satisfy your 
 bloodiest, goriest most violent itch (other than maybe the original manhunt) , with its sledid graphics 
 the blood bones and flying body parts look better than ever. The chainsaw bayonet is amazingly 
 pleasurable (call me old fashioned and sadistic) , theres something about shredding a monster in 
 half with a rusty chain saw that just feels right, hehe. The gameplay translates well to PC, better 
 than you would expect. Though it will take some getting used to the constant space bar tapping. 
 The enemies are smart, not FEAR or Crysis smart, but still quite smart, they will go for cover 
 and pop out everynow and then, they aren't very good when jumping out of cover though as they tend 
 to just run to the furthest part of cover in the middle of an intense firefight, but they do provide 
 a challenge. The guns aren't that varied, but they are still fun, the chainsaw bayonet and the 
 shotgun are two great weapons. The worst part of the game is actually the multiplayer, not the 
 gameplay, but the idea of Windows Live. Acheivements are great, but having to pay $10 a month for 
 one game isn't really all that, and I was really looking forward to GOW team deathmatches, but 
 now I'm not so sure, it just doesn't seem necessary, why not just do what all the other PC games 
 are doing and make a free multiplayer, doesn't it seem sensible, I mean why play GOW multiplayer 
 for a price when you can have Crysis multiplayer for free? Anyway, a great game despite its confusing 
 choice of multiplayer set up, well worth just for the Brumak if you already have the older version, 
 buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTXII
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War was amazing on the 360, but do take into account that it pushes this system to its 
 absolute limits. It runs very well, so Epic did a great job engineering the game to run on the 
 360. It was great with the 360 controller and the gameplay elements worked extremely well.
  
  So, when I first saw the game on the market for the PC platform, I was a bit spectical, to 
 be honest. I didn't know how the game would function in comparison to the silky smooth controlling 
 element with the 360 controller with a keyboard and mouse.
  
  Oh, but how I was so wrong. The game plays really well. You have much more accuracy in shots, you 
 can manuver the maps at a much faster pace, but that's pretty much a given, as you are handed with 
 a keyboard and a mouse to play the game with. Covering works really well, shooting, walking, and 
 running are handled very well and it puts a brand new feel to the game.
  
  Now, with the graphics. On the 360 version, you got it running at 720p and it looked incredible. 
 All of the vistas in the game were simply breath-taking. Though, you did have the occasional glitch 
 and frame rate hitch here and there. But with the PC version, you can get the resolution to run 
 double what the 360 version ran at. You can get a much better frame rate. And all of the textures 
 are much sharper, colors are more rich and filled out, and it just plain functions better.
  
  Depending on the graphics power, computer processing power, and the amount of RAM you have 
 will determine how your experience with the game will be. For me, I have two 8800Ultra's in SLI 
 mode, with a quad-core clocked to 3.4GHz and the game runs incredible and looks even better.
  
  If you've got a system that can handle this master piece, you better give it a hard look. Even 
 if you have played the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay videos....
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Gears1
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Gears2
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Gears3
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Gears4
 
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Gears5 PC added content.
  
  
  I really want to love this game because the atmosphere and the story is just really great and the 
 single player just spells "masterpiece" but Epic have totally ruined it with the amount of mistakes 
 they made bringing it over to the PC...
  
  - No dedicated servers
  - Alot of people suffer from crashing and stuttering and general performance issues.
  - All saved 
 games are saved onto Games for Windows Live and not your PC which is very strange and annoying.
 
  - Saved games seem to go missing off Live aswel.
  - Windows Live can sometiems cause the game to crash.
  - Some people have a issue of the game 
 saying theres not a DVD in where there is.
  - No pings shown on server browser or in game.
  - Server browser is completly useless and you can't customize it or make it smaller or bigger, 
 just makes you feel lucky to have the Steam server browser.
  - Can't switch teams during a game.
  - No spectator mode.
  - You can't make like 16 player 
 maps on a custom map which is very weird.
  - Microsoft seem to restrict you modding the game, i don't see why they need to do this.
  - Lots 
 of bugs with the game itsself like getting stuck to walls which still hasn't been fixed.
  - No AA for DX9 which seems very stupid since AA existed since forever.
  
  The list is really 
 endless......
  
  
  I really do like this game though which makes it very hard to review because the characters and 
 story and graphics and sounds + the artistic direction is all fantasic, reminds me of the Alien 
 films if they were set on earth. I did really enjoy the single player and the multiplayer is very 
 good too but it's just all the problems when they've ported it over to the PC that has let it down 
 soooo much. I did think this was because of Microsoft but Epic have made alot of the same mistakes 
 with UT3 aswel.
  
  The Single Player took me 10 hours to complete which is much longer than i would have thought, 
 the last ACT feels very out of place and specially how the gameplay changes, you can really tell 
 it's a add on for the PC. The only thing i could fault about it is the friendly AI which becomes 
 very annoying as they constantly die and it's another thing i wish they sorted out. Alot of the 
 time they just stand there and you wont see them again until the next loading point where they 
 suddenly spawn in. Also i hate how your talking to eachother and it sounds like they're next to 
 you but they're stuck halfway across the map, it just seems very stupid. Despite the issues the 
 single player is one of the best i've played since Half-Life and it's really what is stopping me 
 from giving the game like a 3 or something.
  
  The multiplayer is also really good, you think 4 vs 4 sounds boring but it works very well and 
 something really different and simple but i works. Reminds me of Counter Strike, like not the gameplay 
 but just because it's sooo simple but just works. The problem with the multiplayer though is Epic 
 forgot to put in alot of basic PC features and forgot to add Dedicated servers into the game so 
 it's very hard to find a multiplayer game as a result. I've listed alot of the problems with the 
 multiplayer above ^ so read that to know more problems. Just know that multiplayer is the main 
 part of the game for me and it's killed off by Epic's lazyness.
  
  All in all Gears of War should have been a masterpiece and in a way it is, just all the problems 
 and restrictions Epic and Microsoft have put onto the PC version have really killed it. They seem 
 to treat us like Console Gamers when PC gaming works very differently and they just don't seem 
 to understand us. The Unreal engine 3 has seemed to deliver us nothing but disappointing ports 
 and menus and bugs, it doesn't look very good for it tbh, they even ruined it with UT3.
  
  I want to give Gears of War a high score but i just can't because all the bugs and lack of any 
 word from Epic about a Patch makes me think the future doesn't look too bright, they've really 
 gotten out of touch with their community.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crembo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  First impression:
  Simple menu , lots of settings , very tweakable game. Good feeling.
  
  Story:
  Story is quite simple. Aliens attack the planet. It might sound chlidish and stupid but.... 
 The game is very interesting. I mean , you always want to play more and more... You want to continue 
 to find out what will happen.
  
  Graphics:
  Superb. UT3 engine. Extremly good graphics. As always , there's a but.
  But is that , if you 
 want to run the game at very high graphics , you'll need to tweak a bit the confing (not through 
 the game) . Else it will probably stuter.
  
  Sound:
  Sound it good. Music always starts at the right place. Not a lot to talk about it though.
  
 
  Control:
  Very very good. Plain simple.
  
  Conclusion:
  Superb. Really worth the money. I didn't expect it to be so fun :)
  I'd recommend it to to anyone 
 who likes FPS (even though it's not an FPS game...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares9
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  Most people have either played this game or are not going to in a lot of cases by now. If you have 
 never played it and some how waited for the title this long than you are in for a great experience. 
 I beat the 360 version 4 times and now after playing through the PC version of this game I must 
 conclude that the controls are far better on the PC, the visuals are updated and better, and the 
 game runs smooth at far better frame rates than the 360 version. The online is free and it is easy 
 to find games. The PC version with out a doubt is better than the 360 version and the extra content 
 isn't even the reason for it but is a nice addition to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imhioncrak
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I got this game after reading all the good reviews it got and remembering that my friend, who has 
 a 360, said it was great. I was very disappointed, the horrible controls and bugs got me to uninstall 
 the game and exchange it after playing for only about 2 hours. It was obviously made for the 360 
 and they didn't change it much, evne though it took them about a year. I didn't get far enough 
 into the story to really say anything about it, but I have heard it's not all that good.
  I would put this game in with all the Halo games, overrated hugely and a great disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickity_China
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I never thought slicing through some dirty monsters with a chainsaw could be so amusing, but then 
 again, this game certainly does seem to make me wanna be violent. After a few hours, the first 
 thing I did when I encountered a boss was try to run up to it and dice it up with my chainsaw. 
 Alas, that didn't work. YEA, this game is FUN.
  
  The environments are dark and gritty with tons of variety between chapters. From the post apopcalyptic 
 great outdoors, dank and grimy swamps, dark corridors, and humongous caves, Gears certainly has 
 a ton of eye candy... granted, your computer can run it smoothly.
  
  The sound is great as well. Hearing the revving of my chainsaw the the noise it makes as it cuts 
 through Locust flesh is... addicting. The voice acting is decent, with tough guys with tough names 
 (like Cole Train) sounding the way big burly men should.
  
  Gameplay wise, if you enjoyed playing Gears with a couple analog sticks and buttons, then you'll 
 love it with a keyboard and mouse. Those who aren't experienced with the original 360 version will 
 find the unique cover system and intense gunplay deeply engrossing. The enemy AI uses cover wisely 
 and are pretty good shots as well.
  
  As with every game, there are some problems. The biggest problem for me is the annoying friendly 
 AI. In some cases, such as during the "Nightfall" chapter, they will stand motionless in dark, 
 waiting for the Kryll to tear them to shreds. Once they die, you, as the main character, must go 
 rescue them, usually bringing about your death as well. Other times, they're just plain old useless. 
 In a few firefights, I was completely alone! Afterwards, I went to go look for my team and guess 
 what I found, they were eating cream pie in a building a couple hundred feet back (complete exaggeration 
 but you get the idea) .
  
  Another minor issue is frequent frame rate drops. One second the game is running smoothly, then 
 the next, it decides it wants to be a slideshow. Other than that, I was suprised to find that there 
 are no other technical glitches.
  
  Lastly, I was disappointed at the easy boss fights. None of them took much effort to figure out 
 how to bring them down.
  
  However, these simplistic flaws should not be enough to ruin anyone's enjoyment of the game. The 
 third person perspective is a welcome refreshment in a time when FPS games are abundant, and anyone 
 who loves blood, gore, and guns should give this game a shot. Even people who have played the original 
 version should try it because the mouse will revive any shooter originally made for consoles; not 
 to mention, there extra chapters added to this version to fill in some plot holes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  So I have to say I get slightly irritated by the comparisons of this game to the XBOX 360 one. 
 Of course it is similar as it has everything the 360 has and more. The graphics are better assuming 
 you are running a good machine and there are more single-player and multi-player sections to the 
 game. So what is not to like. It really surprises me Gamespot cannot give it a higher score. The 
 game clearly has better visuals than it did a year ago. It runs smoothly and has a lengthy single-player 
 and good multi-player. Didn't the 360 get a 9.5 or some such number. It is clear to me GS has a 
 bias against the PC and towards the 360 which shows up in their reviews of big name titles. I know 
 this is a year old game for the 360, but for me with no 360 and a PC it is brand new. Rate it for 
 the PC instead of comparing it to the 360. This game still rocks and looks like a title that just 
 came out. That is what is important for PC owners to know and GS did get that right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedrums
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  If this game would actually let you play it without zapping your saved games now and then and forcing 
 you to restart from the beginning, or manually backing up and restoring each time you quit, it 
 would be great. As it is -- unplayable. A tragedy for such a great game. It's been out nearly two 
 weeks now and no patch in site.
  
  I can play it with everything maxed out on my Opteron 185-based system, which includes an 8800 
 GTX. No need for SLI on this one to get very good frame rates even with AA and DX10 on Vista x64. 
 Now, if I could only play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Well I played this previous system, a P4 3.6/X1900XTX, and it did not run well at all. At the time 
 I wrote a review on here and gave the game a score of 5. Now I have built a new system (Q6600@3.2/HD3870OC) 
 and this game runs beautifully so I feel I should rewrite this review. 
  The graphics are spot on, maybe the textures get a little blocky up close, but overall the lighting 
 is spot on, and the blurriness when turning the camera is the best I've seen yet.
  The sound is good, very atmospheric in places.
  The playability is excellent, the controls are 
 good, although I am not overly keen on only being able to run in a straight line. 
  Lots of people have reported all sorts of bugs with this game, the only bug I have had is getting 
 stuck on objects sometimes & having to reload. Other than that I have had no problems at all. What 
 a shame that after all the complaining Epic now say they will not release any more PC games.
  So I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes scifi 3rd person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i just want to say a tiny little thing:
  How come, that out of 8 reviews i have found on the internet, NONE mentioned the HUGE amount of 
 bugs and failures in this game.
  
  Sure, this game has it all, good combat, good multiplayer, great graphics... really, great.
  
 The thing is, that some of us, or should I say, MOST of us, cant actually see that, due to the 
 amount of bugs/crashes in this game.
  
  A great example, You start the game, 20 seconds later, the game crashes.
  But its not a problem... 
 you just drag the "error" window somewhere and then you just continue playing. An hour later, the 
 game crashes, this time, you have to re-launch the game.
  
  Well, i wouldn't be angry about it, but the thing is, my saves are lost! AGAIN!
  so i have to 
 start again, over and over, hoping for a patch to be released soon... and yes, a patch will be 
 released soon (hurray)
  
  Ok, so even after i start playing and the game runs smoothly for once, i want to play the multiplayer... 
 yeah... i dont know if epic knows this, but its 2007. Online games SHOULD NOT be stopped once the 
 host quits the game, no matter the reason, from a simple internet disconnection, to plain "noob", 
 which means, that the host sucks so bad, it just quits the game, ruining everyone's game!
  
  In short, This games seems like its in open beta, or even Open Alpha or something.
  This 
 is plain stupid, and i really do hope this mistake will not happen again... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitley1967
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  I don't take the time to review many games but this one warrants my time. My test system; Intel 
 duo 6400 @ 2.13 x 2, GeForce 7950 Gt @ 512mb, 2 gigs of memory.
  
  Graphics: Astounding. I've not seen a better looking game for the PC to date. With setting @ high 
 minus Anti-aliasing I have little stutter and absolutely no game crashes after a minimum of 5+ 
 hours of consistent game play
  
  Learning Curve: Easy to master; Took me about 30 minutes to get a good feel for the keys
  
 
  Storyline: The story itself is not nobel-prize worthy but it's standard as far as pc game stories 
 go. I do wish it could be longer and I do hope for a sequel.
  
  Replayability: With online multi-player available this game does have life after the story. I played 
 a few online games thus far and am happy to report it plays well even on my mid-level system. I 
 personally enjoy the games playing style. With its duck and cover mechanics it gives it a certain 
 tactical immersion versus run and gun, which all FPS lovers tend to prefer. 
  
  Overall: 10. The UnReal Engine deserves Innovation of the Year award as far as gaming is concerned. 
 I'm a strategy gamer by heart but when I saw this game on the Xbox 360, it was the first time I 
 had the inclination of even buying an Xbox. This game is a must have and highly addictive. Highly 
 recommend it!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilkillaz89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  "We are not here to sell cookies"
  
  Good Graphics, amazing gameplay, funny moments and Npc comments, intense battles, and online game 
 play is just..... WOW
  
  The bugs, well all games come with bugs, GoW does come with an orgy of bugs, from crashes, to "hold 
 your breath, tight'in your fist" stuttering (not due to hardware) Im running a 8500gt/2gddr3kingston 
 Ram/amd 64x2 at 5000+, and my Fps (frame rate) is at least 35+ with all the goodies turned up and 
 running at 1280x720.. but the stuttering, OMG ROXXERSBOXXERSWTF.
  But ofcourse i found some tips on some forums and BO-YAH, it runs AMAZING, a few bumps here and 
 there but no more freezing.
  And ofcourse they are going to patch it. So even better.
  
  Nice one Epic, this game put you on the map. ( too those who don't know U. R. T) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidfep
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Overall Gears of War is pretty good but there are a few problems with the PC version that I feel 
 need addressing. 
  
  On the positive side the game looks great, even on my 16 month-old laptop. The environments are 
 visually stunning and fun to explore. The voice acting is good, and the game play is fast paced 
 and exciting; it's a fun game to play and it's easy to get caught up in.
  
  Gears of War has a few problems though which I feel really detract from its quality. First of all, 
 it feels like a console game. You can definitely tell it's a port from another system. Being forced 
 to use Xbox Live for multiplayer is a joke, it should just connect to the internet like every other 
 FPS out there. After creating an Xbox Live account, updating, and trying every troubleshooting 
 tip Microsoft provides Xbox Live still won't connect. I've never had a problem like this with any 
 other multiplayer game. This may have been a great FPS for a console, but after the depth and customization 
 allowed in games like Stalker I feel Gears of War for PC is kind of shallow and a little behind 
 the times. Also, the AI is fairly predictable, if you die and have to come back to an area, the 
 NPCs do exactly what they did the first time around. I feel like I should have saved my money, 
 waited a few days and bought Crysis; that demo was awesome. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy1983uk200
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  first of all the game looks pretty nice, runs great on my system (Q6600 @ 3.2 2gb ram 8800gts with 
 high settings and dx10) took about 15 mins to install
  
  being a long time PC gamer ive been use to games being poorly ported, GOW has been ported pretty 
 well the game runs smooth and looks great (i wouldnt expect anything else from a UT game engine)
 
  
  but some things just dont translate to the PC as well
  
  first of all the story and how its told is pretty poor and boring
  
  the controls has been 
 poorly translated for the PC it just feels horrible i even bought an xbox360 control pad and the 
 inaccuracy made the game unplayable
  
  the dialog that was written for this game is just god awful it sounds like it was written by a 
 5 year old
  
  and lastly it is hard getting use to the whole duck and cover is annoying and slows the game down
 
  
  its not the worst game out there but its defo not a game for the pc
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosmoKing1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  I was very interested in playing this game when it was first released on the xBox 360 but I never 
 did because I don't own the console. I only play PC games. So when Gears of War was announced for 
 the PC I was very happy indeed and was expecting a lot, perhaps I was expecting too much.
  
  While I have enjoyed playing Gear of War there are some things that bother me. The duck for 
 cover mechanic feels broken, if you move up to a wall and then try to cover behind it, nothing 
 will happen half the time. I've found that the only way to make the character duck for cover every 
 time is press the button several meters away from the cover I intend to duck behind, this does 
 seem to work.
  
  Also the melee attack only seems to work when your not in a combat zone. If you get hurt while 
 trying to attack something you stop attacking, this seems a bit strange to me since this doesn't 
 happen when you are firing a gun. You be a virtual pin cushion while shooting and it's hurt your 
 aim at all. So you quickly give up trying to attack anything close and just shoot the buggery out 
 of it from as far away as possible. 
  
  Which brings me to another point, the weapons don't particularly feel very powerful. The rifles 
 only seem effective against those fiddly buggers that run along the ceiling sometimes which aren't 
 any fun to fight at all. I can't understand why developers think that something small and fast 
 that claws at your goolies is a good idea to put in a game. I blame Half Life for making this kind 
 of enemy popular.
  
  Also with the weapons, there isn't much variety really. There's two rifles which only differ in 
 one has burst fire while the other is fully automatic, also the automatic has a chainsaw on it, 
 which is useless, see above. There's a shotgun which is also useless, no point using it at a distance 
 and if you let the enemy get too close they'll just melee attack you while you feebly press melee 
 and just stand there looking smug and manly. There's a bow (WHY?!?) that fires explosive arrows 
 which is pointless also. To fire you have to hold the fire button down to charge, which while you're 
 standing up in full view waiting for the shot to charge, you are a giant bullet magnet. Then there 
 is that silly Hammer of Dawn gun which is only useful aginst the big boss type monsters, this could 
 have been done so much better. Asking the player to discard a very useful sniper rifle to run around 
 with a gun that only works outside, when a satelite is active and against bosses is a bit much. 
 You can use it against the other grunts, but it's hardly worth the effort.
  
  The only other weapon worth using apart from the main rifle is the sniper rifle. Which you get 
 a strange lack of ammo considering you can carry 600+ bullets for one rifle and 700+ bullets for 
 the other at the same time, why you can't carry loads of sniper rifle bullets is beyond me. But 
 I've never seen my ammo go above 30, maybe I just use it too much. It's a little pointless mentioning 
 the pistols because anyone with any sense will only use the damn thing to shoot the gas canisters 
 on the night section, as not to waste useful ammo on them.
  
  On the whole this is a good game, even though it does still feel like a console game. I couldn't 
 stomach playing with a game pad so I've only played with a mouse and keyboard, though I can't imagine 
 it'll make it feel any better to play with a game pad.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone that likes "just shoot that thing" kind of game play and 
 wants something that says "screw realism" because there's nothing realistic about this game in 
 any sense of the word. It's just big tough guy violence.
  
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakkaj
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  When i was watching trailers, and reading other ppls comments and reviews, i was thinking I am 
 gonne get quake 2 in a darker, more sinister atmosphere. However, i don't think the story writers 
 took a minute to think about the general feel of the game. When i first saw those bulky suits i 
 thought of manga, with the first dialogues i thought some dark humour, and in some places, a cheap 
 B-class horror movie. Unfortunatly while these elements keep on throughout the game, they are kind 
 of a letdown (act 5: some moster sped behind doors in front of me, creepy, loud music played - 
 cheap eh?) .
  
  The plot. Well if I said one sentance about it, i would reveal everything. It hardly creates the 
 feeling of fighting for the sake of the planet. And it has some common points with FEAR EP plotline, 
 you are gonne be constantly postponed, delayed and rerouted.
  
  Gameplay. Linear. It is so linear that if you closed your eyes pressed up+space, right+space/left+space, 
 you can easily pass through every level, given no enemies, who btw are spawned on spot, are capable 
 only of running around stupidly from cover to cover, and since you are safe behind your cover, 
 they generally serve as pushovers. The whole game consists of the same formula over and over. Find 
 cover, shoot from cover, flank, take cover, shoot. Repeat. Defend area (remember to flank) .
  
  AI. There is no AI, they either rush at you, or shoot from distance, waiting to get killed. 
 This brings me to the point of opponents. Wretches- why the heck do you make a monster that goes 
 for melee so weak in a game you can melee opponents with most weapons? Whenever my team shouted 
 'wretches' i would run into them and win through melee.
  
  Level design. Static, linear and predictable. you see troika, you know there will be two paths 
 to it. You see a defendable area, you know you will have to attack and then defend it.
  
  Graphics. I am unsure what is so special about them. This game looks nowhere near Crysis or CoD4 
 or newest UT. Sure its bloody, but its also unbelievably bleak and unremarkable. Even their spacedout 
 suits look blank. Oh and btw, the cog of war, find cover when shot at mechanic, that was NOT invented 
 in this game. It is at least as old as CoD2.
  
  Sound. I am no expert here, so all i can say is the guns sound around right for their stoping power 
 -that of an rubber bullets. As for music, i either didnt hear any, or there just isnt any.
  
  Bugs. Just go over to the forum section. A throng of lost saved games, crashes and hard freezes 
 are there. Why the heck do you release a game without testing it. Then again - MS. Additionally 
 this crashes and saves deletions feel hard coded into the game. Changing drivers or manipulating 
 with options wont help. Add to that an 20minutes worth of installation coupled with 40minutes of 
 postinstallation extraction of compressed files.
  
  Tilt. I generaly enjoy fps (this genre has evolved a bit beyond its acronym, but its still that) , 
 and i have to say it was a pleasurable experience. Right up to the first crash.
  
  Sumup: I have had my doubts about buying a console. But if this is how a top-shelf game looks like, 
 then rotfl, games which are 5years old are better. I think Far Cry or Fear looks better than this. 
 So whether you want to kill some bad guys for an evening or two, or play against your friends, 
 i d advise to go look at CoD4 or Crysis. They steamroll over this game in every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappyrts3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been following Gears of War since the development of it was announced. I was disappointed 
 when it didn't come out for PC initially, and I fell in love with the 360 version. Then when the 
 PC version was announced, I was pretty excited, but my excitement was cut short when I got it installed 
 and tried to play it for the first time. Microsoft had to go and add their little touch to it, 
 and just like the 360 version, you need a silver live account in order to even save your game progress, 
 and a gold account to play online. I've never paid to play a game online in my life, and I'm not 
 about to start. 
  
  In addition to those issues, there were some fairly annoying software problems. After I would start 
 the game, it would run for a couple of minutes, then crash to the desktop. As far as I know, there 
 is no official fix for that yet, and I know a lot of other people were having a similar problem. 
 I did noticed, though, that it didn't do that when I logged into the administrator account in windows. 
 I don't know what's up with that. As far as game play, it feels a lot like a first person shooter. 
 AI is pretty buggy and tends to get stuck a lot for some reason. The graphics are outstanding and 
 it runs smoothly even on mainstream hardware. After some patches, this game has the potential to 
 be better than the 360 version. If you don't mind Microsoft's money hungry crap, then I would say 
 it's worth the 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woges
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Having been out for the Xbox 360 for a year (to much appraise) Gears of War finally 'emerges' on 
 the PC. I'll admit I've never played this on Xbox only seen reviews/videos from around the net 
 so I can't (in all fairness) compare the two. This game certainly has a console/arcade shooter 
 feel to it probably due to it's third person perspective and console like save game features  
 this game comes with Xbox Live built into it.
  
  Xbox Live I feel is a double edged sword; for a start it's buggy and causing some people a lot 
 of problems like crashing the game (starting from the DVD auto-start) , and not being able to login 
 to Live (some incompatibilities with malware programs) , lastly, losing all your save game data 
 (don't know the reason for this one yet but I think a MS rep said something about beta graphic 
 drivers hard crashing the game) . However, this does plug you in to the achievement system if (like 
 me) you have no problems with it. This feature is nice, it just gives you a little incentive to 
 beat the game at harder difficulty settings, which I feel, prolongs the life span of the game.
 
  
  The game itself is a relentless series of battle arenas against an enemy force know as the Locust 
 Horde. It's a linear affair as you and your team mates attempt to clear each stage. The story can 
 be a little feeble at times (rather childish in places) and it's clear that plot holes have been 
 left open to be filled by sequels. The humour works well in context though  at least I think I'm 
 laughing at the right places. This game has all the clichs of Warhammer 40K and the game-play 
 seems similar in construct to Advanced Space Crusade (but in real-time) . Firing from cover is extremely 
 important in Gears especially at higher levels of difficulty.
  
  Gears of War's graphics are quite stylish, although the textures look rather "muddy". Sound is 
 very effective and suiting to the overall Hollywood (dumb) summer epic the game projects. Which 
 is all good and well, helping you get immersed into Sera - the planet on which Gears is based. 
 The game-play is really fluid (once you get used to the controls) ; fast reloads, getting into cover, 
 using the correct (or just your favourite) gun, taking out the Locust's holes (monster generators) , 
 is great fun. It's intense and satisfying due to the massive sound and gore effect created with 
 each kill (be that an enemy or yourself) . The game will let you know when you did something wrong 
 that's for sure. Music is reminiscent of the film Aliens that the game certainly more than borrows 
 from (not a bad thing really) .
  
  If you were ever into arcade shooters this is certainly a game you should try  especially if you 
 have a friend to play the campaign with (the whole of the single player campaign is playable co-op 
 with a friend, and the game is very enjoyable when played in that fashion) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzakj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Awesome graphics, superior to the 360's if you can get it that high. I can't wait to play some 
 co-op online! The only bug that I've come across is some stuttering which was fixed by changing 
 ONE LINE in the .ini file (its just a line of text!) and the game ran flawlessly. I have a 7950gt 
 OC and it runs the game smooth as silk. DX10 apparently offers NOTHING but anti-aliasing, no extra 
 visual eye candy. If you want a different style of shooter, this is it! If you end up having problems 
 with the game, you have the best company there is to help you out, Epic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Installed the game with no problems. Then, go to boot it up and I keep getting a "the wrong disk 
 is insterted. Please insert the corrrect disk" error. Even though my DVD drive recognizes the disk 
 as "Gears of War", and will allow me to install right from the disk, the game WILL NOT BOOT UP 
 TO PLAY AFTER IT IS INSTALLED.
  
  I tried uninstall and re-install 3 times. I can't even get it to boot so that I can try to patch 
 it or go to the website for update.
  
  Customer Service put me on hold for 1 hour, then spent another 2 hours telling me to do the things 
 I had already done. Then they told me that the error I am getting is nothing that they had ever 
 seen before (nonsense.... the forums are full of people with the same problem) , and then tried to 
 blame it on my DVD drive... you know, the one that it read from and installed the entire thing from?? 
 So I switched disks in the drives (I have 3 opticals) and tried to run from there, tried uninstalling 
 and then reinstalling from that optical drive.... same thing. Tried putting the LIVE patch on it. 
 
  
  Nothing works. It just won't boot the orignal disk.... all it will do is install it to the system 
 and then hang. 
  
  They TRIED to hang it on my rig, until I tech talked them in circles about its specs and what else 
 I have running on it right now, including CRYSIS. 
  
  Simple fact is that THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WITH DEFECTIVE DISKS AND MICROSOFT HAS NO CLUE 
 OF HOW TO DEAL WITH IT. I HAVE TO CALL TOMORROW AND SPEND ANOTHER ALMOST 3 HOURS ON THE PHONE WITH 
 THESE BOZOS.
  
  The release of this game with these defects is INEXCUSABLE, UNPROFESSIONAL, AND COMPLETELY NEGLIGENT.
 
  
  I'd love to give this game a 10, but since I can't play it, it gets a 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elite_sssme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Computer used to play: winxp sp2, P4 3.0 Ghz, 1.25 GB DDR 400 RAM, 7800 GS.
  Decompressing files takes a long time. 
  All medium video settings with audio effects turned 
 off. 
  
  Gameplay is smooth except for unexpected freezes or stuttering moments. 
  
  No occurrence of crash at all. 
  
  Chanced upon one bug throughout entire solo campaign of 
 casual difficulty. 
  
  Get this game if you do not have a xbox360 and like playing FPS on your computer. 
  
  Do not 
 bother playing it on a low end system with all settings set at LOW. You are missing out a lot of 
 eye candies which made the game famous in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_fisk
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Where should i start?? Well the game looks beautiful and plays great for ohh..... the whole 30 seconds 
 i get to play it! This game crashes worse then any game i have seen. It has to do with the horrible 
 windows live crap. Im just disappointed that Epic actually released this bugged piece of crap. 
 You go to the Epic forums and take a look for yourself... hundreds of people are having the same 
 problem. Its ridiculous and gamespot gave it a bad review because they didnt even mention anything 
 about. Ill tell you what, this game is not worth the money or time until it gets a patch. Save 
 you money until then. If it werent for the bugs i would have givin this game a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The Game Gears of War had potential.... HAD! Unfortunately in the current onslaught of Major releases 
 GoW will fade quickly into the black hole of the $19.99 bargain bin and attain high status in the 
 bottomless pit of cracked downloads. For fifty bucks you can enjoy subpar graphics, clumsy controls, 
 good sound w/ alot of foul language, and endless crashes before, during, and after gameplay. Gow 
 and Windows Vista were made for each other and like each other... poorly and very unstable.
  
  Epic should be ashamed of themselves for shipping Gow with so many problems and they probably 
 knew people would purchase on the strength of the Xbox 360 versions popularity. Shameful and a 
 disgrace. What this game mounts up to is a very expensive coaster for drinks. Save your money on 
 this one... no patches available. What a lemon.
  
  Fortunantely I figured out why GoW crashed on my system... SLI. Gow only seems to work with a single 
 8800 Gts GPU and works well. Now thta the games work I will not recant my previous statement, but 
 will say Gow is pretty good graphically. The sound is good, but choppy. The gameplay is different 
 and the control are clumsy as you have to fight to get your character to obey your commands. This 
 will cost you many lives and frags on multiplayer. The cut scenes are entertaining, but get annoying 
 early in the game... good thing you can skip by tapping Space.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty entertaining as you have the options of joining teamplay and coop campaigns. 
 on the downside the list of games are scant... even with cross platform compatibility. Maybe I haven't 
 found my Xbox kin.
  
  Even with this said Gears of War is another good/poor port from Xbox 360. Good in graphics/sound. 
 Poor in quality and stabilty. Gow is a good game once you get it to work fairly decently. Another 
 negative is that to fully enjoy the full benefits of onlie multiplayer battles you're gonna have 
 to shell out another $50 bucks if you do not already have a windows Live account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr618
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I've played and beaten both the 360 and PC versions of this game now.
  
  I have to say this is just like the xbox version with a few minor tweaks. The new story, of course, 
 which involves you trying to power a bridge but eventually leads to you fighting a titan. It felt 
 kind of annoying actually, running around like crazy trying to to fix the power lines, which didn't 
 even work. It felt as though they could've come up with a better way to fit the Brumak into the 
 game, but didn't bother. The brumak fight itself is ridiculously hard because by the time you reload 
 after weakening it, it has recovered. And after you kill it you magically pop back at the bridge.
 
  
  It seems as though the difficulty got way harder when the game traveled to PC. I managed to beat 
 the xbox version on insane without too many troubles (except on the last act) . But I only recently 
 finished the game on hardcore on co-op, and it took a lot of effort. Don't know why, it just did...
 
  
  Anyway on to the control, which was surprisingly good. When I heard this was going to be for PC 
 the first thing I thought was, "This will be terrible to control and I'll have to plug my xbox 
 controller in to my comp." It turns out I was wrong. The controls a better with a mouse and keyboard 
 than they were with the controller. The double tapping a direction to dive gets annoying when you 
 are trying to move only slightly, but you can turn it off.
  
  I still have not managed to run the map editor (nor do I have any idea where it is stashed on my 
 computer) .
  
  I have to bring up how the system requirements are not impossible to meet. The game runs on my 
 computer better than any other game I have, which is really surprising too. This is mostly because 
 it really lets you control the graphics settings, you can bring the resolution down to 400x300 
 (though I wouldn't recommend it) . The graphics are only good on good pc's, but you'll get over 
 it.
  
  I never liked the multiplayer mode on the xbox version, and I can't say any different about the 
 PC version. I really wish that they would make it more than a 4 on 4 in the PC version. It is still 
 full of glitches that mostly don't mess up the game itself, but just are really annoying (like 
 being able to run around while being chainsawed) .
  
  Overall it was pretty fun to play and I recommend it to anyone who liked the first one. Of course 
 if you went crazy and got every achievement in the first one you'll probably get bored doing it 
 all and more all over again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pessu
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Note that 90% of the owners of this game cant run this. I got it to run by disabling windowsblinds 
 (a winxp theme configurator) because GeoW kept crashing while its on. That was enough for me to 
 deside to have one go with this game and then just ignore it until a patch is avaivable. After 
 actually trying the game out my desision from ignoring it changed to uninstalling it.
  
  Note, I did not pay for my copy of GeoW. The two facts that you need a windows live account which 
 costs in order to play online and windows vista in order to even use antialiasing which is been 
 disabled for XP just because Microsoft is probably the most anti-user-friendly company on the whole 
 planet with the soul purpose to monopolize each market they try to get into and make ridiculous 
 amount of money with ridiculous products.
  
  Those two things are what makes this game broken along with the actual fact that hardly anyone 
 can even run it.
  
  About the game? Lets make it short.
  
  Graphics: Two years late with cramped options and ridiculous bloom and dark atmostphere to cover 
 horrible texture. 
  
  Audio: Just realized that I remember no music from the game. The world is as lively as an Arnold 
 Swartzenegger movie.
  
  Charecters: Created with the imagination of a 3 years old.
  
  Gameplay: Horrible? The whole game is about taking cover, aiming behind you cover and shooting. 
 Changing cover to another location, repeat.
  
  Enemies: Halo anyone? This game has no AI what so ever, and the fact that they can take ridiculous 
 amount of bullets before dying is just annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnsun
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  GoW is a thousand times better than The Witcher, whose extremely long and frequent load times make 
 it a pain to play, much less enjoy. The only issues are with the Sign-in process and long load 
 time when first starting the game. I have noticed some video tearing on my LCD monitor but I'm 
 getting use to it. I hope that there is a patch soon that addresses some performance issues.
  
  The Witcher should have had a demo so I could have seen how badly this game was designed... don't 
 get it! The dialog and voice-overs aren't impressive and need lots of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  The X360 version was better but the pc version is not bad too.
  the game have a great system amazing gameplay and high graphic details.
  the multyplayer is awesome.
 
  the single player mode is a real fun to play on the pc.
  a must get title for every one.
  the system works great the game run well but.... after several hours is getting quite boring but 
 still the game great.
  what can i say if you like the XBOX version you will like that one too
  and if you didn't play 
 the XBOX version you still like the game.
  worth playing.
  buy that game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoody12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  jalousie , that is what I was when I saw Gears of War was Xbox360.
  after even thinking of buying a 360, i got the good news from E3 that it whas coming to the PC.
 
  
  first up are the graphics, they look nice and detailed, bright explosions, sharp textures. everything 
 you would expect from a Epic game and of course the Unreal Engine 3 engine. for the comparison 
 with the 360, there is not really much to say about, only that PC has sharper textures and higher 
 resolutions/frames per second. although I hear many complaints on the GS forums, it is not something 
 I encountered, I run the game perfectly fine 1680x1050 all MAX with a 7950GX2 - X24200 - 2gigs 
 of ram - latest Nvidia drivers.
  the sound is great, the screaming monsters really make you wet your pants and the exploding grenades 
 are really emerging you in the battle, your team-mates are really good at giving you directions 
 of where to go or where the enemy comes from. althrough the minigun sounds a bit lame for a thousand 
 bullet spitting war machine.
  gameplay is good as long as you are alone, taking cover (spacebar) or running (spacebar) works 
 remarkebally good for only 1 key, it all just feels really good.
  but the problems start when your teammates come into the battle (most of the time) they seem to 
 lack good A. I and often run straight into the enemy's barrel.
  the opposite can be said about the Locust AI, they seem to always take cover, suppress fire, and 
 even some flanking manouvers and use grenades on a regular base.
  the game is duabel on Hardcore, in the beginning it's easy., and you pop 1 Locust scum after the 
 other, it only get's really hard near the end ( on the train, won't spoil anything more) .
  you also always have anough ammo, it really seems ammo-santa whas early this year. your Primary 
 Machinegun also has a chainsaw, what gives a really good feel to chainsaw the *****.
  I haven't been playing MP much since the singleplayer is long enough ( +-16 hours Hardcore difficulty) .
 
  but what I have been playing so far is good enough for Pc gaming, althrough I encounterd some 
 strange drop outs. my MP experience is almost as good as the SP was.
  
  Testing System:
  Nvidia 7950GX2 
  2048MB RAM
  AMD X2 4200
  Gears of War
  Windows XP
  
  if you want help 
 with the singleplayer, or just want me to make schreenshots PM me
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysisfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  I think Gears of war is the best game ever and now it has come to pc! I couldn't belive it. I tought 
 it was a dream but it wasn't. Now about the game. Gears of war for windows is almost the same as 
 on Xbox360 but it has new missions and better graphics. I think that it's better graphic spessial 
 when you have an ultimate computer. On Gears of war you can play online or offline. But if you don't 
 have Gears of war, buy it now. It's worth the money. The story is that the locusts (monster type) 
 has a secret troop under the surface. Suddenly the monsters break out and the fight for the world 
 starts. You are taking place as Marcus Fenix the main character. You start in a prison. Once you have 
 been taken out of the prison the war starts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  One of the best titles of the last year arrives finally to PC in a superb form. Exceptional optimization, 
 fantastic controls and abundant unpublished contents. Gears of War is an authentic graphical beast 
 that would be a sin to lose its.
  
  What Gears of War supposed for Xbox 360 the last year was a phenomenon difficult to predict. Its 
 proclamation like one of the great ones of 2006, its stunning graphical - still without surpassing 
 a year later -, and the sold of million copies, put the last title of Epic to highest of the Mount 
 Olympus of shooters. 
  The certain thing is that Gears of War was one of the most awaited videogames of the console of 
 Microsoft, but very little people could imagine the authentic phenomenon which it managed to become. 
 For that reason, months later, when Epic announced that they would transfer the adventure of Marcus 
 Fenix and company to PC, all the community of players was excessively glad; the more people can 
 enjoy this jewel the better. 
  Now in the heat of 2007 we received with the open arms the PC version of one of the most revolutionary 
 games of action of the last years. And with its arrival finally one of the doubts that distressed 
 more PC users is sprightly "I will need a computer from the NASA to play it?" Answer: NO. Gears 
 of War is a graphical prodigy that crowns itself like the most shining visual exponent in PC, but 
 we doesn't need a beast to play it because the optimization is one of its multiple virtues.
  
  I must begin indicating the kindness of the controls in the new Gears of War. The style is 
 identical to the X360 version, all the actions are made with a same button. Cover, sprint, jump, 
 etc. It is a simple system and guessed right that simplifies the movement mechanisms, and that 
 already the last year were discovered like an authentic success. The aimed system has undergone 
 a sensational face washing to adapt the mouse-keyboard system with ability, and it seems that the 
 difficulty level has been readjusted cause it continues being challenging. Although if we wished 
 it, we can connect ours pad of the 360 and play in equally comfortable form. Gears of War in PC 
 offers without no type of adjustments the complete campaign which many already enjoy the last year 
 in the X360, but with a very important adding. To the five chapters of the console edition, an 
 epilogue is added with more than one hour, for the certainly brief last section of the adventure. 
 
  
  One of the keys of the unusual success of Gears of War was its powerful multiplayer. To the possibility 
 of completing the campaign accompanied by a colleague, the multiple maps added for battle, which 
 all together made from Epic's game the incontestable king of Xbox Live until the arrival of Halo3. 
 
  Now, when the PC version arrives, we find the same pillars, but with new maps and game modes to 
 complete the multiplayer experience.
  
  The question that that many fans is not free of certain logic: In what platform is better Gears 
 of War? The answer is simple. If we have a powerful PC, forget about the hardware that is limited 
 in Xbox 360. However, and although it could seem the opposite, the specifications necessary to 
 run this game are not to the maximum level of madness that many would be possible think seeing 
 its overwhelming aspect. 
  
  In my PC - Amd Athlon 64 4200 x2, a GPU XFX 7900 GT with 2 gigas of ram, the game has run with 
 all the graphical options to the maximum, between rates of 30 and 40 fps at very stable speed, 
 which in these times, is worthy of praise. 
  
  New contents and sensational graphics with a shining optimization, are the main features of Gear 
 of War. A spectacular, intense and wild campaign; and a multiplayer which, for obvious reasons, 
 it has been an unquestionable king of Xbox Live, complete the experience. If you are a fan of the 
 action, you cannot miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilidili
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  It's a console game and it should have stayed were it was.
  
  I'm really disappointed about it. 
  
  The figure you are playing can't crouch or jump on it's 
 own, it always needs to find cover. 
  
  The game is old fashioned, very linear, which doesn't give you enough space to explore.
  
  
 Sometimes you get stuck against a box and you need to restart the game (I have a 8800 GTX) . 
  
  Like a lot of games, these days, there is always darkness and monsters and vampires and that's 
 become a real hype. 
  
  That's also the reason why I didn't bought bioshock. 
  
  Black and white is boring, just like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richteralan
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The biggest problem for me is the lost save problem.
  Read Epic Forums you'll notice there are TONS of people having similar problems. 
  I don't really 
 want to pay for the gold membership of Live, and there are players who paid for gold membership 
 experiencing the SAME lost save problem.
  
  This is unacceptable.
  
  Besides this show stopper, I'm experiencing really bad hitches and lagging which I never experienced 
 with UT3 Demo and almost all other games.
  
  Because of these problems, first problem to be precise, I'm not able to finish even ACT I therefore 
 I cannot comment much on the game play. But I have to say it is quite gripping.
  
  For a commercial product this is unacceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nezriq
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I've never come across a game so intense, so entertaining, so bloody and so revolutionary such 
 as GOW. From the graphics to the gameplay, its perfect!!! The game's battle sequence is very challenging 
 since the Locusts will attempt to throw everything at you through guile and gun-ho. GOW features 
 the best graphic and animation I've ever seen in my whole life as a gamer. Highly detailed and 
 well done. The characters are cool and tough but lookout for each other. The enemies are gory and 
 kinda scary especially the berserker. Can't say the same thing for the Krylls though.. they are 
 downright annoying. And those shriekers too.
  
  One surprising fact though, John DiMaggio as the voice of Marcus Fenix? How weird is that? Bender 
 as a tough worn-out war hero? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinthemaster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Since the release of Gears of War Xbox 360, I was hoping to see it on PC. I was really disappointed 
 when I caught it would be a Xbox exclusive. I planned to buy a console to play this only game but 
 this logic point came to my mind : 500$ for the Xbox + 60$ for the game... and I have to upgrade 
 my PC to play Crysis. So I decided to play the waiting and hoping card... Is this waiting worth 
 it? First of all I must admit I never played Gears on Xbox, so it's my first experience with the 
 game. Here's my newbie review.
  
  Context of the game:
  
  The history of gears is really simple. Bad guys came to slaughter human kind and take control of 
 the planet but a bunch of good guys face them to save humanity. Dialogues are poor and emotionless. 
 Characters deepness is absolutely an option in this game. But hey do we need all that stuff to 
 enjoy a really great shooter? In this case, it's enough to justify to chainsaw locust hordes.
 
  
  Score 8/10
  
  Game play:
  
  The game play is really compelling. The hide and shoot mechanic is really well done. You can replay 
 each map in different ways to beat those monsters. Shoot, hide, move to the next cover spot, flank 
 enemies, use your chainsaw on a unaware freak, plat the head of a bad guy with your sniper with 
 a long head shot, etc. There's so many ways to complete each maps. The only bad point about the 
 game play is the one button for all moves. Sometimes it's frustrating when you want to dive to 
 escape from gunfire or close combat, but instead you find yourself stick on the wall for cover. 
 Over all, those bad points are quickly forgotten with a good chainsaw hit well placed.
  
  Score 9.5/10
  
  Presentation:
  
  Graphics are really wonderful. You'll need a high end 
 machine to appreciate them but it deserves the cost of an upgrade. Nevertheless there's some glitches 
 in the game. Even if you have a good PC, you'll experience some in game rendering stutters. I tried 
 a couple of settings to stop it, but nothing happened. The highest settings (directX 9) give the 
 best performance over the stutter problems. It'll be surely corrected with a patch in the near 
 future.
  
  Score 9/10
  
  In conclusion, this game is a must play for every shooter lovers. It's grisly, gory and really 
 addictive!! I'm sure it's on a good way for a GOY award!
  
  Overall score : 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Molezzi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I never did play the xbox version. But i don't think it matters, because im sure the pc version 
 kicks Xbox in the ass!
  
  The graphics really excellent! the environments looks fantastic and feel gritty. Feels like the 
 Apocalypse, and probably is!! The crouch and hide system is great! very realistic. The game play 
 is good. The controls are response and are very easy to get right (like 10 or 20 min) .
  
  The weapons are cool. Best of all has to be the Gnasher Shotgun! Unfortunately there is not a very 
 large selection of weapons. But it doesn't bring the game down at all. 
  
  The story is decent. Not the best ever written. But it's interesting and keeps you involved. im 
 glad to see that its set up for a sequel! Not to spoil the ending for anyone!
  
  Gears of War PC is a definite buy!! One of the best games for PC this Year!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfk4eva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome for the PC, graphics, gameplay and the new levels. For the people who it crashed 
 on, if you have Vista, you have to run it through the games folder with solitare and all those 
 games. I know cause that was the only way it worked for me. The only bad thing about this game 
 was the multiplayer, why do you have to get live if it isn't cross platform, thats just stupid. 
 People shouldn't have to waste their money to play online for one game, all the rest are free, 
 atleast most of them are. I would recommend this to anyone who loves shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _KwispY
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Gears of War is a console game. It was ported to the PC. Console games typically shoot for a different 
 audience and this is prevalent in gears of war. I don't think third person shooters can be done 
 very well on a computer. In fact, I played this game on my computer using a 360 controller. On 
 comparing the two experiences, I would have to say that in this rare instance, a controller works 
 BETTER. As far as the game is concerned, you get a meatier package on the PC version. An extra 
 chapter and a level editor is a definite bonus, but I don't think many will stay a while to use 
 the editor after completing the single player game. I don't see how the multiplayer in this game 
 can be fun or interesting. Gameplay is pretty basic and repetitive. You fire, you duck, cover, 
 fire. Repeat until finished. Every once in a while you'll get thrown a car scene, or a run away 
 from a monster and kill with hammer of dawn scene. It's a nice change of pace. However, most people 
 want to just go around using their chainsaw and shotgun and and to awe at the wonderful graphics. 
 That isn't exactly a bad thing. Just don't expect your self to survive to long with the difficulty 
 settings feeling just right, even on easy, you will have a challenge. The graphics are impressive, 
 better than its 360 counter part, and are surprisingly well optimized for less power machines. 
 All in all, Gears of War is a solid port, by no means revolutionary by PC standards, and definitely 
 over rated by console standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank_78
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Saying that GoW is a bad game is unjust, but at the same time, I cannot find the masterpiece halo 
 around this title.
  Sure the visuals are stunning and the game is funny, but I feel too much arcade in this title, 
 hide, shoot, hide shoot again... I don't know, I find a bit too repetitive, even the weapons are 
 very limited and I really miss their stopping power. I think I'll stick to CoD4 and other similar 
 games for now, I really enjoyed the single player campaign, truly amazing even if very short.
 
  Maybe I'll give another try to this game after my CoD4 euphoria wear off a bit, for now there's 
 no place for other shooters :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Well well, considering i've never owned any console and heard lots of great things about GEARS 
 OF WAR i decided to purchase it, was it good? was it bad? was it was it? :D
  
  Graphics - running 1280x1024 maxxed out everything it is very smooth, my pc is E6550 2.33ghz + 
 8800GTS 640mb + 2GB DDR2 800mhz + Nforce6 650i Ultra mobo.
  the graphics are really good on the pc thanks to the higher resolutions, some textures are a bit 
 too consoley but it doesnt matter when the game is this good, animations are good too.
  
  Sound - i love the sound, lots of explosions, weapons sound pretty powerful, perhaps the voiceovers 
 are a bit too cliche' and your character trying to act like the next Shwarzennegger was actually 
 funny lol but overall i love the audio,
  on some Surround speakers you will enjoy things a lot more.
  
  Gameplay - well it is Gears 
 Of War, the bad guys and monsters are trying to annihilate the world and you must save the day, 
 lots of explosions, shootouts and grenade tossing, lots of swearing too (if you enable it in the 
 menu) . overall i am enjoying the game a lot, it is you and your team against the odds and it is 
 a lot of fun.
  
  i'm surprised many say it is overrated while many say it is underrated.
  i have never played it before on a console and considering i purchased it out of curiousity i have 
 to say the game is a blast.
  
  
  Multiplayer is even better.
  
  Conclusion?
  
  
  i highly recommended GEARS OF WAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemushroomed
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  What's up with the reviewers these days, are they afraid to give a reasonable score for mediocre 
 games coming from the big publishers/devs, or are they just falling for hype more easily? 
  
  This game is a 7 at best. If you want a good squad based FPS play Republic Commando instead. 
 RC offers much more intersting level layouts, more personality from you squad memebers, better 
 combat, more varied missions. This game has good GFX, but that's it. 
  
  Perhaps playing too many brain dead console FPS games leads to some kind of.. retardation (im serious) . 
 I'm almost begining to suspect it, i mean I usualy "get" FPS games and what's so cool with them 
 (except for gfx) , i can appreciate a good FPS (i play on PC) . But with GoW i really dont get at 
 all except it looks good, for me that is not enough.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevokenevo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I originally posted this review as a 1.0 because the game was ridiculously bugged. crashes and 
 stuttering all over the damn place. However after many weeks waiting, along with a new display 
 driver and the 'title update' on the gears website, the game finally works for longer than 5 minutes!
 
  To reiterate what everyone else has said already, this is a great game. So much so that it has 
 nearly made me forget the agonizing problems earlier. The game still crashed on me, however that 
 was after 2 hours of smooth gameplay. Simply awesome graphics and action scenes. My favourite bit 
 so far is the way the characters talk to each other, and Fenix's exclamations whilst sawing through 
 the horde, quite literally. 
  
  Overall: Nice atmosphere, great sound effects and the guns feel satisfyingly powerful, especially 
 a headshot with the magnum handgun. My favourite bit so far being the first time you jump on a 
 turret! It felt like Marcus was literally firing expletatives at the locust!! Take that you ********! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafoofoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god. This game totally blew my my socks, shoes, glasses, t-shirt, pants, and boxers off from 
 its wind of almighty win. I am not usually a big Shooter fan but man this game rocked. Firstly, 
 the graphics were very, very awesome and gorgeous. Second, the bonus PC only content like fighting 
 the Brumak was pretty much win.
  
  But my main area of satisfaction would have to be the Lancer. Never has a machine gun come equipped 
 with a Chainsaw bayonet. The results are godly. I very much enjoyed running up and going "bzzzzzzzaaaaaaaaawwwww!!!" 
 chainsawing some unlucky locust punk. 
  
  The only gripe I have is that unless your computer is fairly powerful it'll be hard to run this 
 awesome game. Which saddens me because not everyone will be able to enjoy this piece of awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltrambo85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Well this is my first time playing GOW. I don't have a 360 so when i heard it was coming to PC 
 I was like OMG! But anyway back to the review the duck and cover system is similar to Vegas and 
 works out well with the keyboard or 360 controller. The graphics are top notch! The physics are 
 also some of the best I have seen in any FPS. When you shoot a couch with a shotgun it looks like 
 you shot a couch with a shotgun. Also the UT3 is very optimized. The sound and music in the game 
 make you feel like you are really there and immerse you deeper and deeper the more you progress 
 in the game. The story of the game is great too! It in the future and a species called the locusts 
 have destroyed 90% of mankind and all Military prison have been pardoned and reenlisted to help 
 fight the locust which is where you come. I'll stop there. No for the bad when i first got on the 
 release date. It was very buggy and thousands can testify for this but it was not a big deal for 
 me I Vista a C2D E6300 at 2.81, 8800GT, 3gb or DDR2 800. It runs max at 1440x900 but the bug was 
 that it would crash to desktop soon as I opened it and I had to go into the main directory and 
 open the executable file as administrator and then all was well. There will be a patch out to fix 
 this very soon according to the Microsoft tech i talked to "which i had to tell him how to get 
 it to work lol" Bottom line it is a MUST BUY. Hope this helped you and good luck!!
  
  Lt Rambo.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djstyles92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  all of you out there that says it sucks because it keeps crashing get over it, stop complaing. 
 upgrade you freaking computer. i can run this smoothly on my computer. it only cost me a total 
 of like 400-500 dollars to upgrade. yea installation sucked, get over it. once it gets running, 
 you wont want it to stop. The gameplay is sooooooo much better on a mouse and keyboard but takes 
 time to master. u babies are just pissed because your comps suck and your too cheap to upgrade. 
 if your reading this right now and haven't bought this game yet, go get it right now, but make 
 sure your comp can run it. the story is cool. the gameplay rules, play on mouse and keyboard. online 
 play is amazing end of story, get it now!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_freelancer_x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Probably the best game i've played so far and it can only get better. Maybe the system requirements 
 are large but believe me its worth it. The story in the game is great plus the characters and the 
 moves they make are breathtaking. It is a classic shooter where you kill everyone in the way but 
 I never got bored from killing everyone in so many ways plus the chainsaw on the machine gun is 
 ultimate. I am impressed by everything this game has to offer and if you cant play it because your 
 system is not compatible go and buy new hardware you will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I really dont see what the hype is over this game... its kinda boring. You go into a place take 
 cover shoot enemies and then do it all over again and again and again. The gameplay is pretty limited, 
 not innovative, but it is mildly fun... sometimes.
  
  Graphics: Great, looks good runs good, nice and bloody.
  
  Sound: Good, gets the job done.
 
  
  Overall i would say if you got in on xbox dont waster yer money or time, if u got spare cash and 
 are lookin for a game to maybe give ya something to do when ya just feel like killing things in 
 the exact same way over and over.... go for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jangojedi4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Gears of War was everything I expected and more. The crazy firefights and insane gore are right 
 at home on PC. You really don't see Gears as a port when you're playing it- Epic Games did an excellent 
 job at setting up the mouse-keyboard control scheme, and at updating all the tooltips to the proper 
 keyboard key. The game flowed very well, story progression was good, and the PC-exclusive Brumak 
 fight was 100% freakin awesome. I haven't played much of the 360 version, so I don't know where 
 the extra chapters of the PC version were slipped in, which is excellent, because that means Epic 
 Games fit them in seamlessly with the previous 360 version.
  
  The Bad:
  Gears of War on PC would go from excellent to near-perfect if it wasn't plagued by an odd studdering 
 bug, semi-frequent glitches, and uneven difficulty. My biggest critique is the uneven difficulty. 
 My first time through the game, I played on the Casual setting. Firefights ranged from casual to 
 fairly hectic, but never too difficult. (That's the good part.) But then when I reached the end 
 of the game: the Raam boss battle, it felt like the Insane difficulty setting. I can't say whether 
 or not it was a bug or a glitch, but Raam and his little annoying swarms of bat-things were near 
 impossible to defeat. (It IS possible though, so don't loose hope :P) Don't get me wrong, I love 
 a challenge, but this battle just contrasted the others too much.
  
  Also, for some reason, Epic Games chose to go with Games for Windows Live for the online portion 
 of the game. GfW Live is crap. Period. For things that PC gamers are used to getting free, Microsoft 
 wants $$. The Guide (where you log in to the GfW service, contact friends, etc) is what gets to 
 me the most. This is Games for WINDOWS Live, not Xbox Live: In the Guide, the instructions are 
 for 360 controllers. Press Y to sign in, press B for cancel, etc. Excuse my language, but that's 
 bullshit. For a "service" that's meant to PROMOTE PC gaming, that is just a despicable and dissapointing 
 move by Microsoft.
  
  Bottom Line:
  An excellent game with tons of potential that is brought down a notch by bugs and glitches, and 
 Games for Windows Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R4ptor_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  First of all Gears on 360 was great, especially multiplayer, and since PC gaming (at the moment) 
 is still some ways ahead of console gaming, I was hoping for an even better experience on my PC.
 
  
  This game's got some niceties to it, and if you're new to PC FPS games you might call it brilliant. 
 However, if you're a serious PC gamer this game highlights the fact that consoles simply cannot 
 compete with a high-end PC in FPS. Perhaps 1 or 2 years from now when developers can maximise the 
 360 and PS3's power and they have keyboard & mouse support they'll have something close to Crysis, 
 but by then Crysis on PC will be old news and who knows what high-end PC games will be like by 
 then? 
  
  One question I have is why does Gamespot say that GOW on PC is everything the X360 version was 
 "and more", yet it scores lower than it did on X360. Is there a different rating system for consoles 
 because they are inferior to PCs? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorraid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War can be called probably the best 3rd person shooter on PC. I thought that it would 
 be crap... but still i had waited for this game After waiting for more than a year i finally got 
 my hands on it last night... and boy after the 1 hour installation process. The game was worth all 
 the wait. Gears of war acctually sucks u in... and u cant stop playing it.. it has all the tools 
 needed to be called a great game and puts many other so called great games to shame. Gears of war 
 has currently the best 3rd person shooter graphics.. yes they r better than lost planet. The story 
 starts of with our guy being taken out of jail by a friend.. a war is going on between the humans 
 and the Locust a race which is from the underground world and has almost the same technology as 
 humans.. though r alittle more powerfull... as soon as the game starts u the 1st thing u will admire 
 is the amazing graphics and the excellent presentation... not to mention the Voice acting Which 
 is really well done. our character Marcus has a voice like some Wrestler.. and does a fine job with 
 his lines. the guy who helps u out Gom than asks u if u want to get to direct combat or do u want 
 to just warm up 1st.. i tried both where the 1st is kind of a short cut to the end of the tutorial 
 whereas the 2nd is just a tutorial... u would be surprised that how big the characters r. infact 
 it would feel like guys the size of batista in heavey uniforms carrying some cool looking weapons 
 r running so the story starts once the mission is over and u r aboard a helicopter with Delta squad. 
 i wont go in details with the story. The Game is difficult i am playing it on Hardcore difficulty 
 and belive me this is the 1st game where i was killed by the 1st enemy ..: S your best friend throughout 
 the game will be Slabs of Concrete... walls and other objects behind which u can take cover. Cover 
 is essential... u wont survive more than 15 seconds in combat without cover. the locusts r really 
 tough and take alot of bullets before going down.. the game is defiened in every possible way... 
 u get everything u need from a 3rd person shooter... Assault rifles, Smgs, shotGuns, Grenade Launchers, tourge 
 bow etc.. though u can keep only 4 weapons at a time... 2 being weapons of your choice.. ( i keep 
 a assault rifle and a shotgun) the other 2 slots r reserved for grenades and Pistols.. Grenades 
 r like black jacks Spiked balls at the end of chains :D which explode u can also use the as melee. 
 pistols do wot all pistols do.. fire .. however u even get a BIG MAGNUM which can do some really 
 nasty damage to enemy... The melee combat is best done... and with the Assault rifle ( Lancer) it 
 is even more fun... Lancer comes equiped with a bayonet... its not just any bayonet.. its a chain 
 saw.. which can cut enemies into half... extremly bloody and gorry scene, Than it's the storywhich 
 is even though a little fast paced and your character never finds any rest as u move from place 
 to placemissions among missionseach chapter is quite long.. and on hardcore difficulty it takes 
 even longer there were some fight scenes where I got killed more than 15 times. The Ai is smartthey 
 will try to flank u. and before engageing in close combat they will tend to switch to shotguns 
 to take u out.. The standard Locust hord soldier is tougher than umeans he will take more damage 
 before going down compared to u.. than there r the larger oneswhich require alot of hits before 
 going down would wish u had the torque bow in the early going cuz it's the answer to those big 
 enemies. Each chapter is differentin terms of envoirments and gameplaylike in the 1st chapter 
 u prowl through city streets and different buildingsthe 2nd chapter starts in the evening.. u 
 r promoted to the squad leader and have to continue look for a transport. This mission is the 
 most interesting of them allgives u a pitch black kind of feeling since by steping in the dark 
 u would be attacked by Bat like creatures who would kill u instantlythe risk of goin in dark gives 
 some great suspensethere r occasional boss fights which r not that difficult.. infact u would u 
 would find it difficult to kill normal enemies than bosses towards the end of chapter 3 u have 
 to fight your 1st squad of Locust Elite. these guys require a lot of lead to be pumped into them 
 before going downbut that's not the problemthe problem is they r carrying Torque bowswhich 
 can kill u with one shot no matter where it hitssince it explodes after penetateing your armor. There 
 r occasionally cutsenes which r very well done the graphics through out the game r so good it 
 actually feels likes u r watching a 3d animated movie. Gears of War can be called one of the all 
 time greats and its hard to disacknowledge the fact that it is so superb . a perfect game in every 
 possible way. the game gives wot we always want
  GOOD GRAPHICS, GOOD SOUNDS, GOOD STORY, A long Campaign, and alot of modes in multiplayer. and it 
 even comes with its own editor. If u r a fan action games... u cant call yourself action gamer 
 unless u try this game.
  Graphics:10/10 (unreal engine shows its power again)
  Sound:10/10 (best voice acting in a long long time)
  Gameplay:10/10 (No other game has done it 
 this good)
  Playability:10/10 (yeah u wont be asking yourself... Y cant i take cover here and not there?)
 
  Replayvalue:10/10 (long story... different difficulties.... and alot of multiplayer modes and editor)
 
  Overall :10/10
  
  
  Id also like to add the fact that i didnt encountered any bug... and i am running the game on medicore 
 system with everything set to the max on 1024 by 768 and its extremly smooth
  
  my system specs r
  Intel 3.2ghz,1.5g ram
  XFX8600GT XXX edition
  
  and the game is running 
 really smooth with everything set to the max. wonder y people r geting probs with it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm talking about the PC version not considering the fact that the Xbox 360 version 
 came out first. Now we all know that PC gaming is more or less associated with FPS & RTS but why 
 not TPS (Third-person shooters) ? Because before GOW, not a single company has succeeded to create 
 a TPS with good controls & camera, outstanding gameplay and practically flawless graphics for the 
 PC. GOW, on the other hand has all of the above which immediately gives you a cinematic feeling 
 while playing it. Sure the story is not great but the plot is excellent; aliens (Or whatever they 
 are) versus humans. If you want a game with captivating story then GOW is not for you but if you 
 are a PC gamer wanting to try something new then buy it now! GOW again isn't a regular TPS because 
 it integrates a very good cover system which is IMO what makes it a revolutionary game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carmijo23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was one that I really wanted to play since watching the videos at E3. I don't own a xbox 
 but everyone I know who does told me this game was SICK. I purchased it and tried to load. My WEI 
 score (Windows Experience Index) was only 3.0 and the Game requires 3.7 with a recommended 5.0 
 WEI. My Graphics Card was not good enough. I went and purchased a new card and got my system above 
 the par. I tried it with my Logitech Dual Action and it works, however the left analog stick is 
 opposite and there is no way to reverse it in controller options (Way to go Microsoft for making 
 people also buy your XBOX 360 Controller for another 40+ bucks) . That part is nerve racking, but 
 the Keyboard/Mouse combination is great once you get used to it.
  All this aside, now that I am playing the game, I find myself not being able to stop. It is so 
 much more fun than your typical FPS that we are all so used to. I wish they made games like this 
 more often. the Graphics are amazing and the game play is cool. the Sound is good too, except for 
 the music can get repetitive. It would be cool if the game itself had a way to import your own 
 music. 
  Overall this game is easily a 9.0 and I hope that GOW2 will make it to the PC. (Or I guess I'll 
 just have to buy a 360) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yub37
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Like many here have stated. This game is broken. I have a beefy enough system to run almost any 
 current games at max settings, and yet this game will stutter and crash after it gets to the main 
 menu. I didn't even get a chance click on a single item on the menu because the game just stutters 
 and crashes. Don't buy this game, or at least wait for the patch. Just check out the forum and 
 you will see how many people have complained about it.
  
  http://gearsforums. epicgames. com/showthread. php? t=583169&page=36
  
  My System Spec:
  Vista 
 Ultimate
  QX 6800 Ocd to 3.72 Ghz
  4 gig ram
  2 X Nvidia 8800 Ultra in SLI with latest driver 169.04
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: condestrat
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Games can be a master pieces but people needs to be able to play it. this game have a horrible 
 install process, and most of the people are having poblems runinng it. 
  
  The saving system is all wrong, you overwrite your profile if you dare to chage your conecction 
 status. The game create a profile when you star playing, you need to have a windows live acount 
 where your game will be safe. The moment you play offline the game create a Offline profile totaly 
 overwriting your previus online profile. The game also tent to crash on checkpoints.
  
  Most people worries was about frame rate, graphics details and performance but in the end the major 
 problem was related to something way more basic, install process and actualy get to run the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Gears of War. A video game name that has become nearly as popular as that of the Halo series. But, 
 is the popularity justified, or is Gears yet another Cog in the overrated Microsoft Game studios 
 arsenal?
  
  From the moment you fire up the game, its hard not to be stunned by the exquisite presentation 
 and graphical prowess of Epic's now-one-year-old Unreal Engine 3. The tone is dark, with your buddy 
 breaking you out of jail to help fight in a war where every single man is needed. 
  
  As you go through the first and second levels and on, you get acquainted to Gears of War's unique 
 gameplay mechanics: a third-person shooter with an innovative cover system which discourages run 
 and gun and encourages stop and pop gameplay. It is a nice change of pace from the usual shooter 
 mechanic, and ends up being one of Gears' few worthwhile graces. 
  
  Your enemies are the Locust, a race of rabid beings who live underground and were woken up to unleash 
 hell upon humanity. The Locust themselves look intriguing, with scaly skin and sharp teeth which 
 are made even more frightening by UE 3. There's a huge variety of enemies, from standard soldiers, 
 to grenade-launcher carrying Boomers, all the way to an enormous Brumak exclusive to the PC version 
 of the game.
  
  Even though the enemies look nice and are quite varied, requiring different strategies to kill 
 them, they do inherit some clunky AI techniques. As Gears is a stop and pop shooter, the Locusts 
 run towards cover and occasionally pop their heads out to shoot at you. From time to time, they 
 flit in between cover and either charge or retreat at random intervals. The AI is not that good, 
 with them not exhibiting any realistic squad or group tactics to take out the player's squad, such 
 as enemies in the F. E. A. R. series or in the soon-to-be-released Crysis. If you're close to one, 
 they'll mindlessly try to club you to death, no matter how many other COG soldiers are shooting 
 at them. They are extremely tough, and the game only seems to reward well-placed headshots with 
 the sniper rifle with a visceral head explosion animation.
  
  The campaign itself is subpar for the next-generation when you don't consider the graphics and 
 sound. After the opening cutscene, you don't get much explanation about your squad are doing besides 
 with a few random radio transmissions which state such incoherent explanations as "finding the 
 resonator" or "detonating the lightmass bomb." The game's characters are boring and have cardboard 
 personalities, constantly yelling curses and trying too hard to be testosterone filled badasses. 
 Level design is also mostly linear, with you constantly advancing down either a street or hallway, 
 taking down enemies and throwing grenades into emergence holes, a cheap method of providing you 
 with more enemies to kill and something else to do instead of shooting.
  
  And that's all there is to Gears, shooting. Rarely will you get a chance to figure out a puzzle 
 to advance, once or twice there is something such as getting across a dark city while strategically 
 using light sources to avoid dangerous nocturnal flying bugs. On top of that, the added Windows 
 chapters do little to change up the game, offering even more hallways and streets to shoot down. 
 They end with a Brumak boss battle which is little more than a 3D version of the arcade game Metal 
 Slug's bosses. But, all in all, the campaign's flaws don't prevent it from being a unique experience 
 
  
  As soon as you finish the game's campaign, you'll find out that there's a multiplayer part of Gears. 
 A quick warning to fans of Epic's AAA shooter series, Unreal Tournament: this is anything but that. 
 The multiplayer uses the same third person mechanics and system as the campaign does, making it 
 very unique in terms of gameplay and style. It is a fun diversion, but after a while, you'll go 
 back to playing real multiplayer shooters like Battlefield or Counterstrike. Unusual for Epic, 
 the game features only a few multiplayer gametypes with few to none customization options besides 
 which weapons are placed at predetermined spawn points. It gets old quick. Co-op is another fun 
 diversion, allowing you to simultaneously marvel at the graphics and flank enemies with a friend.
 
  
  The game is nice-looking, and there aren't many games on the market which compete with it. However, 
 it is quickly starting to fall behind, especially as developers build and improve upon the excellent 
 Unreal Engine 3 to pump out games like Bioshock and Epic's own Unreal Tournament III.
  
  On the Xbox 360, this game was among the best for a while, but that's because it had nothing much 
 else to compete against and reviewers were blindsided by the short-lived graphical leap over the 
 last generation. On the PC, Gears shows its true colors, especially if you've played any of a dozen 
 other quality shooters with much more personality and variety than in Gears.
  If Gears has one selling trait, it's that it offers some unique takes on the shooter genre and 
 manages to be better than most other games. It is fun, if not too long and missing some glaring 
 shooter conventions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdarm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game takes forever to install but I think it's well worth it if they can fix all the crashing, 
 shuttering, frame drops everyone is complaining about. From the game play I was able to squeeze 
 out of the game before it crashed on me it is awesome. The controls work very well for a ported 
 game. All the keys feel very natural to me and works well with the game. The graphics in the game 
 looks great even with all the settings on medium (What can you say? its UT3 engine :D) I also love 
 the fact that this game allows co-op. It's a game well worth the 1 year wait PC gamers have been 
 enduring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  GOTY for.. me i have to say because the quality of the gameplay , story , graphics ... overalll 
 the game is 95% perfect the only downside ...5% represents the TEAM A. I. is superb during a gunfight 
 but retarded when you have to use them in other situations & often if they remain behind ... they 
 will allways pop up when you reach the next checkpoint maybe this is the solution that EPIC chosed 
 when they saw that they just didn't have time to fully complete the A. I. for yur TEAM . Now that 
 the bad stuff is out of the way i want to talk about the PERFECT stuff i mean the rest of the game 
 ! ... the story is a little obscure at the beggining ... you only knwo that its 14 years after 
 E-day & the human alliance needs all the power it can get so ... DOM your best buddy come & picks 
 you from your cell .. & from then you will enter the action.... where you will se that a tough & 
 olso a super sarcastifc funny peronality of all the characters you meet comes up & gives life to 
 the game ! .... i will wont tell you the other parts of the soty because its to enterteining & 
 full of surprisez that deserve your full atention ! The gameplay is just top notch not very innovative 
 .... but super immersive & practacalyy all that yoy have seen in other games is perfected here .... 
 & the game olso gived answer to facts like why in FPS gmae you run & have the same acurracy .... 
 so in gears its just superb the way you have to time your charge & then your targeting attacks 
 you just can not run & gun with high accruaracy & that it was Gears proves right + the control 
 SYSTEM is super EASY & fun & ofcourse tere is some innovative stuff in there ... like the recharge 
 of weapons ... represented by a golf-swing meetter in what you have to time your reflexes for a 
 perfect reload whic will give you extra power , or norlam but fast reload ... or a bad reloaded 
 .. jamming your weapon taking more time to reload it ... & thats a very bad thing in crisis situations 
 ... + this must be the 1st tactical game team bases game set in the future & the 1st game tactical 
 game with a sprint system :D & wow its just to much feeling & eye candy in to it ! 
  Because EPIC is the creator of the UNREAL 3 tech they used the engine at its highest pottence & 
 its just amazing & breath taking that the syuperb gameplay & sotry presents a world similar to 
 ours .... but witout all tha comunist crap is just to arhitectural .. imagine structeres like the 
 pallace of Buckingam ... or White HOuse etc ..... its just like to great & from the pereception 
 of the story humans created all of this on that planet not knowing that an alien race is sleeping 
 under them ! 
  I have enjoyed every minute of the game every second of blood & joke from MARCUS or his teammates 
 ... & if R6V represents 100 % tactical .... gears has only 75% of tactics compared to R6V but all 
 of that is pushed back by the fact that you don't only fight human like enemies but olso crawling 
 little ones & giant ones ! Get passed tha bug somehow ... w8 for the patch but DO NOT REVIEW THE 
 GAME UNTIL YOU PLAYED IT !!! + the LIVE software isn't EPIC's BAD its MICROSOFT'S !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelMac
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Now the game is perfect. We've got Brumak. Wait. We don't. I didn't say that. I didn't write this. 
 They are listening. They are watching. Too late... I see them now outside windows, Xbox users who 
 committed suicide. Poor souls. They are standing there with 3 red Halos above their heads - infamous 
 Red Ring Of Death... With heavy weapons. 360's power supply adaptor in one hand - deadly, can maul 
 a cow and high heat energy emitter in another - Xbox 360 itself. I'm doomed... I see some movement! 
 They're running! They're running scared as hell! I know why - it's him - standing in front of me. 
 Marcus Fenix.
  
  "I came to kill you" he says.
  "Why?"
  "For writing this review."
  Damn! They're fast. Xbox Live users. I know now what for their money were spend...
  "Wait! I've 
 got rig connected to 32' HDTV! And you can know shoot a Brumak!" - I shout in despair. He stares 
 at me in complete silence. I'm starting to pray. And then...
  "Show me" he says. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osirisk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I played this game fine for a couple of days and then it crashed to my desktop for no reason. I 
 belong to the gears of war forums and if you go there, OMG so many people have problems with it. 
 EPIC NEEDS TO MAKE A PATCH. The first time I went on their forums so many people were worried about 
 stuff that wouldn't be a problem if Microsoft and Epic had tested if there was any bugs and if 
 so when they shipped it there would be a quick patch for these bugs so no one would be complaining. 
 Long story short wait until they make a patch but if you have the money and computer and you don't 
 really care about crashing sometimes go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analgrin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I just thought i'd leave a small review incase anybody is worried about so called bugs in the game.
 
  
  I admit i've only played it for a couple of hours on my DX10 vista machine with everything maxed 
 but i haven't had a single major bug crop up. It installed ok, although it did take a while (about 
 25 mins) .
  When i first tried to play without using a windows live profile it said that my progress wouldn't 
 be saved. Im not sure whether this meant my statistics just wouldn't be saved online or whether 
 it really meant i'd have to start from scratch every time i played so i decided to use windows 
 live.
  This is when it told me my windows live needed updating which it did automatically, although i 
 had to exit the game for it to finish updating which i WASN'T prompted to do but i'll let them 
 off that little oversight.
  
  Then i had to create a windows live account which is very easy especially if you already have a 
 msn email account such as hotmail
  
  So all in all it took about 35 minutes from start to finish before i could actually play but this 
 is the only downside to this game.
  
  The graphics are pretty cool mainly because of the motion blur and field of view distortion. Without 
 these i dont think the graphics would be anything to write home about, sure the player models are 
 nice but the scenery just kinda does what its supposed to do without being over impressive.
  Perhaps i would have been a little more impressed if i hadn't already had a go on the crysis demo 
 :) which raises the benchmark some
  
  Anyhow thats me done, im going back to playing it now. I dont know how or why a couple of people 
 out there have had bugs (i assume they're using a legitimate copy of windows to play it- if not 
 then its probably down to some old bugged system files that they cant update)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent and especially if you consider that this is a XBOX360 port.... Most of the 
 time Console ports are a failure but not this time !!!
  
  Graphics are Excellent ,Sound is Excellent, Story is very well done, and the use of your squad etc 
 is very well implemented
  
  The game is very polished (Maybe flagship studios with their buggy Hellgate London can take some 
 lessons from these guys...)
  
  The game is not about Mindless rush attacks (Running and killing) ... You must think before acting, 
 finding covers just like it happens in real life which adds a bit strategy and realism to the game
 
  
  The only thing that i do not like is the Microsoft live thing or else i would score it even higher
 
  
  One of the best FPS for 2007 for me 
  
  Single player or Multiplayer player just go buy it and you will not be disappointed unless if your 
 PC is crappy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  I have to apologize for my previous *review* (I didn't delete it- you can still find it below) , 
 but after getting through the technical problems I've found on of the best and most inspiring games 
 of all times!!!
  
  The designs, the graphics, the gameplay, the story, the sound- EVERYTHING IS SO SUPERB!!!
  
 
  I will buy a Xbox for Gears of War 2- it was SO good!
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  The previous review:
  
  I was very keen to play such a famous game with so many awards for art and technical achievements.
 
  
  It's a shame that Epic Games broke the fame of GOW with such a horrible PC release.
  
  And, yes, it's unfair to rate a game without playing a game, but then again- the technical glitches 
 don't allow to play it anyway. So how should I rate The Nothing that costed money? So, first of 
 all, it is unfair from Epic and Microsoft to sell a product that doesn't work on many machines.
 
  
  My PC is capable to run Crysis on ultra high settings, but GOW crashes every few minutes on it. 
 And there are a lot of complains from other high-end PC owners- GOW is just broken
  
  I was hoping to spend my weekend with such an epic adventure, but it looks like it will have to 
 wait a long, long time- I bet it will take some time till a patch is released, but then again- 
 I will be playing Crysis by that time.
  
  Ah, another disaster- Windows LIVE service. If I knew that I would have to use it even for a single 
 player, I would never buy such a game. 
  
  So do yourself a favour and save money for a real game- not a broken port with that annoying Windows 
 LIVE service 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iq2luc
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Great engine, nice graphics... ZERO gameplay.
  I just regret I cannot rate 0 (zero) on gamespot. 
  
  Too bad for the brand new unreal engine, 
 should be used in better games.
  This game may have something for 'consolish' players... but for a hardcore PC gamer -- it's simply... 
 nothing.
  
  Well... there is nothing more to say, maybe just wondering how can be possible for a game like 
 this to score 9 on gamespot and other really great games (for instance, I can think of Dark Messiah 
 of Might and Magic) are so underappreciated.
  
  I love gamespot... but sometimes I really don't understand it.
  
  Nevertheless... maybe it 
 's just not my type of game; but I usually buy games taking into account gamespot information... 
 this time was a wrong decision. 
  If I could had the chance to play a demo first -- i would NEVER buy it.
  
  (... waiting for 
 Crysis)
  
  
  _______________
  P. S.: Considering the hard work put into making this game, my score is somehow not fair, do not 
 forget that some people really worked for... let's say... about 9 GB of game material :) and hey... 
 it looks pretty cool.
  You have to read this low score like this: my PERSONAL satisfaction as a PC gamer playing this 
 game (after spending $50 on it) is -- unfortunately -- zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying anyone that can install this game without the install taking:
  
  1) 45 min to 1 hour to install
  2) MSI package crashing multiple times
  3) Updates to the game 
 making game crash 
  4) Trying to launch the game after 4 install attempts only to get "wargame-g4wlive. exe has encountered 
 a problem and needs to close."
  4) Find ANY technical support at all since you WILL run into issues...
  
  If you have never 
 encountered any of these above issues, not only do you have divine powers, but you have my jealousy 
 and respect. I know it is not fair to review a game that one can't play, but I had such high hopes. 
 
  
  I have this on the 360, and I love it. I was drooling when I bought the PC box, but after 5 hours 
 (quite literally) , I sit here a broken man. Weeping at the thought of the inability to return this 
 to Gamestop (I called them, and they told me to basically call M$ or go to Hell) , or get a refund 
 of any kind. 
  
  So if you have this game, installed it, and can play it without any crashes. Enjoy.
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0crates
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  SHAME ON GREEDY MICROSOFT -- many people who bought this game still cannot play it due to glitches 
 with Windows Live.
  
  This game was not ready to go gold. After wasting hours trying to get this working, following all 
 update and patch instructions, I still have not been able to get it to work on my high-end machine 
 (Quad Core 6600 + 8800GTS) .
  
  The game takes at least 45 minutes to install -- crammed and compressed onto one DVD, it takes 
 a looooong time to copy all the files and then inflate them to over 10 GB. And it's all for naught, 
 because after two installs and trolling numerous blogs, trying all kids of fixes and work-arounds, 
 the game flat-out won't run. After a tantalizing flash screen, the wargame-g4Wlive. exe always bombs 
 out.
  
  Needless to say, there are a lot of angry and disappointed people out there. SHAME ON GAMESPOT 
 for failing to to wait on their review before the problems became evident. I am even beginning 
 to wonder whether they actually installed and played the game before reviewing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Im going to keep this brief, i have only been playing it a couple of hours as i had trouble getting 
 the game running without crashing to desktop which i have solved by starting the game as an administrator 
 in the game Binary directory. A crap bug mind you, which needs sorting quicky.
  Having got the game up and running with everything set on Highest at 1650x1250 resolution in directx 
 10, i absolutely adore this game. Once i got used the the over the shoulder cam and clever use 
 of cover and the space bar i really got into the flow. This games is brilliant. Graphics , sound 
 , story, the use of your squad, it works superbly. You need to think more in this game then some 
 other shooters but that is to the benefit of the game.
  Every review i have seen whether its online or in a magazine has given this this game at least 
 9/10 or 90%. Now im playing it i can see why. Even Microsofts live works really well and makes 
 tracking stats and joing games easy as pie. A true classic !!!
  I dont know how anyone can give this a poor review, i can only assume that the controls take a 
 little bit of getting used to and some poor schmucks simply cant handle it, especialy if you are 
 used to playing games such as Call Of Duty, such as myself this, can take a bit of getting used 
 to. Keep at it and use your brain as well as your mouse and you will find youself online in no 
 time at all and kicking butt and having a blast. Oh and im buying a second copy to go my other 
 machine to plat the Co-Op game which by all accounts is even better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: troglotroll
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on single-player as Marcus with Dom being computer-controlled. I have Vista 
 32bit, ~3gb of RAM, 8600GTS PCI-E x16 video card, AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual-Core Processor 5000+ 2.6GHz. 
 The video settings were at medium, which was recommended by the game for my system.
  Ok so I went to the store to get one of the new games that came out for PC, and I was deciding 
 between Call of Duty 4 and Gears of War. I picked Gears of War. Don't make my mistake. I now realize 
 I should have probably picked up Call of Duty 4 instead.
  
  So why is Gears of War for the PC so highly-rated by Gamespot? Who knows? Their review was poor, 
 and didn't address a wide variety of issues and did not go in-depth enough. Many different areas 
 need to be addressed: sound, difficulty, controls, general gameplay are all things that can make 
 or break a game, especially a shooter. Gamespot's reviewers have punished games in the past for 
 being too difficult, why not now? So why don't we talk about the difficulty. I started on the medium 
 difficulty because I "know how to pull off a headshot" (like headshots really matter in GoW?) and 
 after a few stages I made a new game under casual difficulty because I didn't like emptying an 
 entire clip into a standard enemy's HEAD before killing him. Also, I didn't like sitting through 
 the same cut-scene over and over, coveniently placed right after most checkpoints, the ONLY place 
 you can save (but YOU don't save, the game saves for you) . It seems like the game caters to people 
 who want to sit down and play through the whole game, all at once. Also, there was always a difficult 
 encounter after each checkpoint, which makes sense, but the cutscene (which is skippable, at a 
 certain point in the cutscene by mashing buttons until it goes away, which button? the devs didn't 
 want to tell you) was really annoying when you just want to get past this part which isn't fun 
 anyway after you've played it over and over. Even on "casual" difficulty (the lowest setting) the 
 enemies will mess you up in an instant. The game really crawls along when you're constantly dying 
 and reloading your game and at times, the game stagnates, and if you get really frustrated, ends. 
 It doesn't make for an enjoyable time.
  
  Now onto sound. Sound is an important part of shooters, especially action-packed ones. The music 
 in GoW is ok, but the sound of the guns firing (all what, 6 of them?) is pretty trite and barely-there. 
 At first, I thought my volume was turned down when I started firing the first weapon. You'll really 
 miss the vibrating controllers if you've already played GoW on the 360. This is one reason GoW 
 doesn't seem as immersive on the PC as it did on the 360. 
  
  The controls still retain some of the annoying things you probably noticed on the 360. Marcus always 
 goes for cover... even when YOU don't want to. In fact, the only time he wouldn't go for cover once 
 was when I was being shot and apparently some things that look like cover aren't really usable 
 in the environment. He sticks to walls like white on rice, and I find myself staying away from 
 walls so I won't get stuck on them. The only way to get over something, I have found, is to first 
 hide behind it, then press the space bar. I think the whole running and ducking and jumping for 
 cover is a pretty poor attempt to add to the game's intensity, which doesn't last long before your 
 next death. 
  
  The general gameplay is repetitive. There are only a few different types of weapons and a few different 
 types of enemies. Most of the larger enemies look impressive, but you don't really get to fight 
 them, you usually just trick them into killing themselves. The shooting is really "point and click 
 until it dies". You might say, that's how all shooters are, but what about recoil? Recoil isn't 
 really an issue. You can empty a whole clip into a standard enemy before killing it, and this will 
 happen. Oh yeah, and this is yet another game where you can't shoot enemies through walls or the 
 floors/ceilings. Lame. Is that glorious part of Counter-Strike's mechanics really so hard to implement 
 in all these "futuristic" games?
  
  The whole "play live" things is pretty complicated and is poorly ported over from the 360. Basically, 
 Microsoft wants you to pay money to play the game which you already bought, online. There is even 
 a downside to not playing live if you play SINGLE-PLAYER. It's cool if you want to play co-op online 
 with a friend, but what if you just want to play the game's campaign by yourself? Well apparently 
 there are a few drawbacks. For instance, it warns you that you won't be able to save progress or 
 achievements if you later decide to play live. Well, apparently, it doesn't save your progress 
 even if you decide to keep playing single-player. This is also true of the COG Tag collection. 
 If you quit out of the game at the wrong time, you will not be able to "continue campaign" later 
 on. It says "there is no saved game on the disk" or something like that. You will then have to 
 load a previous chapter, which for me ended up being nowhere close to where I was. Also, all the 
 COG Tag's I had picked up disappeared and I was back to 0/33. Thanks a lot.
  
  No wonder they didn't come out with a demo! Besides the fact it would have been 5 gigs in size.
 
  
  I just want a gamer-friendly, action-packed shooter, with a thrilling single player campaign, please. 
 Is that too much to ask? I'm going to buy Call of Duty 4. This wasn't worth 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  I am a huge Gears of War fan. And had to get the PC version.
  
  This is a perfect port of the 360 version. So expect all the great game play 360 owners have had 
 the last 12 mths. 
  
  A couple of things that really set this game above the rest is the PC interface. This is the 1st 
 game on PC I have played that copies the 360 in game interface. Not only do I use my 360 controller 
 which I find is easier than keyboard and mouse (may be that I am just used to playing like this) . 
 But also if you press the centre button you get the xbox live console with all your friends and 
 messaging controls. Now this is what I have expected Microsoft to do since the 360 came out. And 
 it really adds to the usability of the game. This is a great idea that I really look forward to 
 be added to all PC games.
  
  The 360 controller works exactly the same as on the 360. And the game looks fantastic and I do 
 mean fantastic. 
  
  I am running at 1280x900 with max graphics on XP with 8500GT 512mb card, E6750 Duo cpu and 2gig 
 ram. And I have a very smooth running game, no idea what the frame rate is but I don't notice any 
 lag at all. It looks much more crisp than the 360 this may be the monitor that helps as well as 
 the resolution.
  
  The game play is as on the 360, which is spot on. Baddies ar hard to kill ( I like to shoot them 
 in the knees and watch them go down and then stomp them, great fun) . Online play is the same as 
 360.
  
  An all round top notch game, an absolute must for any serious gamer. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_ranch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  after i have played it for awhile, the it looks more then great, more like fantastic. I have ever 
 never thought that i will play so great game and with that kind on graphic and sound. I totally 
 recommend this game to every player who like kill! The story is gorgeous, you have to kill un-humans 
 , and also berserks, huge ant's and so on. Weapons are just like they have to be, sound is good 
 and also look is very good, but aiming is the best. The fastest you will play this game then the 
 more fastest you will get to play it and feel it yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  I usually pass on 3rd person shooters. They just didn't seem to be as an immersive gaming experience 
 as a good FPS. Having seen the videos of the XBox 360 version of this game though, I had to try 
 it when it came out for the PC. What a pleasant surprise! While I'll never become a console port 
 fanboy, this game is great. The play is intense. I feel like I'm a part of a 1980's Arnold Shwarzenegger 
 movie. After successfully completing a fire fight and the game lets up for a moment, I remember 
 that I haven't really drawn a deep breath for a while. So I heave a sigh of relief that I've survived 
 to another check point and get ready for more.
  
  The graphics are an excellent use of the UT3 engine. The colour is muted to give it a gritty feel, 
 and the sound is very good with either surround speakers or headphone.
  
  Control is good with Mouse/Keyboard, but I wish there was a separate button mapping for cover and 
 jump over the cover. I also prefer quick saving to checkpoints.
  
  The game also took a very long time to install, copying 7 Gb of files from the DVD to HD took longer 
 than it should have, and then they had to de-compress. I started the install when I got home from 
 work. I had a shower and started dinner and it still hadn't finished.
  
  These minor complaints aside, this game deserves high praise for porting well from console to PC 
 a year later and can go head to head with the many recent and upcoming new games for my gaming 
 time. What a great time to be a PC Gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Eversince the videos of gameplay on the consoles and the game teasers, i could hardly wait for 
 the game to come to the PC. We all had to wait a good year for that, but it finaly arrived with 
 a bang!
  
  The pc version features extra levels in SP, like was said in the Gamespot review. But lets cut 
 to the chase, the gameplay is staggeringly fun! It takes a bit getting used to, since its an adaptation 
 of a console platform, but once you get the hang of it, its just endless fun gunning and literaly 
 sawing enemies to pieces.
  The levels are linear and a bit repetitive, but thats made up by the relentless action. You are 
 constantly on edge while you play because you never know when more locusts will attack. The boss 
 fights are nicely rising in difficoulty, so you wont be overwhelmed with a monster (literaly) of 
 an enemy. The weapons are just so much fun to use. And give you that satisfaction of sheer damage 
 on the enemy. Now, you will do alot of runing and ducking, but if your not a CS style player, you 
 shuld find it no less amusing then bunnyhopping around. The game runs on the great Unreal07 engine, 
 which did a good job so far with COD4, runing relatively bug free and on decent performance even 
 on lower end computers. I havent encounterd any big glitches or buggs, but im shure some of you 
 probably have. No system is perfect. All in all, the game is outstanding in terms of fun gameplay. 
 The MP is a bit stiff and getts you bored pretty quick, but im shure youll get back to the SP time 
 and time again. 8.5 from me, for great visuals, great gameplay, but a bit repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  No aiming cursor, no ammo counter, no compass or waypoints, a character who sprays ammo all over, 
 and sustains umpteen hits before dieing suddenly, did I mention no armor or health meters? Just 
 goes to prove, great graphics, sound, and lip synching can't rescue a PPP of a console game! It's 
 no wonder they didn't release a demo......... they wouldn't have gotten our money. A really hinky 
 install as well, took forever, huge footprint on your harddrive, no listing in the start/programs 
 menu, or desktop icon (it listed in the Games for Windows -- another goofy Vista  
 can certainly claim to be innovative, garbage but innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game lives up to all the hype surrounding it. I started playing campaign mode right away, 
 and was amazed by the incredibly fast load times, even the online play loads incredibly quick. 
 Now there are a lot of games on the next-gen consoles that look like they should be on the older 
 consoles, some even look like they belong on N64 or Sega Saturn. Gears of War takes the potential 
 of the Xbox 360 and runs with it. Simply put, this game is amazing. Gears of War offers more than 
 your typical run and gun, if you want to survive you must use objects to take cover. If you try 
 to run and gun you won't succeed. There's no cross hairs unless you are holding the aim button, 
 that kinda sucks, but you get used to it. Pros: - This game rocks - Not just a run and gun, you 
 need to think fast and act faster - Fast load screens, even in multiplayer - Graphics are superb 
 - Very easy controls, the A button does most of the work - Weapon Selection - Overall Gameplay 
 - Graphics, I know, I know, but the graphics are that good - Playing in the harder difficulties 
 is actually harder, the AI is smart and challenging, instead of the increase of enemies that is 
 usually the solution in FPS games - Chainsaw and curb stomp kills - The end of the game pretty 
 much tells you there will be a sequel Cons: - Unless you have an internet connection, you might 
 be a little dissapointed with the length of single player mode - Other than that... NONE!!! Final 
 Verdict: Graphics 5/5 Audio 5/5 Controls 5/5 Gameplay/Story 5/5 Replay Value 5/5 Overall 5/5 Buy 
 or Rent?: Buy, unless you dont play multiplayer, then you can rent and beat, but you still might 
 want to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk0375
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the few games that came out for the PC that are worth playing, some people complain 
 about the fact that this game was created on a PC, and did not came sooner, well there was a reason, 
 you have more levels to play, a better storyline and a great multiplayer option online. if you 
 don't have this game drop your mouse now and go buy it today. this is a must have for any fans 
 of action shooter games. just make sure that you have a well powered PC so you can play Gears of 
 War at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigs1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  PERFECT 10..
  ANYBODY WHO GIVES THIS GAME 5 OR BELOW IMHO HAS NOT PLAYED
  THIS GAME OR HAS A NAFF SYSTEM.. SOME OF THE SCORES GIVEN MAY THE LORD FORGIVE YOU..
  I DONT THINK 
 WHAT EVER GAME THEY MAKE WILL EVER MAKE THESE PEOPLE HAPPY , I FEEL SORRY FOR THEM. I SURPOSE SOME 
 PEOPLE ARE JUST LIKE THAT IN LIFE.
  BUT FOR THE REST OF US THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE 
 INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY 
 NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... VERY 
 NICE INDEED ... VERY NICE INDEED ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlipWillie
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I don't know why they rated the game so high. I just got it today, mainly because of 
 the 9.0 rating, and I am quite disappointed. Perhaps its just me, but this game really has not 
 impressed me at all. I can understand why this game would be popular on the Xbox -- it is the only 
 viable way to make a shooter game playable on analogue sticks. But when you compare it to other 
 PC shooters this game is simply very slow paced. It is ridiculous that I always have be hiding 
 behind stuff in this game and just wait for my enemies to either stand up or run out of ammo -- 
 RETARDED. And the Jump/Hide button is terrible too. Half of the time I am stuck on the wall exposed 
 to enemy fire when I all I want to do is jump out of the way. Also, the game almost whole-heartedly 
 discourages rushing -- if you get exposed, you get killed... So you are stuck sitting behind a 
 concrete slab taking shots every once in a while.
  
  The first thing I thought when I started playing this game is, This was made for a console, not 
 a pc. And that is exactly what this game is -- A Console game. In fact, this game reminds me most 
 of the arcade game time crisis, except I don't get a light gun. This is one of those times when 
 I wish I did more research on this game before I acquired it. Anyone who is used to PC shooter 
 games will not like this. I really don't understand why people rave so much about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best shooters I have ever played. There is a good storyline, the graphics are 
 beautiful (I played the 360 version on release) &amp; the extra content blends well but sticks 
 out some. The gameplay is different from all other shooters, it's not a run &amp; gun game, it 
 instead depends on move &amp; cover tactics. I hate those jump in the air 20 feet shooters , I 
 love games like this &amp; 6 Vegas. Stay on the ground &amp; fight. I forgive Epic for the bugs 
 which I have been able to work around, but it needs a patch yesterday. It is going to get even 
 better once live &amp; multi-player kicks off. It will be a definite pick once the bugs are patched 
 out of it. I have a moderately spec'd system &amp; I get mid 30 -40fps on med/high &amp; 1680 x 
 1050 res. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryPalms
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I didn't even make it through level 1 before I was so aggravated by the feel of Gears of War.
 
  
  It's incredibly weak. Weapons are huge but flimsy and have a farty sound quality to them. The machine 
 guns sound more like fart pillows than anything else.
  
  Try to throw a nade. Sigh, You'll be old before you get the hang of that. It reminds me of a James 
 Bond game for the PS 1. I know it doesn't take much for the x-box crowd to shout about, but this 
 is ridiculous. Great graphics is not enough to float this sinking disaster.
  
  Please note: I don't hate on action games at all. Just gave call of duty 4 10/10 (which incidentally 
 runs perfect on my rig with all settings maxed out on 1680x1050 - GoW is choppy as hell) .
  
  I cannot recommend this game to anyone but those few with a broken xbox and a state of the 
 art gamer rig. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssn708crank
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game as soon as it came out. I try to start up the game, and it tells me I need a 
 windows update, (KB940105) . I download this update, and the installer fails, stating it can not 
 find the MUI file. I try to contact Microsoft, they want a $60 service contract for support. If 
 I try to go ahead without the update, the game plays like absolute garbage. It freezes, drops sound, 
 everything you can imagine. I have a computer that is more than adequate to run the game. I loved 
 the 360 version, but I doubt I will EVER buy a Microsoft game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofbaseball54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  well i know my computer can handle it on the highest settings but everytime i start the game up 
 within idk 20-30 seconds the game crashes? not sure what the issue is... maybe a patch needed? everything 
 ive seen it looks great and i really look forward to online coop. i played the 360 version with 
 my friend through the game twice so yea hopefully i can get it working soon then ill be happy lol 
 :) . also cant wait to see what the new content on the pc is. what they added and whats different. i 
 also hear the graphics are ridiculous. better than the 360 verison 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Realmjumper
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Everything you expect from the 360. Add in way better graphics, more single player content, and 
 multiplayer content. You get a great deal for 50 bucks. Throw in an editor for custom maps and 
 mods and well you have unlimited potential.
  
  If you've already played the single player campaign you're not missing that much. Really get the 
 game if you plan on using the editor and wanna experience the game on PC online. Do not get it 
 if you already own an Xbox 360 just wait for Gears of War 2.
  
  Wish I could give the game a 9.5 but it has that feeling of been there done that. Hopefully once 
 I start tinkering with the editor I can feel more satisfied. A great game though and co-op online 
 is free as well as all the other game modes. Only things you pay for is so you can invite people, 
 host player and ranked matches, and multiplayer achievements. Single player achievements are free.
 
  
  Also there have been numerous issues for people to get the game to run. Seems Epic did not test 
 the game well enough before releasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmconstable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  So I have to say I get slightly irritated by the comparisons of this game to the XBOX 360 one. 
 Of course it is similar as it has everything the 360 has and more. The graphics are better assuming 
 you are running a good machine and there are more single-player and multi-player sections to the 
 game. So what is not to like. It really surprises me Gamespot cannot give it a higher score. The 
 game clearly has better visuals than it did a year ago. It runs smoothly and has a lengthy single-player 
 and good multi-player. Didn't the 360 get a 9.5 or some such number. It is clear to me GS has a 
 bias against the PC and towards the 360 which shows up in their reviews of big name titles. I know 
 this is a year old game for the 360, but for me with no 360 and a PC it is brand new. Rate it for 
 the PC instead of comparing it to the 360. This game still rocks and looks like a title that just 
 came out. That is what is important for PC owners to know and GS did get that right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armadous
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Not since the first time I played Battlefield 1942 have I felt such a strong connection to a game. 
 At the time I was new to the concept of vehicles and infantry in such wide open spaces. Which consumed 
 my life through Desert Combat, Battlefield Vietnam, and Battlefield 2.
  
  Greater than the sum of its parts is what comes to mind. A well executed cover system and seamless 
 animation make it very easy to buy into the whole thing as a reality. It's got all the grit, dirt, 
 grime, and blood needed to create a very visceral experience.
  
  I left the console world with the end of the Dreamcast. Gears Of War has for the first time since 
 made me envious of 360 players for having already spent so much time with this gem of a game.
 
  
  I don't intend to go into the gameplay details, that has been covered, covered, and covered again. 
 I will simply describe it as a hybrid of Rainbow 6: Vegas and UT2k3. Imagine your playing UT2K3, 
 take out the more fancifully weapons, add in the cover system used in R6: Vegas, slow it down by 
 300%, and add in even more gore and you will have Gears of War.
  
  What this means is only the greatest multi-player action ever. We can hope anyway. I'm undecided 
 on the small multi-player matches as of yet. Keeping them small has its advantages and disadvantages. 
 It's hard to say if 64 player matches would make things better or worse without actually trying 
 it. As it stands however the multi formula is great. Find some friends, find some enemies, and 
 forget the next many hours.
  
  If you have yet to play Gears Of War, you must do it now. Whatever you're doing, stop it, get to 
 your nearest retailer and begin a new era of fun, ed... ness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasparesky
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  no doubt this is one of the best games i've ever played, considering that it is originally a console 
 game, becouse usuaaly games that comes from concole is a bit short story and gameplay., but THIS.... the 
 graphics are amazing even if you don't have a high end machine, it looks and feels like One of 
 a kind masterpiece. I allways got a feeling that some day this game would come to PC, it was Inevitable,.. 
 i'm really speachless... ther is not enough words to describe this amazing game, if you haven't 
 played , .. what are you waiting go and buy it.... GO GET SOME.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War has never been one of my favorites like everyone else claims it should be, and frankly, 
 I'm not even that big of a fan of these futuristic shoot 'em ups. This game stands out from others 
 if you ask me and although it's not exactly a breakthrough or anything like that, it will keep 
 you interested throughout the game.
  
  The graphics are astonishing. My computer can just barely run it at top specs, but from what I 
 saw of it, it's definitely satisfying to look at. The lighting effects and just the massive suits 
 of armor that your guys are wearing are just beautiful looking. The antialiasing is flawless, I 
 have never seen antialiasing done this well since.. well ever.
  
  The story isn't anything new but, like I've already said, it will keep your attention and it will 
 keep you going. I'm horrible at talking about stories without ruining anything, so I won't bother 
 going any further into that.
  
  The weapons look really cool, and the chainsaw mount on your default gun is really fun to use in 
 close combat situations. I wouldn't suggest using it when you're under heavy fire, but whatever 
 floats your boat. But other than the chainsaw the weapons seemed to basically stick to your run-of-the-mill 
 FPS guns.
  
  There isn't much else to say about it except that I would recommend it to everyone, especially 
 you die hard Halo fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemar7856
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short! yay Gears of War for the PC is great. Not only that it sounds and looks phenomenal
 
  
  Gameplay -9: The game is fun and the graphics are good but no real improvments or usage of dx10
 
  
  Graphics -10: The game is fun and the graphics are good but no real improvments or usage of dx10. visual 
 The frame rate is good and special effects, highly detailed characters, beautiful explosions
  
  Sound -8: good voice acting, nice gun sounds envormental sounds suck
  
  Value -8: The Single 
 Player campaign is very short even with the extra levels on pc
  
  Tilt -8 no new battle improvements Multiplayer has few original modes. Fully-featured level editor 
 included.
  
  PROS good graphics nice sound
  multiplay
  controls are good
  level editor included
  
  Cons
  no real improvements
  no dx support for vista ppl but were 
 force to use it HIGH REQUIREMENTS being serious dont bother playing unless u have like over 3.5ghz/2gbs 
 ram/x1600+/6600 I think u have 2 play for online monethly not sure though never tried it yet
  new chapters are out of place with story but I dont care about stories only gameplay but the new 
 boss is cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  What can i say, when the best game of the Xbox 360 of 2006 comes to PC with some new additions 
 and with more upgraded visuals and graphics supported at high resolutions. I think this just what 
 you need as a pre warmup before the big one on november 16.
  
  Ofcourse this game demands a rig standing in the top line, but thats just to take the full advantage 
 of game and to see what graphics really mean.
  
  Addicting gameplay and tactics hold your attention for a long time and the boss fight, i am not 
 going to give spoilers, but the boss fight is just spectacular.
  
  If you have the extra bucks and are willing to spend it right now, i think this would be a waste 
 of them. With a high competitive online mode, i think you will be thanking your decision for a very 
 long time.
  
  The game is just great, and simply fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
