-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Genesis Rising: The Universal Crusade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/genesisrising/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Space bugs and blood sucking.
 Ship and visual designs are fantastic, if a bit derivative of Warhammer 40K.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very buggy.
 A few interface shortcomings.
 No way to change game speed, which causes a lot of problems in combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.8, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Metamorf Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 20, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Icky space bugs make Genesis Rising interesting. Even ickier tech bugs and design problems make 
 Genesis Rising annoying. 

  Bugs are the big story in Genesis Rising: The Universal Crusade, an action real-time strategy game 
 with a twist from Metamorf Studios. But it's not quite what you might think. The game has some 
 serious performance issues, like sound drops and crashes to the desktop, but in addition to these 
 technical bugs, the game itself is all about space bugs. Unfortunately, the technical issues will 
 stop you from enjoying your time with the space bugs, since the game not only has performance problems, 
 it also has a flawed interface. You'll probably end up wanting to exterminate Genesis Rising from 
 your hard drive like it was an infestation of cockroaches.  

          Ships explode with so much blood splatter that you'll think you were playing a shooter. 
     

  The setting and storyline are just a teensy bit offbeat here (the plot is based on an obscure European 
 comic, so make of that what you will) . Although you play the usual intrepid sci-fi captain and 
 spend the solo campaign scrounging around the galaxy for a MacGuffin called the Universal Heart, 
 you boldly go where no man has gone before in organic ships called organids, which look and act 
 a lot like giant space ticks and other creepy crawlies. There is a creepy religious vibe to everything, 
 too, which gives the game a Warhammer 40,000 feel. There is one big new angle here, though, as 
 instead of the usual RTS conventions of blowing stuff up and scavenging for resources, the idea 
 is to disable enemy vessels and suck them dry of their blood and the genes that give them traits 
 and attributes.  

  But the other, non-blood-sucking bugs are more attention grabbing. Metamorf and publisher DreamCatcher 
 Games kicked this one out the door way too early. Crashes frequently occur, usually during level 
 and save loads, or when you're simply trying to go back to the main menu or leave the game. Everything 
 seems fine, the game runs on perfectly in the background, but an error message pops up and the 
 game goes down as soon as you click on abort, retry, or ignore. Sound drops are another issue, 
 in that the game loads up and remains dead silent on a regular basis. Neither problem could be 
 resolved over the course of this review, and other intermittent issues like ships refusing to respond 
 to commands and occasional graphical corruption also reared their ugly heads. Your mileage may 
 vary, but you might want to hold off on your sucking of blood until DreamCatcher gets out a patch. 

  On the occasions when everything works, the space-bugs angle is a neat conceit. The blood idea 
 is just a fresh take on the resources and health bars present in almost every other RTS, but it 
 does introduce a welcome yuck factor. This is particularly noticeable when you take an enemy out 
 with too much firepower and it explodes in geysers of gore or when you send out reservoir ships 
 to lap up the blood needed to build and repair ships and buy genes from traders. The gene concept 
 is even more intriguing. Every vessel has specific genes that can be stripped at the conclusion 
 of battles and added to a laboratory that serves as Genesis Rising's take on a tech tree. From 
 there, you can mutate vessels with these genes, which provides them with dozens of on-the-fly power-ups, 
 ranging from long- and short-range weapons to warp drives and other special abilities.  

  Genes also add verve to battles. The genes possessed by each ship are displayed in small icons 
 on the main view screen, so you can home in on key ships and try to take them out early to get 
 some buffs for the rest of the fight. In some ways, this isn't much of a change from the usual 
 RTS. Battles are always small-scale affairs, so chances are good that you'd be targeting the same 
 ships in the same order even without their gene rewards. But the feature does add some options 
 and makes you consider strategic planning beyond the standard action-oriented tank rush... even 
 if you end up mostly rushing the bad guys anyhow.  

  And that really is what you do most of the time in Genesis Rising. Battles take place on 2D map 
 grids as flat as the lone prairie, and the combat never seems to involve more than a dozen or so 
 ships, but the interface is so unadorned that it's hard to arrange coherent attacks. The minimap 
 is a worthless collection of tiny dots on a black background. Units can't be organized into formations, 
 and they always take the long way getting to enemy ships, complete with lots of pretty, yet extremely 
 irritating, turns and loops. This makes fighting with certain gene powers like long-range weapons 
 a pain because they sometimes have to be manually aimed and you never really know how your ships 
 are going to get from point A to point B.  

  Worst of all, there is no way to adjust the game's speed. You're stuck constantly veering between 
 way-too-fast combat and way-too-slow travel to engage enemies and explore maps. The gene laboratory 
 interface is also so clunky that it's just about impossible to use during combat. Battles continue 
 to rage on when you're in this menu, and the gene icons are haphazardly illustrated so you're forever 
 fumbling about trying to drag and drop the correct ones into place to load up a huge cannon or 
 something equally devastating that you just acquired during the fight. Too often you'll futz around, 
 get everything into place, and head back to the main screen just in time to see your mothership 
 go boom. Even though battles generally involve a small number of units by RTS standards, even single 
 enemy ships are pretty tough, forcing you to scramble around so much that you might as well be 
 commanding the Spanish Armada.  

  Genesis Rising has a distinctive look, at least. Metamorf does a fantastic job with ship design, 
 essentially taking all sorts of real-world insects and magnifying them to rather disturbing proportions. 
 The game has a unique appearance reminiscent of commercials that try to shame people into buying 
 better vacuums by showing magnified images of dust mites and other critters living in your carpets 
 and bed sheets. Cutscenes are gorgeous, too, with dramatic, sharply drawn and animated characters, 
 and over-the-top art and armor designs straight out of Warhammer 40,000. A sprinkling of traditional 
 sci-fi ships and old-school weapons do keep things grounded, but this is still one of the most 
 striking games thus far this year. The audio is far more generic. Units respond to orders by repeating 
 the same old vaguely fascistic RTS lines like "Strength through unity!" and dialogue in cutscenes 
 is chewed up and spat out in typically cheesy game fashion. Only an odd (and not entirely PG-13) 
 comment like "Suck them dry!" and a great soundtrack comprised mainly of epic choral odes give 
 the game a unique audio identity.  

          Slurp! Sucking up blood and genes for fun and profit.     

  Multiplayer is a bit more 
 palatable than solo play. Direct battles against human opponents eliminates the painful cutscenes 
 and the many slow moments before battles in the single-player campaign missions. Still, the multiplayer 
 revolves around a lot of exploration and resource collection, so it isn't exactly speedy.  

  Interesting concepts mean nothing without good implementation, and unfortunately the implementation 
 here is so poor that Genesis Rising is nearly unplayable at times. So, good ideas, shame about 
 the terrible execution.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: luketheduke324
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  genesis rising is a good game that deserves a 7or8 not a 5. piriod. the end. full stop. belive me 
 im a guy who has 47 pc games and has tried countless demos and this game is one of the most interesting 
 space RTS game i have seen since homeworld (besides sins of a solar empire) i would recomend this 
 game to all space RTS fans out there. but get a good gameing computer because this game will lag 
 on a 2006 computer and anything under that age exept alien ware. the review thing wont let me post 
 this thing until it hits a hundred words so fosidhf sdihf oi sf oifh fnsdkfj f ioef sk fsiof iofje 
 fh; ej f; seif; s n; fief fije ijesfhfg fegfgf gf ggefui figfi ggfuie gfugf iu egf gfi fiugfiu ghf 
 e fiugf fef legfiulf he lh fiu f gigf ig fuif gfigf ifg fg feuhfl uefh ff he fhiehf; sf hfhf ohef 
 hf eufh ueuf h hh fehfoh efh ohf h; e fefh oifh ohfohf o hofh fh oehfhf hefhfh oi f ehfi ofh of 
 oif hh efh hfeio fhooh ih fh oiih oh oihf oi foh foi fhsh fhiosfh fh oh ohfoifoi fo hfh oh ffhio 
 hoh ohohfoa ifhohfoieh ohfo of i hoh of hoifhfo ho fhf ohfohf oifho fh oi ooi hoh oh oohoh oh h 
 foihfo sifhfioe ioifh fhfhs hh f hf foih o o iewfh ofoihf hh oisf o h foshif oofhi od si hosh ohf 
 oih f oihfo ifh ohf o hh oi h oif hei i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I went to game stop and picked up this game on an impulse. I havn' t seen anything about it before. 
 I really like space RTS games like Sins of a Solar Empire and Homeworld. I was surprised by this 
 game. It is trying to do something new. LIVING SHIPS!! How cool is that? You never see that anywhere. 
 This game reminds me of Homewold with the mother ship and all of that jazz. The story is good and 
 the ships look great!! The space enviroment could be better but who cares. The controls or easy 
 to learn and they coul also be improved too. Download patches as soon as you install so the bugs 
 get fixed. Some micro managing but it is an RTS so go figure. I would pick it up if you really 
 like space RTS or if it get cheaper in the sotres.
  
  Everyone is always looking for game killers. Those games that beat all others. Sorry to let you 
 down but those are rare to find. People just need to grow up and get over themselves. All we are 
 sayinging is give some games a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up because i was looking for a space RTS that could actually be better than 
 most. Again it was a random pick, was bored one day so i went to the store, saw it and bought it. 
 A great waste of money i should say now.
  
  So the plot is actually pretty cool, the whole humankind in the future thing made me think that 
 this game was actually not bad. That is, as soon as i finished the first few missions.
  
  All you do is fly around looking for blood or lasering down enemies. You really win only by having 
 a large amount of ships, not better tactics. The idea of genetically engineering ships is great 
 but the whole gameplay design here is messed up. The fact that you cant save and that after each 
 mission you start with what you where left with on the last makes this game extremly hard since 
 resources are practically unavailable everywhere.
  
  So its a pretty boring game despite the fact that the ships look cool. Don't buy it, just look 
 at the screenshots on here and you pretty much played the entire game.
  Props to the geek in his mom's basement that got a hard on by looking at one of the characters 
 semi-exposed breasts. Loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Thank Odin for Torrents as I would not have played this game otherwise. Despite its age, I consistently 
 find it costing $40 and with the weak reviews, that is much more than I would care to spend.
  
  The organic ships, creepy church dominated society with humans being aggressive and holier-than-thou 
 looked like a pretty neat setting. The game universe is well done and there are some cool areas 
 of space to visit and some weird aliens to meet. Things are vivid, on a grand scale and on the 
 whole, this is done very well.
  
  The actual game itself is where the problems are. Missions tend to start with great promise but 
 ultimately end up being derivative. The game autosaves for you after you finish a mission but there 
 is no way to save within the mission which is a big pain. The levels are all relatively short, 
 so far, but if you screw up at the end you have to start all the way over at the beginning and 
 that is lousy game design. Battles are also not very dynamic. Beam weapons are just about the only 
 way to go and your ships basically park next to the enemy and you slowly drop their health to zero 
 while they do the same to you. Granted, that is all you do in any RTS but in Genesis Rising I was 
 painfully aware of the mechanic. I like my combat to be more dynamic and exciting -- combat in 
 this game is more like making a formula in Excel then trying to be excited when it runs.
  
  One thing Genesis Rising has going for it is huge breasts in the women. This helps salvage some 
 of the terrible mission design, over-the-top and sometimes cringe-worthy voice acting, and even 
 the bugs that froze my computer so completely I had to hit the power switch to reboot. 
  
  Overall, the game looks awesome and the atmosphere is compelling. So far I am willing to stick 
 with it because it is exotic. I do not know if I could actually recommend the game -- Genesis Rising 
 is like the fat chick/moped thing; they are all fun to ride but not if your friends see you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric_Looking
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I made a grave mistake buying this game from walmart without checking the Internet I like 4x games 
 and I had a gift card. This game was not worth human breath. But then wal-mart tells me that all 
 software dvd cd and game sales are final why has there been no talk of this in the game community 
 they said it was a federal law? I will no longer buy anything in the electronics section of wall 
 mart.
  
  I made a grave mistake buying this game from walmart without checking the Internet I like 4x games 
 and I had a gift card. This game was not worth human breath. But then wal-mart tells me that all 
 software dvd cd and game sales are final why has there been no talk of this in the game community 
 they said it was a federal law? I will no longer buy anything in the electronics section of wall 
 mart.
  
  I made a grave mistake buying this game from walmart without checking the Internet I like 4x games 
 and I had a gift card. This game was not worth human breath. But then wal-mart tells me that all 
 software dvd cd and game sales are final why has there been no talk of this in the game community 
 they said it was a federal law? I will no longer buy anything in the electronics section of wall 
 mart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cassius2k
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not gonna knock the game from what ive played its good, but there's problems, mainly the support.
 
  
  There's loads of patches out for the US version but the UK get's nothing. So you've found the problem 
 so give us the fixes for it, but on the DreamCatcher website all it says the patch will be soon 
 well how long is soon is soon in my lifetime or shalI just give up and accept this sucks as it's 
 not gonna be fixed in the near future. SORT IT OUT DREAMCATCHER
  
  Haven't reached the 100 words so
  
  SORT IT OUT
  
  SORT IT OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barusa
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 17, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  The graphics are OK. There is minimal animation for in-game objects. Everything looks plastic, 
 even the supposed organic elements like hair. Most all the games elements, such as characters and 
 ships are simple models with cheap decals. The fact that every system you enter has fantastical 
 plasma backgrounds, spinning planets, etc. is total overkill for a space game. (Space is mostly 
 empty... enough said)
  
  The cut-scenes are nice but are frequently annoying. The developers broke the rule of not allowing 
 cut-scenes distract from the game. You are frequently right in the middle of battle when a cut-scene 
 appears.
  
  The level designers also committed another sin that I call Forced Choice gameplay. By Forced Choice 
 I mean that the level designer only provided one way to finish the level. The developers weren't 
 creative enough to provide multiples methods to finish a level. This factor was a BIG DISAPPOINT 
 because the game claims comprised of over 30 branching missions... . Maybe there are different 
 missions to chose, but there is only one way to finish the mission. If you are lucky enough figure 
 there one way to finish the mission you spend each level doing the save and load dance over and 
 over.
  
  THERE IS NO SAVE FEATURE IN THE MISSION! I feel like I took a step back to the 1970's game consoles. 
 There is no excuse for a PC based game not to have a save function. Even most modern console games 
 do better job than this game. You are stuck playing each mission to the end.
  
  The game box claims Morph you gene-based armada... . #1 there is no morphing, the ships always 
 look the same. #2 the fact they claimed it is gene-based is irrelevant. The method that is used 
 to add tokens with special powers to a ship is no different from dozens of other existing games. 
 #3 I assumed that armada meant lots of ships. I haven't played the whole game through, but the 
 number of ships you can control is very limited.
  
  In summary, I am very disappointed in the game. It is yet another game that promises something 
 different, but doesn't even meet the minimum quality of games that already exist. The low ratings 
 on the games means you should be able to buy it used at your favorite used game vendor. I would 
 suggest not spending much more than a couple dollars, because it isn't worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pslance
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 12, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  I also do not agree with Gamespot's review on this game it is a good game that has a nice graphics 
 and not to hard to learn for the most part. It could have a more intelligent AI but need to try 
 it on hardest level that i have not yet. You are able to just sit back many times in the beginning 
 and just shoot from a far the people to death and they do not really do much about it. But this 
 game is a good buy and is fun to play and waist your life away on. kinda reminds me a little bit 
 of Darkstar one in the since of organic ship that grows but really only that. I have not really 
 noticed any bugs or glitches, though i have also not been looking to find any. though nice to see 
 a good space game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Protheus
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  I don't agree with GameSpot this time. Genesis Rising is a real nice game. The concept with organic 
 ships ans all that stuff is a nice idea. Yet it has bugs and disbalancements ... i have to admit.
 
  That anorganic ships are compatible and upgradable with genes is one of the things i didn't understood. 
 But I do like story and setting. The Units ... well ... could have been just a few more and the 
 story lacks some real surprises but it's still no bad one. Ikonah is someone the player might have 
 better grown into if he played more of his life growing with him. That 40 years later thingy wasn't 
 the best solution for gettin' the story going.
  But nevertheless a good game that is definately more that just mediocre . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pstlouis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I think that the review from gamespot doesn't evaluate properly the game. They probably had a bad 
 rig. My point of view is that the game offer good strategies and you must be fast to execute the 
 moves in combat mode. I doesn't noticed any of the bug that gamespot sees. I will like the options 
 of saving at any moment. I tried the multiplayer option but there is not a lot of player at the 
 moment. So I was not able to evaluate that option but from what i tried it was easy to get into 
 a game. The interface are good in general and easy to access. The video option are up to date, a 
 lot of game doesn't have the option for the LCD display 1680 by 1080 16:9 and have it working properly. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
