-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/geoffcrammondsgrandprix4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 301 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Sep 10, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It might not be the hands-down best Formula 1 game currently available, but it's certainly a solid 
 racing game that's deserving of your attention. 

 For the better part of the last decade, British software designer Geoff Crammond has been involved 
 in the creation of the finest Formula 1 racing games for the PC. Starting with World Circuit in 
 1993 and leading up to Grand Prix 3 in 2000, Geoff Crammond's racing games have been the undisputed 
 champions of F1 by capturing the true essence of all aspects of this widely popular motorsport, 
 from track design to driver behavior. But it could be argued that these games' stature is due as 
 much to the lack of noteworthy competition as it is to their quality and realism. Certainly, at 
 the time of Grand Prix 3's release, most other F1 games up to that point were too forgiving in 
 their physics, took too much creative license in regard to their level of realism, or simply had 
 several glaring problems or omissions. Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix 4 carries on the series' tradition 
 of being the most realistic F1 game for the PC -- but it's no longer the only player on the market. 
 Specifically, Grand Prix 4 faces stiff competition from Electronic Arts' recently released F1 2002, 
 and as authentic as Geoff Crammond's latest game might be, this time it can't be crowned the champ 
 by default.           Grand Prix 4 is the most realistic F1 sim to date.    

 The basic idea behind the Grand Prix series has not changed in its latest installment. You'll assume 
 the role of a driver for one of 11 Formula 1 teams and race on 17 world-famous racetracks in a 
 bid to earn enough points to win the coveted Driver's Championship and Constructer's Cup, the two 
 goals of all F1 teams and drivers. Obviously, the team rosters and race schedule have been updated 
 since Grand Prix 3. But unlike F1 2002, Grand Prix 4 focuses on last year's 2001 FIA Formula 1 
 season, which means that it lacks several features that are currently available elsewhere -- features 
 like the addition of the new chicane at Hockenheim, the introduction of the Toyota team, and the 
 absence of Mika Hakkinen from McLaren's primary car. However, since it was released after the end 
 of last year's season, Grand Prix 4 is the most accurate representation of the 2001 F1 championships. 
 The game not only includes all 11 teams, 22 drivers, and 17 courses from that season, but it also 
 re-creates the weather conditions and starting grids of all of last year's races. Additionally, 
 the game addresses some of the glaring issues found in Grand Prix 3-- specifically, the graphics 
 have been overhauled, a brand-new menu interface has been implemented, and a massive reference 
 guide called the Gpaedia has been added. Narrated by Arrows team manager Mark Hemsworth, Gpaedia 
 has information on all things F1, including an overview of a typical F1 car and a second-by-second 
 breakdown of a pit stop. The virtual library of tables, charts, and full-motion video clips contained 
 within the Gpaedia will surely please all racing fans, and even the most knowledgeable follower 
 of F1 will undoubtedly learn something new.           Included is a massive F1-related multimedia 
 resource, the Gpaedia.    

 If you played Grand Prix 3, the first thing you'll notice about the new game is the face-lift. The 
 menu interface is now extremely slick, using simple fonts set against stylized full-motion video 
 for a look and feel that's similar to the menus in Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec. Likewise, the in-game 
 graphics have also been updated with crisper textures and more polygons throughout. This change 
 is most evident in the cars themselves, which are easily the best looking of any F1 game to date. 
 Details such as wet-tire tread, individually spoked BBS wheels, and a reflective sheen on each 
 car's fairing is clearly evident, as are new weather effects like rain drops that streak across 
 your visor as you accelerate, reflections of the surroundings on the wet tarmac, and waves of heat 
 in the distance. Another new visual addition to Grand Prix 4 is the introduction of a fully animated 
 3D pit crew, which is a welcome change from Grand Prix 3's paper-thin sprites. As in Grand Prix 
 3, however, the graphics in this game can be both impressive and unsightly at the same time. You 
 can seemingly count the number of polygons that make up the entire pit crew on one hand, for example, 
 and the track surfaces are lacking in terms of detail, which hampers the game's sense of speed. 
 The menus, while attractive, aren't immediately intuitive. You'll search high and low for the setup 
 menu, for instance, before realizing that it can be accessed only from your car's steering wheel 
 LCD panel during a free practice or qualifying session.     

 Once you do find this setup option, however, you'll come to appreciate the level of fine-tuning 
 that Grand Prix 4 offers. Not only can you fiddle around with basic components like your car's 
 brake balance, gear ratios, and wing height, but you can also choose between a one-, two-, or three-stop 
 pit strategy and adjust things like the stiffness of your anti-roll bar, your ride height, and 
 the fast and slow rebound and dampers of your suspension. You can even set the torque strength 
 of the differential coupling under acceleration and deceleration. Obviously, these options aren't 
 for everyone, and the game does a good job of clearly marking the advanced options as such. Likewise, 
 restoring the default settings involves a simple click of the mouse, in case you ever get in over 
 your head. Beginners also have the additional option of toggling between nine different driving 
 aids like auto-shifting, launch control, traction control, and spin recovery.           Grand Prix 
 4 lets you race for any of 11 Formula 1 teams.    

 It's in these realistic settings and options that Grand Prix 4 truly excels. Every single change 
 you make to your car affects its behavior and performance on the track noticeably, and in the game's 
 hardest difficulty setting, you will have to actively create separate car setups for your practice, 
 qualifying, and racing events in order to stay competitive with the AI, which does a remarkable 
 job of exploiting passing opportunities created by your mistakes. Though it's not clearly evident 
 from your perspective, you'll be able to use replays to observe the interplay between AI drivers, 
 who are by no means perfect. Computer-controlled drivers who brake too late end up in the grass, 
 and at times, spectacular collisions will take place on the other side of the track, completely 
 independent of your actions. But for the most part the AI will tend to stick to the most efficient 
 driving line and attempt a pass only when a clear opportunity presents itself.   

  It should be noted that, while any changes you make to your car are clearly relayed back to you, 
 the overall feel of each car in Grand Prix 4 is somewhat subdued. The cars seem like they're firmly 
 planted on the track, and with traction control on, it takes a mighty stomp on the gas pedal to 
 cause your car to break its rear tires loose. The nervous feeling you get from cautiously navigating 
 these powerful machines around corners in EA's F1 2002 is nowhere to be found in Grand Prix 4. 
 Instead, the cars generally seem to be a bit underwhelming, and they don't exhibit the twitchy 
 nature and fiery demeanor of their real-world counterparts. That's not to say you won't crash. 
 Quite the contrary -- you'll crash, and crash hard at that. The cars in Grand Prix 4 might be tamer 
 than the real thing, but they're still F1 cars, and as such you'll need to exercise restraint in 
 acceleration and braking to avoid losing control. When you do lose control, you'll be witness to 
 a noteworthy damage-modeling system that shears wings, tires, and other body parts off any cars 
 involved in a collision with another car or a retaining wall. Breakdowns can also put an end to 
 your race. Grand Prix 4 simulates numerous engine, transmission, and suspension breakdowns, though 
 from our experience, they happen somewhat infrequently.           Geoff Crammond's latest sim is 
 another success.    

 Though Grand Prix 4 addresses many of the issues in Grand Prix 3, the game isn't without problems 
 of its own. Most of the sound is very well done -- the engine noise, in particular, is quite loud 
 and convincing -- but there seem to be some issues with the music in the menu screens. Specifically, 
 instead of looping seamlessly, the music in the menus will suddenly come to a stop, and a seemingly 
 new track will play after a few seconds of silence. You might also notice instances in which some 
 parts of the environments will inexplicably disappear. On our test machine, the grandstands of 
 Indianapolis and most of the buildings in Monaco were nowhere to be seen. A recently released patch 
 doesn't seem to address these technical problems, either, though for what it's worth, we were unable 
 to re-create them on a second machine. There's also no Internet support to speak of, though you 
 can create or join a LAN game of up to eight players.   

  Ultimately, Grand Prix 4 is the most accurate re-creation of the 2001 Formula 1 season available, 
 despite its problems. To be clear, there are some things that its primary competition -- F1 2002 -- does 
 better, including exhibiting a better sense of speed, relaying a truer sense of driving an F1 car, 
 and having somewhat flashier graphics overall. However, those differences are marginal at best, 
 and nothing comes close to the selection of tuning options, realistic AI, and wealth of F1-related 
 info you'll find in Grand Prix 4. Geoff Crammond's latest Grand Prix game might not be the hands-down 
 best Formula 1 game currently available, but it's certainly a solid racing game that's deserving 
 of your attention.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AdderBoba44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  It's hard to describe GP4. On one side you have a highly playable, visually stunning, immersive 
 racer which caters for all types and compares favourably to its predecessor. On the other hand 
 a problem with the software means that the game is fun, but not for long...
  
  The most serious issue in the game is that it crashes to the desktop often when playing. There 
 is no reason given, the game crashes at random which obviously destroys the experience. I have 
 tried the game on several different computers with the same effect.
  
  When the game worked it was very fun and immersive... However there was always the possibility of 
 the game crashing and this replaced the fun with frustration and annoyance.
  
  Annoyed at the games seeming inability to run, I went onto a number of websites and found that 
 many have had the same problem. The game is essentially broken, yet when it works it is such a 
 great experience I still give it a good score.
  
  GP4 greatly improves on GP3. The cars no longer look the same, as in GP3,
  with each teams 2001-spec 
 chassis being accurately modeled. The tracks are also far more detailed, the rain simulation has 
 been improved, and in general the graphics have been completely revamped. GP4 makes GP3 look like 
 a old N64 game in comparison. Indeed the graphics are superb, and still hold up today. Although 
 they are not quite as HD as the recent PS3 creation, the cars modelling is so much better.
  
  However where GP4 truly excells is gameplay. Geoff Crammond is famous for creating games which 
 blend Arcade (driving aids) and simulation ( tire wear, fuel strategy etc.) together. The game 
 still feels like its on rails (even more so than GP3 infact) , but that still creates the feeling 
 that you are in complete control and to many that will make it easier to actually race.
  
  So you can have a lot of fun, especially when racing in the rain. This is when strategy comes into 
 play and its fun to see the AI make mistakes, crash and race head to head with you. When the game 
 works for long enough it's these sort of situations that truly define GP4 as a great experience.
 
  
  There are also a lot of downloads on the internet to choose from. GP4 comes with the 2001 season 
 set, which to be fair wasn't the most exciting of years, so more experienced gamers can mod GP4 
 as close as 2008. Be warned though its not a simple process and if you know somebody who is into 
 these things my suggestion is that you should ask for help.
  
  Sadly though you may never get to that situation because as I said before the game is bust. My 
 copy anyway, but it does seem to be a common affliction. This aside however once the game works 
 its incredibly fun to play. If you get a full working copy expect to get hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garfield360UK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best F1 games I have played since the original series on the Playstation 1 (F1 
 and F1 97) . The cars react really well and you genuinely feel you are competing for position and 
 cars don't just let you take over, they will position themselves so to block you and try and take 
 back over. The other cars also race and have accidents with each other and have problems such as 
 broken suspensions which take them out of the race. The cars change when racing and the tires wear 
 down as you go so you find it harder to keep the pace up. The damage models are very good and you 
 really do want to avoid driving into others as you can take yourself out as well!
  
  Turning the assistants also makes it harder to race as these guide you in but are very hard to 
 get used to not using.
  
  This could be made better with online play (there is an option to play over a LAN) . There could 
 also be a safety car feature but these are minor faults.
  
  Overall if you like motorsports this is a game I can recommend you play. If you don't like racing 
 games you could try this as it is very good.
  
  If anybody has a web site for getting new car models or new tracks please pm me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Based on the 2001 FIA Formula One World Championship, Grand Prix 4 is an utterly spectacular simulation. 
 The physics engine for the cars is by far and away the closest to reality, leaving Sony's recent 
 Formula One games (they currently are the only publisher with rights to develop games based on 
 the F1 brand) in the dust.
  
  For a game released 4 years ago the presentation is also extremely detailed. This even goes to 
 the extent of having to control the car in the pits, both exiting garages and parking in them. 
 You also have all of the options and data available to you in the cockpit that a real Grand Prix 
 driver would have, including real time traction control, brake balance and engine adjustments, 
 all made in car. The replays are also tremendously in-depth giving you access to all sorts of cameras, 
 including around 10 which are placed on the cars themselves.
  
  All this said, Grand Prix 4 was built based on the 2001 season and the only way to really get the 
 most out of the game today is to download one of the many modifications available online in order 
 to bring the game up-to-date. The latest of these modifications will give you updates for the teams, 
 drivers and circuits of the 2006 season. However, the modification process is not straight forward 
 so its likely that you'll have to hunt around on specialist forums and websites (such as grandprixgames. org) 
 to really grasp what it is you're supposed to be doing. As well as updating these aspects of the 
 game you're probably going to want to look for graphical updates as well and these are more difficult 
 to find (I'm still struggling myself) .
  
  Overall, if you put the time into modifying Grand Prix 4 and are willing to persevere with learning 
 the complex realistic car handling you'll have yourself the most rewarding racing game imaginable.
 
  
  NB: THE SCORES GIVEN IN EACH AREA RELATE TO PLAYING THE GAME WITH THE 2006 MODIFICATION INSTALLED. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wattsie2508
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  This game gives a depth of realism and playability which have been lacking in previous and current 
 F1 games and would thoroughly recommend to anyone, F1 fan or not. Learning curve is shallow and 
 it is easy to ge straight into game.
  
  My only minor grumble is that there are a few bugs in original and official patch doesn't clear 
 them all. 
  
  I hope they do release grand prix 5 but alas this is looking more and more unlikely by the day 
 so you'll have to satisfy yourself with this offering. That's not all bad as there's plenty here 
 to be getting on with
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerenceGrech
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  Hi all did you play grand prix 4 ?
  
  Well if you don't you better go and buy this game it's fantastic for those guys espacially hwo 
 loves Formula 1 games.
  
  This game has good graphics and great game playing espacially if you have a driving wheel and with 
 force feedback to like i have.
  
  Now there is many sites that you can upgrade your grand prix 4 like example latest F1 cars latest 
 tracks latest drivers and many many more.
  
  For me the worst that it don't have it's the Safety Car it didn't have Safety Car in the game.
 
  
  Well that's it for now i hope that they are planning for the release of Grand Prix 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkraju
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2004 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is the best F1 simulation I have ever played. I am a die hard fan of F1 racing and I own every 
 F1 PC game that is in the market till date but nothing comes close to being more realistic than 
 this when it comes to graphics and gameplay. I am not hesitating to say that this game has virtually 
 fulfilled my dream of driving an F1 car to large extent. I spend incredibly long hours playing 
 this fantastic racing game whenever I am free in a day. The highlights of the game are the stunningly 
 realistic replays and graphics. The replay is so realistic that any person who does not know much 
 about games would definetely get a thought that this is real race on the TV!. The only drawbacks 
 of the game are the framerates if one has a slow video card and the presentation when compared 
 to F1 2002. 
  The reason why I am rating GP4 above F1 2002 is because all the circuits are very realistic and 
 exactly look like the real ones and that makes you feel that you are racing on the real circuit 
 itself. Circuits in F1 2002 are cartoonish. This is my favourite PC game and favourite possession. 
 Thanks to Geoff for creating and gifting such an incredible F1 simulation to F1 fans like me. 
 
  
  There is an ingame video about how to setup an F1 car is very helpful and that is more than enough 
 to learn about an F1 car. I dont know anything about formula1 when I purchased this game but now 
 I have just mastered this game completely. But the game menus, loading screens are just too simple. 
 F1 2002 is winner all the way in this perspective. The game dificulty can be adjusted for a rookie 
 to an ace which is very good.
  
  Graphics are Top notch. The beauty of the graphics and how realistic they are in GP4 can be seen 
 in the replays. The graphics give one the feeling of driving real F1 car on the real circuits. 
 Wonderful. The graphics during the wet races are also very good and realistic. Only thing that 
 is lacking is the absence of hands on the steering wheel in the cockpit view. But you can get superior 
 frame rates only in the T cam viewwhich is very good. Need to have atleast 64MB video to get excellent 
 graphics and framerates. Anything less than 32MB , dont buy GP4.
  
  Handling is a bit easier once you master it. Could have been little bit tougher and the cars could 
 have been more sensitive to steering. But still one can feel the pleasure of driving an F1 car. 
 You can smoke the tyres while braking hard into the turns, spins, overtaking opponents, crashes 
 and you can also see the brakes glowing red hot inside under braking. Everything is there. Wonderful 
 simulation, gameplay and feel.
  
  Anyone who loves F1 games, Don't miss this one! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
