-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/geometrywarsretroevolved/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nicely stylized vector graphics that look sharp at higher resolutions.
 Hectic gameplay might be enough to keep you coming back.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 All but requires an Xbox 360 controller if you want to play it right.
 Lacks online leaderboards.
 Missing modes from the console version of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 198 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bizarre Creations
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date:     Mar 7, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Geometry Wars is a classy arcade-style shooter, but this PC release is missing a ton of features 
 that would make it last longer. 

  Geometry Wars is the dual-joystick shooter that launched at the same time as the Xbox 360 in 2005. 
 It was a downloadable game for the console's Xbox Live Arcade service and went a long way in proving 
 that digitally distributed games could work in a console environment. Of course, digital distribution 
 and the PC go back like babies and pacifiers, so the newly released PC version of Geometry Wars: 
 Retro Evolved isn't really breaking any new ground. It's still a quality arcade-like game that 
 has a neat, stylized look to it, but it's also missing a lot of the bells and whistles found in 
 the console version.  

          One unstable frame rate with a side of pesky control issues -- coming right up!     

 
  Geometry Wars is a shooter that falls in the same folder as arcade classics like Robotron: 2084 
 and Smash TV. Both of those games used two joysticks. The left stick was for movement and the right 
 for multidirectional firing. Geometry Wars plays the same way but benefits from analog control, 
 letting you move and shoot in more than eight directions. You control a small ship in a box that 
 is slightly larger than the screen. Enemies continually spawn into the box and attack you, and 
 you must gun them down while avoiding contact with them. It starts out slow but ramps up very quickly, 
 until new enemies are almost constantly popping up. This means the game gets hectic fast. If things 
 get too rough, you have a limited number of smart bombs you can use to clear the screen of enemies, 
 but that only provides you with a second or two of rest before you've got new foes to worry about. 
 The rapid pace is what makes Geometry Wars so exciting, as you constantly feel like you're just 
 one second away from losing it, and maintaining calm is the only way to stay alive.  

  There are different enemies in the game, each with different behaviors. The geometrical shapes 
 start out simple, with a box that heads in your basic direction. But you'll find enemies that split 
 into smaller pieces when you shoot them, enemies that run away from you rather than attack you 
 head-on, snakes that block your path and can only be shot in the head, and more. Each enemy makes 
 a unique noise when it spawns, making the audio an important part of the game.  

  The PC version has a surprisingly large number of strikes against it when you compare it to last 
 year's Xbox 360 version. For starters, unless you have an Xbox 360 controller hooked up to your 
 PC, you might have trouble playing properly. You can use the mouse and keyboard, but you lose analog 
 control of your movement, and aiming with the mouse isn't as immediate as a good gamepad is. While 
 you might already have a dual-joystick gamepad for your PC, it might not actually work. We tried 
 two different such controllers with no luck, though the 360 controller worked perfectly.  

  This version of the game doesn't have achievement points, which removes a reason to keep on playing 
 Geometry Wars. The lack of online leaderboards removes another. It also doesn't have retro mode, 
 which is a stripped-down version of the game that originally appeared as an unlockable bonus in 
 Project Gotham Racing 2 on the original Xbox. Further limiting its appeal is the fact that you 
 must be running Windows Vista to play.  

  And lastly, the game's graphical performance can be spotty, even on machines that exceed the game's 
 recommended requirements. Vista reports the recommended machine as 4.0 using the OS's new "Windows 
 Experience Index," which totals up your machine's components and assigns it a score based on how 
 much it can handle. On a 4.2 machine (3GHz CPU, 2GB of RAM, and a Radeon X850) , the game's frame 
 rate wasn't stable 100 percent of the time, and in a game where it's difficult to make out what's 
 even going on when things really get crazy, adding a choppy frame rate can make the game unplayable. 

  With that list of caveats, anyone with the ability to play this game on an Xbox 360 should take 
 that route, instead. MSN is charging $7.95 for the PC version of the game, which is nearly three 
 dollars more than the 360 release, but it has far fewer features than the 2005 console game. Maybe 
 if this one had been held off until after the rollout of Games for Windows Live, it could have 
 had many of the missing features implemented. But as it is, it feels like a rip-off.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scyldschefing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Since the Gamespot review was written, another version was released on Steam that address some, 
 but not all, of the problems mentioned.
  
  First of all, the price is only $3.99, cheaper than the XBOX360 release.
  
  Secondly, the game 
 runs on Windows XP and more smoothly. My computer has an inferior graphics card (NVidia GeForce 
 6150LE) , and otherwise my system is middle of the road to entry-level, I have seen no significant 
 drop in frame rates at all during even the most hectic parts of the game. Everything remains smooth 
 as silk.
  
  Unfortunately, some flaws remain. There still aren't unlockable achievements (which is one of the 
 major features of Steam games!!) , no retro mode, and no world leaderboard. Also, the game simply 
 is best suited for dual joysticks. There's no way to get around it, and that is without a doubt 
 a part of the games retro appeal, recalling the thumb-blistering analogue sticks of arcade games 
 (or so I've read about them -- not that I played a lot of arcade games; a bit before my time :-) 
 ) Point being that it is hectic enough with dual sticks analogue, and with alternative control 
 schemes it becomes hard to the point of losing fun. Still, it is fairly playable using a mouse 
 to aim and the keyboard to move. 
  
  I don't have a gamepad to see if the compatibility issues have been worked out.
  
  If you like 
 simple shooters with a lot of flash, I would recommend to at least give it a shot. It's good for 
 a quick spin every so often, and at worse you're only out $3.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  This game is almost the same as the Xbox 360 game. Same plot, same graphics just missing some things 
 here and there and the controls are really awkward and makes the game harder than it is. Luckily 
 there is a feature for you to put your Xbox 360 controller in your computer and play the game with 
 that, which is good, but you dont want to go and plug it out each time and so on and so forth.
 
  
  The PC requirements are really high, when you look at the graphics, even though the graphics are 
 good but simple, it requires a really good computer to run at highest resolution etc.
  
  Its also missing the leaderboard option, you cant see scores from around the world, only the ones 
 from your computer. That was why the Xbox 360 version was made good, because of the leaderboard, 
 but boom, nothing here.
  
  If you liked the Xbox 360 version and you have a controller to play it with properly and a decent 
 computer, this game should be fun enough, but I would not recommend it!
  
  Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 6
  Sound: 6
  Overall: 6.5
  
  -Orakk
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattyocaster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Many years ago, there used to be arcades filled with games such as Space Invaders, Galaxian, Missile 
 Command and Asteroids. Inspired by these games is Geometry Wars  Retro Evolved.
  Geometry Wars began it's life as a mini-game in Project Gotham Racing 2 for the Xbox. Effectively 
 Retro Evolved is the same game with much enhanced graphics. It's basically old-school game-play 
 using modern graphics enhancements and the effect is profound. Of course, like games of old, the 
 whole point is to get a high score rather than to finish the game so it's just one very long level, 
 don't let this put you off though. It's addictive.
  The game is really simple to control, you use your keyboard to control the direction of flight 
 and you move the mouse towards the direction of the targets to fire. If you wish to cease fire 
 you hold the left mouse button and you can trigger a bomb which clears the screen with the right 
 mouse button, and that's it!
  Another good thing about the game other than the snazzy graphics and the addictive game-play is 
 the price. If you use Steam (which is the only way you can get it as a PC owner) it costs a mere 
 $3.95. That's American dollars. Which means that it's about 3 after tax. If this was in an Arcade 
 (which it isn't) you'd be looking at between 0.25 and 1.00 per game probably... so why not just 
 go onto steam and buy it. Think about it, after 12 or so goes it's paid for itself!
  If you don't own a PC or you'd rather get it on another platform, then you can get Retro Evolved 
 on Xbox Live Arcade, if you have Project Gotham racing 4 for 360 then you get Geometry Wars: Waves 
 as a mini-game. If you own a Nintendo Wii or DS you can get Geometry Wars: Galaxies which has a 
 more complex game mechanic to accommodate it's full game media price tag. If however you own a 
 PS3, you're out of luck with this title, however take a look on Playstation network for Super Stardust 
 HD, I'll be doing a review on that sometime in the future.
  All in all I thoroughly recommend this game, no matter which platform you go for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, my first time playing Geowars: Retro Evolved, was in a friend's xbox360, and then i liked 
 very much, with its cool, explosive, colorful neon artesque graphics and its nonstop shooting action, 
 so i made a search for internet and found that Geometry Wars: RE was also available for Windows 
 XP (steam network) and Windows Vista. Also, i read the gamespot review, and i have to say that 
 Jeff G. was a little more of a good console player conveyer to say that the PC version is more 
 flawed than the xbox360 one. So i downloaded and played Geometry Wars: RE for my Windows XP via 
 Steam (with a price of 4USD!!) , which at the same time i was worried about the game performance 
 and gameplay, but when i gived two shots on the game, i falled in love with it. Its so extreme 
 and fun to play, also easy to play with the keyboard and mouse, Jeff G. said that is better played 
 with an xbox360 controller, but i think, he's wrong, and gets addictive with the hang of time. 
 Also the performance was very smooth on a resolution of 1024x768, and the graphics quality was 
 almost equal to the xbox360, only that the 360 have a little bit better blur effects, but the PC 
 version is almost exactly the same as the x360 version, only without the achievments, which i don't 
 care if they are not included in the PC version, i just only have all the fun blasting all the 
 geometry treats that surrounds you until die.
  
  This game acts much like a quick boredom suppressor, but Geometry Wars: RE is much, much and much 
 better than that, is a  shooter, that can take 
 out the boredom that someone has sometimes, almost perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars feels like a highly addictive game for some reason, but it doesn't seem to have enough 
 change in it. When I say change in it, I mean it's the same thing throughout the whole game. You 
 fight little monsters or shapes or whatever you call them and then only fight more of them. Where 
 is the unique change in the game, where new opponents appear? Very rarely you might see something 
 new like a red pacman chasing you, but that's about it. On the great side of Geometry Wars, besides 
 it's downfall of variaty, it is highly addictive (once more I say) and leaves you playing and playing 
 for more points. When I play Geometry Wars, I notice that after im done, 2 hours just passed by. 
 Or if not 2 hours, it's great for the mornings when waking up and you only have 30 minutes before 
 heading out to work. Overall, I'm rating Geometry Wars a 7 from how I feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rertezjui
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Speaks for itself. GIve it a try if you haven't played anything like that yet! Like it or not, 
 it's highly addictive for people who like 4$ retro challenges.
  
  Controls:
  I use a Logitec Rumblepad II. It's a Playstation style gamepad and fully compatible with this title. 
 You must use the controls menu to map right stick for shooting directions first!
  
  I haven't tried mouse and keyboard support yet.
  
  Motivation:
  I suck at playing games like 
 this but sometimes I feel I must shoot the hell out of some geometry stuff and this game does the 
 job well in serving my hunger for arcade classics. A musthave... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mott555
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  I don't agree with the reviewer about the PC version having far fewer features than the XBox 360 
 version. The only differences I have noticed is that it isn't Live-capable, and it doesn't have 
 Retro (how many people play Retro, anyway? No one I know) . Also, it has been released for Windows 
 XP via Steam, so it is no longer Vista-only.
  
  Anyway, it's a great game, highly addictive, and as you get better the game gets harder. Gameplay 
 is identical to the XBox 360 version, and I had no frame rate issues on a 3.4 GHz P4 with 2 GB 
 RAM and a GeForce 6600 GT. You control a ship and shoot geometric figures which for some reason 
 have a strong desire to kill you. The longer you last, the more enemies appear on the screen. By 
 half a million points, you can no longer tell what exactly is going on, you just have to play by 
 instinct.
  
  It is virtually impossible to play without an XBox 360 controller hooked up to your PC, but the 
 game was designed for dual-analog, not keyboard and mouse. If you own a controller, buy this game. 
 It's only $8 for Vista and $4 for XP, and it's addictively entertaining. If you have an XBox 360, 
 don't bother since you can play there and get achievements and such, but if you don't have one, this 
 is a good game to get for your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoozwah
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been hearing about this game for a long time now. I've never really given it much of a glance. 
 I looked at some screenshots here and there and thought, meh . Then I read into it a little more.
 
  
  Classic -style gameplay , arcade shooter , frentic , addicting . These were the words that I generally 
 came across when someone was describing Geometry Wars. I'm inclined to have appreciation for classics 
 and games that capture the spirit of the said classics so I decided to give it a go. Mind you I 
 got the version that's downloadable from Steam for significantly cheaper than the price mentioned 
 in the official review. This version works on Windows XP as well as Vista and thus far I've yet 
 to run into any framerate issues or slowdown to speak of, contrary to the GS review of the title.
 
  
  Well I happen to have an xbox 360 controller so I plugged it in and fired up the game. I set the 
 proper resolution and adjusted the sound to suit me. This meant turning down the effects slightly, 
 muting the music altogether and firing up winamp and streaming some techno music from shoutcast.
 
  
  The aforementioned descriptions of the gameplay were indeed spot on, I'm finding. I tend to sit 
 down to play this game for a few minutes and my sessions tend to last for 45 mins to an hour. Death 
 is a common occurance during this amount of time but I believe I'm getting better.
  
  The core gameplay has been accurately described already for the most part. It's a dual analog shooter 
 with different shapes having different flight patterns. It starts off slowly enough but soon it 
 pace picks up. The game gives you better weapons at set intervals to assist your plight against 
 the onslaught of shapes as you wouldn't survive without it. Also at set score intervals you earn 
 extra lives and bombs to use.
  
  I'm not very good at the game but I'm as about addicted to it as one can get to a 5 dollar game. 
 I've yet to break 200K but it's only a matter of time. Due to the randomness of the game it's hard 
 to develop much of a strategy in this game but the best thing I can say is...
  
  1. Don't move until you need to
  2. Don't let the green ones flip you out. Wiggle your shooting 
 stick back and forth to get them.
  3. Get the shapes to follow you to the red holes, let the gravity pull the shapes into it, then 
 destroy it. You get lots of points and it gets rid of shapes quicker.
  
  Later,
  Dave 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woges
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the coin-ups of the 70's/80's then you should get a kick out of playing Geometry 
 Wars. You play, basically, a ship inside a set grid where enemy vector like shapes spawn and attack 
 you - as in Llamatron (just not quite as silly) . The shapes have different AI and pose different 
 problems, generally getting harder and faster as you progress. Some shapes will explode into loads 
 of smaller shapes if not dealt with within a time frame (circles) etc etc. The game spawns massive 
 amounts of shapes at times that can make for some pretty hectic run and gun moments.
  
  Keys are used for controlling your ships direction (W, A, S, D) while you use your mouse to control 
 the direction of fire (controller options are there for those with them) . Much like the old coin-ups 
 two stick configuration for Robotron. This is probably going to be more instinctive on a controller 
 than mouse/keyboard set-up.
  
  The sound effects and music suit the game particularly well. Retro-electronic but done in a crisp 
 modern fashion - exactly what the game wants to be. It's a little sparse on variety though. The 
 game is more about old fashioned game-play than anything else.
  
  However, much of what the Gamespot review is true on the games negative points: Performance, controls, 
 game modes etc are all a little lacking but at the end of the day it's a fun (but simple) game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DT_Maverick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Geometry Wars: Retro Advanced for the PC is just as addicting as its original XBox 360 counterpart. 
 What the official review failed to mention is that the game is also available on Steam, running 
 on Windows XP, for $3.95. It's just as addicting as ever, and it looks great too. On the other 
 hand, I have to agree that if you don't have a wired XBox 360 controller laying around, you're 
 going to lose some of the control you had on the console version. The mouse is difficult to use 
 and the keyboard limits you to eight directions of movement and shooting. In the end though, if 
 you're not sure whether or not to get this game, go ahead and put down a measly four dollars on 
 Steam to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_mask_91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me break this game out to u in sections
  
  Story-no story but its always fun
  
  Graphics-amazing graphics especially when u make an explosion
  
  Gameplay-shoot those damned 
 shapes not that easy and its really fast paced Multiplayer-lacks multiplayer and online leaderboards
 
  
  Requirements- U can play only play it on a windows vista pc
  
  Replay Value- great replay value cuz the game never ends Sound-pew pew pew kaboosh (lasers and 
 explosion)
  
  Diffuculty-easy at first but more and more enemies come out and it gets really hectic and pretty 
 hard
  
  The Good-awesome gameplay, graphics, sound, u can even play with a 360 controller, and its only 3.95
 
  
  The Bad-u can only play this game on windows vista, can get really annoying when u lose and ur about 
 to get a high score, no multiplayer
  
  Bottomline-good game, itll keep u glued to the screen to ur computer for hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Story: Uh. None.
  
  Graphics: Trippy explosions, awesome.
  
  Audio: Pew Pew Pew, Lasers.
  
  Missions: Kill everything on the screen. Harder than it seems.
 
  
  Controls: Fine but plays better on the 360 or a gamepad.
  
  Features: Arcady experience.
  
  A. I.: Can be difficult, fast.
  
  Loading Times: None.
 
  
  Multiplayer: None, Leaderboards.
  
  Requirements: Low, Vista : (
  
  Weapons: Power-Ups, Multi-Pliers, etc.
  
  The Good: Great gameplay that is trippy and looks 
 cool.
  
  The Bad: Requires Vista.
  
  The Ugly: Requires Vista. See the point?
  
  Replay Ability: No story, so Very High replay value. Addictive at times.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
 A cool, arcade port but plays better on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigD
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  For $4 this game is more game play then you can shake a stick at. Geometry Wars, brings that great 
 Robotron game play into the 21st century. The graphic are sharp and the music is pumping. You get 
 better and better with each play and that encourages you too keep coming back to try and best your 
 last score. However, be warned, you really want a gamepad to get the most out of this game, though 
 the game controls ok with the other control schemes. It is a little disappointing that this version 
 doesn't have online leader boards but still it's a great way to kill some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logoleptic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  When I was a kid I used to spend weekends at the arcade, pumping quarters into coin-op shooters. 
 Geometry Wars brings a lot of what was good about those old games -- fast pace, strategic and addictive 
 gameplay -- to the PC. It does a good job of dishing out old-school shooter action with trippy 
 modern visuals.
  
  I was eager to get my hands on this game from the time I heard about its release on Xbox Live. 
 When it appeared on Valve's Steam service recently, I snapped it up. It's only $2.50 until June 
 22nd -- an amazing price for this much fun. After the 22nd, the price goes up to $3.95 (the same 
 as the current price for the Vista-only version on MSN) .
  
  The Gamespot review had some criticisms of the game, such as control problems and Vista exclusivity, 
 that may no longer be valid for the Steam-based release. The copy of Geometry Wars that I downloaded 
 over Steam not only works on Windows XP, but is also fast and gorgeous. I've experienced none of 
 the performance problems described in the review, even though I'm running the game on a lower-spec 
 machine than the one described. I suspect that the reviewer's problems have more to do with Windows 
 Vista than they do with Geometry Wars. Microsoft's new OS is a resource hog straight from Hell.
 
  
  The controls for Geometry Wars also aren't as bad as the Gamespot review makes it sound. While 
 I'm sure the game would be easier to control with a dual-stick gamepad, the keyboard-and-mouse 
 combo works great once you get used to it. A tip for beginners: in the game's control options, 
 switch the mouse aiming mode from orbit to target. The easier aiming helps make up for the more 
 constrained movement options of the keyboard.
  
  Overall, I think the original review from Gamespot is biased by (1) too much exposure to the console 
 original and (2) focusing on an early release of the game that only worked on Vista. If you don't 
 have an Xbox 360, this game is a great buy and a lot of fun. To get the version for Windows XP, 
 visit steampowered. com. If you don't yet have a Steam account, click the Get Steam Now button to 
 sign up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerald699
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  It is quite fun to play, quite arcady. however it knocks off the grid wars version 1 on the xBox. However 
 The xBox 360 and computer version of grid wars its a big change. much better. However it is abit 
 too arcady to be a really fun game.
  You play it you will like you are dying. lol. anyway still not so bad. Grid Wars2 for xBox 360 and 
 computer rocks. im not saying that Grid Wars for xBox is so bad. it is just that the xBox version 
 is abit too boring. Abit of a game that makes you dizzy such as Canyon Duel [in Need For Speed Carbon] 
 but this is not the music. it is the Gameplay! So Grid Wars 2 [for xBox 360 and computer represents 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butterbemme
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I envied 360-gamers for Geometry Wars since it's release on the XBox and was totally blown away 
 reading the news about this game arriving on the PC!
  
  Some remarks on gamespot's review:
  
  For starters, unless you have an Xbox 360 controller 
 hooked up to your PC, you might have trouble playing properly. 
  --&gt; I use an original PS2-pad via USB-adapter and it works like a charm. Playing with keyboard/mouse 
 is quite ok and still fun, but far worse than using a gamepad.
  
  This version of the game doesn't have achievement points, which removes a reason to keep on playing 
 Geometry Wars. The lack of online leaderboards removes another. 
  --&gt; Achievement points don't make much sense on the PC since there is no gamerscore (yet... 
 wait for Live Anywhere) , but it would be nice to unlock some awards/medals, thats right.
  Personally i don't care for online leaderboards, as the average gamer would hardly achieve much 
 more than a five-digit placing. You got your offline highscores to keep raising your own points, 
 thats all i need.
  
  the game's frame rate wasn't stable 100 percent of the time 
  --&gt; Thats right, but it's stable and runs very smoothly 99% of the time, even on my old PC (XP2600+, 
 R9800, 1GB RAM) . I never had the feeling that i just died due to a choppy frame rate.
  
  Yes, the XBox360-version might be better, Geometry Wars on the PC nevertheless kicks a** big time 
 and is far better than Gamespot's 6.7 points suggest! ! It's so much fun, so addictive and beautiful, 
 definitely worth 8 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calcheesmo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Geometry wars is a great game, I enjoy playing this all the time. The graphics are sweet, ESPECIALLY 
 on an HDTV. The music is nice, goes with the mood. All around a great game. I wish I understood 
 the game better personally. Basically the point is how many points you can get. There's a red circle 
 that appears that if you shoot starts twirling around and sucking in enemies, it's all about strategy. 
 They can help you out by killing enemies but if you don't shoot it before it explodes, then it 
 shoots tons of little things at you causing some problems. My high score is around 300,000, but 
 that took quite a few times of playing, it's not an easy game, but it's a great, replayable, well 
 controlled game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
