-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ghost Master
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ghostmaster/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 460 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Sick Puppies
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 26, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a great novelty, but it's also a real success in terms of gameplay, thanks to outstanding scenario 
 design and an irreverent sense of humor. 

  If you're looking for a new twist on ghoulies, ghosties, long-legged beasties, and things that 
 go bump in the night, look no further than Ghost Master. Sick Puppies' real-time strategy game 
 stands horror-game traditions on their heads, swapping the spooks and scares of Resident Evil and 
 Silent Hill for supernatural management duties reminiscent of Dungeon Master. It's a great novelty, 
 first of all, but it's also a real success in terms of gameplay, thanks to outstanding scenario 
 design and an irreverent sense of humor.  

          Some of the haunting stunts you can pull are straight out of  Ghostbusters .     

  
 The core elements of Ghost Master are simple. Reverse the stereotypical ghost story and you have 
 a pretty good idea what this game is all about. Unlike in your garden-variety horror game, where 
 you wander the halls of a haunted house waiting to be frightened into a fresh pair of BVDs, here 
 you're some kind of dead civil servant (insert "are there any other kind?" or similar joke here) 
 in charge of the rattling chains and disembodied footsteps. Problems in the small town of Gravenville 
 have attracted the notice of the Haunter Committee, and you're sent to set things right by generally 
 scaring the bejesus out of the flesh-and-blood types.  

  You do this by recruiting a team of ghosts for each scenario. This spook squad is drawn from six 
 categories -- sprites, disturbances, elementals, vapours, frighteners, and horrors -- named for the 
 chief characteristics and skills of their members. The sprites class, for instance, consists of 
 minor spirits who mess up electrical appliances, like the cogjammer gremlin and the ghostly spider, 
 clatterclaws. Elementals features aether and earthwall, who have the capabilities of air and earth 
 elementals, respectively. Horrors represents the worst of the worst, such as the mortal-possessing 
 ghastly and the headless horseman. Every sort of spook that's ever made type B-positive run down 
 the walls in a fright flick is at your beck and call here.  

  Using your team in the field is a balancing act. Ghosts must be fettered to specific objects, so 
 you can't spread them all over the map. Gremlins have to be attached to electronic appliances, 
 such as microwaves and televisions. Apparitions, shadows, and wraiths are stuck to murder scenes. 
 Weatherwitches and headless horsemen are linked to thoroughfares like hallways and roads. And so 
 on.  

  Role-playing concerns also crop up. While certain types of ghosts are necessities in some situations, 
 there's a benefit to using the same spooks in multiple missions, because they gain experience and 
 become easier to control. They can also be upgraded with new skills, which are purchased in the 
 ghoul room with the gold plasm awarded at the end of each successful scenario. Managing your spook 
 squad is about more than just picking the right ghoul for the job.  

          Few things will scare homeowners as much as revealing rotting corpses in boarded-up rooms. 
     

  Regular plasm consumption is another issue. This is the sole resource in the game, powering your 
 ability to manifest ghosts and all their spectral abilities. Overtax yourself and you can run out 
 of this vital substance, a dire scenario that ends the current haunt and throws you out of the 
 mortal realm. Plasm is earned by scaring people, forcing you to keep a focus on screams and shudders 
 even when the scenario objectives involve something more subtle than driving residents out of their 
 homes.  

  Even with these physical anchors and resource restrictions, a lot of moving around is required. 
 For starters, your victims don't stand still. Humans in the game communicate in thought balloons 
 and gibberish voices, much like those in The Sims, and are rated in terms of belief, terror, and 
 madness. Build their belief that something out of the ordinary is going on and you'll be able to 
 terrify them or drive them mad. Affect either of the latter categories through something like an 
 eerie laugh, a chill wind blowing through a sealed room, or a ghost playing peekaboo, and the victim 
 will flee, forcing you to adjust your tactics. They even have individual fears, like lightning 
 or insects, which can be revealed with powers like know aura and then used to your advantage.  
    

  People will run out of rooms, go from one floor to another, and even dash into the backyard or 
 street to get away from your ghosts, so you need to keep up the assault by locating new fetters. 
 After a little time on each level, you'll get an idea of your victims' escape routes. The level 
 design typically includes lots of locations where you can set up traps to keep mortals so scared 
 that they soon run off into the night or simply go nuts. Needless to say, you can derive a lot 
 of sadistic glee from this. Put a ghastly in a living room, a spook and a cogjammer in a kitchen, 
 and a weatherwitch in the hallway separating them and you can watch your victims slowly lose their 
 minds as they go from one spine-tingling jolt to the next.  

          Collect gold plasm and you can train your ghosts with different spooky skills.     

 
  The scenarios themselves are well designed and fairly plentiful (more than a dozen are spread 
 across three acts) . Most are more tongue-in-cheek than openly ghoulish, although there are lots 
 of corpses to be unearthed amid the guffaws. All poke fun at movies and TV shows, both horror and 
 mainstream. Scenario names include Ghostbreakers, Poultrygeist, and Phantom of the Operating Room, 
 and plots have been lifted from movies like  Evil Dead  (faithfully adapted lock, stock, and Necronomicon) 
 and  Sleepy Hollow . Look closely at the names of your victims and you'll notice some surprises 
 as well. The Haunting 101 tutorial mission, for example, sees you sending apparitions against Blair, 
 Tootie, and their pals from the '80s sitcom  The Facts of Life .  

  There isn't really an overarching plot, though the people you scare in one scenario often show 
 up in another. You really do get the sense that you're haunting a small town. For example, the 
 Hutz family you haunted in The Calamityville Horror and the kids you drove away from their frat 
 house in Weird Sance show up in the Gravenville police station in The Unusual Suspects. The 
 only problem with this approach is that Gravenville is a little too small, seeing as you have to 
 haunt some places more than once.  

  The design goes beyond grade-school puns. Scenarios consist of a mixture of puzzles and straightforward 
 rock-paper-scissors design elements, so that you're attempting to complete different objectives 
 each time out. You scare jocks out of frat houses, unveil hidden corpses, assist university students 
 with occult rites, convince a mob boss to believe in ghosts, frighten the locked-up criminals out 
 of a police station, and so forth. Sometimes you even have to avoid scaring people away or driving 
 them mad, as you need them in a lucid state so you can fulfill certain objectives. Puzzles are 
 paramount, as the houses to be haunted always include fettered spirits that can be freed to join 
 your ranks by accomplishing set goals. Some of these are fairly simple -- to release Raindance from 
 his toilet prison in the  Evil Dead  homage Summoners Not Included, all you have to do is clear 
 some bees from in front of a Porta Potti, and to spring Sparkle in The Blair Wisp Project, you 
 just need to start a campfire.  

  Others are fairly difficult and involve multiple steps, although there are never so many steps 
 that you'll curse the absence of a mid-mission save option (even the most complex scenario can 
 be wrapped up in around 30 minutes) . Getting Static out of the chimney in The Calamityville Horror 
 is a good example of this. You start by using earthwall to create a tremor on the roof, knocking 
 the spirit's mortal remains to the fireplace below. Then you have to attract people to the remains 
 by ordering a spook to use telekinesis to throw a femur or two around the living room. Or chill 
 the living room down with spectral cold, which causes humans to light a fire and discover the bones 
 in the grate. There are different ways to handle almost all objectives, which enhances the game's 
 replay value. Pay attention to clues and ghost abilities, and be patient enough to lure victims 
 into the right place at the right time, and you'll soon discover many ways to scare people out 
 of their wits.  

  High production values add a lot of atmosphere. The graphics are bright and cartoony, if a little 
 dated. Similarities to The Sims are so pronounced that the game could have been built on that engine. 
 Ghosts and their spectral special effects show a strong  Ghostbusters  influence. Many of the entities 
 bear more than a passing resemblance to Slimer, and you can use telekinesis to toss around books 
 like in the movie's famous library scene.  

          Fettered ghosts like Wilbur always have interesting epitaphs.     

  The audio is simply 
 spectacular. The atmospheric effects are solidly spooky, bolstered by EAX support. Whenever you 
 order a ghost to create disembodied footsteps or an eerie laugh, you'll hear them echo. And the 
 bouncy musical soundtrack sounds like a Danny Elfman creation, reminiscent of the opening score 
 he did for the old  Tales From the Crypt  television show. Jazz and traditional pop are used to 
 create a slightly uneasy mood where you're never sure what's coming next.  

  About the only thing missing from Ghost Master is a multiplayer mode, although it's hard to imagine 
 how Sick Puppies could have incorporated such an option into a puzzle-oriented title like this. 
 And the game isn't exactly any poorer for the omission of multiplayer features, since the numerous 
 missions and impressive replay value will keep it on your hard drive for quite some time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SS4EVGASM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Master was a pretty good game, and I thought it would be crap since my uncle got it for 10 
 bucks, but it was pretty good.
  The graphics are quite nice and the scaring animations are very enjoyable.
  The storyline isn't 
 too compelling but you really focus on the gameplay than the story.
  Some of the levels were pretty easy but others were a lot harder, and I needed an internet guide 
 to help me, especially when I was trying to get all the different ghosts.
  The different ghosts are quite unique and funny, and all of them are enjoyable. The different areas 
 of the Ghost Master world look nice and the characters that you have to scare are nice too. 
  The ability of being able to see through the eyes of the ghosts and the humans or 'mortals' was 
 a nice feature but I didn't use it much.
  The music of the game was nice and made the 'near-end-of-level' bits more exciting.
  Overall 
 a pretty nice stratagy game but it doesn't last more than a few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  RTS games are popping up faster then I can keep track of these days. It feels like playing a constant 
 game of "wack-a-mole", trying to weed out the worthy from the pure garbage. While surfing through 
 the games one day on Steam, I came across an interesting indie title for under $5 called Ghost 
 Master. Being the ever self-indulgent one when it comes to collecting computer game software, I 
 picked it up knowing that with a cheap price tag it couldn't be that great. What I experienced 
 was a game that takes elements of other RTS games, mixes it with some simple puzzles, and provides 
 an outstanding presentation that is unique and different. If you ever wanted to know what its like 
 to manage a haunted house, here is your chance.
  
  Ghost Master plays out as a hybrid between The Sims and your typical RTS. You will run through 
 a collection of scenarios devoted to scaring the living by using your different ghosts. Your arsenal 
 of minions includes the typical clich of horror films, including poltergeists, elements, redemptionists, 
 and even gremlins. Each game begins by allowing you the choice of minions you wish to take on your 
 haunt. These ghosts work best in teams, giving them each a different job to handle. You can also 
 upgrade your spirits with cash won from completing different objectives in levels, allowing you 
 to customize your dead. Don't get too cocky though, as some mortals will be there to banish you 
 from the world of the living, making tactics a must. 
  
  The scenarios of Ghost Master are well written and provide plenty of replay value. On each map, 
 you will find a certain number of ghosts that need to be freed from their predicaments. If you 
 are able to solve their puzzle, they will join your army. This allows players to customize their 
 goal each time the level is played. There are different goals such as played time, types of scares, 
 and phantoms freed that make up your point totals. Some levels will not allow you to complete everything 
 at once, providing you with a chance to replay them with a new strategy.
  
  The micro management of your ghosts is done well, allowing for some "if X, then Y" orders to be 
 given, similar to Final Fantasy XII. Some of these statements are not always that great, and at 
 times unnecessary. If you are a type who likes to give detailed instructions and have them carried 
 out the first time, you may become disappointed. Sometimes it is just better to manually do those 
 things yourself while playing this game. While I'm on the topic of AI, I must say that sometimes 
 it falls hard, especially when mortals get stuck in doorways. Besides those issues, you can expect 
 a decent game.
  
  If you are getting tired of the same old RTS, this might be worth a try. The price tag is dirt 
 cheap, which hardly labels Ghost Master a poor game. It does have minor issues, but compared to 
 some of the RTS games you are paying big bucks for, this is quite a treat. It is a game with plenty 
 of humor, gameplay and originality. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fma42081
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  When I First found out about Ghost Master I Thought it sounded cool and thought might try it but 
 i found out it was mostly over seas until i found it was on steam and i had some money and bought 
 the game around halloween '06 and Have been hooked on it ever since It's fun, Engaging game play 
 and also the tongue in Cheek humor of each of the levels based off of other movies some are very 
 funy lol and fun. Growing up i used to be hooked on another game similar To this called "Haunting 
 Starring PolterGuy" For Sega Genisis VERY VERY FUN Game if you can find a copy either a rom or 
 a Hardcopy on ebay pick it up you wont regret it.. also if you want to try ghost master for yourself 
 Pick up a copy On Steam :) http://www. steampowered. com/
  
  Faith :P
  
  
  P. S. If you do play the game and enojy it and want to see a 2nd one come out go here http://www. petitiononline. com/gmaster2/petition. html
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Master seems to be... not really popular. I wonder why, since the game itself it quite good.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  - Heh. It's just fun to control your ghosts and wreak havoc. This game makes you feel really powerful. 
 It is a great feeling when you are about to complete a level and you just got the last mortal to 
 flee. Muhahahahaa! This is a real time strategy game, and quite different one too. I like it.
 
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 8/10
  - While the game isn't immersive in a  -kind of way, the game 
 has a very unique atmosphere. As the game says "Don't be scared, be scary!" It captures the feeling 
 of ghosting around the house very well.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  - Well, graphics are good. Nothing groundbreaking, but that doesn't really matter in a game like 
 this. Lightning is good too and it adds to the atmosphere.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  - Let me say that the music just fits the game PERFECTLY. There is absolutely nothing that could've 
 made the music better. When you start the level, the music is first calm, ambient-like... calm 
 before the storm haha! As you get more 'ectoplasm' (you get it from making mortals feel scared, 
 the more you have it, the more you can do with your ghosts) the music comes faster and faster. 
 In the end, when everyone in the house is either crapping in their pants or fled already, the music 
 is really fast and "epic". Like you just won the war. The other sounds do their job well too.
 
  
  Physics: -/-
  - There isn't really any physics in this game so I can't review that.
  
  Replay value: 7/10
  - There are unfortunately only about 10-15 (can't remember correctly) 
 missions, so the game is actually quite short. But fortunately, you can replay any mission anytime 
 you want, with different ghosts, different strategy eg. You also free other ghosts during your 
 missions, and if you haven't figured a way to free them previously on a mission, you can simply 
 return to the mission and try to free them then. There are also various "skills" or "tricks" you 
 can teach your ghosts, so that adds to the replay value too.
  
  Value for money: 7.5/10
  - You could probably find this very cheap somewhere, since the game isn't that popular. If I remember 
 correctly, I didn't even pay the full price when the game came out.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 8.5/10
  - No bugs, no crashes, performs very well most of the 
 time, but can lag on lower end PC's when there are multiple ghosts & mortals on the scene at the 
 same time, all running around 'n' stuff.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Highly unlikely. 
 Most people don't even know this game has been released, which is a shame really.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Any fan of ghosts (funny ones, not scary ones) . RTS 
 players who want something different.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuJuBean361
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  A great (I wanna scare the living $hit out of other people game.) If you really think about it 
 this game is great for children and adults. Its funny ways of scaring the virtual people and having 
 a laugh is always a concoction for a jubilee. The adults playing the game will love tinkering with 
 the fears and loves of the virtualized patrons of Gravenville and driving them out in the process. 
 Plus the videogames excellent names and parodies to many classic horror movies like, The Blair 
 Witch Project and The Amityville Horror. If you truly are sick of having to run away from Scissorman 
 and bloodthirsty zombies then its time to take control and scare others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicky-dragon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Right now I can't play Ghost Master cause I can't find the disc but when I could play it ages ago, 
 I loved it. I liked the use of the enviroment around the house, hospital or whatever such as freezing 
 water, bringing down trees etc. The thing I don't like though is the fact that theres 5 things 
 thats in your way. 1-Ghostbreakers (they are the worst) , 2-Witches (God I hate them) , 3-Exocists (ugh) , 
 4-Gold Plasm (you can run out any time and its Game Over) and 5-Ghosts run away (they go away when 
 they are bored and its Game Over) .
  
  Overall, it is a good game once you get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: countstex
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This was a very well put together idea for a game, and provided me and my girlfriend with hours 
 of fun. The plots where clich&eacute;, but all the better for it, and the feeling of weakness at 
 the start of each level, compared the chaotic power by the end was always a rush. In fact in that 
 respect it shares a spiritual link with Eledees (Elebits) on the Wii today.
  For it's time the graphics where well executed, and styled perfectly to the genre, and doffs of 
 the hat to the likes of Ghostbusters were well taken. But of particularly high merit where the 
 sounds and music of the game, which all set the tone so perfectly and immersed one well into the 
 settings of each level.
  There did seem to be the occasional balance issue, where it would take you a little too long to 
 build up the correct amount of power to progress easily, but a little bit of patience would get 
 you through any of these points.
  This is a game I'd quite happily plan over to this day, and the fact that it hasn't been retired 
 to my attic speaks volumes for it's playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lkuey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Depending what age and what type of games you like, you may only stick with it for a few days, 
 weeks or so.
  
  Gameplay.... uhh. Nice idea, but it could have been better. Yeah it's pretty good with the monsters 
 as there are just (only just) below 50.
  
  Graphics. This is easy. Graphics could be better, but for that year (2003) it's pretty good.
 
  
  Sound. MUSIC! Oh the MUSIC! It's one of my favourite game music! They should make an album :p!
 
  
  It's around 7+. And it's a... I don't know what type. It's not any of the common's (fps, rts, rpg 
 etc.)
  
  Overall, I think it was one of my favourite games. But as I'm growing old, I don't like it so much 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodchip50
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  In this charming game you are playing a ghost master (hint from the title there) controlling 
 your small and entertaining troop or band of ghosts. Your main priorities are to scare people, 
 and to use your powers to achieve certain goals. You start off with I think six/eight ghosts or 
 something, then, as you continue, you will free others and they join you too.
  
  Each ghost under your command has ghostly powers each with specific effects to help you achieve 
 your goals. Also as you progress through levels you acquire some sort of currency generated from 
 scaring people, with this you can improve your ghostly companions by teaching them new techniques.
 
  
  The gameplay is generally good. The controls are easy to use yet you arent restricted by the simplicity. 
 The storyline and missions are quite easy to follow as well. You have several challenges on each 
 level, for example ghost busters and witches may try to banish your ghosts rendering them unusable 
 for the remainder of the level.
  
  I love the music (once you have scared the first person off  screen) , it picks up and kind of 
 makes you enjoy the rest of the level. Nothing more to say really cant describe it particularly
 
  
  The graphics are ok and dont ruin the gameplay by slowing it down, but I find that some objects 
 go multi-coloured in a snappy, snazzy way. Might just be my comp though, it does no harm to the 
 gameplay though so not really that bad
  
  I wouldnt spend to much on it though, it isnt like a MEGA SUPER thing, just a cheap thrillreally.
 
  
  Ghost master I believe was probably originally created for children bellow the age of 10/11  ish 
 but I can tell you that this game also appeals to older children (and even adults) too. Ghost master 
 presents a great blend of simplicity, humour, puzzles and what appear to be quite friendly ghosts 
 to create an overall pleasant and quite a light hearted game. I recommend it to anyone but those 
 who strictly delve only in things like first person shoot-em-ups
  
  Hope that helps
  
  Woodchip50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biskit58
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  i'm totally into weird ghost stuff, so this game naturally grabbed my attention. i found it on 
 ebay for .99 cents! this game is reallly neat, you get to scare little people with all kinds of 
 different ghosts. and the ghosts level up and earn new abilities as you go.
  at first, the scenarios are just scare fests, but as you get further into the game you start having 
 more specific goals and having to use your ghosts to manipulate the people to do certain things. 
 some of the levels kind of make fun of older horror movies, and in a couple places you have ghost 
 busters trying to exorcise your ghosts.
  the graphics and sound aren't anything speacial, but if your looking for an interesting twist on 
 a strategy/sim game then this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomi_Nakamoto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is different just by another game! In another game u'll play as "ghosbuster" where u 
 sweep out da ghost! But not in this game, U sweep out da human! Pretty funny and very innovative!
 
  
  I remember very well, when my brother bought this game 2 years ago, and guess what I spent all 
 night to play this game!
  
  This is simulation game, U play as "Ghost Master" and control many kind of spirit to scare people! 
 Each spirit has own abilities to scare people, like make electronic stuff going crazy, etc. Choose 
 the right spirit to scare people in one place, each people scare in different thing. So choose 
 ur ghost carefully, when u can't get all the people scare and get out from one place, u can't complete 
 that level! Hard? Nooooo.......... Actually this is so fun to play!
  
  U also can add ur stock of spirit! Each palce has spirit (s) trap in there. Try to release 'em, 
 and they'll be ur spirit. U can control them to mscare people in other place.
  
  Interesting? Well I just think this is one of the innovative game, I was played!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: al909
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Heh.. finally a game that made me play for long hours!
  It was not just because it was fun but because the game introduced a new type of strategy in an 
 interesting way :)
  
  Besides it was fun to discover what movies did the producers of the game made fun of - "The Legend 
 of Sleepy Hollow" , "Ghostbusters" , "The Amityville Horror" , "Ghost, "Blair Witch Project" 
 and so on.
  
  The game was also interesting as it gave the player the possibility to connect various abilities 
 of the ghosts to get a certain effect e. g connecting the power of "bitter cold" and "rain" would 
 create snow !
  
  Game producers released also a bonus scenario called "Class of Spook 'Em High" and it includes 
 a final showdown of the game. Too bad it works well only with the UK or US versions of the game 
 -_-
  
  Oh well ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3_bk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  I admit, when I first played Ghost Master it was a very odd game because the whole point of the 
 game was that you controlled the ghosts and did all of the scaring to the people. When I first 
 heard this I thought it was quite an original idea and I liked the interface. It reminded me alot 
 of The Sims where you had to control the people but with this it was the ghosts.
  
  Most of the time the whole point of Ghost Master was to scare the people out of the area. This 
 wasn't always what you had to do though. Sometimes you had to guide people to certain areas with 
 your ghosts and other times you had to just attack certain people. To do this you start off with 
 a few ghosts, but some of them you could only use them at certain places. For example, one of the 
 ghosts called the Cogjammer, can only be placed on electrical objects. Most of the ghosts are specialised 
 to certain things such as fire or water etc. Some are indoors, some are outdoors. Ok, I think you 
 get the point. 
  Each ghost has different powers they can use in the levels, they may be to attack a person, drive 
 someone insane, or just simply a power which can help you in the level. All powers are useful in 
 the game, but these powers cost energy called Plasm. If you don't have enough Plasm, you can fail 
 the level and you won't be able to use the ghosts. How do you earn this Plasm? Simple, by scaring 
 the people with your ghosts!. Once you've finished a level you earn Gold Plasm, and the amount 
 you get depends on how well you did on the level.
  Gold Plasm is important because you need it to buy new powers for your ghosts. Also, when you're 
 on a level you will tend to find trapped ghosts. If you free these ghosts they join up onto your 
 ghost team. Sometimes you might need to use a power which involves loud noise to free them, other 
 times you might just need to use a simple power on them to free them. Sometimes these can be quite 
 challenging if you don't know what you're doing and don't have the right ghosts out.
  Ghost Master has plenty of references to other movies such as Ghostbusters (A very common one) , 
 The Blair Witch Project, One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, The Amityville Horror, Poltergeist, and 
 many others. Ghost Master has plenty of humour and addicting levels it's just a shame that the 
 game was very short. With only 14 levels, you can complete it very quickly.
  
  Now I'd admit, the graphics arn't amazing on this game but they work really well. They have graphics 
 like The Sims games on the consoles but they get the job done well. The ghosts and their powers 
 are actually quite detailed on here but the people are not as detailed. You don't need a high-tech 
 computer to play this game well, as the minimum requirements are quite easily achieved with an 
 average computer. As for sound, very nice sounds in the game, plenty of screaming and ghost noises 
 and if you have surround sound the sound is amazing on this game.
  
  As for the replay value, I'll guarantee you that you'll at least play this game until you've unlocked 
 all of the ghosts. After that, you can replay previous levels but there is only one problem I've 
 seen doing this. You can't use ghosts from levels before the level you unlock the ghosts on. I 
 admit, this sucks alot but if you think about it you're probably getting alot out of the game if 
 you do that. There would be alot of problems with some of the ghosts as well such as the headless 
 horseman going on a level which didn't have a path for him to travel around on his horse. This 
 can lead to many bugs and speaking of bugs if you have the UK version of Ghost Master without a 
 patch then I suggest you get the patch as soon as possible, as some levels are impossible to complete 
 without it.
  
  Overall, Ghost Master is a highly addicting and original strategy game. You can buy it for under 
 a fiver on the internet now, and I suggest that you buy this because it's a very fun game scaring 
 the people off and it's just hilarious. I hope to see a Ghost Master sequel, and I'm sure there 
 will be one very soon. So, what are you waiting for? Buy it!. It's really cheap now!.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolZaim
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Master is one of those rare PC games which is totally unique, gives you jumps and suprisies 
 without repitition and has combined so many imcompatible elements and ties it together with a heapful 
 of fun.
  
  Ghost Master puts you in the role of a Ghost Master. You can summon Ghosts and Ghouls, Witches 
 and Souls and all other things to complete goals. And wehn I say goals, I mean thoroughly thought-out 
 goals, the goals impressed me! You have to remind yourself from time to time that you this game 
 is realistic and you can actually do a certain action.
  
  The graphics are near-perfect. Each character has a lot of detail, and even the plain old normal 
 ghosts shine out. Only one thing bad, when a lot of things happen in one area the game goes a little 
 bit slow, but that only happens for about 5 seconds.
  
  In this game, you can do completly brain-twisting and mind-boggling puzzles while still having 
 a lot of fun. And if you get stuck, there are hints and tips for each Level which is fantastic.
 
  
  Ghost Master is a refreshing, highly polished and thought-out game, and needs to be owned by anyone 
 who has a Good PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  As featured in loadedinc. com...
  
  When I initially heard about Ghost Master, I wasnt sure what to expect. While one part of me said 
 that anything from a developer named Sick Puppies couldnt be bad, my pessimistic side remained 
 skeptical. After spending significant time with the title I can say that Ghost Master is a great 
 game that has some noticeable issues.
  
  Ghost Master is like a combination of The Sims with the horror of Ghostbusters. In the game, you 
 play as a character simply known as Ghost Master. Your job is to command a variety of different 
 ghouls and specters and scare the bejesus out of the unfortunate citizens of Gravenville. You do 
 this by choosing some undead specters from your stable of ghosts and taking them on a haunting 
 mission. Each ghost has a specific fetter or two which it can be bound to such as electrical appliances 
 or emotional objects such as a hospital bed. While bound, your ghosts can unleash their powers 
 on some hapless mortals provided they have enough plasm. Plasm is the life force of the game. While 
 a ghost is using a power, that power drains a certain amount of plasm. As long as you dont exceed 
 your plasm cap you will be fine. However if you go for periods of time without doing anything your 
 plasm cap will slowly drop. Some of the missions are a real struggle however because of this. Since 
 you are limited in the number of ghosts you can bring, if you dont bring the right ones you can 
 find yourself not being able to generate scares frequently. This will cause you to have rather 
 low plasm levels for an entire level.
  
  The mortals have three different bars from which you can work with: terror, madness, and belief. 
 Once the mortals terror threshold is met, the person will run screaming from the level. Meeting 
 the madness threshold will leave said mortal insane and ultimately done for (most levels require 
 you to scare all sane mortals away) . The belief bar dictates how easily the mortals themselves 
 will scare. Increasing mortals terror will increase your plasm cap so you will be able to use 
 more ghosts and stronger powers. Also, each mortal has a specific fear that will generate a larger 
 amount of terror if triggered than something a mortal is not afraid of. Sometimes the fears worked 
 a little too well. Mortals would experience terror at their fears but would sometimes show little 
 reaction to others. Now if Im afraid of blood and I see it gushing from the walls Im going to 
 be terrified. However if I also see the room spontaneously catch on fire Im going to need a new 
 pair of pants too, regardless of whether or not fire scares me. Unless you know a mortals fear, 
 which can be acquired using some ghosts powers, it really is a guessing game as to what to use. 
 This especially hampers your progress in the beginning as you are usually unaware of anyones fears. 
 There are some mortals that can trap your ghosts for the duration of a level. While not particularly 
 smart or effective, these ghost breakers will pose a threat to your spirits if you arent paying 
 close attention.
  
  As was mentioned before, the ghosts you command have certain powers to begin with. They dont, 
 however, have all the powers they can. To give your ghouls more scaring tactics you need Gold Plasm. 
 This is acquired by completing the missions and even more can be acquired if you do the missions 
 quickly. You can spend the Gold Plasm at your headquarters, otherwise known as the Ghoul Room. 
 Ghosts are acquired in one of two ways: given to you or they join you in the field. At the commencement 
 of each act you will be given ghosts by the ghoul High Council. In each mission there will be at 
 least one ghost who is trapped in the level to something or even someone. To liberate these ghosts 
 and have them join your troop you need to break the bond that binds them to an object in the level. 
 The ghost will give you hints but sometimes even those dont help. Sometimes I knew exactly what 
 to do and others simply happened because of something I did that I wasnt aware of. Freeing some 
 ghosts is more or less a combination of guess work and luck.
  
  The campaign has an extremely loose storyline and is semi-linear. While you wont have to do each 
 mission in a specific order, you are limited by which act it is. After you complete all the missions 
 in one act you will move on to the next. There are thirteen missions in all and one tutorial. The 
 tutorial guides you through the basics of the game. The only problem experienced was that the instructions 
 tend to fly at you at a fast pace. Specifically when trying to learn all the mechanics of rotating 
 the camera. You might have to give it a second listen to get it all down. The missions themselves 
 are spread out nicely in a variety of tasks. Some missions will have you clear out entire houses, 
 assist mortals in finding an object, or even simply making mortals believe in ghosts. When you 
 break the missions down though they are all relatively asking you to do the same thing; scare mortals. 
 This makes the missions, especially in the middle of the campaign, drag on. Casual gamers that 
 arent into this genre might find the missions boring and tedious. Given that there are a number 
 of different ghosts to capture in each level and large bonuses given for efficient and timely scaring 
 the game does have some replay value. There is no multiplayer mode in Ghost Master.
  
  The interface of Ghost Master is well laid out but the controls have a tendency to be rather clunky. 
 While left clicking will enable you to select a ghost and its instructions, it can often be difficult 
 to deselect a command. Some ghosts can be hard to select without clicking on their avatar and description 
 pallets of mortals tend to stick on the screen for no apparent reason.
  
  The graphics in Ghost Master are good given the relatively low minimum specifications. The indoor 
 and outdoor environments are all rendered adequately and clearly. The ghouls look great in their 
 eerie green glows and the particle effects from their powers light up the screen brilliantly. Ghost 
 Master features a camera that you have full control of to rotate in any way you please. You can 
 zoom in and out to get a better view of your surroundings and plan your attack. There were some 
 significant slow downs experienced in the game in levels with large amounts of sims. The in-game 
 movies also had a tendency to skip and have occasional slow moments. There was nothing too serious 
 though that would take away from the overall experience of the game.
  
  Sound effects and music is where Ghost Master particularly excels. The voice acting is well done 
 and has a certain camp feeling to it. The music is excellent as well and works well with the game. 
 When you start scaring mortals, the music will pick up pace to match the current mood. Combined 
 with the screams of the hapless mortals, the music makes Ghost Master a most enjoyable experience.
 
  
  The AI in Ghost Master is decent; just decent. Most of the sims will walk about the various levels 
 and do different tasks. They will react to conditions as they change such as lighting a fire in 
 the fireplace if you make a room numbingly cold. If they become too scared they will run outside 
 to gather their thoughts. Sometimes the AI controlled sims will seem to do things for no apparent 
 reason. Some of them will almost seem to be doing a military patrol, walking around from room to 
 room but not doing anything.
  
  Overall, Ghost Master is an enjoyable title. Fans of The Sims will love this game for its campy 
 feeling and decent single player length. People not familiar with this type of strategy game might 
 find the action lacking in some parts but not enough to totally write off the game. A little bit 
 more polish could have been added but even then Ghost Master is still an enjoyable title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was going to be and alright game, but it ended up being a very fun strategy 
 game. I love the hearing the reaction of the people after they get scared by your legion of ghosts. 
 The has pretty good graphics and has a weird way of presenting the story. I hope a sequel is made 
 to this game. My only really big gripe with this game is that you can't use ghost from later levels 
 in past levels which really destroys the fun in trying to get the final ghost and learning that 
 you can only use him in the last level. The puzzles are well thought out and levels can take a 
 while to get through, but all in all this game is a great puzzle for all those fun puzzlers out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kezsim
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  a great game, hard to find without on line shoping. the quality' are literally binding. the best 
 one is the sorority house it's my favoritte, (if you select the close up veiw i think theres some 
 dirty programing) . the overall game which is supriseingly short without the bonus dvd is well worth 
 the $9.00 price tag. with the 50 dead people you can chose from, it makes increadbly strong replay 
 values. and for the few of you that are europen (no thanks to transport giant) there is a ps2 version 
 that is compleatly diffrent. this games defently worth the price, although i had to wait a year 
 to change the $19.00 former price. (good luck) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObebadSlapmeFro
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  Although it may not look like a fun and challenging game, some levels will realy make u think and 
 may make u go berserk b/c its too FRIGGEN hard to find out that it will force you to read the guide 
 ( b/c ive had to do that myself ^.- ) The graphics are pretty good, gameplay is awesome.. the ghosts 
 are really cool, and its a great game to rent.. b/c i wouldnt consider buying it b/c when your 
 finish the game once.. im pretty sure u wont want to play it agn :) But all in all great game for 
 you thinkers :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlimJim2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 1, 2004 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Master is a really fun game that gives a whole new concept to the types of strategy games 
 out there. There hasn't been anything like this since the old Genesis game, The Haunting. Your 
 mission is to scare everyone out of the house usuing different types of ghosts and ghost powers. 
 There are many different types of ghosts to choose from who all have different characteristics. 
 Then you use your selected team of ghosts to scare people out of places. Scaring these people is 
 just plain fun. And for only 39.99, this game is a must have for all strategy game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flashfever
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 30, 2003 9:26 am PT
Review:  Ghost Master, real-time strategy game, seems to be akin to the Sims in many ways. I feel that the 
 graphics are dated and the sound to be very good. The game play and interface is balanced enough. 
 However, I find the longevity of play to be in question with most players. The Tilt rating for 
 this game in my judgement is probably a seven. Personally it has great potential if only the mortals 
 within the game would actually have something to say besides that annoying gibberish which is very 
 distracting. The elements of the game seem to have a little something for everyone, like a mixture 
 of strategy, adventure, role play and puzzle solving. It's worth checking out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
