-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Giants: Citizen Kabuto
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/giantscitizenkabuto/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.6, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 855 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Planet Moon Studio
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Dec 6, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The truly unique premise, coupled with stunning graphics and exciting gameplay, makes Giants: Citizen 
 Kabuto one of the best action games in years. 

 Imagine what would happen if Salvador Dali decided to design a computer game after an all-night 
 marathon of watching cartoons, monster movies, and pro wrestling. Then you'd start to get an idea 
 of Giants: Citizen Kabuto, one of the most wildly imaginative, funny, and enjoyable action games 
 to date. Actually, to simply call it an action game would be to do it an injustice. While it's 
 played from a first- or third-person perspective in the fashion of a typical shooter, the game 
 also has resource-gathering and base-building elements that are similar to those in real-time strategy 
 games. These elements are linked together by the game's distinctly stylish and goofy sensibility, 
 which is immediately likeable and entertaining. While Giants does have a few problems, you'll certainly 
 want to look past these since the game itself is so inventive and so much fun.   

  The game's action is set on the Island, a planetoid hurtling through space. It is covered with 
 lush, tropical islands and brilliant azure seas and is at least a temporary home to numerous strange 
 creatures, including the game's three playable races. These are so different that they can make 
 Giants seem like at least three different games in one. First, there are the Meccaryns, or Meccs, 
 who were swallowed by a giant space fish while heading to a vacation planet and then unceremoniously 
 defecated onto the Island. They have access to a full range of traditional shooter weaponry such 
 as machine guns, missiles, sniper rifles, grenades, and more. Meccs also have special backpacks, 
 including a default jetpack that lets you fly short distances before having to recharge. For higher 
 flying, there's a gyrocopter that can be piloted by one Mecc while you carry others in multiplayer 
 mode.   

  Whereas the Meccs use high technology, the nymphlike Sea Reapers rely on mystical powers. Delphi, 
 their princess, wields a sword plus various bows for long-range attacks, but her real power comes 
 from her spells. For instance, her teleport spell not only instantly moves Delphi to another location, 
 but it also creates stationary clones to confuse the enemy. The slow-time spell temporarily decreases 
 the movement and attack speed of creatures caught in its sphere of influence. These are just a 
 couple of the many imaginative Sea Reaper spells. The Sea Reapers also have a jetski vehicle, which 
 you'll have to race around on in several misssions.   

  The third playable character is Kabuto, a Sea Reaper experiment gone awry, who uses his massive 
 size as a weapon. Instead of spells or gadgets, he lashes out with pro-wrestling-style moves. Using 
 a special adrenaline boost, Kabuto lets loose with elbow drops, foot stomps, cannonballs, and the 
 butt flop ("like the body slam, but with less dignity," according to the game's funny manual) . 
 Kabuto can also make missile weapons out of handy objects, like boulders - or even Sea Reaper guards. 
 In a laudably bizarre twist, Kabuto can also use a special gemstone, like a magnifying glass, to 
 focus the sun's rays and scorch anyone in his path. Furthermore, you actually have an option to 
 view the game from inside Kabuto's mouth or from beneath Kabuto's foot, in case you want a very 
 close look at the carnage.   

  A gameplay element that sets Giants apart from other shooters is its incorporation of base-building 
 and resource-collecting elements from real-time strategy games. There are two basic resources - 
 Smarties and Vimps - which are two of the many indigenous life forms on the Island. Smarties are 
 little munchkinlike fellows with oversized heads, and they act as workers; Vimps are lumbering 
 alien cattle. The economics of these resources is different for each of the three playable races. 
 Meccs gather Smarties to build their bases, including workshops, gift shops (armories) , command 
 centers, perimeter defenses, and so forth. They gather Vimps to feed the Smarties and keep them 
 working. Sea Reapers surround Smarties with magical bubbles and lead them back to the sea to create 
 their bases while gathering Vimp souls for more energy. Kabuto has no need for a base and simply 
 eats Vimps and Smarties; the former restores health while the latter lets Kabuto lay miniature 
 offspring that fight along with him. To save meat for when he might need a health boost later, 
 Kabuto can skewer creatures on his horns.   

  Fortunately, the base building and resource collecting is subservient to the wild combat action, 
 and it's very easy to learn and control. Unlike in many real-time strategy games, you never feel 
 like a harried bureaucrat when playing Giants. In fact, given the perspective of the game, the 
 base building actually seems very different than in most real-time strategy games, as you can actually 
 walk around in your base and look through and fire remote turrets.    

 The single-player game is composed of separate stories of linked missions, which progress through 
 each race. Through very funny, fully 3D animated cutscenes, you're introduced to new items and 
 game concepts, like collecting Vimps or using advanced combat tactics like hiding in a holographic 
 bush for stealth. Missions tend to be varied in their individual goals, and they gradually increase 
 in scope and difficulty, typically alternating between easier and harder goals. Despite their differences, 
 the missions largely revolve around a little exploration and a lot of combat; Giants is an action 
 game at heart, though the action never gets old, thanks to the impressive settings and widely varied 
 forms of attack. Giants uses some old shooter standbys like power-ups, which appear when you kill 
 a creature; but this doesn't feel stale or out of place, since the rest of the game is so imaginative. 
 If the single-player game does have a flaw, it's the lack of an in-mission save feature, which 
 can quickly turn the fun into frustration since some missions can be quite hard. This can also 
 be a problem because Giants can be rather unstable, and may unceremoniously crash your computer, 
 forcing you to restart the mission you were in. Also, the game only has one difficulty setting. 
 Fortunately, the single-player campaign is quite long, and many of the more elaborate missions 
 give you access to a base, where you can stock up on health and firepower.   

  Another problem with the campaign in Giants is that the missions follow a strict order, so you 
 begin playing as the Meccs, whether you like it or not. The Meccs are just as fun (and funny) as 
 the other races. You'll often have another Mecc or two at your side as you progress through the 
 missions, and Giants features a simple set of controls for ordering your companions about. Companion 
 Meccs fend fairly well for themselves, though they do tend to walk in your way during combat. Enemy 
 artificial intelligence is generally effective too, as you'll notice Sea Reaper guards running 
 for cover when they come under attack and then trying to encircle you. But sometimes they'll stand 
 around stupidly as a buddy next to them gets sniped.   

  As with the single-player game, online multiplayer in Giants is a blast (though you might also 
 find that it suffers from some stability issues) . The two basic game types are deathmatch and capture-the-Smartie 
 (a capture-the-flag variant) . You can choose to play any of the three main races, depending on 
 the game mode, and servers can determine how much focus will be placed on base building. The different 
 gameworlds are varied in layout and appearance to keep play fresh, and the balance between in-your-face 
 combat and base-building strategy is superb. Unfortunately, there's no option for a skirmish against 
 computer-controlled opponents.   

  Astounding graphics bring all the action in Giants to life: Giants is a visual tour de force that's 
 practically without peer. The game is optimized to take advantage of some of the latest 3D graphics 
 technologies, and it's easy to see why. Special chip set features such as hardware transform and 
 lighting are supported, which help render ultradetailed scenes smoothly on midrange computers. 
 Bump mapping lends terrain and monsters a sense of depth and roughness. Metallic sheens, as well 
 as rippling, reflective water, are just as nicely rendered. The graphics aren't merely about technical 
 wizardry, though: Lots of imagination clearly went into the visual design. Kabuto, something of 
 a cross between Godzilla and King Kong, is particularly impressive, as are the Sea Reaper weapons, 
 with their vivid energy effects. Little touches, like plumes of dust flying from the ground when 
 they're hit with weapons fire, add to the sense of immersion. The game's ambient lighting effects 
 are absolutely stunning. The graphics even play up the humor - for instance, the Smarties will 
 draw a laugh from their physical appearance alone because of their bulbous, watery eyes and oversized 
 brain-shaped heads. Smartie villages look like something out of The Flintstones or a Bugs Bunny 
 cartoon, while other creatures' architectures really do look alien.   

  As with the graphics, the game's sound is excellent. Each weapon is made memorable by a distinctive 
 and vivid effect, like the whoosh of the Mecc's rocket launcher. The odd and often menacing indigenous 
 life forms of the Island are equally well represented. For instance, you can hear the ground rumble 
 as the thorny, fanged Rippers burrow toward you, kicking up dirt and gravel. One of the best uses 
 of sound in Giants is the rich ambient effects that help set the scene. You'll hear waves lapping 
 against the shore, as well as birds and alien creatures screeching from within distant jungles. 
 A top-quality full orchestral score helps bring these alien landscapes to life, too, and it alters 
 the mood to suit the game's action. If the score has a weakness, it's only the discrepancy between 
 its seriousness and the zaniness of much of the game. Regardless, it's beautiful to listen to. 
 The game's voice acting varies in quality, with Meccs and Smarties portrayed with cockney or Scottish 
 accents, which can be pretty funny because of the incongruity. Kabuto's earthshaking roars are 
 another memorable highlight.   

  Giants is bizarre and funny without ever letting the silliness distract or annoy the player. Some 
 of the jokes and dialogue do sometimes fall flat, but that's a small price to pay for a game that's 
 generally so innovative and entertaining. Giants plays very differently, depending on which of 
 the three races you're controlling, and this adds a lot of replay value to the campaign that would 
 otherwise be missing because of the lack of single-player difficulty settings or a skirmish mode. 
 Ultimately, the truly unique premise, coupled with stunning graphics and exciting gameplay, makes 
 Giants: Citizen Kabuto one of the best action games in years.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Licazinha
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  
  It is not often you get strategy, action, some rpg features and racing all in the same game. Kabuto 
 is perfect, and one of the most underhyped games in all of history. 
  
  You fly, you get to choose your weapons from a great, great selection, you have awesome enemies 
 and challeging boss fights, a few real time strategy fases, awesome multiplayer (EVEN though it's 
 a bit hard to find people online in such an old game) , spell casting (again, great selection) , 
 three playable characters so it's not at all repetitive, a few races you get to participate in, 
 and a freaking perfect story with a great sense of humor. THAT's what you call complete package. 
 
  
  I have absolutely no idea why no one seems to speak of this game these days, on the release date 
 it had quite a few bugs and it was a terribly heavy game but I still don't think it's fair. For 
 what is worth I guarantee you, if you play this TODAY you will not regret it unless there's something 
 wrong with you. 
  
  Kabuto is pure art! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philaso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  So bizarre, such a strange premise. Such strange characters. Tongue in cheek humor along with a 
 lot of flexibility. Twists all over the place. Quite entertaining if you don't attempt to take 
 it seriously. The graphics are not going to amaze you, but they didn't annoy me. They were sufficient 
 for the needs of the game. The actual game play drew me in and made me a part of the action. You 
 play as three different characters, and I didn't notice a preference for any one in particular 
 (they were all pretty well balanced) . There are also different kinds of games within the game which 
 I wasn't expecting, and were a most welcome surprise. Just when you think you have everything figured 
 out, and you think you can predict the plot, it takes a turn into uncharted terrain and generally 
 brings a smile to your face. At points, I found myself laughing out loud. Over all, colorful characters, 
 decent graphics, and a story like a Mel Brooks movie make this a game definitely worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamankev
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  The game has a few things going for it, mainly the humor in the storytelling.
  
  As a *game*, though, Giants falls flat on its face.
  
  First of all, you can't save in the 
 middle of a mission, and some of the maps are just huge in size. If you die even halfway through 
 a mission, you lose a lot of time just walking to get back where you were, never mind having to 
 repeat all the action sequences, which aren't really all that fun since nearly all the weapons 
 available to you feel weak, inaccurate, and underpowered.
  
  The shot that kills you is the one you never see, since snipers and artillery fire can one-shot 
 you from long range while you're busy fighting other units up close. Because of this, you can spend 
 many minutes carefully slogging through a level just to get picked off entering a new area, and 
 have to repeat everything you've done and start the learning process over, one step at a time. 
 Combined with the no-save problem, things get extremely repetitive extremely fast. It's very much 
 a console game mentality, where you are rewarded for rote learning rather than thinking on your 
 feet.
  
  Your AI partners, while moderately competent in a firefight, have almost no autonomy unless they 
 get hit or you direct them to attack something, which makes them worthless for any kind of tactical 
 deployment. For example, you might be carrying the mortar to take out a building at range, and 
 some enemy troops can walk right up to your group and your buddies won't engage them until it's 
 too late. The other thing is, they always stand right next to you, often even directly in front 
 of you, blocking your line of sight. But they don't know how to take cover, and they give the enemy 
 snipers, rocket launchers, and artillery a target to shoot at, and often that means you start taking 
 damage incidentally because of splash damage. So there's basically no reward to approaching these 
 situations intelligently because your teammates are too dumb to do anything other than charge into 
 open combat.
  
  Perhaps the worst offense, though, is that the game's title character is a bait-and-switch scam 
 -- you don't actually get to play the giant Kabuto until the very end of the game, assuming you 
 can convince yourself to stay with the game that long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purplemonkey87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Giants: Citizen Kabuto is relatively old now, but truely is a timeless classic.
  
  It tells the story of three Mech friends, who are making their way to Planet Majorca for a holiday. 
 They unexpectadly crash land on an island with Scottish speaking midgets, Nazi sea people and man 
 eating giants.
  
  I first played the game in single player, where you start with one of the Mechs. The controls are 
 incredibly simple and easy to use, allowing you to jump into the game with very little learning.
 
  
  The graphics are definately not stunning, but were beautiful for its time. You definately won't 
 need a high end graphic card here. I currently have a GeForce 6600GT, and it runs like a charm.
 
  
  The music in the game is quite nice, and very fitting for the missions. The sounds for the environments 
 and weapons are fresh and not annoying to listen to repeatedly.
  
  After completing the game, I started playing the multi-player on Gamespy. You have the choice of 
 a couple of maps, each varying in size. To make the matches fair, the developers have a set amount 
 of Kabuto vs Reapers vs Mechs - otherwise too many Kabuto or Reapers would be overpowering.
  
  I highly recommend this game to people who want a 3rd person scifi shooter with a twist. I 
 guarantee the cutscenes will make you double up in laughter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Yellow sandy beaches pocketed with swaying palm trees, listening to the ocean calls whilst viewing 
 the perfect sunset. Stretching out your legs, you admire your perfect suntan whilst sipping on 
 freshly poured coconut juice, straight from the coconut of course and supplied by the local smartie. 
 You decided to jump in the crystal clean waters - what the heck, no one is around you decide to 
 go naked... looking at yourself you already naked. Maybe that sun caused your mind to go astray. 
 You hear the distance calls of birds in the distanceyou also hear something of a bang? A crash 
 of something over the hills
  
  The Brits (merccs) have landed. The Sea Reapers are cheesed off and Kabuto is running amuck all 
 because of your servants smarties are the next best thing since sliced pineapples. Smarties can 
 do all your biddings like create weapons (merccs) ; invoke spells (reapers) and a steady source 
 of food supply (Kabuto) . Of course you can also party with all of them butt-naked in technicolour 
 graphics. Very nice.
  
  As expected you can play either characters online (i. e The Mercc, Sea Reaper or Kabuto however 
 there can only be one Kabuto) yet single-player you need to play all three in three (3) separate 
 stories and each story has five (5) chapters! Think of it like an educational experience before 
 jumping online for the ultimate mayhem!
  
  More do I hear?
  
  The game can either play as 3rd person or 1st person view and on top of that there is that groovy 
 front-on cam view for that personal touch. Not only that, if you are playing the merccs or sea 
 reaper you can build bases in a RTS mode. Even idiots like me can work the RTS portion in a snap.
 
  
  And it does not stop there!
  
  The length of the game is quite long and considering the maps are huge, go knock yourself out and 
 explore. Beware though that the sea shows no mercy for merccs and Kabuto; and no, Kabuto cannot 
 drink the sea dry. However if you are the sea reaper (Delphi) swimswim your little heart awayswim 
 like the dolphins.
  
  And wait, there's more!
  
  The sounds for this game is simply divine! Environmental sounds like the waves lapping on the shore, 
 birds chirping and and even the creaks of the boats how can you resist not playing? It's like being 
 on a virtual holiday! Even the voice acting of all the main characters are to melt for. The Merccs 
 sounds remarkably like the Brits, Delphi (sea reaper) like a Russian, Kabuto like Chewbacca on 
 heat and of course the evil reapers sounds like the Germans. What a great blend of nationalities. 
 In addition the musical scores are very nice indeed as it suits the mood however I wished there 
 was a little more.
  
  You probably are saying now Whats the catch?
  
  Well you cannot snag a piranha and the game controls are a little awkward. Most of the controls 
 are keyboard commands. Another words if you can do the fingers twister on the keyboard, youre 
 gonna love this game. Also the game is a PC resource hogger. Considering the game is made in Oct 
 2000 your P4 will still be a little punished.
  
  Dont let that stop you at all. The holiday Isles and the smarties await you! If you get this far 
 in reading this review and if you want to recommend this review I can give you the code for that 
 topless Delphi  wouldnt you like that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytehtiger
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Giants: Citizen Kabuto is a rather interesting game. Interesting in the fact that a significant 
 reason for actually playing the game is the humorous story. There is not much depth to Giants, 
 but there also wasn't meant to be.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is rather entertaining because its simple and easy. The campaign is divided 
 into 3 parts. First you play as the Meccaryns, tech savvy guys with guns and jetpacks. Then you 
 play as Delphi, a magical sea reaper, and finally as the brute Kabuto. Each character plays differently. 
 I'd say the highlight of the game is the Meccaryn campaign. Unfortunately after that it steadily 
 degrades. The basebuilding missions are pretty much all the same and the AI is horrible. Delphi's 
 campaign introduces spells, but its a lot faster to just use the sword. The reaperski races are 
 entertaining but its really just a standard race. The Kabuto missions are fun in that you're a 
 big monster and eat and destroy everything, but it becomes tiresome after a while, since there 
 are almost no cutscenes to further the campaign. Its also easy to abuse the game's flaws and features. 
 For example, most of the impassable mountains in the kabuto campaign can be climbed by finding 
 edges. Delphi's quick reaper burst or whatever it is can let you pretty much fly up mountains and 
 traverse the map very quickly.
  
  Graphics: Good graphics, very well done. The only downside is that FPS dips occur even with a dual 
 core and 7600 GT. Really, that is some seriously crappy optimization. Execute an adrenaline move 
 with Kabuto and your FPS drops to about 10. There is no reason for this.
  
  Sound: The sound is well done. The voice acting is top notch, the various sounds are good, and 
 the music complements the game well. The music is nothing spectacular really.
  
  Multiplayer: Haven't tried.
  
  Difficulty: Easy if you work out how to abuse the game features. 
 If you're having trouble, you're clearly not abusing the game enough. The only part you should 
 have trouble on is the first basebuilding mission with the meccs, and the late kabuto missions. 
 As a mecc, strafe to avoid RPG's. Also don't bother using the bush backpack upgrade. Its pretty 
 useless.
  
  Technical problems: BUGS AND CRASHES. This isn't that much of a problem early in the game, but 
 with basebuilding it becomes a problem. There is no save feature, so restarting a mission after 
 it took you an hour to set up a base is really annoying. I don't know if a patch fixed this or 
 not, since I played the unpatched game. Tips: The only suggestion i can give is to finish the basebuilding 
 missions as fast as possible so you don't crash and get pissed off. The AI always comes to your 
 base in preset paths, so constantly intercept and kill them before they come near your base. Get 
 some smarties, get vimp meat, build buildings to get the party house, and blow up the enemy barracks. 
 This is a lot easier in the Delphi missions after you get used to basebuilding. Remember to every 
 so often check to see if the enemy is coming to your base.
  
  Also in the meccaryn basebuilding mission, the flying enemies are bugged I believe. Their RPG's 
 fire as fast as machineguns, so you pretty much have no chance to survive if they start shooting 
 you. The red missile works very well against them, so use this from a distance to kill them. Your 
 allies are also pretty good at handling them, though some may die. Not much you can do until you 
 upgrade your shop enough to get the red missiles. As a final note, ALWAYS target enemy barracks 
 first. Yes, go in fast, circle strafe around the barracks and shoot it with RPG's mortars, firebows, 
 rockets punch kick whatever. As long as the barracks exist infinite enemies will pop out. Killing 
 them one by one will not give you any advantage.
  
  Check out some guides if you're having trouble with this game. If you're hesitant about it, play 
 the demo first. It is an excellent example of the gameplay of the rest of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aqwas
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Giants: Citizen Kabuto. It is hard to start a review simply because there is so much to write. 
 The gameplay's only small problem is the lack of a save button in the menu, and that is not even 
 close to enough to offset the immersive storyline and engaging multiplayer. Other than that, It 
 suffers from nothing, as the different races insure that everyone has a way to stay entertained 
 in-game. The graphics are, though old, interesting, and don't create a drawback, even 6 years after 
 release. The sounds are memorable, and all fit the sources, and I have yet to see any glitches. 
 As for value, I picked this game up for free at Weird Stuff (with the purchase of a switch) , making 
 it the best value I have ever gotten for a game. I also have a personal draw to it, as my friends 
 have rather diverse tastes in video games, and this is one of the few that everyone will agree 
 to play. If you do not have this game, get it, it is well worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFWorm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  The reason Planet Moon Studio didn't make a sequel to Giants is a mystery to me. The Giants is 
 a great action adventure game with plenty of laughs and entertaining battle sequences. You'll find 
 yourself playing the same levels over and over.
  
  The game is in story mode that involves three different races: The Meccs, Sea Reavers, and Kabuto, 
 the Giant beast. The story begins with marines called Meccs crashing on a land where Extra-terrestrials 
 are in conflict. A race called Sea Reavers are harassing the peaceful and very sarcastic Smarties. 
 Your goal is to retrieve all of your men and get out of there. To do so, the Meccs must cooperate 
 with these Smarties who happen to be involved with every affair the Meccs are in. The Meccs are 
 equipped with a jet pack and collect cool weapons that are needed to survive. The action is sweet 
 as the Meccs must dodge and flee from enemies, zipping from side to side to backwards while shooting 
 the seemingly endless amount of Sea Reavers. Because of the jet packs and open maps, the movements 
 are great! After the Mecc's campaign , the story then shifts to the princess of the Sea Reavers, 
 Delphi. She uses magic to survive and has some pretty cool tricks up her non-existent sleeves. 
 She can zoom across the land and even blow things up. Her goal is to help the Meccs and defeat 
 her own people.
  
  The final campaign is the Giant, Kabuto. You are the beast that can eat anyone and can smash almost 
 anything. But the movements are much more cumbersome compared to the previous campaigns. It is 
 almost a disapointment except for the fact that you get to smash things.
  
  Overall, the game has awesome replay value. The options Planet Moon gives in regards to weaponry 
 and movements and landscapes are amazing. It would behoove everyone to at least give this game 
 a shot. And it would do Planet Moon and Interplay a lot of good to come up with a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilzy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix a group of rather British aliens, a topless, sword swinging mermaid, 
 one large godzilla-ish monstrosity, a lot of large weapons and place them on a tropical island?
 
  Either, you get the worlds worst sci-fi movie, or youll get the delightfully weird Giants: citizen 
 Kabuto.
  
  Because thats basically what the story of Giants is about.
  The aliens gets lost on their way to their planned vacation spot, and ends up on a strange new 
 planet, almost entirly enveloped by water, with a lot of little paradise islands to explore.
  Unfortunately they get caught up in a war between the mermaid-ish sea reapers, the small and annoying 
 smarties and the large brutish Kabuto.
  During the course of the game, you get to play as both the gun tooting aliens (known as the meccs) 
 a friendly sea reaper and Kabuto.
  The meccs control somewhat like a pretty ordinary shooter: you have a variety of guns at you disposal, 
 as well as jet packs, cloaking devices, potato shaped grenades and gargantuan bombs with wich to 
 blow open vast blast doors.
  Controlling the fleet (yes, its getting obvious I cant remember how many of them there are, five 
 or six) of smack talking meccs are a joy, and the missions are fun and pose just the right amount 
 of challenge.
  The sea reaper relies on magic and the use of a sword and bow instead wich works beautifully.
 
  The two species are rather similar in terms of control, but the third one: big Kabuto, handles 
 very much like youd think a creature of his size would.
  Kabuto is slow but massive, and his only weapon at hand is his own body.
  Youll be making your 
 way through hordes of enemies. scooping them up and wolfing them down (eating bad guys is good for 
 your health) and stomping down buildings.
  You can even utilize special adrenaline attacks, such as winding up a ridiculously large punch, 
 or throw yourself belly first unto a building or group of enemies.
  
  It all sound like fun, and it is. I just wish each of the different specimens had gotten a little 
 more room.
  It feels as if their levels end before the real fun begins, with the exception of the Kabuto levels. 
 since the nature of his gameplay mechanics causes them to wear thin fairly quickly (its fun eating 
 and crushing things, but it isnt very deep in the end is it?)
  And a few extra levels wouldnt have been unwelcome.
  
  The sound of the islands and the creatures 
 thereof are amazing.
  The music is truly beautiful, and a lot of the tunes gets stuck in your head, and the various weapon 
 sounds are delightfully weird, wich is a thing one could say to sum up the whole game really.
 
  The voice actors are brilliant, and the game has an odd but equally brilliant sense of humour.
 
  Several of the characters speak in British or Scottish accents, and they deliver their lines with 
 perfect comedic timing pretty much every time.
  Basically every cut scene in the game are full of jokes, this accompanied with the music and brilliant 
 voices will likely put a smile on your face, if you like that sort of humor that is.
  
  If one is to say something bad about Giants, other than the shortage of levels I mentioned earlier. 
 it would be that the action gets repetitive at times, and some of the levels can be frustratingly 
 hard wich, with no option to save your game during missions, can take away some of the seamless 
 fun.
  Other than that and a few flaws you can easily overlook, Giants is, as I said, delightfully weird. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDudeOverLord
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  ok, fist i'd like to start by saying that this game would be of no interest of you 'life like simulation' 
 lovers, this is not a realistic game the controls are fun, the game play is fun, and there is humour. 
 go back to ur sad driving sims and try and perfect that corner which u have to perfectly time ur 
 braking and clutch control, just to addd an extra milli second to ur time.
  
  this game does not have the most amazing graphics, i am perfectly willing to say that, this game 
 however is the most amazingly fun game i've ever played. i have played it through many times and 
 have played the online multiplayer against my friends loads. there's just so much game playing 
 fun to be had.
  
  the mecc's are the first species you get to use, they have a jet pack and some pretty big ass weapons. 
 they have some cool missions as you build tyhe character's arsonal up and gain team mates.
  
  the reaper is the second species you get to play with, she has a sword which totally kicks 
 ass, she also has a variety of bows and arrows, including multi-shot and homing, altho quite frankly 
 i only use the sniper bow for far away and the homing bow for flying targets, and just slice everything 
 else to bits. she also has magic spells which can be extra fun, and helpful with large amounts 
 of enemy.
  
  the last species is KABUTO!!! quite frankly there's not much that can kill him, he's alittle weak 
 when he starts, but eat up the local residence and u'll soon be fighting fit. he simply eats and 
 bashes his way through the foe, not much else to say, he's just damn fun to use.
  
  if u want to buy a game, which is quite frankly a give away these days, which is absolutely fun 
 and has hours of play then get this, it's absolutly amazing, u'l be stuck on the computer for weeks, 
 neh months!
  
  they should make a sequal and they should make it just as good as this but with better graphics 
 and better sound, keep the control system, just upgrade the game, with a new story line! a perfect 
 game otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gupta_dune
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  The first thing you'll note about this game is the fantastic storyline this game seems to have. The 
 dialogues spoken by the NPC's are very humorous and will make you double with laughter. I have played 
 the demo only as of now but I'm thinking about this game as a potential contender in my buying 
 list.
  
  Pros: 
  
  1. You have never played a game like this. This game looks like halo but the storyline is drastically 
 different.
  2. Acceptable graphics.
  3. It's a FPS plus a strategy based game.
  
  Cons:
  
  1. game could have been more detailed but then it would have spoilt the beauty of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  While Giants certainly uses some RTS elements in its gameplay, the majority of the action resembles 
 a third-person shooter. Due to the inclusion of jetpacks for the Mecc campaign, there is a definite 
 Tribes feel as you bound from hill to hill while attempting to take aim at your enemies. At the 
 same time, Giants strongly resembles Shiny's Sacrifice in its use of graphics and perspective. 
 In spite of the comparisons that can be made between Giants and other titles, the gameplay as a 
 whole is unique. While its base-building missions are strongly RTS in nature -- with their build, 
 defend, and attack elements -- they also involve the third-person action found throughout the game 
 and cannot be labeled as simply "RTS missions." The title never locks itself into one genre; rather, 
 it simultaneously attempts to borrow some of the best concepts from several categories while creating 
 something greater than the sum of its parts. Enjoy!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The setting of Giants is actually a broken-off piece of a faraway planet that flies through space 
 like an exotic asteroid. The surface is covered mostly with water, but is broken up by lush land 
 formations -- islands within the Island. The ocean-dwelling Sea Reapers were the original inhabitants 
 of the Island but were forced to retreat to the sea when the beast created as their protector, 
 the mighty giant Kabuto, became aware of his uniqueness and the pain of isolation turned him against 
 his makers. Sappho, queen of the Sea Reapers, has begun to take steps to reclaim the islands from 
 the giant by whatever means necessary. However, Delphi, Sappho's daughter, does not agree with 
 her mother's evil ways and hopes to find a way to combat the magical powers of her own people and 
 bring peace. Unfortunately, Delphi's cause seems hopeless, as she has not yet developed her own 
 powers and cannot face her mother's forces alone. Enter the Meccaryns, or "Meccs" for short -- 
 five space travelers with distinctively cockney accents from a technologically advanced world. 
 Baz, Tel, Reg, Bennett, and Gordon are on holiday and enroute to the vacation world of Planet Majorca 
 when their ship is swallowed by a giant space fish. Two months later, their ship has been digested 
 and is "discharged" from the beast, and the space travelers are forced to find the nearest landing 
 spot to effect repairs on their ship. The nearest rock turns out to be the Island. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoZo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  I just love this game!! The multiplayer is AWESOME! The singleplayer is also cool, but not as good 
 as the multiplayer... 
  
  On giants you can choose between three differerent characters. 
  It's the man: Mecc, he got some 
 different guns, can build a base and get an copter. 
  
  The woman: Reaper, which got some bows with different types of arrows. She has magic like tornados, 
 teleport and more. Reaper can also build a base and get a waterjet (that also work on land)
  
  The last and largest: Kabuto! He is a big monster/giant witch grows larger by eating small 
 alien-like people. Kabuto can't build a base but can give birth to two small dinosaurs. 
  
  On multiplayer you can chose which of these three characters you want to be. Not more than one 
 Kabuto, but more of the other two... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmrysJ
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  I got this game off my friend. While it has very weird characters and storyline, it is far from 
 bad and is side splittingly funny. I found it quite hard, however this doesn't detract from the 
 gameplay. The dialogue is funny and engaging, and the storyline is really good. There are three 
 playable characters, each are unique with special powers. The base building element is also surprisingly 
 good, considering it isn't an RTS. The only let down in this game is the graphics, they aren't 
 THAT amazing. However don't let this put you off. Buy this game, you won't regret it.
  
  Emrys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iadro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  Amazing game; hilarious and action packed, dont let the old graphics put you off. Multiplayer with 
 a few friends is great fun, one guy as kabuto and the others trying to kill him off, almost impossible 
 but damn fun while trying. Although the graphics are abit old and scratchy they are good enough 
 to allow you to immerse yourself in the game. The storyline and scripts are pure genius, with quirky 
 commedy throughout. A must play, even if you just rent it for PS2 for the weekend. I have had this 
 game for around 2 years and play it on and off with a friend or replay the solo missions, i dont 
 believe it will ever lose its appeal because it is so well made.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  Giants is just simply amazing, the graphiics though could use some work but every thing else and 
 when i say everything else i really mean it, is guud. The gameplay is super amazing, its also a really 
 long game wich is a guud thing. The music the barckround and weapons are superb, its also verry reallistic 
 .The whole game takes place outside on another planet, in most other action adventures like spiderman 
 2 or driver 3, there are limits of free space away for the game's main area, usually an invisible 
 wall will keep u from continuing, in giants though there are no invisible walls ore limits to free 
 space. The only thing that keeps u from going a certain dinstance from the main areas of the game 
 are pirahnas that wiill eat u when u fall in the water. In the game thiough there is a character 
 named delphi who can swim in water and can travel an unlimited distance from the main areas of 
 the game. Thats what makes delphi the coolest character of the game. The gameplay of the game is 
 just so perfect its not as good as resident evil 4 or gta san andreas but its still extremely good 
 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuasullivan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Citizen Kabuto is an action/RTS that ranks among the most amusing games ever developed. The game 
 is divided into 3 chapters, following the three factions vying for control: the technologically 
 advanced (if not intellectually advanced) alien explorers, the beautiful and magical Sea Reapers, 
 and the titular Kabuto. The alien and reaper chapters both mix action-shooter elements with RTS 
 elements, creating a very entertaining variety of gameplay situations. The Kabuto chapter plays 
 like a free-roaming version of the arcade classic "Rampage" and will appeal to players' unstoppable-killing-machine 
 sensibilities.
  
  Graphically, the graphics are quite refined, and exhibit one of the first uses of bump-mapping 
 in a game. A bright color palette gives the game an upbeat feel that complements the light-hearted 
 narrative.
  
  If you can find this one around, you should strongly consider picking it up... as long as you don't 
 mind your neighbors asking you what you were howling with laughter about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2004 8:56 am PT
Review:  Play as the hilarious Meccs who have crash landed on the planet and just want to get to their vacation 
 planet. They are enlisted by the local Smarties to defeat the Sea Reapers to keep them from conquering 
 the planet. The Sea Reaper queen's daughter, Delphi, knows the treatment of the smarties is wrong 
 and is exiled for her beliefs. The Reapers summon Kabuto, a giant, to decimate the Smarties.
  
  Broken into 3 sections of 5 levels for each race: meccs, Delphi, and Delphi as a Kabuto. Third 
 person over the shoulder control, you can pick up weapons at 'shops' scattered throughout the lands. 
 On some levels, there are no shops but you are able to build a base (which contains a shop) . Usually, 
 you start on one end of an island and your objective is on the other end. The meccs carry laser 
 guns and rocket launcher type weapons. Delphi uses a bow and spells. Kabuto just smashes stuff. 
 Kabuto eats the Evil Smarties in order to grow. Once at his growth limit, he can lay up to two 
 eggs which hatch into offspring which are commandable.
  
  This game is great fun! Its a weird mix of racing, base building, and all out infiltration with 
 guns blazing, but a great balance. This was one of the most fun games I have played in a while.
 
  
  + Hilarious story and voice acting
  + Variation in level types
  + Variation in playable races
  + Totally unique concepts and gameplay
  - no in-mission saves
 
  - unstable
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
