-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gish
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/gish/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 181 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GarageGames
Developer: Chronic Logic
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date:     Sep 17, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gish uses a well-worn genre as the launching pad for some exuberant and largely successful experimentation. 
 

  What an awesome little game! Gish more or less epitomizes everything that independently produced, 
 budget-priced titles should aspire to. Rather than making a dull, no-frills copy of a popular game, 
 Chronic Logic has taken a well-worn genre -- the 2D side-scrolling platformer -- and used it as the 
 launching pad for some exuberant and largely successful experimentation.  

          Here's a nice example of the physics, lighting, and stylized character design.     

 
  There's nothing experimental about the game's structure. It's a traditional platformer in which 
 you'll jump, run, and swim through a series of increasingly complex scrolling environments while 
 conking enemies on the head with your butt. There are times to beat, extra lives to earn, coins 
 to collect, and secrets to unlock (including some extra levels that act as funny tributes to 8-bit 
 classics such as Super Mario Bros. and Pitfall) . In what might be the ultimate homage to video 
 games in general, you're even on a quest to rescue your girlfriend.  

  The unorthodox element of the game involves the way in which your character interacts with the 
 environments. You play as a charismatic gelatinous blob of tar called Gish. You can glide across 
 the ground, jump, and make yourself slippery so that you can flow through tight spaces. Moreover, 
 you can become rigid, thus giving yourself more weight. You can also extrude a series of small 
 hooks that let you scale both walls and ceilings, in addition to letting you grip and move objects. 
 What makes all of this so interesting is the game's fully realized physics system. Gish flows across 
 and is deformed by objects in an utterly believable, unique, and satisfying way. Jump height is 
 affected by how compressed Gish is at the start of a leap, while maximum compression is achieved 
 by falling from a great height, which makes successful high jumping a matter of rhythmically timed 
 bounces.  

  Objects in the world are governed by the physics system as well. For instance, seesawlike platforms 
 can be controlled by Gish's varying weight, pendulums can be ridden and made to swing, and cinder 
 blocks can be gripped in Gish's spikes -- and they can then be rotated around his body and subsequently 
 flung into the air. The game presents you with all the elements of a traditional platforming environment, 
 and then it gives you a completely new and entertaining set of tools with which to tackle them. 

  The game's visuals are simple but stylized. Everything's drawn in a unique manner that gives Gish 
 plenty of cartoony character. There's also a nice lighting engine that complements the physics. 
 For instance, crumbling walls will often unleash multiple streams of light.  

  Other than what might be the best "secret discovered" noise in game history, the sound effects 
 aren't particularly notable. The soundtrack, on the other hand, is great. It's composed of an eclectic 
 mix of Residents-style creepy carnival music, marching tunes, and an oddball mixture of chunky 
 guitar licks and chanting. There are even some riffs on themes from classic platformers.  

          Here's an homage to Mario.     

  The game features a 34-level story mode that comes 
 complete with five boss battles, 23 "collection" levels (in which you must grab as many coins as 
 you can within a given time limit) , and at least four secret bonus levels. There's also a set of 
 six two-player modes that milk the Gish concept for all it's worth. These modes include such activities 
 as tar blob drag racing, moving a football across a field, and a variation on logrolling wherein 
 each player attempts to maneuver the other off of a seesawlike platform. The only drawback is that 
 both players need to be at the same computer, because Internet and LAN connectivity is not supported. 

  "Physics" is quickly gaining currency as the newest "must-have" game industry buzzword. Gish is 
 one of those rare games that actually manages to integrate realistic physics into its gameplay 
 in a way that's both meaningful and, more importantly, enjoyable. That it does this with humor 
 and style, and without the benefit of a large budget, is a small miracle.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  In Gish, you play a bar of tall, whose girlfriend (resemblance to Pulp Fiction) get kidnapped, 
 and its your duty to slime you're way thru levels.
  
  The game is incredibly good, I don't have words for it, its just so polished and smooth, I can't 
 say anything bad about it, but I'll try to get a weakspot.
  
  Gameplay:
  Addictive, as a bar of tall you'll be able to swim, slime you're way thru levels, you'll be able 
 to let needles stick out of you're body, so you can hang onto walls or climb walls, you also have 
 a solid mode, which makes you look constipated, you'll use it mostly to squash enemy's into juice 
 or break thru walls.
  
  The level designs are great for the gameplay, you'll have fun driving a buggie ingame.
  
  Graphics:
 
  Its graphics are great, it has this gritty cartoonish feel over it, the game physics are great 
 and look smooth, Gish will almost look like real tar, if it wasn't for those goofy eyes.
  
  The game-engine works well in puzzles, if you burst thru a wall with you're solid mode, you can 
 shoot bits of rocks thru enemy by sitting on the block, using you're needles, and roll over so 
 you can watch enemy's do funny faces and fall down cliffs.
  
  Story:
  You're a tar, you're girlfrield is kidnapped, get 'it' back.
  
  AI:
  No AI, enemy's just 
 walks towards you and you take damage, you'll kill them by dropping onto them in solid mode.
  
  Is it a good platformer:
  Yes, play the demo, its innovative and addicting atleast, its hard 
 to describe how good the game is.
  
  Also, for a weakness in the game, multiplayer!
  
  Theres no multiplayer, I'd love having multiplayer where you race a few other people online, to 
 test on how good you are with sliming thru levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floppythegodguy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This game is awesome. At first glance it looks like a normal 2D side scrolling 
 adventure and it basicly is, but with excellent, very good drawn graphics, kick-ass gameplay, very 
 good soundtrack with excellent sound-effects, and realistic psychics engine. The story is quite 
 simple; you play a ball of tar named gish, who is rescuing his girlfriend, smashing and squishing 
 monsters and bosses and going through 34 different underground levels with very cool monsters. 
 One of the good things is, that every boss needs a different tactic to defeat him. The game has 
 a 1 vs 1 player mod which is quite cool. A must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosteratumd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 19, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Gish is probably the second best indie game of the year after Alien Hominid, and for creativity 
 and game engine, it's probably the best. Alien Hominid gave us a 3 hour blast-fest reminiscent 
 of Metal Slug, but Gish gives us a physics based puzzle solving platformer. The use of physics 
 is phenomenal, and from this point on I expect all platformers to incorporate realistic physics.
 
  
  Don't let the demo/steep learning curve fool you. The demo gives you four levels, and should be 
 downloaded just to learn how to play the game, and it will take you a while. I spent about 3 hours 
 learning how to jump high. It's not easy until you get the hang of it. Also, the demo gives you 
 four levels that are alright, but not as impressive as the rest of the game.
  
  In Gish, you play a ball of tar. He's a unique fellow who has the power to make his body sticky, 
 slimy, and/or heavier. He can jump, but only if he is compacted or squished. Half of the learning 
 curve is finding out the best way to squish him on the ground for a higher jump. Since the game 
 is physics based, there are many things you can do. You can throw blocks up in the air, you can 
 stomp on enemies or blocks, you can press switches, ride a mine-cart, ride a slingshot, travel 
 via wrecking ball, manipulate moving walls, ramps, etc. Physics junkies will notice in the later 
 levels that you can even ride a chaos movement machine (which is completely and totally unpredictable 
 for the short time you ride it) . The game reminds me of a physics based program we used in our 
 physics classes at college. Except fun.
  
  The combat in Gish is unique, but a little bizarre. Gish is not equipped with a standard punch, 
 kick, or attack button. Usually, Gish can stomp on his enemies, but when the enemies have a height 
 advantage, they gain the upper hand rather quickly. Gish can throw those enemies into a wall or 
 out of the area, but it takes practice. 
  
  Gish's shortcomings are easy to overlook considering the game had a very small budget and is indie. 
 However, certain things keep this from having the quality of an AAA title (but it is only $20) . 
 First of all, the artwork is great, but the animation is lacking. I know that the artist could 
 have at least animated some cutscenes or incorporated a death sequence for the little tarball. 
 The game does have great music, but it stops after a level with no transitions and begins again 
 on the next. It sounds very amateurish.
  
  Finally, just because Gish is like nothing you've played before doesn't mean that it's the greatest 
 game. It's original but very slow paced, and takes patience. There is a danger in making this game 
 play as fast as Sonic the Hedgehog, but the blocks honestly float in the air before falling. It 
 is fun in its own right, and certainly much more fun than i would have thought. 
  
  There is a two player mode that theoretically looks like a lot of fun. However, good luck finding 
 someone else who plays this game well, let alone even knows about the game. Gish is a great game 
 in its own right, but it's still not likely to be a mainstream hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2004 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Congratulations to Cronic Logic for a highly innovative game. Not since the Incredible Machine 
 have I seen physics been integrated so tightly with a game's gameplay.
  
  You have just the right control mechanisms to make your hero tar-blob into an extension of yourself, 
 in the sense it is very easy to get feel in control of all its movements. You will soon be taking 
 advantage of all the most subtle ways physics makes it spin, contract, grip and slip to make it 
 avoid all the dangers and pass through the levels in an elegant and fluent way.
  
  The physics engine gives the game a very "organic" feel, and two gaming sessions are never exactly 
 the same. Many times you will experience something unexpected, sometimes with quite funny consequences. 
 Seems to be many entertaining ways to kill the badguys for example.
  
  Although the main idea is great, the game is not as polished as I would wish for. The graphics 
 has a major problem as it is way too dark at times. I can forgive the simplistic look, but the 
 darkness can at times kill the fun of the game as it can simply be hard to see what is going on. 
 All the blackness does not really go well with the light and humoristic tone of the game either, 
 and can make important details be hard to see - like the difference between a sticky wall and a 
 wall that is not sticky.
  
  Another problem is the massive amount of replays needed for each level. Ok, I know they want the 
 game to last long, but often I find myself in a situation where I have passed all the obstacles 
 on a level and there is only one tiny part in the end that causes problems. Having to go through 
 ALL of the level time after time to find the right angle to solve the last problem is extremely 
 frustrating and annoying. I cannot remember to have been more angry at a game since I was a kid 
 and broke my joystick in fury. And why is it so hard to make the damn thing jump?? It would be 
 100x more fun if it jumped properly.
  
  Some of the problems in the game is often almost impossible to get right without a bit of luck. 
 As the organic nature of the game engine can make something work one time, but not another time. 
 It leads to the kind of trial and error gaming that is not very fulfilling, especially when it 
 appears at the end of a level as stated above. But, the organic feel is at the same time what makes 
 the game really new and fresh, so I tend to forgive this.
  
  The last problem I found is the game sometimes leave you in a situation where you can simply do 
 nothing to continue. If the bridge you were supposed to walk on collapses, then what do you do? 
 You have to kill yourself and start over. This is gamedesign from the 80s, and is considered bad 
 practice in modern games. It does not happen often though.
  
  But, when all this is said, consider the low price, and also you get a tremendously addictive game 
 with an entirely new twist to it. I got angry at it many times, but it was still money well spent...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeldmanSkitzoid
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2004 11:19 pm PT
Review:  At last, a unique twist on the classic side-scrolling platformer genre. The ways you control the 
 main character, and the ways he interacts with his environment and enemies, are all controlled 
 by a great physics engine, so everything controls and interacts exactly as it should. There are 
 lots of unique ways to go about solving the game's various problems. You can grab an enemy and 
 whip him across the screen into a wall, squish them by dropping on them from above, throw something 
 at them, throw one enemy at another, and numerous variations.
  
  This game is really difficult to describe, so do yourself a favor and check out the demo. It's 
 not for everyone, but many will find it unique and enjoyable, if a bit simplistic compared to the 
 other, far more "advanced" games we have available to us. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
