-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gladiator: Sword of Vengeance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/igladiator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 5.7, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 136 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Nov 18, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can look past some of the game's mechanical shortcomings and the PC version's annoying compatibility 
 issues, you'll likely be pleased with what Gladiator has to offer. 

  Ancient Rome and, more specifically, Roman gladiators have always made interesting subject matter 
 for various mediums of entertainment. Throughout the years, numerous films, including the Academy 
 Award-winning classics  Ben Hur  and  Gladiator , featured some of the most epic gladiatorial action 
 sequences every created and made heroes out of these enslaved Roman warriors. Strangely enough, 
 however, there haven't been many good action games to feature Roman gladiators in any really serious 
 capacity. Recently, this has all come to change, thanks to Acclaim's Gladiator: Sword of Vengeance, 
 an action adventure game rooted deeply in a style that combines Ridley Scott's  Gladiator  with 
 some of the more mythical aspects of Roman history. Gladiator does have some shortcomings, as its 
 simplistic and frequently flawed gameplay can prove to be problematic. However, some excellent 
 production values and an intriguing plot ultimately make the game most certainly worth checking 
 out.  

          Gladiator: Sword of Vengeance is essentially a simple hack-and-slash action game but with 
 a great story, graphics, and sound.     

  Sword of Vengeance focuses on the life of one Invictus Thrax, a Roman born into slavery, who eventually 
 rose through the ranks of gladiator battle to become the champion of all gladiators. He was also 
 once favored by the Roman emperor, who promised him his eventual freedom. However, at the beginning 
 of the game, we learn that the emperor was mysteriously killed and replaced by Arruntius, a sinful, 
 vice-driven madman who has plunged Rome into its darkest times. Arruntius has decided to demolish 
 the city of Rome in favor of a new capital city named Arruntium, to further commemorate its unholy 
 leader. To celebrate the demolition, Arruntius stages a grand gladiatorial event, with Thrax at 
 its epicenter. Thrax fights valiantly but is inevitably killed at the hands of an unseen and seemingly 
 inhuman opponent.  

  Upon his entry into the afterlife, Thrax is accosted by a pair of twin boys dressed in theater 
 masks. They are revealed to be the sons of the Roman god Jupiter: Romulus and Remus. They explain 
 to him that the gods are greatly displeased with Arruntius' ascension to power and reveal that 
 all of this is largely due to assistance from Phobos and Deimos, the gods of fear and terror, respectively, 
 who are also the sons of Mars, the god of war. Thrax is charged with the task of restoring Rome 
 to its past glory and eliminating Arruntius -- a task that Thrax is only too happy to accept.  

 
  Gladiator is, essentially, a beat-'em-up game with swords. At your disposal, you have two basic 
 attack buttons, which can initially be strung together into some rudimentary combos. You also have 
 a magic button and an all-purpose action button. The action button comes into play in any number 
 of different ways. Some examples include situations where Thrax must jump across a ledge, glide 
 down a rope, use a key in a lock, pull a lever, and so on. Any time one of these actions is performed, 
 it is done through an in-engine cutscene, so the action itself doesn't actually require any skill 
 on your part. The game's basic attacks and magic attacks can be upgraded and earned through challenges. 
 Challenge points are scattered pretty much throughout the game and usually entail slicing up a 
 specific number of enemies or breaking a number of different objects in a set time frame. Through 
 these challenges, you'll earn new magic attacks, like Herculean battle magic, which makes you much 
 stronger and faster. You can also earn the power of Pluto, which brings up spirits from the underworld 
 to assist you in battle. Other items, like new axes, better swords, and the like, can also be earned, 
 in addition to improved combo attacks.  

  While all of these upgrades are certainly nice, they don't add a whole lot to the overall flow 
 of the action. Most of Gladiator's combat sequences pretty much consist of you mashing the two 
 attack buttons until you've cleared the area of all your foes. While this can be fairly repetitive, 
 the action itself is still not bad, and, periodically, the repetition is broken up by the ability 
 to perform an execution move. After wearing certain opponents' life meters down, the meter will 
 turn red, and by pressing the action button, you'll enact an execution. The game will then switch 
 to a cutscene where Thrax -- depending on what weapon he is wielding -- will kill his foe in one of 
 several, brutal ways. Executions are contextual, depending on what type of enemy you're up against, 
 and can only be performed on some of the tougher enemies in the game. However, when the opportunity 
 arises, they're most certainly worth pulling off, as the sheer brutality of them, along with the 
 heavy smattering of blood provided, makes them entertaining.  

          The vengeful, reincarnated Thrax doesn't mind brutally slaying any foe who stands in his 
 way.     

  Sadly, Gladiator's gameplay is bogged down by some rather significant problems. The first and most 
 irritating of issues comes in the form of the game's enemy targeting system. When surrounded by 
 a group of enemies, Thrax will automatically lock on to the enemy closest to him. You can cycle 
 through the available enemy targets or unlock yourself from an enemy target by pressing the primary 
 target button. If you want to stay locked on one enemy but want to quickly reverse your direction 
 to face another opponent, pressing the secondary lock button will do so. While this is all well 
 and good in theory, trying to switch between locked enemies while being stabbed at repeatedly doesn't 
 go nearly as quickly as you'd like, and often you'll find yourself taking a lot more damage simply 
 because you can't get yourself unlocked from one guy fast enough. As you can imagine, this can 
 become quite frustrating.     

  Another problem is the game's somewhat peculiar level design -- or, to be more specific, its unrelenting 
 obsession with backtracking. Every puzzle in the game includes at least one section where you'll 
 have to go back to one or two areas you've already been to, defeat an onslaught of slightly different 
 enemies than you defeated the previous time, and then do a slightly different action than you did 
 before. Additionally, the puzzles themselves aren't terribly challenging at all and are actually 
 a bit on the mundane side. While this might not be quite so damning had there been a little less 
 of an emphasis on them, unfortunately, you'll find that the game is absolutely rife with copious 
 amounts of these puzzles, and it's hard to go far in the game without encountering one.  

          It's too bad that Gladiator's gameplay didn't offer more depth.     

  While the gameplay 
 does have its share of shortcomings, Gladiator's production values are really quite impressive. 
 The overall look and feel of the various environments in the game is really something, using some 
 great lighting effects and plenty of rich, colorful set pieces and textures throughout. Nowhere 
 is this more evident than in the game's afterlife level, Elysium, which also acts as a hub level 
 between missions. The grass textures found there are impressive by themselves, but the overall 
 art design is also really spectacular. Gladiator also has a pretty impressive array of characters, 
 ranging from various types of opposing gladiators to monsters ripped right out of Roman mythology, 
 like cyclopes, demons, skeleton warriors, and, of course, the previously mentioned gods of fear 
 and terror, Phobos and Deimos. While some of the character design is a bit derivative, the visual 
 effects used for some of them -- especially some of the "shadow demons" -- are pretty awesome-looking. 
 This is not to say that the game is flawless-looking by any means. The game's cinematic camera 
 can be a bit of a pain in certain situations (especially when surrounded by a number of enemies) , 
 and the game's frame rate has a very unpleasant tendency to severely drop when too much is occurring 
 onscreen, but these problems aren't terribly frequent.  

  As you might expect, the PC version of Gladiator outperforms its console counterparts quite a bit 
 in terms of graphical capability. Everything in this version of the game is much cleaner than both 
 the Xbox and PS2 versions of the game, and really, Gladiator's graphics shine through beautifully 
 on the PC. While this alone might seem like enough of a reason to call this the best version of 
 the three, there are some unfortunate compatibility problems that hold the PC version back a bit. 
 The retail release of Gladiator is specifically designed to work with DirectX version 9.0a, and 
 if you don't have that version installed (even if you have a newer version) , problems can frequently 
 arise. With version 9.0b installed, we had frequent problems on a Radeon 9800 card with the game 
 simply running too fast. In fact, cutscenes would actually speed through faster than the audio, 
 thus completely losing sync. On a GeForce4 video card, the game would frequently get stuck on the 
 main menu screen. Actually, the game wouldn't display the menu screen and would instead only show 
 a black screen from which we couldn't escape. This didn't seem to be an issue with obsolete graphics 
 drivers. In fact, the game is quite adamant about you having the most up-to-date version of your 
 graphics card's drivers, as it simply won't play at all if they're out of date. All of these things 
 being said, if you have the right combination of correct drivers and the right version of DirectX, 
 the game runs just fine. However, it may take quite a bit of finagling to get it there.  

          The action could have been better, but Gladiator is still worth checking out.     

 
  The high production value of Gladiator doesn't stop with visuals, as the game's audio presentation 
 is equally impressive. Though you won't find any famous voice actors speaking for the characters 
 in the game, nearly all of the voice work in Gladiator is excellent. Additionally, save for a few 
 cheap lines here and there, the dialogue is very well written and does a fantastic job of driving 
 the game's story along by managing to keep you interested. The game's soundtrack is reminiscent 
 of Hans Zimmer's score from the movie  Gladiator  and runs the gamut from ethereal and mellow to 
 exciting and frenzied, providing just the right level of atmosphere for each situation. The game's 
 sound effects are generally less impressive than the rest of the sound, with your standard fare 
 of hack-and-slash effects, as well as the groans and screams of fallen opponents. It's not bad 
 stuff, by any means; it's just not terribly impressive either.  

  Certain things that Gladiator: Sword of Vengeance does well, it does very well. The graphics and 
 sound are of great quality, and the story that Acclaim Studios Manchester has created for Invictus 
 Thrax is an entertaining one that most any action game fan should find intriguing, if not captivating. 
 It's unfortunate that the gameplay isn't nearly as interesting or well-put-together as the rest 
 of the game, and it's equally unfortunate that there isn't any sort of multiplayer component to 
 go along with the story mode, which leaves you with nothing to do in the game once the story mode 
 is complete. Ultimately, however, if you can look past some of the game's mechanical shortcomings 
 and the PC version's annoying compatibility issues, you'll likely be pleased with what Gladiator: 
 Sword of Vengeance has to offer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hellside
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  2003, I remember one day, when I was playing the game, a friend came, and saw the game, and he 
 said: this must be that kind of game you call "classic".
  
  Well wrong word my friend, classic is not a word to describe good graphic, and graphic alone is 
 not enough to make something classic.
  
  This game I play, I play it because I am interested in Rome culture at that time, and I just got 
 my new computer and FX5600, I'd like to get some good looking game, to enjoy the recent game graphic. 
 I am not disappointed, it a beautiful game in 2003.
  
  But now I think of it, the game is kind of boring, just walk the road, kill anything emerged, and 
 it is finished, the story is very simple and not worth mention, the music is forgettable, and the 
 background is repeated.
  
  I doubt anyone would buy or rent this game by now, let's forget it even exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aresdistroyer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  This is a remarkable game. The graphics engine can not even be matched by any other game of its 
 kind. The only big problem is that the game lacks proper fighting system. It is too hard and the 
 game is amazing in the story. The sad part is that it is not played by everybody and such classic 
 games are very few. The Hardness of the game is too high and the levels are classic. If more good 
 gamers would have played this game it would be a instant classic. The sound also rocks. The targeting 
 system is awful that makes the game a low rated game. The bosses are classic and the last two stages 
 are ok but the fourth stage is hell tuff and impossible for a new gamer. Many a times you will get 
 very frustated with the games difficulty but you will get use to it. All in all the game is a must 
 buy for those who like super graphic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  When I heard of a gladiator game I was hoping for something more than this has to offer, Acclaim 
 Entertainment wasn't so known but still..........
  The story is weak. You are a dead gladiator and must kill two titans and the emperor of Rome for 
 doing bad things to Rome. Your briefings are give by Romulus and Remus.
  The control is ugly. The camera is moving hard and the combat moves are the same. Two or three nice 
 combat animations and some finishers can't make a good game in my opinion. The sound is low-quality. The 
 worst part is the AI. If you are fighting two enemies and you pick on one, the other one will stand 
 and wait until his friend is dead to attack.
  The graphics were good and really impress but..... this game had potential. More potential which 
 wasn't used! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhurrr
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 2, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Ok Focks this game amazed me so much that the could be called a game to play the graphics are so 
 good as if that the movie is going on and you are playing as the hero. the sound is dantastic in 
 these stages only the first intro the titan stronghold and the boss music the graphics are so so 
 good that first i thought that this is not a game this would be the best graphics game ever made 
 i have also played doom 3 on ultra setting but the graphics were never so good i have to play quake 
 4 yet but t cant also get all the lightning effects that gladiator had to offer so fairly the game 
 is very good and yes to acceliam studios if you would have made this game a little easier all kind 
 of gamers could have played it. but of cource there is one game which beats gladiator hollow and 
 that game is god of war. that game i cant mention just now that was my dream game but i could not 
 play it because i dont have a ps2 AND my Comp Configuration is as follows.
  My Pc Configuration
  AMD athlon x64 3200+
  Nvidia geforce 6200 TC 
  1 GB ram
  A8N-e Motherboard
 
  160 GB Hard disk
  Windows XP SP 2 Editon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  The storyline, and characters aren't to bad. The graphics are actually cool. The game play is somewhat 
 irritating. The game has some spots that are in need of attention. I'm surprised they didn't come 
 out with any patches for this game to fix some of the issues. Well when I last checked they didn't. 
 This game was cheap. That's why I picked it up. I like the concept, and the ability to advance 
 doing what seems to be tests. You have to locate these shrines, and as you enter them destroy the 
 enemy in a set amount of time. At least you can keep trying. I haven't completed this game yet, 
 but I suppose I'm impressed to an extent. It's been awhile since it's release. I don't think we 
 can expect a sequel. I'd get it if you can still find it. Well there's a buy it tab... I guess you 
 might. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeshanmu
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  I Finished Playing Gladiator Just Now AND This Was The Best Game I Ever Played Excpt God OF War 
 Actualy The Game Is Based On A Gladiator Who Is Dead And Then Goes To A Place Where All Heroes 
 Go After Death Takes Them Now The Graphics Are Like Movie Quality AND The Game Is The Tuffest Game 
 I Ever Played And The Story Is Good. The Only Thing I Dint Like About This Game Is ThatIs Is Very 
 Very Tuff. Actualy The Games Boss Phobos And Deamos Both Of Them Are Not At All Dificut But Getting 
 To Them Is Very Tuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be better than most people give credit to it. I really did enjoy this game. 
 It gets repetitive at times, which hurts the replay value, but I enjoyed it because it is a bit 
 different than most games. There are not that many games out there, where you get to slice and 
 dice. I enjoy the finishing moves as well as all the little extra stuff you get from the challenges. 
 It is a difficult game, but not hard enough you wont beat it before you decide it is no fun. The 
 graphics are pretty good, the work with shadows is impressive in my mind. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone that is looking for a game that is just a little bit different. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
