-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Global Operations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/globaloperations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 341 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Developer: Barking Dog
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Mar 25, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you don't care about the single-player game, if you have a high-speed Internet connection, and 
 if you can find a good server, then Global Operations is great. 

 Global Operations, a putative Counter-Strike killer by Barking Dog Studios, is kind of like having 
 to eat a banana split with your hands -- just because it's a little sloppy doesn't mean it isn't 
 still good. The game is primarily a team-based tactical shooter, combining Counter-Strike's system 
 for cash rewards and equipment purchases, Rogue Spear's real-world settings and large weapon selection, 
 and Return to Castle Wolfenstein's character classes and objective-based maps. For good measure, 
 the developers have added some innovative ideas of their own to this mix. The game did ship in 
 an unpolished state and suffers from demanding bandwidth requirements and a severe lack of servers. 
 However, these problems are generally overshadowed by the simple fact that when everything comes 
 together, Global Operations is one of the deepest and most satisfying multiplayer tactical shooters 
 currently available.           Global Ops is a team-based shooter with a few key innovations.  
   

  To one-up its arch-nemesis, Counter-Strike, Barking Dog promised Global Ops would include a single-player 
 game along with the expected multiplayer mode. The best that can be said about what resulted from 
 that promise is that Barking Dog didn't lie: Global Ops does indeed include a single-player game. 
 It's a linear progression through the 13 multiplayer missions with each of the 15 other players 
 controlled by a bot. The bots have their moments, but for the most part they're not especially 
 helpful when they're on your team, nor are they particularly dangerous when they're on the other 
 side. Every instance where they appear to have some idea of what's going on is eclipsed by an episode 
 in which they fail to use the equipment of their character class, ignore your commands, make crazy 
 choices while pursuing a map's objectives, or simply get stuck on something, at which point the 
 game helpfully warps them into the clear. The bots aren't completely ineffectual. But the single-player 
 game is more of a slightly enhanced training mode than a full-fledged campaign. Anyone thinking 
 about purchasing Global Ops primarily for its single-player experience is strongly advised to stay 
 away.   

  Like in Counter-Strike, each round in Global Operations begins with you purchasing equipment. However, 
 you must also pick a character class, like in Wolfenstein. The seven classes include commando, 
 heavy gunner, recon, medic, sniper, demoman, and intelligence officer. Each one varies in its starting 
 cash, access to items, carrying capacity, and proficiency with the different types of weapons. 
 Most of the classes are pretty self-explanatory. The commando is an all-around grunt who can use 
 a wide range of weapons, the heavy gunner carries the big machine guns useful for laying down suppressing 
 fire, the demoman can plant and defuse explosives, the medic can heal wounded teammates, and the 
 sniper is pretty much just that. The intelligence officer is a noncombat role. He has an overhead 
 view of the mission area from which he can set waypoints. He can also access first-person views 
 from anyone on his team and access views from cameras placed throughout each level. It's a lot 
 like the commander role in Tribes 2. And like with the commander in Tribes 2, nobody appears to 
 be interested in playing that role.           Your recon unit can help you tell friends from foes. 
    

  The recon unit, however, is possibly the game's most successful innovation and has turned out to 
 be very popular thus far. A player on recon is automatically equipped with a life-signs detector. 
 When the detector is activated, every enemy unit, friendly unit, and moveable object within a wide 
 range appears onscreen as a symbol whose size and position represent its relative distance from 
 the recon player. This is regardless of how many intervening walls there may be. The great part 
 is that teammates in the vicinity of the recon unit receive this information as well. This has 
 the dual effect of inspiring teamwork and reducing the viability of lone-wolf camping. A squad 
 consisting of a recon unit, a medic, and a couple of gunners is a formidable force. A complementary 
 little innovation is that large-caliber guns can fire through thin walls. It's incredibly satisfying 
 to shoot an opponent hidden behind a flimsy barrier after your recon unit paints him for you.  

  Rather than the short three- or four-minute rounds and one-death-and-you're-out system of Counter-Strike, 
 Global Operations employs longer 10- to 30-minute rounds with dead players respawning as a group 
 every 90 seconds or so, as in Wolfenstein. This works well with the equipment-purchasing feature. 
 When you die, you collect money for kills, assisted kills, the length of time you managed to stay 
 alive, and various other class-oriented actions. You also drop your weapons wherever you were shot. 
 This sets up some interesting decisions -- mainly, should you spend money now or save it and try 
 to pick up some dropped equipment in the level?    

 The 13 levels included in Global Operations are all excellent. The objectives include hostage rescue, 
 item retrieval, object destruction, and assassination, with many of the levels incorporating multiple 
 goals. Each level is big, features well-placed choke points, and usually includes multiple paths 
 to any given point, including shortcuts that can be opened up through the use of explosives.   
         The game sports some impressive audio and visual effects.    

  Global Ops uses the LithTech engine, and though the environments are a little blocky, they're more 
 than serviceable. The game also has some really well executed visual effects, some of which actually 
 enhance the gameplay. For instance, tear gas causes your view to smear and periodically go black, 
 simulating how your character is trying to blink the irritant out of his eyes. The character models 
 and animations are also well done. Shooting someone in the head will cause him to clutch his face 
 as he drops, while shooting him in the back will knock him forward as he reaches around behind 
 him. This only occurs on killing shots, however -- a nonlethal hit unfortunately doesn't provide 
 much visual feedback. This can be frustrating when combined with the game's sometimes-unpredictable 
 damage model. Sometimes an enemy will go down after just one or two hits, as you'd expect. At other 
 times, you'll seemingly have to unload entire clips of ammunition to get someone to drop.   

  The sound effects are outstanding. Each of the game's 33 real-world weapons has a specific and 
 often immediately recognizable sound. Levels all feature a lot of subtle ambient noise that really 
 picks up any slack in the details of the environmental graphics. There are also a huge number of 
 different footstep effects corresponding to different floor materials. As with some of the visual 
 effects, the clever use of sound actually affects gameplay. The best example of this is that nearby 
 explosions briefly cause a ringing in your ears and a general muting of sound that can impact your 
 ability to hear enemies approaching.   

  Global Operations does have a few considerable flaws. First among them is a dire lack of servers. 
 This can be partially attributed to the game's newness, but some of the blame needs to be placed 
 on the design of the game itself. Server requirements are steep: According to the scant information 
 in the readme file, a full T1 line is needed to host a 16-player game. Servers must also be dedicated, 
 and only one server instance can be run on a given machine. There's also no Linux server port at 
 this point, though one is promised. Even when registering a good ping, the game is virtually unplayable 
 when connected to an underpowered server, and even on decent servers, in our experience, it's incredibly 
 choppy if the client has anything less than a DSL or Cable connection. There are currently only 
 about 50 servers running at any given time, of which maybe six or seven were playable for us. On 
 those, though, everything ran perfectly smoothly. LAN play is also smooth, but every player needs 
 a unique CD key to join in.           The core gameplay of Global Ops is fun and interesting.  
   

  In spite of the attention to detail apparent in the game's many neat little touches -- for instance, 
 defusing a bomb involves actually figuring out which wire to cut, meaning if you're in a hurry, 
 you can cross your fingers and take a guess -- it seems as if a few elements were either glossed 
 over or simply not included. There's no voting system, for example -- if someone on your team decides 
 to concentrate on peppering your respawn spot with tear gas, there's not much recourse. There's 
 not a lot of detailed information about the characteristics of the many weapons, either, nor any 
 place to test-fire them at your leisure. A shooting range of some sort would have been great, considering 
 all the different hardware available. And short of starting your own dedicated server on a separate 
 machine, there's no easy way to explore the levels without opposition in order to learn them.  

  So here's a recap of the requirements: If you don't care about the single-player game, if you have 
 a high-speed Internet connection, and if you can find a good server, then Global Operations is 
 great. It'll be a shame if not enough people meet these requirements, because Global Ops is an 
 innovative team-based shooter that deserves an audience.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: quaycomputer
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Caution!!! after reading this, you may throw your counter strikes in the recycle bin, so please 
 be aware...
  
  I would like to think one is one of the best fps game i've ever played. in comparison to counter 
 strikes, this one hits the roof, as cs hits the root. there are variety of guns with preview. each 
 character has its own specialty, which can carry different kind of weapons. Plus, they have different 
 moving speed as well, such as sniper are moving faster than heavy gunner. in single player mod, 
 you can call medic or command your team such as "follow me", "hold this position", "move quiet".... 
 Not to mention the location, backgrounds - they are much more details and original than counter 
 strike. One good thing i prefer, no cheat for this game, unless someone creates a non-official 
 trainer. Great for online multiplayer mod. However, sometimes the shot detection in sniper is a 
 little off and little glitches in reloading your weapons can piss you off. Well, it rarely happen, 
 so I don't think it would be a big deal. I recommend this game.
  
  perfect score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roby_Oprea
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Global Operations is a team based FPS. But, the game differs from Counter Strike. ln 
 CS, when you get killed, you would have to wait until your team wins or your teammates, which is quite 
 annoying, while in Global Operations, when you get killed, you can call a medic to heal you or just 
 simply get in the transporter, giving you enough time to buy your weapons. Another difference between 
 the two games is that in Global Operations, you have 2 campaigns, counter-terrorist and terrorist 
 campaign, and there is no skirmish type of game, while in Counter Strike you can set win limits or 
 time limits before playing in a level and have the chance to choose between counter-terrorist forces 
 or terrorist forces. And the last difference between these two games is that in Global Operations 
 you can choose a class out of five classes (medic, commando, heavy gunner, sniper, recon) which you 
 can change while playing. Each class could buy only some weapons (e. g. as a sniper, you can only buy 
 sniper rifles) . In CS you can choose a soldier out of four, but each class can buy the same weapons. I 
 say that Global Operations is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Note* I haven't got much time so this one will be short
  
  At this time someone who chooses to play Global Operations has picked it while looking back in 
 the past at the games that he/she has perhaps forgot to play a couple of years back. Global Operations 
 attracts the eye of an action-fan with a picture of several armed operatives on the box. Aiming, 
 perhaps, at repeating the success of Counter Strike, a mod for Half Life, it looks promising. However, 
 does it hold its own as a stand-alone game? GAMEPLAY
  
  Global Operations tries to improve the old concept with new features. One such feature is the various 
 missions. They vary from blowing stuff up to assassinations to rescues. Another feature is the 
 character variety. The game features many armies and many sorts of terrorists. Weapons are also 
 pletiful. Each weapon has to be bought when the player isn't on the map (either before the match 
 or when dead) with the cash mostly received for killing and completing objectives.
  
  There are two modes: single player and multi-player. After completing the optional training mode 
 where you aknowledge yourselves with controls, you can play the campaign where you to play the 
 availible maps as part of the good guys, with each succesful mission unlocking the next one. You 
 play together with a team of bots against a team of bots. Once the player dies, he respawns at 
 the insertion zone after a while. The poor AI intelligence contributes to you getting tired of 
 this mode quite quickly. Sometimes the AI surprises you as both your teammates and the enemy do 
 succeed in completing the objectives after a while, but it's not helping the single player much. 
 There isn't a general storyline or anything else to bring life to the single player and it becomes 
 what it was probably originally meant to be: training for the multi-player.
  
  The multi-player allows you to play the single-player maps with a team of real players. It's identical 
 to the single-player in every other way. It's simple and fun.
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND
  
  Graphics in the game are rather dated (even by the 2002 standards) and do remind the original Counter 
 Strike. The guns look well, but there isn't much else to say about the quality of the visuals. 
 The game does feature various environments and player skins and that's nice.
  
  There are a lot of sounds in Global Operations. There are many voice commands for the game. The 
 plentiful guns have to have their distinct sounds. There are many minor noticable points like the 
 ringing in the ears when a grenade explodes nearby. There's isn't much in-game music, except for 
 the main menu soundtrack, but for this particular game the music would be rather pointless. Most 
 professional Counter Strike fans usually play their own music if any.
  
  VERDICT
  
  For whatever reason, this game failed to repeat the magic of Counter Strike and currently only 
 has 3 or 4 servers operating on-line. The original Counter Strike has more. With its single player 
 being rather boring and its graphics average, the game doesn't come very far and somewhere between 
 has now become quite absolite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLazySouth
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  The game itself has crappy sounds, hit & miss AI, often onesided maps (especially the canadian map) 
 and... I'm sorry, I can't finish this review, "The Caveman's Valentine" is on and... I can't... 
 I can't turn away. I can't turn away from Samuel Jackson. I have absolutely no idea whats going 
 on, but apparently Samuel is inclined to stay "nasty" on some "mothers" which can't be a good thing.
 
  
  Dude! A guy is getting tortured to opera! Not like Reservoir Dogs like he's being tortured to disco, 
 at least you can groove with the pain, man!
  
  Wow, this is pretty arty. Jackson looks like the lead singer of Bad Brains.
  
  Anyway, this 
 is a pretty good game that suffers from movement and low quality sound effects. It tries to be 
 super realistic, and kinda decreases it's fun value by doing so. I got this game from a wholesale 
 place in Jersey for ten bucks, not a bad deal but not worth the effort Rockstar Toronto, er I mean 
 Barking Dog Games put into it. Horrible online play, and by horrible - I mean awful! You can't 
 move two feet without reverting to the same place you spawned. This is a great game for a rainy 
 day or just scratching that tactical sim itch, Global Ops is great. 
  
  Favorite Maps:
  Sri Lanka
  Mexico
  Columbia
  North Africa
  Uganda
  
  *A little tip, when VIP's are 
 about to be ushered via plane or helicopter - shoot the aircraft to delay pickup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 13, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  A good shooter with much characters and weapons but you don't got much missions. The weapons are 
 amazing and you can almost make your own weapon. Take a AK-47 and put a scope on it, or take Spas 
 12 Shotgun and a light on it if you got to shoot in the dark. Like more a pistol or a Bazooka no 
 problem buy it and use it. Te place where the missions are played are not bad to. Morocco, Antarctica, 
 Peru, Sri Lanka and you got much and much more. Got olso nice teams. S. W. A. T Arentinia army, Sea 
 Army and much more. What you must do in the missions is different. In some missions you must safe 
 the hostages, m in some missions you must kill somebody special and in a another mission you must 
 take somebody to a Extraction point. A good game but its too short, you can finish this game in 
 less than 10 hours. If you are a GOOD PLAYER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndaFiya
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  the missions in the game are great, and you have alot of fun replaying them different ways with 
 different weapons. The bots are smart enough to be fun and realistic, and online is pretty good 
 too. the graphics arent really good, and the sound is generally lazily put together, but if you 
 find this game for a cheap price, you'd probably have alot of fun with it. if you are a fan of 
 R6, or CS, you'll probably have a blast.
  
  anyways i recommend it to anyone who wants to play a good squad or tactics shooter, and can also 
 be confident in an enjoyable offline experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Jester
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2004 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This Review is with the latest patch.
  
  Barking Dog Studios developed Global Operations with the same vibe of Counter-Strike and other 
 similar games. Barking Dog studios has actually worked on previous versions of Counter-Strike. 
 Global Operations is a squad based military shooter that focuses mainly on the online play and 
 there is a variety of real world weapons and equipment found throughout the game. There are currently 
 up to 15 multiplayer maps set in real life locations. You can go online and duke it out with up 
 23 other players. There are 7 soldier classes to choose from with specific weapons/equipment and 
 some other minor differences.
  
  There are similar game types to Counter-Strike but they usually involve more than just running 
 into a room and planting a bomb or rescuing hostages. You usually have a list of objectives that 
 you must complete before the primary objective. An example of this is that in the Chechnya mission 
 where the Russian Army must raid a rebel compound and eliminate the rebel leader. They cant do 
 that because the area is barricaded and only an air-strike could clear the path but they cant 
 call in an air-strike because there are two anti-aircraft vehicles in the area. The Russian Army 
 must first blow the anti-aircraft vehicles up so that the air-strike can clear the barricade and 
 give access to the rebel base for the main objective. Most of the maps in Global Operations are 
 good and they believably make you think you are in that part of the world. The bomb diffusing sequence 
 is very interactive and interesting. You can either wait for this device to find which wire to 
 cut or you can simply guess which wire it is. This is useful if there is only a few seconds left 
 or if someone killed your backup and is coming for you.
  
  The weapons and equipment throughout the game are based on real world weapons and all of them are 
 worth using depending on the funds you have available. You gain funds by completing an objective, 
 killing enemies and other pro-teamwork things. None of the weapons are way overpowered or useless 
 but paying for a very expensive gun will get you your moneys worth. You have to wait to spawn in 
 after you die and that can take from 1  40 seconds depending on the server settings. You can select 
 your weapons and equipment here while you wait or spectator your teammates or camera points. You 
 also have the choice to risk running to where you or you teammate died to retrieve the dropped 
 weapon. There are always weapons on the ground but you are practically target practice if you only 
 have a pistol and the weapon was dropped in the open. Almost all the weapons can be upgraded by 
 adding attachments like scopes, double clips, silencers, extended clips, drum barrels and attachable 
 flashlights. Just about all the guns are very useless if you spray the gun fully automatic. Even 
 at close range spraying is difficult so you should learn shooting in precise bursts. You can switch 
 your fire mode to single or three round burst for most guns if you are having trouble shooting 
 accurately. It doesnt take many shots to kill someone with rifles and powerful pistols so learning 
 to shoot precisely will definitely give you an edge. Also, moving while shooting makes your shots 
 very inaccurate. There are multiple kinds of armor going from light to heavy but some are limited 
 to different classes. The equipment is pretty standard stuff ranging from multiple grenades to 
 night vision goggles. 
  
  You will be able to choose from 7 different soldier classes in the game. The demolitions expert, 
 heavy gunner, commando, recon, medic, sniper and intelligence officer classes are available for 
 choosing. The medic is a very important class for the team. They can heal themselves and teammates 
 by injecting them with some green substance using a med-kit. You can also revive fallen soldiers 
 much like Return to Castle Wolfenstein. You should try to heal your teammates and yourself as fast 
 as possible because the longer you stay injured, the less amount of health you can heal. The recon 
 class is extremely useful and hasnt been done in other games. The recon soldier can use some sort 
 of device which lets you see teammates and enemies through walls. He cant keep the device detecting 
 enemies forever but it is a huge advantage to a team. The disadvantage of being a recon soldier 
 is that your weapons are limited to light-machine guns. The sniper is a valuable team asset depending 
 what kind of map you are playing. The sniper can only buy sniper rifles as his primary weapon and 
 that should make you choose wisely upon using a sniper. The three classes I explained move exceptionally 
 faster than the other classes but they are limited to light and medium armor. The commando is an 
 all around killer. He has access to many weapons including the devastating L. A. W. anti-armor weapon. 
 This weapon eliminates everything around the blast. The heavy machine gunner has access to heavy 
 machine guns like the SAW and shotguns. The demolitions expert has access to an M-79 grenade launcher 
 and different types of explosive like remote charges and timed C4 that can be used to set a trap 
 around the corner. The last three classes are a bit slower than the first three but they do have 
 access to the heaviest armor. The final class, the intelligence officer, is rather useless and 
 unused. I cant say much because I was so incredibly bored within the first minute that I went 
 back to fighting. You see an overhead map, your teammates and remote cameras, which are the same 
 things you can watch as a spectator. You can give waypoints but I wouldnt expect anyone to go 
 there. All fighting classes have access to the four different types of grenades and equipment like 
 night vision goggles and thermal heat sensor goggles.
  
  The graphics are just good. They dont have anything special to describe them as anything but good. 
 Although the environments are good looking, they are really square. I mean that everything seems 
 straight and it is blocky. This wont interfere with game play but it is something you notice. 
 I think it is a great feature that each level takes place in a different location and all of the 
 player models have a different look corresponding to that location. The explosions are standard 
 stuff but they dont give you a feeling that a blast just went off near you. The smoke grenade 
 does its job well with no slowdown as you run through it. The tear gas grenade gives a blurry effect 
 that makes you close your eyes repeatedly and cough. The flash bang gives off the same effect you 
 see in counter-strike. The guns all look authentic and they are used as they would be in real life. 
 
  
  The sound is used well in thinking that a small battle is going on around you. The guns sound realistic 
 when they are fired which is great. Unfortunately, the radio commands keep the same language throughout 
 each mission. If a grenade or flash bang goes off near you, it will cause your ears to deafen for 
 a short time. I kind of wish that the explosions were a bit louder but I cant say from experience 
 what they sound like in real life. Aside from the radio commands, the only other voice in the game 
 is from the tutorial. The game has an option for voice over IP but I have never heard anyone use 
 it and I dont know if they hear me. There are some nice effects like wind blowing while you are 
 in the mountains and other ambient noises that make the maps feel more real. The sound overall 
 is very well done and should do better in immersing you in the game.
  
  The servers are a bit lacking though. There are currently 30 servers running and only 11 have players 
 playing in them. Team-killing is still the same as anywhere else but you can vote him out if everyone 
 binds vote to a key. Cheating is another problem. The servers that dont actively have administrators 
 playing are probably going to have cheaters in them. Even the official EA servers have cheaters. 
 You can vote them out but most people on their team vote no because they are raking in money. That 
 and some people havent bind vote to a key. The game is great if you find a good server though. 
 Even the servers in a separate country from my own played with no lag. It is also worth mentioning 
 that there is a single player mode but it isnt worth checking out. It is only the multiplayer 
 maps with bots that you can play in succession. If you were planning to get this game for single 
 player then you should cancel those plans now. You can have a fun time if you find a good server 
 with a good number of people playing. The game did not quite get an audience as large as Counter-Strike 
 but is a good game that is worth checking out.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
