-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Glory of the Roman Empire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/gloryoftheromanempire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Casual feel makes city-building here easy to master.
 No micromanagement.
 Fast-moving campaign that zips all over the Roman Empire.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Far too easy.
 Game mechanics so simplistic that more advanced players are apt to get bored.
 Weak Roman setting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.9, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 350 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Haemimont
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Jul 3, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Glory of the Roman Empire aims low with a light take on the city-building genre. 

  When a game opens with a cinematic focusing on a little boy kissing and then releasing a dove to 
 fly majestically over an idyllic countryside, you know not to expect much in the way of intense 
 action. So you have to give Glory of the Roman Empire kudos for honesty. But you can't dish out 
 too much praise when it comes to the game itself, as it is such a light take on the city-building 
 genre that it practically disappears into its voluminous toga after a few hours of play. Haemimont 
 Games takes such a casual approach to everything, from the ancient Roman setting to the quickie 
 campaign scenarios, so that many players will find little here to latch onto and really enjoy. 

          Based on this idyllic screenshot, you'd never know that the citizens of Syracusae are afflicted 
 with the Black Death.     

  When you get right down to it, this is really a budget-minded take on classics like Caesar III. 
 Glory of the Roman Empire puts you in the toga and sandals of a Roman governor for hire who bops 
 all over the empire dealing with various municipal problems. Both competitive modes of play -- a 
 campaign and a challenge option where you're given random objectives to deal with in random cities 
 (there is also a free-building sandbox mode, but no multiplayer beyond the ability to post challenge 
 scores online at a wall of fame) -- are fast-moving. No sooner do you deal with the plague at Syracusae 
 than your expertise is needed to battle wildfires in Florentia, or to add to the stature of Londinium, 
 or to repel barbarians from Colonia Claudia.  

  Objectives in each burg are always straightforward. As with other city-building games, you're tasked 
 with building a certain number of homes, growing town population, making sure everybody has a job, 
 establishing trade routes, and so forth. Unlike most other city-building games, though, objectives 
 are typically realized quite quickly. Design has been streamlined to the point where there is no 
 micromanagement, which is good, but there are also fewer choices to be made, which is bad. There 
 are no more than a couple of dozen structures, and scenarios typically center on just a few of 
 these. Resources are gathered and distributed pretty much automatically. Just throw up some pig 
 farms, clay pits, mines, and wheat fields, along with businesses like butchers and bakeries that 
 process raw materials into usable goods like sausages and bread, and you're good to go.  

  In short, it's way too easy to make with the bread and circuses here. The feel of most scenarios 
 is akin to open-ended sandbox play, where you're free to do pretty much whatever you want whenever 
 you want to meet goals. This is largely due to the lack of a monetary economy. Gold is present 
 in the game, but it is used almost solely for the purchase of slaves (and you do have to keep their 
 numbers up, or their workload becomes so arduous that they pull a Spartacus and revolt) . Buildings 
 are constructed and maintained only with raw materials, which are generally found in abundance 
 locally or via easily accessible trade routes with other towns.  

  Towns are also easy to plan because you don't have to worry about negative effects. Unlike a lot 
 of other city builders, here you can place a row of houses right behind a pig farm and a butcher's 
 shop and not have the citizens offer up a single peep of complaint. So you can essentially proceed 
 to build towns however you like, with little regard for the barely there bottom line, and just 
 plop down buildings wherever their circles of effect benefit the surrounding structures. The only 
 exception is provided by a few scenarios in northern Europe, as there you need to work fast in 
 order to build watchtowers and train soldiers in barracks before burn-and-pillage barbarians come 
 storming over the hills.  

  This lack of challenge makes scenarios fly by and gives Glory of the Roman Empire a pick-up-and-play 
 atmosphere not found in other city-building games. Casual players or those on tight schedules will 
 find this a plus, as you can often knock off a couple of scenarios in a half hour or less. There 
 is something to be said for backing away from the micromanagement that has turned many city-building 
 games into ad hoc degrees in urban planning.  

  But, still, Haemimont goes too far with this approach. The "city builder for everybody" philosophy 
 has seeped into every aspect of the game, so that the whole thing feels generic. Even the Roman 
 angle has been watered down. Citizens are given Roman names, buildings feature such Roman stereotypes 
 as villas, vineyards, and baths, and you can erect monuments like arches of triumph, Colosseums, 
 and temples to Bacchus and Neptune. But these elements seem like window dressing. While scenarios 
 take place in towns with Roman names on a map of the Roman Empire, the towns themselves have nothing 
 in common with their historical namesakes. And the scenarios are similarly divorced from history, 
 with no references to actual events or dates or known personages. It's easy to forget about the 
 Roman theme after a few hours of play, unless you turn the interface over to Latin (which actually 
 is a pretty cool innovation) and play the game in the language of Virgil.  

          You know you've got the emperor's favor when he lets you build both a golden statue and 
 an arch of triumph.     

  The look and sound of the game add to this fuzzy feel. Most buildings appear to be somewhat classically 
 inspired, but lack a real Roman identity. It's also hard to tell them apart from a distance. Haemimont 
 seems to have relied on similar art motifs for different structures, so at a glance it can be tough 
 to tell a casa from a butcher's shop, or a tavern from a tailor shop. Sound is barely there. The 
 orchestral soundtrack is so bland that you barely notice it, and your citizens are veritable mutes. 
 Even when you click directly on them, you get little more than muffled grunts.  

  A muffled grunt is actually a fitting critical response for Glory of the Roman Empire. You can't 
 be too harsh on Haemimont, as the developer clearly aimed low here, but this just isn't a game 
 that's going to hold the interest of anyone with the slightest modicum of city-building experience. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nicolelux
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to have impressive graphic very pretty nature and water areas. the sounds was 
 also good on this game to. it is your typical roman city building game i personaly found it way 
 to easy to beat there was know real challege to this game once you make it through thier tutorials 
 you can just said throught this game. i would suggest this to people if thier looking for a easier 
 game where they can build thier cities and start over. The army mission has potential to go further. 
 so if you are all about the graphics this game won't let ya down. if you want a challenge and lots 
 of hours you might waste your money. But this game is worh buying i wouldn't say it was a total 
 waste of money. when i was playing this game i enjoyed it but i was dissappointed on how fast i 
 beat it. it does also have historical facts so you can learn aswell and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lupo72
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Though some nice graphics and a number of good ideas (the family of four, the population of slaves 
 and a few more) , the game lacks of the necessary complexity and depth and eventually fails to be 
 really challenging. Some people will find it maybe disappointing.
  The game is quite easy: You won't get any special problems with money, population, growth. There's 
 no taxes, no bad Gods, no calamities, so you won't need any special effort to run your city well. 
 I found especially the military very disappointing. Towers are very ineffective, soldiers defend 
 your city automatically. Barbarians come to ravage but not to destroy. Caesar III was (and maybe 
 still is) a much better and challenging game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  It's just one of those games that you play for several hours, uninstall and forget them forever. 
 Graphics looks really cool (tried on 1650X1050) , but it's a problem of lots of games these days 
 - looks great, but nothing inside.
  
  The game is like a copy of Caesar (Cleopatra, Poseidon or any of this series) , but you instantly 
 notice a couple of things - buildings, trading, morale of your people, complexity of building a 
 settlement is like playing earlier mentioned games on Childish easy modes. No problems with resources, 
 no problems with money, trading... everything runs smoothly since the first minutes, you can win 
 levels from 10 to 30 minute each if you play a campaign. What also dissapoints is that the game 
 has heavy bugs - for no reason slaves stop bringing resources to further settlements, the same 
 buildings catches fire 250 times in a row and etc.
  
  So general opinion would be - Pretty good graphics, very poor game script, very easy game, no fun 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAARKANTOS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  It was with some anticipation that i awaited the release of this game.
  I must say, i was right. I knew this wouldn't be a superb game or a shocking succes. Yet its exactly 
 what i was looking for.
  
  It's a City Building sim that does little we haven't seen before, and probably even done better. 
 So, it's not original... who cares? It's just plain fun to play this game, the graphics make me 
 happy although they're a bit dated. It's quite easy and doesn't require you to utilise your full 
 brain capacity at all. You just relax, build some houses, some farms etc. No stress, never stress, 
 just simple addictive gameplay that will keep you going for a couple of weeks.
  
  If you're a fan of the genre it's defenetly worth concidering the purchase of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anguille02
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  I've been playing City-Building games since Caesar II. While Caesar II, III and IV are great at 
 representing huge cities, Glory of the Roman Empire is perfect in realism for the early days of 
 the same cities. In Caesar IV, you'll get quickly thousands of citizens which is unrealistic. GotRE 
 is slow paced (big cities have some hundreds of citizens) . The environment is beautiful and the 
 music is very relaxing. The game is actually so well designed that some reviewers consider it a 
 flaw: there's no need for micromanagement if you plan you city well... but some reviewers seem like 
 they would like to face problems where they can micromanage. The interface is so easy to use and 
 disappears when you don't need it so you can really enjoy the view of your city!
  
  Pros:
  
  - Relaxing music (it's a city-building, not an ego-shooter)
  - Beautiful environment
 
  - realistic growth
  - Easy option to take screenshots
  
  Cons:
  
  - I would have liked some more buildings
  
  Go and buy it because it's really worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geitenvla
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  This is a city building game and should be reviewed as one. It is tempting to stumble over the 
 lack of RTS in the game but one should look a little further than that. The game is not a RTS, 
 it is a city builder and once you play the game for that goal this is one of the coolest I've ever 
 played. The game play is relaxed. You'll be offered lots of troubles when trying to build your 
 first city. People getting sick or rebellious, houses or other buildings burning to the ground 
 or the lack of balanced industrial zones, it's all in here. But once you get the hang of how a 
 roman city functions, you can build whatever you like.
  
  The game can be played as a sandbox game or as a campaign. I didn't like the campaign mode, but 
 that's just me... I don't like any campaign mode in any game. I didn't play the campaign mode for 
 more than 3 hours so I can't really say anything about it.
  The sandbox mode is really cool and allows you to build the city of your dreams. That is something 
 that must appeal to you otherwise just skip to another game. You are only limited by the games' 
 boundries but you are pretty free to try different setups to see if you can even be more succesful.
 
  There are lots of cool things in the game like trading goods, aquaducts, disasters, slaves, to 
 keep you searching for new ways to solve your problems along the way. The graphics are very nice. 
 You can zoom in to a detailed level and the light effects are great. You really feel like some 
 sort of roman God when you look over your city as the sun sets on the horizon. Day and nigth are 
 balanced out a little, so you have more day time than night time, which is good. If you're a dark 
 mysterious person there is always the option to let your people prey for eternal night, or dawn, 
 or whatever you like best. The camera angles are ok, but I really missed some sort of God overview 
 cam. The only way to solve this, is to park your view on a high mountain so you get a nice areal 
 view. They really missed out on this one. It would have been so much cooler if you were able to 
 fly over your city. However, you can walk through it. The people in your city act detailed. There 
 always occupied with some task and you can look into each and every single individuals life. Learn 
 his needs and tell him what to do. Great thing is, if you don't want to, you don't have to. The 
 game is smart enough to handle the needs of the citizens aslong as you build in a smart way. Shifting 
 people for other jobs can all be done by the AI and is a great relief on the micro management. 
 But again, if you want... you can do it yourself.
  
  The sound is nice. Detailed ambient effects of animals, water and other environmental sounds. It 
 places you on the spot and add up to the great graphics to make this a wonderful playable game.
 
  
  The replay value of the game is ok. Once you know how to build, the only challenge is to build 
 as big as you can. After some time it can get pretty boring and pointless. On the other hand, this 
 is the kind of game you want to pick up a couple of months after you were done playing as if it 
 were only for the beautiful sights the game offers you.
  
  Glory of the Roman empire is a really relaxing game which can relieve you from your daily stress. 
 It won't get you frustrated and it isn't too hard but can be challenging. If you like building 
 games, this is one for you to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lengo67
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely ambitious in it's endeavor to recreate the economy of Ancient Rome, with 
 all it's problems, and all it's dependencies. Whether it succeeds or not depends on your ability 
 to withstand the demands of this along with the designers' misjudgments.
  
  The good --
  This economy is based on two classes -- the free industrialists, and their slave labor force. It 
 is highly realistic.
  
  Their are multiple dependencies in this game
  1. Keep your people working
  2. Keep your free people happy
  3. Don't overwork your slaves
 
  4. Protect your town from marauders
  
  The graphics are nothing to shout about, but they are adequate. Once you reach a decent sized city, 
 you'll have the look that makes you think Rome. It is convincing enough, but not very pretty. Still, 
 It gets a strong 6 in this department.
  
  The maps are inredibly huge! Mostly, this is because you're in tough terrain. I mean TOUGH! There 
 are mountains that prevent one large urban sprawl. This is no cakewalk! You gotta work! You need 
 to plan right from the get-go, and put this game on pause just to find out where the hell you're 
 gonna build to get maximum resource output, AND in what order to build it! The facts
  
  What People Need (for happiness)
  Altars
  Wheat porridge
  Bread
  Meat (butchered)
  cloth 
 (which needs flax farms)
  water
  Temples
  
  What You Need
  warehouses
  prefects (and I mean NEED)
  wood
  stone
  wheat farms
  bakeries
  pig farms
  butchers
 
  an army (Barracks and weaponsmiths)
  gold can be mined or traded for
  
  Here's the meat and potatoes --
  Your slaves work great. Your free people are spoiled brats. 
 You can't keep 'em happy, no matter how hard you try. Forget it! It can't be done. So, you need 
 prefects. Prefects are both police (not very good at this) and fire departments (absolutely necessary 
 and very good at this) . You see, your spoiled brats like to rebel a lot, and their only recourse 
 is to burn! They'll burn your town because they don't get what they want. They'll burn your bakeries 
 because they want bread!! So, you, Ceasar, must spank the brats into submission. It is, sadly, 
 your duty to oppress, because there's no way that even Zeus could supply these brats with their 
 wants!
  
  That is the jist of this game. You must control your people! There is no way you can provide for 
 all their needs, and they start burning at the drop of a hat. So, you don't give them what they 
 want! Instead, you spank 'em until you can make 'em reasonably happy. But that's a long way off 
 in most cases. They it all immediately! Now. Or I'll burn your town! 
  
  The most excellent part of this game --
  See the above paragraph! This is some pretty good game 
 theory here! More facts
  You can buy slaves with gold. Wow. Not very a very exciting concept, but it's traditional game 
 theory, and it's easily understood and recognizable. But there's another very outstanding way. 
 Your army can sack an enemy village, or be sent to capture slaves! If you don't wanna mine gold, 
 you don't need to (as long as there's an enemy on the map) .
  
  Tha'ts some damn good game theory! And it's historically accurate.
  
  Designer misjudgements 
 1. We are all not mensa members
  2. You are not either, because your maps are too hard, and you didn't include a map editor/mission 
 maker. DOH!
  3. People want too much too soon. There is no way to keep them happy. I wanna play God, not Caesar. 
 Let me make a perfect city, for Dionnysus' sake!
  
  Perfomance
  Get the demo and see for yourself. But I'll say that It runs well on my A7N8, 512Mb, GeForce FX5900XT 
 128. If you have a mediocre system like mine, you'll be impressed. The Bad... the oh my god... 
 Bad!
  This game will make your head spin! It is extremely demanding, and takes a ton of concentration. 
 It HURTS! You are either gonna be terribly frustrated, or very taxed at best. When you stand up 
 after a while, you'll feel like you drank two Jolt Colas. In a word -- tedious! If you're lucky, 
 you'll be fascinated by it too. It is, for the brainiac types, highly addictive. For those with 
 less tolerance for tedius stuff, you'll probably hate it. I'm somewhere in between, so I both like 
 it and hate it. In short, it's just too hard, but it's very intriguing. Figuring out where you're 
 gonna build on these complicated maps is one thing, and indeed it's a big thing, for minerals don't 
 abound, but they're there. Then, add to that, you gotta make it happen, and fit different swized 
 buildings into these tight spaces. This is tedious. Did I mention tedious? Oh... so... tedious. 
 Or did I already say that? Tedious, I mean.
  
  Lastly, and my biggest complaint, is rather personal. I don't find it entertaining to rely on slaves. 
 The very concept hurts my sensibilities. But then, this is SOMETHING DIFFERENT for computer games. 
 This game duplicates the game theory of ancient times. When was the lastt time you saw any game 
 with fresh (although ancient) game theory?
  
  Game theory -- The mechanics of conflict and competion to get the upper hand, esp. appliable in 
 financial systems, governing systems, military maneuvers, and personal affairs. Get this game if 
 you can handle the stress. It's recreated a very acccurate and not so pretty picture of what the 
 Roman Empire was like when it was rising to power. The game theory in GotRE is very ambitious.... 
 perhaps a little too.
  
  My rating: I dunno. 10 for it's ambition. A solid 8 for it's exectuion. It could be a LOT less 
 stressful (easier maps) . 5 for it's graphics. 7 for it's interface, 4 for sound (ugh) , and 7 for 
 niceities like are you sure and allowing customization of building commands. For the game theory, 
 mixed feelings - 10 for it's educational value, 5 for it's tediousness. Overall -- jeez! My brain 
 already hurts so you do the math! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkiritici
Rating: 3.6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I just played the free build section and my first impression was that the game is superb. Then 
 as the game continues i realised that it has very few features. and the area is so little that 
 impossible to largen your city. Also trade is another disappointment. As you see in Caesar series, 
 the traders should come to city and walk around buying goods, but in this game you see only slaves 
 ans a few citizens, trade is automatic. Earning money is also very difficult, at the beginnigs of 
 the game it is very tiring to hold up the city. Every minute something (crisis, fire and so..) 
 happens and cant concantrate the game. If you are looking for a ancient city building game, choose 
 Caesar. Glory of the Roman Empire can not show the gloriness indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Glory of Roman Empire
  
  :  
 /  )
   :
  :
 
   :
  
     :
 
  Game Spot:
  IGN:
  Game Rankings:68
  
     
     
    . 
     
     
     City Life 
 (     
  )   
 .      
     
       
     
     
  (   
  )  .
 
  
       
      
      
      
  .   
     
     
      
     
 .   
       
      
  .   
     
       
      
     
    
    ... 
     
      
     
     
     
   .  
     
      
 .    
     
 (     
   )  
     
 (   
 )    
 .
      
    . 
     
       
    
      
  .  
      
      
  .   
      
     
      
     
      
   GORE .  
     
    
      
     
  .   
     
     
  .    
    
       
     
    . 
     
    
      
      
  .  
      
      
  .    
   ( 
   ) 
     
  .   
      
     
     
      
    . 
     
    
     
    . 
    (  
     
   )  
     
      
     
      
     
 .
  
       
       
   .  
     
     
    . 
     
  (   
 )    
     
  .   
     
    
      
      
    
 .     
     
     
     
     
    .
 
  
   :  
     
      
   .   
     
       
 .   
     
     
 .     
     
    
      
     
     
      
      
   .  
      
     
     
     
 .
  
    : 
      
     . 
     
      
      
    . 
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
      
      
      
   .
      
     
 .    
  (  
 )   
      
    
      
 .    
     
     
     
   .
  
   :   
      
     
 .   
    
      
   .  
      
      
      
       
      
    ( 
     
    !!!!) 
      
      
  .  
      
    
      
 .    
    .
 
  
      
  Glory of Roman Empire    
      
    .  
     
     
     
     
 (   )  
     
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I took on a city building challenge of any kind. I think my last experience 
 was with Immortal Cities: Children of the Nile, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
  
  As well as Egyptian, I am very fond of all things Roman. These two ancient civilizations have always 
 been fascinating to learn about. I have fond memories of Caesar II, since I love city builders 
 and had the chance to enjoy one of ancient cultures I like the most, so Glory of the Roman Empire 
 came as a very pleasant surprise.
  
  The gameplay in Glory of the Roman Empire is divided into three modes.
  
  In Campaign Mode, 
 you are given a series of missions in different cities. Usually, the missions relate to increasing 
 population or city stature, so theyre not extremely hard. You begin by fulfilling the needs of 
 one settlement, and soon your popularity as governor rises and your services will be required elsewhere. 
 Besides, the first few campaign stages actually make for a great tutorial to get acquainted with 
 the interface and the requirements of city building. Challenge Mode puts you through a series of 
 four random missions, each with different goals. These missions will have certain obstacles that 
 will make your progress more difficult, but you are also given three bonuses from which you pick 
 only one to help you out. Challenge Mode awards you a score according to your progress (monuments 
 built, people's happiness, number of slaves, plus the total score from challenge conditions, minus 
 the score from the bonus you have chosen) . This mode also provides some competitiveness by letting 
 you upload your final challenge score onto an online leader board.
  
  Last but not least, and just like in any city-building game, there is a sandbox option aptly named 
 Free Build. You choose from a range of landscapes and build your city from scratch with no missions 
 to worry about.
  
  What you need to know about GotRE is that you don't place buildings and they don't cost money. 
 Like in Children of the Nile, you only place the foundations on the ground, and then sit back and 
 watch your slaves carry the materials to the site and build it. Buildings vary from residences 
 to support structures (warehouses, wells, herbalist) , resouce gathering (mines, clay pits, farms) , 
 entertainment (theatre, coliseum) and more (temples, fountains, statues, gardens, baths) . The only 
 things you need to build and maintain something are the respective resources (timber, stone, marble, 
 clay) . Without resources, your city won't prosper, and this is where strategy comes into play.
 
  
  Your citizens will need their houses in range of goods and services. At first, they need food, 
 clothes and water, so the first steps are to make sure there is wheat, meat, flax and water wells. 
 At a certain point, people will want to worship their gods, so you will have to place altars. Altars 
 increase prestige in the vicinity, so any houses in range of an altar will evolve. As you build 
 other facilities and decorations (for example, temples, baths, monuments, a theatre) , the buildings 
 affected by them will become more luxurious. As you grow and prosper, it will be more difficult 
 to keep everyone happy. Your slaves will eventually have a heavier schedule, and the only way to 
 get more slaves is to obtain gold. Gold isn't a currency in the game, it's a trading good, so you 
 either have to mine it or get it from establishing trade routes with other cities.
  
  Of course, the Roman Empire wasn't build in a day, and certainly not without conquest. GotRE also 
 includes a military component so you can create your own army and produce your own weapons. There 
 are barbarian camps in many of the scenarios, so you can set out to invade and conquer before they 
 attack you.
  
  Glory of the Roman Empire is a light take on city building, with no relation to actual Roman historic 
 personalities or events. The scenarios can get pretty wacky at times, with citizens being hit by 
 lightning every other minute, fires breaking out everywhere or barbarian invasions when you least 
 expect it. But they are exactly that, challenging, yet fun.
  
  The Roman fanfare type of music sets the mood without becoming overpowering. The sound effects 
 are minimal and they are mostly used to reflect certain events such as riots, fires or celebrations. 
 You can set the voice to all latin, which is a cool feature and totally worth activating.
  
  Graphically, it may not strike you as stunning, but you can see a good deal of detail in your 
 surroundings, and it's especially interesting to see the different instances of buildings as they 
 evolve. The characters seem a little blocky and lack definition, but you can observe them go about 
 their daily routines. You can truly immerse yourself in the game by just watching slaves building 
 and transporting materials, bakers baking, prefects carrying water buckets from the wells to put 
 out fires, children playing in the gardens, actors performing in the theatre or a fight in the 
 coliseum.
  
  I did have a small problem with one of the challenges offered. My first mission was to gather 100 
 gold, but the given scenario offered no gold mines and no trade routes that I could obtain it from. 
 Now that's a puzzler! How am I to reach a goal when I can't gather the resources in any way?
  
  My major quirk comes from the requirements. Although the game states that it will run in Win 
 98, 2000, ME and XP, I had problems with it. I still have Win ME on my computer (yes, I know, I 
 need to upgrade) and Glory of the Roman Empire insisted on running only in 800x600 resolution. 
 Any attempt made to change the game's options (any options, not just graphical) would boot me straight 
 to the desktop.
  
  I played it with the default settings for a while until I couldn't take the somewhat grainy look, 
 then migrated to my husband's XP-equipped computer, where the game actually detected the graphic 
 settings right away. No problems there, aside from observing a few graphical glitches in mountainous 
 areas.
  
  I am pleased with what I've seen of Glory of the Roman Empire and I have been playing it quite 
 a lot. I find that it actually makes for a good casual game, since it's easy to pick up and play, 
 there are no complex management menu screens, and you can play it for a short while and still feel 
 like you have accomplished something. Not many games do that, and especially not the ones that 
 usually give me a fix for my "god complex".
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=gloryromanempire 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Well the graphics are good, they utilize some of the DX9 effects (though i only think so) like 
 blur (8.1's blur and 9.0's blur seem quite different) , HDR, and the water effect thingy.
  
  Gameplay wise, i think if your a city building sim, this would only last for you around 3 days 
 (non-continous playing) , as i think the initial impression is the thing that's good. Though as 
 with other games that look good, the look could only take it to some degree. Gameplay will also 
 be kinda monotonous, though the problems of the city will kinda make things different every time.
 
  
  The game is good for passing the time, though it's not in my A-list games, but the thing still 
 plays good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warudor
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The designers seemed to have been going in the right direction with this title. I enjoy complex 
 city building games like Pharaoh and Caesar. Those games were more difficult and I understand how 
 the immersing environments of games like Caesar could push away those that were looking for an 
 easier quick game. This game is for those people that don't have a whole lot of time to spend playing 
 games, but is not for those looking for incredible detail and management. The graphics and scenery 
 are very nice, if a little bland from far away. The sound in the game is decent, but it would have 
 been nice to hear a little more bustle from my bigger cities. So if your look for a fun, flash 
 in the pan sort of thing, this game is for you. But if you are a more avid gamer looking for a 
 challenge, wait for something else. This isn't the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serge
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Glory of the Roman empire has its charm. It is a straightforward city building game without overly 
 difficult and tiresome micromanagement. The graphics are nice, sound is good as well. The missions 
 are relatively simple. If you played city management games before you won't be surprised. 
  
  That also is one of the most disappointing things about GotR: the feeling that this has been 
 done before - and it has been done way better. Take building influence as an example. In Caesar 
 III the buildings had employees walking up and down the road providing the building's services. 
 With this one could plan the city and it's buildings nicely and somewhat realistically. GotR uses 
 areas of influence which extend over hills, woods and water - which is basically rather useless.
 
  
  And... some things are simply missing. Such as defensive walls. 
  
  All in all... a nice game for a friday afternoon but nothing that will keep me for months... as 
 Caesar III did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry for all the beautiful graphics. But that's all GotRE has to offer: graphics and scenery. 
 
  No depth, simple, almost childish management system, Simple trade model - to say the least, and 
 about money management... deh, it's absolutely pathetic.
  After Caesar III I was expecting a challenging game with modern graphic, instead all I recived 
 for my money is a colourful game, designed for a 6 year child - don't get me wrong, I have nothing 
 with kindergarten games - but this were supposed to be an in-depth strategy game.!
  Well the game have its good spots.. for example the voices... those mumbling are perfect, only 
 half moron citizens could possible live in such settlements.
  I have nothing to say.... anyone who played Caesar or Pharaoh before will know what I mean. 
 
  I must admit though that the game is beautiful, so if someone will work a little (more) and implement 
 those features that made Caesar III so out of ordinary, the outcome could well be te best city 
 simulation of all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  like sim city, Tropico, but this one is about ROME. Every game has its ups and downs, one big up 
 for this game is its awesome graphics and sound, one big down is its population limit, it takes 
 forever to get it above 250. Another up is its historical accuracy for example, when you play a 
 campaign in Pompeii it actually has the VOLCANO right across it with the smoke coming out, also 
 you get to build alot of the buildings Rome is known for such as the baths, temples, vineyards, 
 theathers and many gifts which you recive from the emperor for accomplishing certain goals. Although 
 you won't be able to reach the 1 million pop. in Rome, this game is definitely worth purchasing, 
 especially if you are obsessed with the Romans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna lie this is just another generic city builder that brings almost nothing new to the table 
 except decent graphics.
  
  The game is fun in short bursts and definitely does not live up to previous city builders. I have 
 a hard time playing this game for more than an hour because there is no excitement factors in the 
 missions.
  
  The graphics are nice but there are some problems with them in some areas and they make some parts 
 of the Italian landscape look mutilated.
  
  The gameplay is good as it is in most city builders but the game does not make me want to keep 
 my attention on it. The whole "get food, get cloth, get stone, and get gold to keep your people 
 happy" formula just doesn't work for this game.
  
  And being a fan of history I couldn't help to notice that some cities seem atrociously under-developed. 
 For example, my neighborhood is bigger than the in game Pompeii.
  
  The maps are unnecessarily large.
  
  Aside from that it is solid and its not a bad game, it 
 just lacks freshness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo I coudn't wait to get this game. I was really addicted to it that I was 
 bumped out when the demo ended. However, it wasn't long before I ran to the store, got it, and 
 loaded it to enjoy several hours of high quality strategy gameplay.
  
  General Gameplay:
  There are three different gameplay modes in the game:
  - The Campaign Mode where you're given 
 few missions in different cities and have to fulfill them to make each city happier and richer.
 
  - The Challenge Mode where you build your city but face lots of challenges and obstacles throughout 
 the way
  - The Free Build Mode where you get to choose a land from a variety of lands with different difficulty 
 levels (Easy, Medium and Hard) , and then build the city of your dreams with no missions or challenges, 
 just try to keep the people happy and the city well-protected.
  The game doesn't have a large variety of buildings, there are few decorative buildings (like gardens 
 and temples) but I would've loved a larger variety to choose from. Buildings are built by slaves 
 (not by regular citizens) and require resources that your city has to own before the building can 
 be fully constructed. If you run out of a specific resource or your city does not currently have 
 the buildings to produce some resources you can always use the trade post to trade resources with 
 other cities. Of course as with most of such strategy games you'll have to make sure your citizens 
 are happy, your city is well-protected from riots and that you have all the resources for a well 
 constructed city with a good economical base.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are quite good, you cannot zoom in for street level or anything but you 
 can see a detailed view of your city and its buildings. You also cannot see what's happening inside 
 a building.
  
  Sounds:
  I don't really think that sound matters very much in such games, but the music here is classic 
 and nice and there are few un-noticeable sound effects when you zoom in above specific buildings 
 or for example, when a fire is started somewhere in your city.
  
  Overall:
  This game is a really good and fun strategy that'll probably keep you busy for a couple of weeks 
 (depends on how hardcore you are of course) . The different modes are really great and add lots 
 of gameplay hours. Whether you're a regular or a hardcore strategy gamer, this game is highly recommended.
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
