-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gods: Lands of Infinity
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/godslandofinfinity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mostly competent effort based on the age-old RPG design template.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Deeply clichd and derivative in story, setting, and quests.
 Lots of translation issues in dialogue.
 Dated visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 6.4, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 249 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Cypron Studios
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 10, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
No budget and no new ideas make Gods a less than enthralling action RPG, even with its Penthouse 
 Pet star. 

  Role-playing games don't come much cheaper or generic than Gods: Lands of Infinity. This by-the-numbers 
 RPG isn't so much awful as it is afflicted by a total lack of innovation by the developers at Cypron 
 Studios and bargain basement production values. With that said, this is still a relatively competent 
 take on the genre that you might enjoy, depending on your tolerance for tedium, as well as some 
 of the goofiest voice acting and dialogue ever committed to an RPG.  

  As is the case with a lot of these generic fantasy types, the story is sufficiently ridiculous. 
 It may actually be a little dumber than most. The plot relies on the antiquated hero-with-amnesia 
 gimmick. Every character and place has also been stricken with absurd names like Svatopluck or 
 Woda Gdely. You play Vivien, a magical hero created by a fire god named Arsvaargh. Her goal is 
 to end a war of the gods on the world of Bellarion and find the mysterious artifact needed to defeat 
 the god of darkness, Xarax (not to be confused with his older brother Xanax, the god of "please 
 don't take these with alcohol") . To accomplish this mighty task, Vivien is sent to another world 
 on a quest to contact the different gods there. Of course, she manages to lose all of her Arsvaargh-granted 
 special abilities en route to this new land. So you're the typical neophyte adventurer, gaining 
 experience points, leveling up, and choosing a career path from fighter, mage, or alchemist options. 
 The only thing that stands out in this insipid saga is Kyla Cole, the 2000  Penthouse  pet of the 
 year, as she supplies the face and voice of Vivien. It's not every day you get a former nude model 
 starring in an RPG -- reasonably clothed, at that.  

           OK, who ordered the generic fantasy non-player characters?      

  Despite the goal 
 of averting an apocalypse, your mission doesn't involve a lot of earth-shaking assignments. Almost 
 every job that Vivien accepts has been scarfed from the big book of clichd RPG quests. She escorts 
 merchants, kills monsters for gold, fetches random junk for unfortunate travelers, and so on. The 
 only somewhat interesting aspect of world construction here is the free market that runs through 
 the different towns. Constant hints are given about merchants who are selling low and about others 
 who are buying high. So if you want to put the time into playing as trader, you can make a fair 
 bit of gold running pottery to beekeepers or buying fish from one merchant on the cheap and hiking 
 across the way to another paying big bucks; that sort of thing.  

  Needless to say, medieval mercantilism isn't exactly thrilling. You have to spend a lot of time 
 wandering from one town to the next scrounging up deals, and every single map seems to have been 
 designed so that it takes a minute or more to get from the entrance to the guy with the goodies. 
 Unfortunately, trading is flat-out necessary because of the paltry amount of cash on offer in quests, 
 as well as the high price of such vital goodies as armor and weapons (800 GP for a warhammer?) . 
 You've got to run a lot of escort missions (which regenerate every few days) and flog a lot of 
 crap to afford much of anything. This even includes a paltry piece of mail to replace the leather 
 halter and miniskirt you wear at the start of the game.  

  Other aspects of the game can be just as tedious as the traveling salesman stuff. You have to scarf 
 down meals when out in the wild. Swigging from your water bottle and chowing down on fruit or meat 
 is a necessity every day because hunger or thirst prevents you from resting to regain hit points. 
 You're a weak sister when it comes to carrying capacity too, which makes it tough to haul the crazy 
 amount of food and water you need when on a quest. The game also automatically picks up every item 
 dropped by enemies at the end of each combat, even if doing so makes you so encumbered that you 
 can no longer move.  

  Speaking of combat, it's a little on the slow side as well. Battles are waged in a turn-based mode 
 centered on action points, which is similar to the way that scraps were staged in the Fallout games 
 of the late '90s. Basically, you pick an attack method or choose between casting a spell and quaffing 
 a potion during each turn. Then you complete this action and endure monster attacks. Still, despite 
 a fair bit of repetition, you can't just fall into a trance and repeatedly hit the max-damage attack 
 option. Action points are doled out in such a way that you're stuck with no options but defending 
 every third turn or thereabouts, which means that you have to think tactically. Enemies don't have 
 to take any pauses, so smart choices are a must to avoid getting slaughtered during these down 
 times. Battles can actually be oddly compelling once you start encountering serious opposition. 
 A lot is riding on each decision that you make. It almost feels like you're solving puzzles during 
 each battle to maximize the damage you're dealing out and minimize the damage that you're receiving. 

  Presentation values don't get in the way of all the above too much, at least if you've got a sense 
 of humor. The biggest issue is with the audio. All of the voice samples seem to have been provided 
 by a handful of people, and typically the same person handles all characters of a specific type. 
 So you'll encounter lines of guards all voiced by the same guy, merchants all voiced by the same 
 woman, and so on. Cole doesn't say all that much in her role as Vivien, either, and what she does 
 contribute is spoken in a monotone with all the passion of ordering Chinese takeout. There are 
 also a lot of odd miscues and grammatical mistakes in the dialogue, as well some really funny mangled 
 English. Somebody you've just met introduces himself with the supremely bizarre "I'm a man, the 
 lord of procreation." A warrior in a company of adventurers proclaims that they "wander around 
 the world killing bastards, relieving people of their troubles." An armorer pitches his wares by 
 telling you that "your handsome body needs to be protected." Music isn't quite so humorous. It's 
 repetitive and often annoyingly flighty, as if a bunch of elves were mincing around just out of 
 your sight with a Casio keyboard. Atmospheric and battle effects are virtually impossible to notice, 
 which is probably a good thing.  

           Timeless dialogue.      

  Visuals aren't quite as in-your-face with their crumminess. Many locations in the game would be 
 downright attractive if this were still 2001. Still, it's not all bad. There's a colorful medieval 
 glow to the lushly green outdoor settings, and the first-person camera does a good job of showing 
 off these few graphical highlights. However, there are apparently just a dozen or so character 
 types, so you repeatedly run into the same guys and gals. This can really evoke some dj vu in 
 combination with hearing the same few actors speaking all of the dialogue. Character animations 
 are universally atrocious too. Humans and humanoids stride about uncomfortably upright, as if they 
 had pool cues shoved down their pantaloons.  

  Gods: Lands of Infinity shouldn't be the first game you pick off the shelf. But if you're jonesing 
 for an RPG in a bad way and have low enough standards, you could find yourself settling for this 
 mostly competent yet deeply clichd game. Then again, you could also choose from any number of 
 much, much better options as well.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lambawan
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  Honestly, you would think that some people would just keep their lousy products to their family 
 members and force them to buy them.
  I can't say that the entire game is crap but i will insist that 90% of it actually is. Oh and dont 
 get me started on the bug issues.
  Then there's the horrible voice acting- it woould have been much better if the characters relied 
 on good old fashioned text to carry their messages across.
  I also have serious issues about the packaging. I mean you cannot beleive the ridiculous stuff 
 on the box. I'll say that's about the only impressive thing about this game, the packaging...!
 
  I think I wasted an entire fun evening on this game. I'm afraid that consumers can't appreciate 
 just any game simply because it got made.
  It's depressing, boring, uninteresting... I mean man... the game just sucks.
  The producers and 
 developers should be reprimanded or something for making it... and I should be put away for having 
 played it for the 2hrs I spent playing it... in a psych ward perhaps or an assylum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EugeneLee92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  It's graphics are better than M &amp; M IX's. It doesn't make you want to plunge your own sword 
 into your chest, unlike M &amp; M IX. The Trading part of the game is actually quite fun, so is 
 the combat (You actually KNOW what is going on, unlike in M &amp; M IX) . If you ignore the somewhat 
 lame dialogue, you'll find that Gods: Lands of Infinity is actually quite fun to play.
  
  Plus, it runs fine on a PC with 256 RAM. So you don't really need to upgrade your PC just to play 
 it. And that should be reason enough for everyone to give Gods: LoI a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldrian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this game isn't exactly up to pair with Oblivion, it doesn't have stunning visuals, insane 
 requirements, celebrity voice-actors or a major publisher like THQ or EA to strip the actual fun 
 out of it... Yes, that's my point, this game is still FUN! Lets have a look at what the publisher 
 promises at the order-page.
  
  Original RPG journey for the curious newcomer and a vintage experience for the hardcore player 
 
  I'm a hardcore player and it sure is a nice vintage experience!
  
  So, the game delivers what it promises. That's more than I can say for most games today. At 19.95$ 
 it's well worth the money for some oldschool RPG fun.
  
  For the record: My test system has core 2 processors, flat-screen TV, and all that ****. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mordraneth
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  This is what happens when you try to make an RPG when the developers are still stuck in the Amiga 
 days. Not to bash the Amiga era RPGs mind you. They were amazing for their time with a lot of depth 
 and features we see in most CRPGs today. However the genre has moved forward with semi-standard 
 features that are not present in this game. Character customization is absent, profession choice 
 is absent and a skill system is absent. Instead what we have is a cookie-cutter heroine that can 
 only swing a sword. If you want magic, you must wait till almost 40% into the game to acquire the 
 ability yourself. Thankfully you can recruit companions that will fill out your party like spellcasters, 
 archers and even a rogue-ish type NPC will join you. The downside is they leave without warning. 
 Need some extra cash? Well this game is very short on cash and the items you will need like swords, 
 armor, shields, bows, gemstones and the like are pretty expensive. A shortsword for instance runs 
 about 800 bucks. To compensate for this there is a rudimentary trade system implemented. Buy grain 
 from farmer A to sell to millwright B. Harvest animal parts and sell them to hunter so-and-so for 
 a small profit.
  
  The story is ok, though quite cliched. You are a goddess or an angel of some type sent to the mortal 
 realm to stop a war of the Gods. Like many CRPGs you arrive on the planet with no memory and no 
 skills, starting at level 1. The excuse used is your essence is split up and harvested by many 
 gods as you entered this realm. Combat is turn based with each side going in order of quickness. 
 To access any of the higher abilities one must Defend to gain extra APs or Action points. You start 
 with 3 such APs and any attack uses 1-3 APs per. To regain said APs one MUST defend. The computer 
 itself has no such limitation and can use its highest powered attacks repeatedly. This is a huge 
 design flaw in my opinion. It simply favors your enemies. This should apply to every creature and 
 player in the game, or none at all.
  
  Anyhow, back to the Amiga comment above. The developers are a very sensitive bunch and the forums 
 are a testimony to how they think and do business. of all the problems with this game it was their 
 banter in their support forums that really threw me off this title. To find ingredients for alchemy 
 you must search high and low for tiny pixels that represent an ingredient on each map. When brought 
 to the Dev's attention that people don't find this fun anymore they responded that the developers 
 loved doing it in the Amiga days. When a customer voiced his displeasure at the game and explained 
 he felt ripped off having to buy the original game and then the Special Edition game to get the 
 improved content he was told by the Developers to send them his information so they could give 
 him a refund, but only if he promised to never by another Cypron Studios again! They then banned 
 him from their forums.
  
  Needless to say they don't deserve my money again or for that matter any one else's. This lackluster 
 game is both a step backward in CRPGing and in customer service.
  
  I myself will never purchase another game from Cypron Studios and I hope they will either learn 
 some professionalism or close their doors so players will not have to deal with a group of any 
 developers who are obviously not concerned with Customer Service and quality games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaarNah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  If you didn't buy this game because of negative comments, you missed out on a neat game. This review 
 is based on only having opened the 1st three main areas, but I can tell already this game got a 
 real bum rap. Granted, a reviewer is entitled to their opinion, but, I can't understand the GameSpot 
 point of view, at all.
  
  Some has been said regarding all the trading you need to do . If you're not into trading, don't 
 do it. You can make plenty of $$$ from wasting monsters and picking up dropped stuff to sell. You 
 need to raise your levels if you hope to win anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I played the Special Edition version which has better animation and music.
  Hard to find good turn based RPG's now days and this was one of the few, and they did the battles 
 very well. Battles are like old Final Fantasy perspective, but probably more challenging and with 
 more depth as far as battle strategy goes. Makes me miss the old school challenging turn base RPG's.
 
  
  The battles and the music are the best part of the game along with some cool looking weapons and 
 armors. Graphics are older but not bad.. What strikes me though is that the game seem to be only 
 about 1/4 complete. It is short and seems it was meant to be much longer as if they decided to 
 just cut the project short. You are pretty much at the end of the game by lv18-20. There are classes 
 such as Thief and Archer that has no trainers that I found, but are listed for armor and equipment, 
 and no one joins your party that is a thief class. The world map has a lot of room for much more 
 as well. There are items that have almost no purpose like Ice arrows for example as if there was 
 meant to be a place to use them.
  
  Try the demo and decide, I had fun with the full version, even with its faults. The music is pretty 
 good and mood setting. If they only would made a more full complete game using the battle engine 
 they might have a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttomm1946
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Well.. this one is full of old school goodness... The Gamespot Reviewer said that it's not innovative... Innovative 
 doesn't always mean good..
  
  the graphics are better than they let on and the game is quite challenging.. Great all the way.
 
  
  the game starts easy enough but picks up in difficulty as the battles get harder..
  
  the game is fairly open ended do to the fact your not forced to do any quests in order...
  
 
  Fun to pick up.. Hard to put down... I'd recommend this to those that like turned based combat.... The 
 spells are fun and so are the recipes..
  Don't miss this one.. If they don't like it on Gamespot they would the old school rpg's from Spiderweb 
 software. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcerok
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  First off the reviewer seems to be confused as to wether he is reviewing the original Gods: Lands 
 of Infinity or the Special Edition version. He mentions Ms. Cole from the SE version but he never 
 says SE and the review is under the original title with a 2006 date. As far as the body of the 
 review, this is an independent title and as such my graphics expectations are not quite what I 
 might expect from games like Titan's Quest or Oblivion but they are still good. Compared to those 
 other games I found the gameplay superior to those other titles. I am really trying to find a reason 
 why the reviewer gave this game a 4.0. The main reason seems to be the translations , though I 
 found it a lot easier to read/understand than Shakespeare and I am fond of Shakespeare. To say 
 everything has to be in perfect modern english, without too many big words like handsome seems 
 a little bit racist or at least culture-centric. I would love to live in that world where all the 
 best RPG's are made in the USA but the stuff we have been putting out the last 10 years has been 
 pretty poor in the gameplay department and good in the eye candy department. My recommendation 
 would be that if you like turn-based combat in your RPG's then this is a good title. If you like 
 click-fest or shooter-esque combat in your RPG then this isn't the game for you. Let me point out 
 that I was able to get this title for $13 from Stardock so this title is a great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  A little while back, I came across a press release for Gods: Lands of Infinity and I was instantly 
 captivated by the storyline and the screenshots. I just had to play it.
  
  Gods: LoI comes to us as the first project from an indie developer all the way in Slovakia. Now 
 don't get discouraged by the word "indie", I can assure you the game doesn't fall into the "short 
 plot and cheap graphics" category.
  
  The story begins with a fairly long intro, beautifully narrated by a woman's voice. It tells the 
 tale of a war between the gods of Bellarion, and how the God of Darkness discovers a powerful weapon 
 capable of destroying everything. In a last desperate measure, the God of Fire creates a divine 
 avatar and sends it to seek out a counter-weapon in another world. Unfortunately, while traveling 
 to Antasion, the avatar's powers are absorbed by its existing deities. And so you begin the game 
 as Vivien, a seemingly human girl. Her quest is to retrieve her lost godly powers as well as the 
 weapon that can save the gods and realm of Bellarion.
  
  Vivien starts out as a mix of warrior and mage: she is skilled with a blade but also wields a little 
 magic. Through game progression, you can change Viviens attributes to suit your fighting style 
 of choice.
  
  Leveling up is what we know from any other RPG: kill things, get experience, gain a level, get 
 skill points, distribute them among your stats. It's totally up to you if you want a character 
 to be a strong swordsman, skilled archer or a frail yet powerful wizard. 
  
  However, class advancement doesn't rely on regular leveling. As you will notice by inspecting equipment 
 and weapons, some will require a certain class to be at a certain skill level (Neophyte, Apprentice, 
 Journeyman and so on) . This special kind of advancement is done through trainers scattered all 
 over the world, and it costs money.
  
  Vivien won't be alone in her journey. At certain key points in the story, party members will join 
 her, so the party system is pretty dynamic. You will meet a series of useful characters that will 
 help you in your journey, all unique both in appearance and fighting style.
  
  The combat system offers traditional turn-based mechanics with a strategy element and it's really 
 easy to get into. Before you set out adventuring or after gaining a new member, you should set 
 your party's formation, since this is a very important strategy element for combat. You don't want 
 your casters and healers in the front row taking damage, so arrange them in the back and bring 
 your fighters forward.
  
  Each party member begins a fight by having a certain amount of AP (Action Points) . Every action 
 costs AP, be it a change in formation, using a potion (only on self, not on other characters) , 
 picking a melee attack or casting a spell. Characters can recover 3 AP (up to a maximum of 10) 
 by picking "Defend" for one turn.
  
  The magic system is interesting. You don't really learn spells as you level, you find or purchase 
 crystals which you attach to your equipment. Some crystals can only go on armor, others on weapons, 
 and many only on spellbooks. Spells range from summoning creatures to fight at your side, to support 
 and defense or attack. You can drain life from enemies, conjure a giant spider, create a magical 
 barrier around someone, heal, do damage, providing you have the right crystals. Obviously, the 
 most powerful spells and books with the most slots are pretty expensive.
  
  In fact, character development doesn't come cheap. Aside from equipment, spells and paying to advance 
 certain classes, you also need to carry a supply of food and water. You can camp anywhere to either 
 wait a few hours until it's daytime again (because you can barely see a thing at night) or to heal 
 fully. In any case, your characters will become hungry and thirsty as time goes by, so you need 
 to have supplies handy.
  
  Making money in the game becomes a complex process of buying and selling at the right places, since 
 selling what you have looted from things you kill isn't enough. You will play travelling tradesman 
 a lot, buying in one town to sell in another far away. Have you ever played Tradewinds? It's the 
 same process: pay attention to who is buying what and at what price, and you can easily amass a 
 small fortune. Your best bets are to buy honey in Petrovce and sell it on the Border or past it, 
 or buy alcohol to sell in the Elven city. 
  
  At least, you don't spend time traveling on the map. Going from point A to point B is a simple 
 point and click process on the world map, provided that spot is on the map already. Accepting new 
 quests will often unlock a new area for you to visit. 
  
  In every zone there is a signpost, which is your way in and out of it. To go somewhere else, you 
 click the signpost and are taken to the map. Click the spot on the map that you want to go and 
 you will travel to it. There are also maps for each individual area that will show NPC locations 
 after you have found them, as well as stating what each merchant is buying or selling. Getting 
 lost is pretty much impossible.
  
  Gods comes across as a great first-person RPG that will keep you entertained for a good number 
 of hours (about 20-30) . You will meet other great adventurers on your journey, as well as a parade 
 of fantastic creatures including gorons, giant spiders (it wouldn't be an RPG without them) , trolls, 
 bandits and even unicorns.
  
  Gods: Lands of Infinity surprises you with unexpected plot twists until you see the end of Vivien's 
 adventure. It does a great job of keeping you on your toes with unexpected situations and different 
 party members coming and going. Although it needs a few edges polished, this is a game I would 
 strongly recommend to any RPG enthusiast.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=godsloi 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Gods: Lands of Infinity is a game from the Czech developer Cypron Studios, so it's no big wonder 
 the game isn't too popular with Oblivion, HoMM V and Spellforce 2 out and Gothic 3 coming. Still, 
 Gods is worth playing, unlike most low-budget games.
  
  By genre Gods is a pseudo-RPG, meaning you won't get to choose what you do or don't most of the 
 time, but there is a character developement system and some alignment-related choices are present. 
 Gameplay is very combat-heavy, and you won't have a chance to practice your talking skills because 
 of game's linear dialogue. There are some side quests, but they are few and mostly poorly-done, 
 so you'll be following the main storyline 90% of the time. These "features" might look sad on paper, 
 but considering the rather high quality of the game's story, it isn't such a bad thing.
  
  Gods' combat is very similar to Disciples'. In case you don't know what it's like, there are 16 
 places where your or your enemies' characters can stand, 8 for your characters and 8 for the enemy. 
 If F is your ally and E is an enemy, it looks like this:
  F F F F
  F F F F
  E E E E
  E E E E
  If there are alive characters in the frontal line (line 2 for allies and 3 for enemies) , 
 the characters standing in lines 1 (for allies) or 4 (for enemies) can't be attacked, unless the 
 attacker uses a ranged weapon or a spell. So it's wise to put your casters and archers behind your 
 "tanks". The enemy does so, too.
  
  Gods' character development system is based on two things: the growth of your characters' five 
 attributes (strength, vitality, intelligence, dexterity, luck) and advancement in ranks of different 
 professions. Higher ranks give you the ability to use better equipment. You can't create your character, 
 but the character you get can become both a mage and a figher. 
  
  Magic is a difficult path in the beginning. To "learn" a spell you must have a spellbook and a 
 crystal. By equipping both you get the ability to use the spell in combat. It's a bit weird how 
 you can't use ANY spells without brawling, even resurrection or healing spells. Spell descriptions 
 can also be a pain, since the non-combat ones (the ones you get when you click on the spell in 
 your inventory) don't say anything but the spell's name and its mana cost.
  
  Visually the game looks very good in a way and quite bad in another way. Meaning the environments 
 are (mostly) very nice and pretty, but some monsters/NPCs suffer from the lack of polygons. Spell 
 effects look great and bloom is very well-implemented. Some textures are pretty ugly and there 
 are no anti-aliasing/texture filtering options. By forcing some you'll get black loading screens, 
 but otherwise, it works. At least on my video card.
  
  Gods has a wonderful music score. However, it also has almost no voice acting and repetitive sound 
 effects. There are two different combat themes, and while they are good and long and all, it's 
 simply not enough, considering the amount of time spent in combat.
  
  Some of the game's special features turn to be a pain, as well. You can trade different goods, 
 and while it's a nice touch and adds realism, it gets boring and you probably won't do it at all 
 after you get some levels and money. Your party also requires food and drinks, and although it's 
 also a good idea, its realisation is lacking in quality. Eating and drinking manually every time 
 after resting is quite tiresome, besides, you'll need to carry all the food in your inventory. 
 When you have 4 or more party members, it becomes a pain. Most shopkeepers don't even have the 
 amount of food you need for a usual raid on some rebel encampment. Add to that the fact that some 
 areas are way too big and filled with monsters, so you'll need to carry VERY much food and water 
 with you. Gods also has an alchemy system, but it's not overly useful and suffers from the lack 
 of recipes.
  
  Speaking of realism, towns are quite dead. You can't enter houses, and NPCs don't do it, either. 
 So every single NPC stands on his/her place or patrols the streets 24/7. Tavern keepers are somewhy 
 standing still in front of their taverns. That's disturbing at first, but unless you're a TES maniac, 
 you should be fine.
  
  Overall Gods is an interesting game, if you don't mind following a solid linear story with lots 
 of combat. If you like the idea of playing a combat-heavy RPG with a good plot, you should at least 
 try the second demo (the first one is just terrible) . However, if you must get free roaming and 
 non-linear gameplay, Gods is probably not what you desire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brisa22
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is well worth buying (downloading) . It is a bit old fashioned, but fun. Good graphics 
 and turn based fighting. It needs tweaking in that it has no "Delete Saved Games" feature and the 
 camera during fighting should be stationary (You can hold it) . I recomend it highly and have played 
 it for about 25 hours - and still have fun with it.
  
  The major plot is linear and there is no getting lost, but you can take your time and build up 
 your characters. There are plenty of side quests and you can be a warrior or trader or both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  GOOD POINTS:
  Fast game mechanics learning curve. Good story. A lot of exploration. Smell of old pc games when 
 your phantasy could run with simpler games.
  Very good musics.
  
  WEAK POINTS:
  Monster espawn in areas evry time you leave and come back. Need a better trading system (difficult 
 to check different prices for goods) . The price could be a little lower (20 $ instead of 30$ ?)
 
  
  I'm still playing the game and enjoying it. I'd say this game is surprisingly good and worth playing 
 at the same time. If you like the explore / buy and sell / trade for better equipment - system 
 in rpgs... well this game is for you. Nothing too deep and pretentious but just a simple CRPG to 
 play with during free time. I was looking for something less hard to play in these days and I found 
 it.
  
  If you prefer deeper games with a lot of stats, character customization options and tons of items..... 
 this game could be a big delusion.
  
  INCREDIBLE!!!: Better than OBLIVION.
  Why?
  No monsters and treasure level scaling! I hate the way they ruined Morrowind transforming it in 
 an Xbox game all hack 'n slash. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
