-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gods and Generals
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/godsgenerals/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 18, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.2
Critic Score: 2.6, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 2.8, 456 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Anivision
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Feb 18, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's difficult to imagine that Gods and Generals could be much worse than it is. 

  You've probably heard from someone before or experienced for yourself that licensed games -- that 
 is, games that are developed using an existing, non-game-related license, such as from a movie 
 or TV show -- are often terrible. This statement is as true as can be in the case of Gods and Generals. 
 It's a self-styled "advergame" intended solely to draw attention to the movie it's based on, yet 
 it somehow ended up in major game retailers, sharing shelf space with games that are far, far better. 
 Outdated graphics, bad sound, lousy control, horrible technical performance, nonfunctional computer 
 AI, terrible weapons -- the game has about every problem you could possibly think of. In fact, it's 
 difficult to imagine that Gods and Generals could be much worse than it is.           A heated 
 battle rages on either side of this 'tree.' The wily Confederates try a desperate gambit: clipping 
 through the tree trunk.    

  In Gods and Generals, you play as a Confederate soldier in the American Civil War during the 1860s. 
 But this Civil War looks absolutely horrendous, since it takes place in mostly flat levels bordered 
 by flat walls of "trees" (which consist of a handful of vaguely tree-shaped polygons shaded with 
 a single texture) . And there's nothing "special" about the game's special effects, which consist 
 of pasted-on gunfire and some simplistic fire-and-smoke particle effects, unless you count the 
 occasional frame rate slowdown you may experience when cannons are firing. You may be shocked to 
 find that the game's primitive graphics will cause slowdown even on a 2.4GHz computer with 512MB 
 RAM and a high-end graphics card such as an ATI Radeon 9700 or a GeForce4 Ti4600.   

  The game's music generally consists of the same four-to-five-second loop of phony, synthesized 
 orchestral music that hiccups each time it gets looped over. The other sound effects include completely 
 unimpressive gunfire, forgettable cannon explosions, and pretty much nothing else. Apparently, 
 the developer thought that a good way to reproduce the excitement of pitched 19th-century battles 
 was to have them be fought by a bunch of mutes, because the game has absolutely no voice samples 
 for any soldiers (not even cries of pain when you walk right up and shoot them) .           You 
 can wield weapons like these crude and obsolete firearms.    

  Your enemies (and allies) are multiple clones of the same soldier -- the only difference is that 
 Confederates wear gray and Union soldiers wear blue or brown. All the look-alikes may seem silly, 
 but the way these Union soldiers spawn and respawn repeatedly in the same place out of thin air 
 is downright preposterous. These enemies randomly do one of the following: ignore you, try to fire 
 at you with their muskets from three feet away, come barreling toward you with their bayonets extended, 
 roll around on the ground for no apparent reason, or stand up completely straight and reload their 
 guns (even if they're taking heavy fire) . Apparently, they'll come charging toward you or any Confederate 
 soldiers they detect in the vicinity, but if they don't see you, they'll just stand there, even 
 in the middle of a wide-open field with no cover, waiting to be shot and killed. Come across an 
 enemy wielding a saber, and he'll become rooted in place, swinging it at you harmlessly even when 
 you're nowhere near him. In a particularly absurd mission, you're required to help defend a Confederate 
 cannon from a Union attack amid blasts that set the nearby surroundings on fire. After disposing 
 of the enemy soldiers, we watched our Confederate brethren undergo a series of seizures, then run 
 headlong into the flames themselves, and then come running back out alight to fall over and die 
 for no good reason.   

  As if the laughable computer AI weren't enough, Gods and Generals' thoroughly underwhelming arsenal 
 of weapons includes a slow-firing pistol, a saber, slow-throwing bowie knives, and two kinds of 
 musket. These weak, slow weapons might actually have provided a sense of tension in a highly realistic 
 game in which you were pitted against tough odds and hampered by limited resources, but Gods and 
 Generals is not such a game. Perhaps to balance everything out, you'll find that your character 
 has the completely unrealistic and annoying tendency to holster his current weapon for no reason 
 whenever you pick anything up, including extra ammunition. You'll also find that muskets are apparently 
 disposable, one-use weapons. You can carry only one musket bullet, so basically you have one shot 
 with a musket, then you have to go kill another musket-toting enemy soldier and pick up that other 
 musket in order to be able to fire again. Obviously, this makes muskets pretty useless.   

  And, presumably because it's powered by the LithTech engine, Gods and Generals steals its interface 
 from last year's outstanding first-person shooter No One Lives Forever 2-- it has the same teal-colored 
 crosshairs, the same yellow text updates, the same pseudo-role-playing-game skill point system 
 that lets you earn experience points to increase certain skills, and the same system of looting 
 corpses to find ammunition and various items that may or may not be useful. However, while these 
 features were peripheral additions to an already great game in No One Lives Forever 2, in Gods 
 and Generals they're meaningless clutter.           This big white thing must have played a crucial 
 role in the American Civil War.    

  You'd hope to find some redeeming value in the multiplayer modes. Unfortunately, if you'd like 
 to play Gods and Generals in multiplayer, you'll need to pay the developer an extra $5 for the 
 "multiplayer expansion pack," which, according to the game's official Web site, also includes such 
 additional features as "Union vs. Confederate" and "You've got a mission and an enemy." Forcing 
 you to pay additional money for multiplayer play, a feature that's become standard for most first-person 
 shooters, might have seemed like a greedy way to cash in on a previous sale, but considering what 
 a complete joke of a game Gods and Generals already is, it instead seems utterly insane.   

  Gods and Generals is the result of a hopelessly misguided effort to produce something that would 
 be a marketing tool first and a game second, so it's at least possible to understand why it's so 
 appallingly bad. Then again, the game shamelessly steals from last year's No One Lives Forever 
 2, so it's clear that someone on the development team played that far, far superior game. Perhaps 
 the team didn't realize that it was actually that game's fast-paced gameplay, excellent graphics, 
 funny dialogue, great sound, and memorable characters that made it so great. Whatever the case, 
 Gods and Generals turned out to be something that no self-respecting motion picture, director, 
 or media mogul should ever be associated with. The next time some brilliant marketing executives 
 decide they need to aggressively promote their movies, they should consider broadcasting more TV 
 commercials. The rest of us should not play this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  You can consider Gods and Generals to make you "GAG", that's the big cheese right there. Gods and 
 Generals is "one of those games that was supposed to be bad to give a laugh", similiar to big rigs. 
 Unfourtunetly, GAG makes you GAG more than it makes you laugh.
  
  
  
  Gods and Generals has the old-skool shooter gameplay, probably its best feature. Your character 
 doesn't speak AT ALL whatsoever, but by the looks of it, you play as a random solider in the Mid-late 
 part of the Civil War. That's it. The graphics, along with the single-textured, yet huge evirmorments, 
 are so iffy to even disuss. The Music is repeative, and I don't have any clue where, in the heat 
 of battle, both factions shout japanese language when they fight widly and constantly.
  
  
  What really makes it bad is its tech. issues. For starters, you can't even use the scope on 
 the sniper rilfe. Well, that's no problem, because Muskets are useless so you won't use them much... you 
 can only use muskets once.
  
  Since the game makes it like your guy is always in panic in battle, he just drops the musket instead 
 of reloading it, so you'll have to pick another pre-loading one.
  
  
  
  The confederate and union soliders look exactly the same, exept they wear different color uniforms. 
 They are all clones of the same person: EVERY SOLIDER HAS THE SAME MUSTACHE AND BROWN HAIR AND 
 ITS ANNOYING. Their A. I. is pretty simple. They get up, shoot you, or just ignore you.
  
  
  
  Even if you shoot them multiple times, they won't even flinch until they actually see you. 
 You could run across an entire cornfeild filled with troops and not even be detected by dodging 
 their "A. I zone".
  
  
  
  
  The Music you hear in the main menu is the same in the loading screen and in the game. Start the 
 game, play the level, beat the level, beat the game, and all the way to the end game where the 
 credits roll, the music still loops over and over and over again.
  
  
  
  And who's idea was it that when you save your game, it actually doesn't save you game, and when 
 you die, you try to load a saved game and there will be nothing there but a blank box. That's just 
 laziness. If a game can't even save your game, its absoulutly terrible.
  
  Don't get me wrong, GAG can be a short ammount of fun, but its rediculous. GAG will make you gag. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmaster12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG. When a game comes out that is this bad it's revolutionary. Yay for the 
 fact that there are stupid white things that serve no purpose at all other than to be there and 
 look horrible!!!!!
  
  Yay for the fact that enemies can charge right through trees!!
  
  Yay for the fact that union soldiers with sabers swing it at you like idiots even if you're 20 
 feet away!!!
  
  Yay for the fact that soldiers can shoot a musket 4 times without reloading and your musket only 
 holds one shot and you can't reload it!!!!
  
  Yay for the fact that you need to pay $5 to get multiplayer!!
  
  Ok, now for some other things. 
 There is no voice acting at all from ANYONE. All the soldiers are clones of each other. All the 
 weapons fire incredible slowly. The game even steals from No One Lives Forever!!!!!!!! 
  
  Huzzah for Gods and Generals! It totally SUCKS!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  There were only two good things that came out of this game. It was the first time I ever used a 
 musket in a first person shooter and the game loaded up in my computer quick. With those, two things 
 need to happen. I wish my character could throw the musket like a javelin and instead of putting 
 the disk in my computer the disk needs to go in my office CD shredder.
  
  Things were so bad that Nintendo NES could have fielded an equal or greater game than this. The 
 graphics, sound, and game play were terrible. The battlefield looked like it consisted of Astroturf, 
 cardboard cut-out trees, and children play houses. The movie had a great soundtrack, but the game 
 plays a 10 second loop of the same sound bit in which I had to mute the game and turn the radio 
 on. Two things that came out of the game play that really made me mad were the clones and glitches. 
 Those clones were so stupid that they would burn themselves to death and at times I had to put 
 some of them down because they were so stupid. A lot of time I got stuck on a small object or trapped 
 by a tree branch and I would end up restarting the level.
  
  I would rather have my leg amputated with American Civil War 1860s medical technology then play 
 this game again worst game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nubianpking
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  this is the worst game of all time your allies will shoot them selfs at the walls
  land will just pop out of no where terrible and i mean terrible AI people this not going to be 
 a big review because everyones this game sucks this game is not what you call a fps this is what 
 you call shit civil war for the 360 is better than this crap worst game ever if play or buy you 
 are a moron if you buy it destroy it dont even think about pluging this in computer but if you 
 people like thats fine pro gamers dont play this shit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 10, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Great Gramps had an old saying, You don't know the Civil War until you've played Gods and Generals 
 on PC. This man was a college professor and for years traveled immense lengths to tell people when 
 its ready this game will be da bomb.
  Gods and Generals has an interesting system at work. People give in to pressure here and swing 
 swords for their life when you've got a musket. I witnessed a man fight til the very end, two broken 
 legs, standing, just standing swinging a sword with no ability to move.
  
  Gameplay:
  That man of whom I told you in the first sentence, he praised this word (gameplay) until he'd get 
 teary eyed. He said, Bigs Rigs heart warming storyline can only be outdone my Gods and Generals 
 gameplay. 
  It's a first person shooter with tense action. It even uses the brilliant stand in a line and fire 
 tactics we forgot as a country about the time of the Revolutionary War. They still shine bright 
 though and what really highlights this is during a particular gun battle i remember firing explosives 
 into a crowd of people and none of them died!
  This is a hard game, but a pleasure to play.
  
  Sound:
  All the essentials are intact. I 
 can recall a certain 5 sounds that are ingrained in my head forever, honestly the 5 these guys 
 managed to squeeze in were more then the actual Civil War had. They've always got a bouncy little 
 flute tunes for you to rock some a$$ with too.
  
  Graphics:
  Did you ever dream there would be sprawling fields of green grass with trees spread amongst them? 
 Anivision went the extra mile and included houses with stationary soliders. There's the infamous 
 white glow that the objects emit, some great shadow effects on those really show the engines power 
 and versatility I'm sue this will run on your computer, but it doesn't sacrafice one bit of graphical 
 power to games like Starcraft and Quake, and the architecture should be included featured in Better 
 Homes and Gardens.
  
  Value/Tilt:
  Listen, don't settle for less. This game will make you marvel at the masterpiece Anivision put 
 on this planet. Activision Value may have felt a slap in the face for Anivision releasing this 
 game under the cirumstances that this game probably wasn't supposed to be finished for years but 
 instead these guys really made efficient use of their time and showed the world how games can be 
 made. It will absolutely inspire you to design games if you were interested coming in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I've longed for an authentic portrayal of the Civil War. Gods and Generals delivers that true to 
 life experience, and more. Soldiers stand, shoot and reload just like they did in reality. There's 
 trees, just like in reality. Not all soldiers are perfect marksmen and strategists, just like in 
 reality. They truly nailed these key aspects of the game and as such I have to say it's the most 
 realistic, most authentic game based on the movie Gods and Generals ever.
  
  And I have to single out the music. It's really bombastically epic and gets you in the proper mood, 
 especially when it plays the same loop on top of itself for an enhanced experience that's twice 
 as good. Sometimes the sound effects disappear to further emphasize the dramatic music. It's brilliant.
 
  
  It doesn't stop there though. I did say it delivered, and more. Well, it actually surpasses reality. 
 It's like a layer of alternate history they applied on top of this astounding realistic vision. 
 Think it's the first time anyone has attempted something like this, ever. And they succeeded. It's 
 a really thought provoking what if scenario Anivision has created here. What if there were glowing, 
 magical boxes during the Civil War? What if soldiers couldn't see further than 30 feet? What if 
 cloning technology was available? What if there was a large white thing? Etc. How would it affect 
 the outcome? Play Gods and Generals and you'll find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finishedmagicks
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of historical shooters, or Civil War shooters for that matter, you may want to think 
 this is a game you would want for your game collection. Well, heres some details of this game .
 
  
  The gameplay: you play as a confederate soldier, who has superhuman powers, or something like that, 
 cause like everyone else act like the war is no big deal, so they basically stand out in the middle 
 of an open field, and shoot at you with their musket, or taunt you with their sword by swinging 
 it, while you get to own them with your pistol, your sword and your standard issue one shot breakable 
 muskets, which are guns that only you can master, everyone else including friends and enemies use 
 them like toys. But thats not always the case, the CPU managed to somehow hack into the game so 
 they have as many musket ammo as they want. But dont let that stop you.
  
  Anyway onto the war design: well for starters, both sides somehow made an agreement to only recruit 
 members who had the same faces and clone them. And so they then decide to duke out the war in this 
 strange looking land filled with trees and white thingy-mabobas that play cruciual roles in the 
 war.
  
  Sounds:... well the only thing i could point out about them is... whoever made them... got an R on 
 the sound making quiz.
  
  In the end, do what everyone else does and leave this pitiful game to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxxter
Rating: 1
Date: May 28, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Yeah... well... What can i say... I wanna sue the publisher. 
  This is at the same level as the games that kids get in their serials.
  To be honest I would 
 rather go download a game for my cellphone... Would have more value. And might even be cheaper... 
 To the guy who wrote the FAQ.... are you serious? Did you really complete the game and spend like... 
 4 hours to write that? Dude, you better take it easy with.... urm... whatever drugs you take. Anyway, 
 I don't even know why I am writing a review....? 
  
  I didn't know that Gamespot really spent time rating this... I gotta cry... But I loved the video 
 review, haha.
  
  Why it's called "Gods and Generals"? Because the developers needed a good god to believe in when 
 they published "this". 
  
  Im outta here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datret
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  You're hiding behind a wall and you realise, "Oh Noes! This is a bush, they can shot through it!" 
 You run for cover, but.... your cover's been blown! You run from the pelting flashes of bullets 
 as the Confederates are chasing you. You turn around and go Chuck Norris on them. Abe Lincoln would 
 be proud.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10: This game shows the stealth can be combined with gunfights. It also combines a 
 little sci-fi as you hide behind mysterious white blobs, only to be discovered by the enemy during 
 an epic battle involving four soldiers... and a wall/bush. You've never felt so good about emancipating 
 the proclamation.
  
  Graphics: 10/10: These graphics are so much pwnage, they will actually turn your computer screen 
 into an HDTV. Like you'd need another reason to buy this game though.
  
  Sound: 10/10: This game sounds just like it should, BANG.
  
  Value: 10/10: You'll spend hours 
 seeking cover under heavy alerts and forces from the Confederates, and that's only in the first 
 level.
  
  Tilt: 10/10: This game has eaten my soul. All hail Gods and Generals.
  
  Overall, this game will morph your screen in HDTV while you duke it out with the evil Confederate 
 army. Uber h4x, plain and simple.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MosinNagant1930
Rating: 1.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Its too bad that Civil War buffs and gamers (like myself) who were looking forward to what looked 
 like a cool Civil War FPS were faced with this piece of s*** when they bought it. 
  
  I originally thought this game was kind of cool, until that is, I found out that the A. I. was totally 
 retarded (and spawned right in front of you) and I couldn't even beat the glitchy second level 
 (Bull Run) . The only good thing that I got out of buying this game was that I had to update my 
 graphics card just to play it (pathetic huh?) , then when the game turned out to be crap, I still 
 had a good graphics card : ) . 
  
  What really pisses me off about this game is that I spent the last Birthday money I got from my 
 Grandma before she passed away to buy it. I'm still trying to get over that.
  
  Take my advice, play a good Civil War FPS like...... umm..... Oh yeah, that's right, there isn't 
 any. Maybe all the developers are afraid of coming out with a game that turns out as crappy as 
 this one. 
  
  In my opinion the Civil War area of the Historic FPS genre is an area of gameing that has been 
 completely neglected (except by this crappy game) . That is a shame. Everyone and their Uncle has 
 come out with WWII and Vietnam First Person Shooters, meanwhile, the Civil War and other cool wars 
 like WWI are neglected by developers. Don't get me wrong though, I love the Call of Duty series, 
 Brothers in Arms, and Red Orchestra Ostfront. I am just saying that there is way too many games 
 in the WWII genre (especially crappy budget ones) . 
  
  I would like to think that a Civil War FPS will be released that will make us forget about this 
 game forever, but it doesn't look like that is going to happen any time in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Thank the lord this was only $7. or I would have been really pissed off. I knew I wasn't going 
 to see Doom 3 quality, but holy Jesus!!!! This is my "Crap on the CD, and fling it out the window" 
 game!! The graphics are horrible, and the music is "barf". The handling of this game is like stick 
 men that don't move, and wait..... it plays how South Park looks! The animations suck so bad. I'm 
 sure my friends and me can make something way better. (Definitely probably not) . This is a prank 
 game for those who do not like someone.... buy this for them! Did these people actually test this 
 game before they launched it? I wonder if they thought it was awesome!? LOL. Hm. I will never play 
 this game again. Just a spot taken up in my inventory. Please remove this game from planet earth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samnite_warrior
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  If there is anyone out there stupid enough to play this game for more than 10 minutes i would like 
 to do brain surgury on them and see for myself. DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IT IS NOT WORTH GOING TO 
 GET THE GAME LET ALONE THE MONEY. i would like to meet the designer ..... and kill him. wating 
 space wasting space wasting space wasting space wasting space wasting space ra cha cha ra cha cha 
 ra cha cha ooo ee o ar ar ding dang walla walla bing bang ooo eee ooo rrr ding dang hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hih hi hi hi hi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: looksofat
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 6, 2004 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Only one musket bullet... Enemies just wont die of you shoot them... The game is so ugly 
 i never made past the second mission. Its not allowed to go too far, and whilst the cannons shoot 
 at you you have to fight enemies... Plain stupid. Gameplay - 1
  
  Graphics: Just look at the screens... You get it right? Graphics - 1
  
  Sound: At least least 
 they put it in the game... Sound - 2
  
  Value: I never made it past the second mission... := ( Value - 1
  
  Tilt - 1
  
  If there 
 is the worst game award this could get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeDe
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 19, 2003 6:20 am PT
Review:  Well, what can we say about this... errm "game"... I think it could be playable or even enjoyable 
 (hardly) if it was a simple quake 1 mod, but knowing these guys used the littech for this is just 
 unbelievable... you hardly have more than 3 different textures on screen and missions are just 
 uninteresting and badly scripted. There are also strange choices of gameplay, like carrying only 
 2 rifle bullets at a time, forcing you tu run on every corpse to resplenish your ammo stock; still, 
 missions are more a bore than anything, with almost no script (only fixed foes waiting for you 
 to come and rare patrollers) and so you don't really wanna run on everybody to continue the 'story'.
 
  
  On a more technical side, I just wanted to add that the game suffers some strange performance issues, 
 with some crappy times when you get very little fps (run @ 1024, full details on xp1800+ GF3 768ddr) .
 
  
  I wouldn't recommend this game at all.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
