-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Golf Resort Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/golfresorttycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.5, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 40 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Cat Daddy Games
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     May 31, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Achilles heel of Golf Resort Tycoon is that not much happens for long, long stretches of time. 
 

  Designing an attractive, profitable golf course is obviously no mean feat. Simply creating 18 quality 
 holes that will lure golfers away from their favorite links and keep them coming back for more 
 is challenging enough; toss in all the other aspects of a successful resort -- restaurants, tennis 
 and racquetball courts, guest accommodations, a myriad of maintenance facilities, and more -- and 
 you can readily appreciate how much time and careful planning are involved in the process. Those 
 are the sorts of complexities that lie at the heart of any good business simulation, and on first 
 impression, Golf Resort Tycoon seems to have all the bases covered -- if you've seen it in a fancy 
 real-life resort, chances are you'll be able to build it in this business simulation. Where Golf 
 Resort Tycoon deviates from real life is that the entire process takes place in real time. Instead 
 of having all the holes and buildings in place before opening the gates to your virtual resort, 
 you must construct your vacation spot bit by bit, as duffers who apparently don't mind visiting 
 a golf course with only two or three holes wander about the premises complaining about the lack 
 of entertainment.           You can walk around a 3D version of your course, but this gimmick gets 
 old.    

  Golf Resort Tycoon includes two game modes. The instant action mode lets you choose from one of 
 five locales -- forest, mountain, island, desert, and "autumn," which is a more dense version of 
 forest but with brightly colored leaves -- and lets you build up your golfing haven without worrying 
 about set objectives. On the other hand, the game's dozen challenges present you with specific 
 goals you must achieve, ranging from straightforward (build an 18-hole course with at least 28 
 hazards) to complex (develop a resort worthy of media coverage, then hire a film crew to cover 
 special events) . Difficulty is determined by how much cash you have on hand as construction begins, 
 from 50 large in easy mode to a pitiful 10 grand when you play on the hard setting.   

  Don't expect to be able to take that $50,000 and throw up a pro shop and nice restaurant right 
 off the bat. Golf Resort Tycoon forces you to build structures in a certain order, and some of 
 the requirements don't seem to make sense. Why do you need a first-aid center in place before you 
 can build a putting green? Why must you have a portable toilet in order to build a bakery stand 
 when you've already constructed a full-service restroom and torn down the portable toilets you 
 erected earlier? You also need a beer garden before you can build a golf-cart racetrack. You need 
 to use the "compound" surrounding the clubhouse as placement areas for minor buildings such as 
 maintenance or pest control. Speaking of pest control, it's inexplicably found under the medical 
 buildings icon.   

  Once you do get accustomed to these interface issues, you'll find yourself your plopping down buildings 
 quickly and easily, but if you're not careful, you'll find yourself suffering from the links version 
 of urban sprawl. The obvious solution is to tear down buildings that are redundant, but you've 
 got to be careful because of the building restrictions. If you remove all the tiny groundskeeping 
 shacks once you've got a larger advanced groundskeeping building, you'll find you can't build a 
 second advanced groundskeeping building because you need to have at least one little groundskeeping 
 building still standing to do so.   

  As far as course design goes, don't expect the advanced course architects you'd find in regular 
 golf simulations. About all you can do in Golf Resort Tycoon is pick a tee spot and make crude 
 adjustments to fairway width and direction. Instead of being able to smoothly rotate the view, 
 you're limited to 90-degree rotations when viewing your resort, and objects such as bunkers and 
 water hazards can only be rotated 180 degrees before placement. Still, the results are generally 
 acceptable, and making hole design any more complex would probably be overwhelming since you must 
 do it on the fly.   

  Once your operation is running, you can select any golfer and see what he or she is doing and how 
 he or she feels about the facilities. You can also grab them and drop them down anywhere you like 
 (a trick you can use with maintenance personnel to speed up repairs) , and an option to access a 
 first-person view lets you espy things from their perspective. This may sound interesting, but 
 in practice it's actually fun for all of about 30 seconds.           Golf Resort Tycoon can be 
 as bland as watching grass grow.    

  There's plenty to do to stay on top of things, but the Achilles heel of Golf Resort Tycoon is that 
 not much happens for long, long stretches of time -- except for the seemingly endless stream of gopher 
 infestations reported by golfers (the pest-control guys use dynamite to solve the problem,  
 la Bill Murray's character in  Caddyshack ) . As time crawls by and you wait for your cash surplus 
 to build up so you can add a new feature to your resort, you'll find yourself praying that something 
 exciting will happen. But something out of the ordinary almost never occurs.   

  If there were an option to increase the game speed, Golf Resort Tycoon would have done a much better 
 job of holding your attention for long periods of time. However, even if this were the case, there's 
 not much to the game beyond the thrills of golf micromanagement to keep you coming back for more. 
 Golf Resort Tycoon can be a nice diversion and a decent way to kill time in short spurts, but it's 
 definitely not for everyone.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macacd
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  You have been hired to build and manage a new golf course in town. The goal is to develop a course 
 that is beautiful, economical and most of all profitable. As the course designer you will oversee 
 all the construction projects, and have the ability to adjust costs organise events that will attract 
 more golfers. Your job will be to make guests happy and keep the resort in good working order while 
 maximising profits. The rating of your course depends upon the difficulty of the course you design 
 and quality of the facilities that you provide. Make sure that there are plenty of food and shelter 
 locations for patrons visiting your resort.
  
  Presentation
  It all looks very plesant and soft on the eyes, but it looks like every other three-dimensional 
 game around these days but this time its golf.
  
  Graphics
  If this game was out five years ago it would have been called revolutionary, but it now looks like 
 just another bland three-dimensional strategies.
  
  Sound
  The sound is quite appalling from the repetitive background music to the sound of the golfers, 
 with one club sounds, 3 different golfer shouts including my golf course favourite ''FORE'' and 
 one sound for a water hit and one for hitting the bunker, it all get extremely similar and repetitive.
 
  
  Playability
  Once you have completed the first few challenges there is nothing more to unlock, you have seen 
 all the buildings and seen all the vegetation you are likely to see and quite frankly even want 
 to see.
  
  Lastability
  If you like golf this will always be one of your favourers and will last some time attempting to 
 get the quality 18 you aspire to play on, but if you were not a fan I would advise avoiding this 
 title.
  
  Best Bits
  + Watch the golfers get frustrated on your course
  + Its every golfers dream to design his own course.
  + It's challenging to design 18 quality 
 holes
  + The manual is well written.
  
  Worst Bits
  - The challenge mode isn't to challenging
  - All the challenges are strangely familiar
  - No 
 ability to play your own course
  - The screen can get quickly cluttered with menus
  - The menu system is overly complicated
  
  Alternatively
  There are a few other golf course 
 designers around they are my pick if not why not a golf game to curve your golfing fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  There's not many good things that I can say about this game... except the point that you can watch 
 the computer players suck at golf and spend thousands of dollars... Bad Point #1- You'll get tired 
 of the game in almost an instinct... and you won't want to play it again after that Bad Point #2- 
 If you reach the point in the game where you have everything and you can't do anything else, you'll 
 end up watching your golf course be infested with moles... Bad point #3 aweful sound effects, and 
 what's with the computer players sucking so much at golf... Bad Point #4 Its not worth your money, 
 you can buy a better game for the same for more... Don't buy 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
