-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gorasul: Legacy of the Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/gorasullegacyofthedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 43 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: Silver Style
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 26, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bugs and countless rough edges take a lot of the fun out of this fantasy role-playing game. 

 
 Although it sounds more like a medieval topical cream than a role-playing game, Gorasul: Legacy 
 of the Dragon is actually a successor to games the likes of Black Isle Studios' Baldur's Gate and 
 Planescape: Torment. The first North American release from German designer Silver Style could even 
 be characterized as an homage (the less charitable will want to substitute "rip-off" here) to these 
 and other games using BioWare's Infinity engine. Both the story and gameplay of Gorasul should 
 be familiar to anyone who battled the Bhaalspawn or sought the identity of the Nameless One. What 
 won't be so familiar to veterans of those games are numerous production problems. Bugs and countless 
 rough edges take a lot of the fun out of what seems to be a winning alternative to waiting for 
 Neverwinter Nights to ship. There is still a lot to admire about Gorasul, though that affection 
 is often sorely tested over the course of completing the lengthy campaign.           Gorasul is 
 clearly inspired by Black Isle Studios' successful RPGs.    

  Truthfully, "often" doesn't even begin to describe the state of affairs here. You'll be constantly 
 amazed at the lack of refinement. The most obvious and consistent errors concern the text. Because 
 Gorasul was originally released earlier this fall in a German-language edition, North American 
 gamers are playing a version that's been translated into English. On second thought, make that 
 "butchered into psychedelic Esperanto." Nearly every sentence of onscreen dialogue in the game 
 features mistakes of varying degrees, including minor offenses like confusing "their" for "there" 
 and major ones that make conversations and instructions incomprehensible. You'll laugh out loud 
 to lines like "It can be a live or death decision!" and "Attack! The enemies are slamming from 
 the rear!" You'll scratch your head over lines like "Or do you think I am just put on off to the 
 side?" and "Up! On to other things. Ade!" Most of all, you'll be bewildered at how the North American 
 publisher, JoWood Productions, could have released this game in its current state. We might just 
 have a successor to "Somebody set us up the bomb."   

  Poor language skills are not the only technical gaffes on display. Even though the German version 
 of Gorasul has been on European shelves for three months, the programmers have done nothing to 
 clean up the extensive number of bugs. Unexplainable installation issues forced us to reinstall 
 the game twice, sound clipping and static are common, German audio occasionally pops up to narrate 
 English text, and characters will sometimes be unresponsive to movement commands after you load 
 a save. More ominously, crashes are frequent -- and they often occur while you're trying to save 
 your progress. Certain parts of your quest are more apt to drop you to the desktop than others. 
 The opening and later stages of the game were bug-free, but the middle section featured a nightmarish 
 stretch where crashes were constantly taking place.           Sadly, the game is filled with technical 
 problems.    

  All of the above is a real shame since Gorasul seems to be a great game under all the tarnish. 
 Silver Style obviously took Baldur's Gate as a template and ran with the idea of making an inspired 
 imitation. Everything you remember from the Infinity engine games is present here, aside from the 
 multiplayer option. The character classes, isometric perspective, combat system, interface, and 
 magical weapons and items have been adapted, most with only minor changes. Classes, for example, 
 feature the traditional warriors and priests, but magic users are called magicians, and rangers 
 are known as scouts. The other two choices are original, though the banisher seems to be sort of 
 a specialized priest, and the judge of the swords is something like a paladin. Characters are rated 
 in the five usual categories of strength, dexterity, constitution, intelligence, and charisma. 
 Each can be altered during the creation process and after level advancement by drawing from a pool 
 of points that can be distributed however you see fit. There are also attack and defense ratings, 
 which can be bumped up with points as well during the progress of the game. Magic is drawn from 
 mana, so forget about that cumbersome "sleep on it" restriction from Dungeons &amp; Dragons.   
 

  From there, the design team went off on a tangent. Instead of relying on the traditional swords 
 and sorcery fare to write the story, Silver Style hit on the adventure elements presented in Planescape: 
 Torment. You portray Roszondas, who's just awakened from a decade of death with no memory of his 
 past other than hazy recollections about fighting demons and the undead. However, in short order, 
 you recall a lot about who you are, including your mission to defeat the evil forces invading the 
 land of Gorasul and the special powers granted by your dragon stepfather, Crakan. These powers 
 serve as an addition to the basic character stats. You're rated in dragon breath, dragon fear, 
 dragon strength, and dragon eyes, and each can be adjusted with points awarded every time you advance 
 a level. These attributes are of questionable value during the game, as they typically come into 
 use only when Roszondas is in immediate peril. Whenever death approaches, he'll automatically use 
 flame breath, a fear effect, or immense strength to fend off enemies. Dragon eyes is a noncombat 
 specialty that progressively removes more of the fog of war from the map as you develop it as a 
 skill.    

 Roszondas will eventually meet up with nonplayer characters that can be signed up to gather a party 
 of four. But he's given one companion right from the start -- a magical, intelligent weapon. After 
 finishing with your creation of the leading man, you choose from seven standard weapon types like 
 longsword, dagger, battle-ax, and so on. Each comes with its own set of configurable stats, including 
 accuracy, break-proof, intelligence, and courage. Ego is also tracked, though it rises naturally 
 and can't be adjusted. In the later stages of the campaign, your weapon's ego will reach such lofty 
 heights that it will begin to question your actions. It further collects experience points and 
 can rise in levels just like normal characters. Each weapon type is also given an archenemy racial 
 type that it always wants to fight and another that it is afraid of. This adds a fair bit of distinctiveness 
 to play at certain moments, though a lot of the weapon's personality is deflected by the absence 
 of spoken lines.           Gorasul includes a number of interesting gameplay twists.    

  Gameplay is similar to that in the original Baldur's Gate. You'll go from town to town, clearing 
 out wilderness maps, talking with people, and stumbling across quests that need to be performed 
 for experience points and valuable items. Some of these missions are simple errands, though others 
 are more involved. A sense of humor colors the lighter events. The magic word to activate a teleportation 
 device is "Please," and asking one peasant to reveal a secret causes him to reply, "It wouldn't 
 be a secret if I told you, now would it?" It's not hilarious, but it's suitable comic relief.  

  Some of the innovations in play are noteworthy. Along with three basic difficulty settings, you 
 can select from a trio of options that regulate the number and difficulty of puzzles and fights. 
 Those who prefer an adventure-style RPG can go with more quests, while those who prefer hack-and-slash 
 can choose more fighting. Anyone who can't decide can keep the default choice with a bit of both. 
 Silver Style made a point of drawing players out of repetitive action as often as possible. Puzzles 
 can be fairly difficult -- made even more so by disjointed instructions that must have made a lot 
 more sense in the original German -- and are something that you'll have to deal with on all three 
 settings to one degree or another. At specific points in the game you'll be presented with simple 
 arcade-style challenges, such as hitting a bull's-eye with a bow and arrow. Dedicated role-players 
 unaccustomed to these things should note that these moments aren't very tough and have little impact 
 on the storyline. Another highlight is directing the defense of a kobold village on a separate 
 tactics screen where you position the ugly little guys and they follow your orders.   

  As you might expect from the cut-rate translation and bugs, there isn't much visual chrome to be 
 found here. Graphics are close to those seen in the Infinity engine games, albeit closer to what 
 you would imagine a beta of Baldur's Gate to look like (though the resolution is an improved 800x600) . 
 The color palette and art aren't sophisticated, giving everything a bright, cartoony appearance. 
 Textures are similarly "loud" and lacking in complexity. Animations are extremely awkward, with 
 combat consisting of little more than an arm going up and coming straight back down. Spell effects 
 consist of 2D sprites that are blocky and a good four or five years out of date. All that said, 
 the visuals are crisp and should be acceptable to the average RPG fan. Nothing really gets in the 
 way.           If not for all its rough spots, Gorasul could have been great.    

  The same could describe the audio. That isn't a good thing, though, since there isn't much sound 
 to begin with. The German voice acting has been removed without the addition of replacement English 
 lines, so the dialogue sequences pass in silence. So does much of the combat. Battle effects are 
 nearly nonexistent, and monsters make squeaks more appropriate to pigeons and rusty hinges. The 
 musical score is average at best, with bombastic orchestral pieces that can grow tiresome over 
 the course of your quests. Oddly, the best music in the game can only be heard on the map screen. 
 This piece sounds a lot like a cross between a belly-dancing tune and the predinner entertainment 
 at Medieval Times, and it adds a lot of character to the proceedings.   

  Not that Gorasul: Legacy of the Dragon really needs any more character. Silver Style has achieved 
 something significant in copying the Baldur's Gate formula so well, even bettering it in some ways. 
 The only problem is that these qualities are often impossible to appreciate because of all the 
 bugs and translation errors. Enjoying a telling moment in the plot or a clever puzzle is tough, 
 considering that you're forever confused by the screwball text or nervously anticipating that the 
 program will crash to the desktop at any moment. With a little more time and money, this could 
 have been an excellent role-playing game. As it is, Gorasul is only for those who aren't easily 
 frustrated or who have the patience to wait for a patch.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dmso12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was released in a buggy state, with half-a$$ed translations. As such, it was rightfully 
 panned as a game that could have been great if patched.
  
  Well, 5 years and 6 patches later, the game is actually fun to play, despite the crash-to-desktop 
 that occurs occasionally during combat and the production values.
  
  Basically, this is Baldur's Gate on a budget. You lead around 4 heroes, plunder dungeons, level 
 up as you see fit, make good or evil choices, and explore a rather large world via a world map 
 and quest-givers. There are some innovations here - your weapon acts as an NPC that levels up and 
 that you can customize and there are a wide variety of herbs to find and use. Character animations 
 are low-budget but nice enough. Actually, that about sums up all the graphics. For its time, the 
 spell animations were quite good.
  
  Sound is fair, although I always turn in-game sound off.
  
  The bugs still persist, however. 
 You have to be pretty diligent about saving because the game crashes randomly during combat, usually 
 on a click or when you hit the spacebar to pause. There are some interface quirks as well. However, 
 none of the quests were broken. and I was able to play the game from start to finish with about 
 27 crashes to the desktop, and over 40 hours of play.
  
  If you are looking for an RPG diversion with an immersive world and well-rounded story, and don't 
 mind being patient with the bugs (SHAME ON YOU JOWOOD) , I'd grab this from the bargain bin without 
 a second thought. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
