-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gore: Ultimate Soldier
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/goreultimatesoldier/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.3, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 130 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: 4D Rulers
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jun 5, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gore is a decent shooter, but there isn't anything here that hasn't been done already -- and better -- in 
 a game you probably already own. 

 After more than five years in development by a small, independent team, Gore should be given credit 
 for getting released at all. A first-person shooter, it also has one interesting idea: power-ups 
 that explode when shot, effectively eliminating the ability to camp them during deathmatches. Beyond 
 these two points, however, there isn't much about Gore that's especially noteworthy. It's neither 
 bad enough to elicit much scorn, nor good enough to generate any real interest. It's a just passably 
 competent old-school shooter that sets its sights pretty low and then manages to hit that mark. 
           You've probably seen most of this before.    

 The single-player game is largely forgettable. Like Serious Sam, Gore is a conscious throwback to 
 the stripped-down, fast-paced, generally plot-free action of Doom and the first two Quakes. Unfortunately, 
 Gore is no Serious Sam. It's significantly less inventive. It doesn't look as good. Its combat 
 is less tactical and less intense. It's shorter. And at a retail price of 30 bucks, it doesn't 
 even qualify as a budget title.   

  The single-player campaign appears to be cobbled together from slightly reworked versions of the 
 game's multiplayer levels, and it shouldn't take more than five or six hours to complete. It's 
 a completely linear and straightforward run through a greatest-hits collection of commonly used 
 shooter locales. There's a space station, a warehouse, a neon-lit urban environment, a dungeon, 
 a Central American temple, a South American drug lord's mansion, an office, and the classic big, 
 empty cathedral/castle with lots of stained glass. Bucking tradition, Gore also includes a Wild 
 West town and a haunted mansion. This variety would have worked better if Gore's graphics were 
 more impressive. The custom rendering engine produces visuals that have more in common with Quake 
 II-powered games than more-recent Quake III and Unreal titles. There are no large outdoor scenes, 
 and most of the action takes place in corridors or tightly bound courtyard areas.   

  Gore has around eight distinct enemy types, though some of them have multiple weapon loadouts. 
 Most of them are traditional video game "punks." There's the karate guy, the spiky-blond-haired 
 guy, the fat bruiser, and the leather-clad dominatrix. There's also a terminator robot, a guy in 
 a robot suit, and a spawning, chain saw-wielding skeleton that usually appears in packs of five. 
 The AI seems to be rigidly pattern-based: Enemies will run straight at you or stand back and shoot. 
 As Serious Sam proved, simple behaviors can still provide an interesting challenge if those behaviors 
 are varied and complementary and if the enemies attack in large numbers. Gore fails on both of 
 these counts. The behavior mixture isn't well designed enough to promote much logistical complexity, 
 and there are rarely more than five or six opponents in any given battle.   

  One unique aspect of the character models is that armor actually appears on and protects the part 
 of the body that it's supposed to. For instance, you can target a piece of chest armor, and it 
 will deteriorate and then burst apart as you damage it.   

  Like most things in Gore, the sound effects are not bad while at the same time being completely 
 unmemorable. The enemies do have an annoying habit of screaming the same few catchphrases over 
 and over again, however.           Gore's enemies are mostly video game punks.    

 The first thing you'll notice about Gore's multiplayer game is that it's really fast paced. Player-movement 
 speed appears to be faster than in the original Quake, Daikatana, and even the most recent Gore 
 demo. It offers class-based deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture-the-flag modes. There are 
 also four "tactical" gameplay types: assault, which is like the recent Soldier of Fortune II's 
 infiltration mode; extermination, a last-man-standing game; escape; and an escort-the-VIP mode 
 called infiltration. There's a built-in server browser, though it doesn't support sorting the list 
 by its various columns. With about 22 weapons, a frantic pace, a nice variety of levels, and what 
 seems to be decent, stable net code, Gore's multiplayer game is certainly not bad. However, at 
 the moment (a week after its release) there's virtually nobody playing online. There aren't a whole 
 lot of servers, which wouldn't be so bad if those few servers had a good number of people playing. 
 Unfortunately, they're just about empty at all times. Unless things change dramatically over the 
 next several weeks, you'll have a difficult time finding a decent match online.   

  Gore is a decent game, but there isn't anything here that hasn't been done already -- and better -- in 
 a game you probably already own.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 6
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 6
  Actual score: 6.7 
  
  Ever since I have been introduced to Unreal Tournament back in 1999, I always wondered of how UT 
 would fair in single player mode in form of a storyline as some of the multiplayer maps are truly 
 remarkable (and Im not talking about Unreal even though that's a phenomenal achievement 
 in itself) . Naturally I have downloaded many mods to fill this void yet the wait was over in 2002 
 where Dreamcatcher took up this concept in the form of Gore  that is using multiplayer maps, 
 string them together, link it up in form of a story and added quirks to sparks things up. The overall 
 feeling was mixed and a little confusing yet the changes made by Dreamcatcher to make multiplayer 
 more fun were enough to keep me satisfied.
  
  The premise of Gore is extremely simplistic and overused somewhat. The setting is in the mid 21st 
 century where natural resources are almost depleted due to over population, street gangs rule the 
 streets and even cities therefore the governments are left powerless. However a new discovery was 
 made called ORE where this material can amplify electrical power that feeds into it and considering 
 its public knowledge, every man and his dog wanted it. The main terrorist 
 group The MOB are using this to travel into space in search of more ORE yet the UMC 
 (the good guys) are using this to fuel the meat machine  that is: a virtual 
 combat simulator to train the best of the best using variety of different scenarios. Naturally 
 only the strong will survive (as many soldiers suffered from cardiac arrest) however The MOB somehow 
 infiltrates the machine (from space?) and stole important data that can cripple the machine. Your 
 task is to hunt down and return the data core at any cost using real and virtual world simulations.
 
  
  Considering the plot is quite simplistic, this places a reasonable excuse to add on as many multiplayer 
 maps in a single player mode as you possibly can. When you trod from one map to another, there 
 will be a huge contrast of scenarios ranging from urban hip hop to gothic churches to graveyards 
 to space stations and many, many more. On the surface it does sound promising however considering 
 that these maps are designed for multiplayer use, as a single player they are remarkably short 
 hence there is no real feelings for the surroundings; its like sampling wine 
 where you simply just taste many different ones instead of taking a couple of bottles and totally 
 immerse yourself into.
  
  However all is not lost. Considering the publisher is Dreamcatcher expect some twists along the 
 way. One of my major grips in any multiplayer game is the concept of camping near health packs 
 and weaponry. Well in Gore if you shoot a health pack it explodes (just like a grenade) so a message 
 goes out to all those campers  beware. This also extends to ammo packs and certain weaponry. 
 And to those whos like a jack rabbit on heat and strafe like theres no tomorrow (e. g. 
 me) there is also the concept of stamina; so your character can eventually slow down, tire and 
 even pass out if you are not careful. Therefore this provides a nice balance and answers to many 
 questions of making things fair on the multiplayer world.
  
  Graphically the game is on par of looking pleasing enough. Im not sure the name of the engine 
 used to power Gore however the rending is quite smooth and detailed. Nice lighting effects, smooth 
 animation and the likes reminds me of the Quake III engine (similar to Soldier of Fortune or Medal 
 of Honor) . However the characters themselves can be improved with a little more animations 
 but considering its designed for fast paced action thats not too much of a concern. 
 The flipside is that getting the game running on its fullest glory requires a powerful PC. That 
 said, the optimisation is well constructed and will play well on most mid range PCs. 
  
  The sounds are a mixed bag though. Musically, Gore produces those short, sharp bursts of scores 
 which uses that looping style quite effectively. I think each loop lasts around thirty 
 seconds however as an overall picture, it does presents itself quite nicely. Yet everything else 
 is where it falls down. The weaponry, explosions and the taunts all sounds scratchy; its 
 like playing music on a cheap stereo very loud to a point of distortion. Its a shame that 
 this has happened however I guess you cannot win them all. And the taunts needs a lot of work as 
 well; seriously the guy armed with those throwing knives yelling at me Im the knife 
 guy is not going to do much justice. Now compare this with UT2003 or Quake III and correct 
 me otherwise.
  
  The biggest selling point to this game and ironically the biggest drawback is the multiplayer mode. 
 There are six modes to choose from ranging from death match, team death match, capture the flag, 
 tactical extermination (basically DM without the respawning) , tactical assault (one group defends 
 whilst one group attack according to the objectives presented) and tactical escape/infiltration. 
 Considering there are many modes to choose from there are all pretty much stock-standard multiplayer 
 options. However with the added twist of exploding equipments and stamina it does place an edge 
 to that otherwise mundane approach.
  
  As advertised about being fast-paced, the entire single player mode lives up to that standard. 
 An average FPS player can easily knock it off well within the ten hours range however considering 
 the selling point is the multiplayer, well good luck in finding an active server. Yet all is not 
 lost as after all those years Gore is still developing as the newest version 1.61 have made improvements 
 to the original 2002 game (and its subsequent upgrades) . This is good to see that the game is not 
 placed in the too hard basket and if you visit the Gores webpage there are 
 still three active yet sizable clans.
  
  Dreamcatcher Interactive have this thing about using a worn-out game play style and change it just 
 enough to make things interesting yet again. In this game Gore, theres no difference; that 
 is using the fast paced Unreal Tournament 1999 style and fuses this with Team Fortress character 
 classes, sprinkle with exploding health packs, guns, stamina and the likes, there you have Gore 
  sadly though its not that fast as UT 99 nor the characters are anything really 
 different (save for the health and speed of the character) so its basically a been 
 there done that concept. To my knowledge the game itself was in development for over five 
 years (therefore starting out in 1997) ; that said if it was released in 1999 maybe it could be 
 a contender to be up there among the greats of multiplaying however looking in at 2002, the changes 
 made will be not enough to take that spotlight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Navalhao
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  BESTBE STBESTBE STBESTB ESTBEST BESTBES TBESTBE ST BE ST BE STB ESTB ESTB ESTB ESTB ESTB ESTB ESTB 
 ESTB ESTB ESTB ESTB ESTBE STBE STBE STBE STBES TBEST BESTBES TBESTBEST BESTB ESTB ESTBE STB ESTBES 
 TBESTBESTBESTBES TBESTBESTB ES TBESTB E ST ESTBE STBEST BEST BESTBESTBE STBESTBESTBES TBE STB ESTB 
 EST BESTBESTBESTBESTBESTBESTBES TBESTBEST B ESTBESTBES TBESTBE STBES TBESTBESTBES TBESTBESTBESTBE 
 STBESTBESTBES TBEST B ES TBES TB ESTBESTB ESTBEST BESTBESTBESTBES TBESTBES TBESTBESTBES TB ESTBESTB 
 ESTBESTBEST BE STBEST BEST B E ST BE STB E STBESTBE STBEST BE S TBES TBE ST BESTB ESTBESTBESTBESTBEST 
 BEST BESTBESTBE STB ESTBE STB ESTBE STBESTBESTBESTBESTBES TBES TB EST BES TBEST BE STBESTB EST 
 BES TBE STBEST BEST BESTBEST BESTB ES TBE ST BES TB ESTB EST BEST BES TBESTBESTB  
 TBESTBESTBES TBESTB EST BESTBESTBESTBESTBESTBES TBESTBES TBEST BE STBESTB ESTBE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Gore is average. I could almost end the review here as it says everything you need to know. It's 
 a first person shooter that is fast paced though not intense, has some decent though ultimately 
 clich&eacute; d graphics and levels and for a predominantly multi-player game there's not a lot 
 happening on the servers a few years after release. However, it is a quick romp for those who love 
 their shooters and whilst it is 'average', perhaps more importantly it doesn't frustrate or offend.
 
  
  It is the year 2044 (or thereabouts) and an organised crime syndicate ingeniously entitled The 
 Mob has wreaked havoc. The response is a combat simulator (a. k. a The Meat Machine) which is an 
 accelerated training device for hardcore soldiers. This device has tipped the favour of the conflict 
 back towards the Government, but it's not over yet. 'The Mob' identity OptikNerv has hacked into 
 the Mean Machine and you have to deal with this issue in both a physical and metaphysical sense. 
 But even in the metaphysical, you deal with this through tried and tested first person combat with 
 a serious arsenal of weapons against Mob members in a variety of locations.
  
  There's nothing wrong with the graphics. The environments are well rendered, with standard settings 
 of space stations, back alleys, industrial sites, offices, mansions and graveyards all well mapped, 
 planned and detailed. You move through these environments at pace too, with a large variety of 
 foes to face (rather than a large amount) and there is not a lot of stress on the PC. The characters 
 look decent enough (though showing their age now) and the weapons are well defined. It is clear 
 that a lot of work went into how Gore looks and it all looks decent enough as you blast your way 
 through.
  
  The sounds are also reasonable, though nothing to right home about. Most enemies have a generic 
 line or two they will yell before strutting their stuff, the music is equal parts atmospheric and 
 disposable and whilst all weapons fire off well, there's nothing groundbreaking. The chainsaws 
 sound cool, but this counterbalanced by OptkiNerv's woeful laugh.
  
  The game itself is a decent enough first person shooter. All the elements, whether original or 
 not are well enough put together and it does lead to some decent battles and a couple of super 
 levels (in particular the haunted house, the graveyard blitz and the industrial factory) . There 
 is a story tying all of these disparate levels together, but it doesn't matter what level you are 
 on, the usual suspects are there to stop your progress. The big dude with a shotgun is best kept 
 at a distance, the knife thrower doesn't have much going for him, the sultry chick is quick and 
 nimble as she tries to do you over and the skeletons are a good addition indeed (now I know where 
 Painkiller got the idea from) . Maps are reasonably big but it is Point A to Point B stuff.
  
  The AI is pretty basic with enemies usually charging you at pace, though they will take cover 
 on occasions. However, for such large maps, at times with open spaces, it was a rare event when 
 there were more than half a dozen enemies to deal with. Though the skeleton rush was pretty cool.
 
  
  The finale, a standard boss level against a standard sort of boss, (and no doubt will recall a 
 certain game starting with 'Q') is a challenge in patience more than skill before the ending that 
 has a twist that isn't really a twist. It's short, it's sharp and it probably not varied enough 
 to try again. You see the influences throughout the game. It does try to be at the same level as 
 Serious Sam and Quake 2 but, whilst hitting the mark once or twice, it's just not there consistenly 
 throughout the game.
  
  I've read that the game had a lot of hiccups on its way to release, and due credit to the developers 
 at 4D for sticking to the guns (literally) and letting the product see the light of day. The single 
 player game just breaks the four hour mark on the default level and on looking at the multiplayer 
 component both servers and players were in the single figures. It was a game specifically designed 
 for multiplayer, but simply there isn't any action. If you buy it now, it's for the single player 
 campaign.
  
  I purchased Gore for $AUD8.50 (second-hand) and I have no complaints. Especially as I bought a 
 Strip-Sub combo from Red Rooster today for $9.80 which was pretty ordinary. I thought then I could 
 have packed my lunch and brought a game with that money....
  
  Gore is a competently developed shooter which offers a quick hit of action for the FPS crew. Yes, 
 there is much better available from both now and then and it doesn't have any real 'pull factor' 
 other than being a fast paced shooter. If you live and breathe such games, or don't have the rig 
 to run the contemporary titles, then Gore may just be a suitable, though ultimately short, distraction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krensauce
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  I really appreciated this title when I played it.
  It's very fast, more than the most of the other FPS, and that makes the action fast'n'furious.
 
  The graphics aren't the best but not the worst either and the engine is very fast, making it running 
 very smooth in virtually all systems. The levels are never repetitive, they are all different one 
 from the other, although this can't be seen as a good thing from a certain point of view, as it 
 looks more like the story was made based by the look of the levels rather than they were made to 
 follow it. The worst thing is probably that they are very static, not much is moving (most of the 
 time nothing at all) and that makes them look not so real.
  Almost all the enemies models looks very well. Very detailed and finally with real fingers ;) and 
 you can even see if and where they wear armour, so you can aim for the uncovered body parts to 
 inflict more damage.
  The sound is fine when talking about special effects. The music is another thing. The tracks are 
 only short loops, and although you can finish the level before they gets annoying that doesn't 
 mean that they don't add more to the low-budget-look of this production. Alot of things makes you 
 feel that.
  Another one is the fact that there is no introduction and basically no end sequence either. The 
 cut-scenes are very simple. OptikNerv (the bad guy of the situation) is simply standing still or 
 running away while talking the usual ahahha I 0wn t3h w0rld leet phrases. No camera change, nothing 
 other.
  The AI is not a real intelligence like in most games, but atleast the enemies here are not ONLY 
 running at you while firing everything at hand. They also retreat, try to avoid your bullets and 
 generally makes the fights more dinamical than most of the other games, where you can simply hide 
 behind a wall and wait for the enemies to come at you. The fact that you can actually make the 
 ammo supplies to explode if you fire at them add something to the action too. If you're full of 
 ammo then you can use them to get down enemies with ease, but they also can do it... I also noticed 
 that the difficulty level is well balanced in most situations.
  Gore has a very large amount of weapons by its side, each one with more than one firing mode. They 
 are usually very good but there are exceptions naturally.
  To make levels last more, game designers often adds secrets to each level. Unfortunately Gore lacks 
 them too. There are actually some hidden ammo/armours but I can't call those secrets as they are 
 simply hidden behind a box most of the times.
  I only tried the multiplayer once and I almost forgot it (I'm talking about a few years ago) , but 
 I remember some funny action.
  So generally this game stands on the half-way between a good and a bad FPS, as it add some interesting 
 things to the lot and enhances some, while lacking other ones. I must say that this game had a 
 good potential. If you look at it you can see alot of similarities with the high scored Painkiller. 
 Fast, non-sense action; alot of weapons all equipped with secondary fire mode; an exceptional variety 
 of level design, all different from each other with no apparent connection between them. It only 
 missed that thing that made Painkiller a success, and so this game fallen to the common FPS bin 
 . Perhaps that atmosphere that I was talking about in the intro, as this game's most serious lack 
 is really that. There's nothing but the fun that makes you finish the levels and play it until 
 the end. The story is so simple and boring that you'd better not read it and invent one of your 
 own instead. It simply fails to involve you into it, giving out no real reasons to actually kill 
 those bad dudes.
  
  A good buy for FPS-maniacs if the price is low (I got it almost free with a magazine) , but if you're 
 looking for something that you will remember for the rest of your life then forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 15, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay and storyline have elements you have seen across any number of previous titles and 
 series (ut series, quake series, rf) . There are multiple classes and a number of fun weapons to 
 use. the flamethrower is fun and burns so purty :-) the gameplay can fun in single player and some 
 of the roof hopping and city views are fun.
  
  the sound gets really old as each class of bad guy has one or 2 lines he screams at you... by the 
 end of the game it will really grate on your nerves.
  
  -multiplayer is still alive surprisingly: each time I logged on there were 20-40 people playing... if 
 you can call that alive, or perhaps it is more accurate to say Gore is not quite dead yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geebus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer was fast paced and balanced. The guns were just right and was a ton of fun. The 
 singleplayer was a dissapointment but the multiplayer held its own. Play the demo and you will 
 understand why. Gore didn't really have any creative ideas but sometimes thats not a bad thing 
 if the game can play right. It may be outdated by a couple hundred years now but its still fun 
 to look back at how games were then compared to now. If you have some free time just shoot around 
 for a little bit and you just might discover a very enjoyable multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 31, 2004 8:51 pm PT
Review:  4D Rulers' first attempt, Gore, tries to copy the action of other titles and the multiplayer madness 
 of Unreal Tournament in a futuristic, post-apocalyptic world. Maybe it's just an Unreal Tournament 
 wannabe, but it's good on its own.
  
  Graphics are very good. The characters are well made, although they're not to well animated. Weapons 
 look good, so do the levels. Some of the latter levels have lots of eye candy. 
  
  Wish I could say the same for the sound. The sound is plain horrible. It sounds like mono, the 
 voice acting is mediocre at best, and the soundtrack doesn't make you feel any better.
  Even in the "Select Character" menu (which doesn't make much sense, mainly because in the single 
 player mode you play always as the same character, and in multiplayer you choose your character 
 right after connecting to a server) one character says "Let's go kick some aliens' ass!" The problem 
 is, there are no aliens in the game.
  
  Gameplay is just "go from here to here" most of the time. And the enemies are incredibly stupid. 
 They just run backwards zig-zagging or straight at you.
  
  Multiplayer is very good, even it can come addictive, but the stamina system kills the action a 
 bit, instead of improving it.
  
  The menus are the worst aspect of Gore. No, really, i'm not kidding. The video menu says "Choose 
 you character" and so on.
  
  Overall, Gore is a good game on its own, while as not as good as today's standards, but better 
 in almost every way than Nosferatu, game that had a better rating in GameSpot that Gore. I don't 
 know why Gore has been underappreciated in lots of websites. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
