-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gothic 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/gothic3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Improved, more intuitive combat system.
 Large, open-ended world to explore.
 Cohesive quest system helps drive the story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Performance problems, especially on lower-end systems.
 Characters either clip through thin walls or get stuck on solid objects.
 Pathfinding issues with follower characters sometimes cause them to get lost.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.4, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 2,781 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Piranha Bytes
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can get past its technical issues, Gothic 3 offers a substantial, open-ended role-playing 
 experience. 

  Gothic and its sequel, Gothic II, offered a challenging role-playing experience but had technical 
 issues that caused the games to run poorly. You can pretty much say the same thing about Gothic 
 3, although the sequel is better in some areas. It still suffers from performance problems, especially 
 on computers that don't have a lot of horsepower under the hood, but its strengths make it worth 
 a look if you have a computer that can handle it and you're in the market for a challenging, open-ended 
 game.  

          Gothic 3 offers great graphics, an open-ended world to explore, and some unfortunate technical 
 issues.     

  Like the previous games, Gothic 3 places you in the role of the series' nameless hero, a soft-spoken 
 adventurer who can eventually pursue one of three career paths: warrior, archer, or wizard. The 
 game's story -- which puts you in the middle of a nation enslaved by brutal orc oppressors -- may seem 
 a bit opaque to players who haven't played the previous games, but those who have will appreciate 
 the references to characters and items from Gothic and Gothic II. Like in those games, the nameless 
 hero starts off with little to no basic training in the game's many different profession skills 
 (which include various schools of sorcery, mastery of different hand-to-hand weapons, and animal 
 skinning, among other things) , and can eventually learn these skills by gaining enough experience 
 to gain levels and visit advanced trainers who can teach him.  

  Gothic 3 makes some real improvements over the previous games. For instance, though you're still 
 expected to progress through most of the game by taking quests that are kept in a less-than-organized 
 journal, the overall quest structure is much better defined and more cohesive. You'll find yourself 
 taking on fewer long-term quests that require travel to many different areas and more short-term, 
 local quests whenever you enter a new area. Though they're sometimes a bit shallow and often require 
 you to kill a certain number of monsters or retrieve certain items, these shorter-term quests are 
 much easier to keep track of, and they're designed to keep you moving throughout the game's vast 
 world in a logical progression -- one that can actually affect how the world is laid out.  

  A lot of Gothic's real estate consists of wilderness broken up by small encampments led by a powerful 
 chieftain character. If you can gain enough of that village's confidence by completing faction-specific 
 quests, you can get the chieftain's attention and, usually, a quest to exterminate an enemy village, 
 which will then be repopulated by the faction you were working for. But the world of Gothic is 
 huge and the game is quite long, so you can still wander all over the place and get lost if you 
 care to, though if you wander too far, you may be ambushed by tough monsters that will make short 
 work of you.  

  In addition, the combat and control schemes in Gothic 3 have been revamped to be much more accessible 
 and to make more intuitive sense. Gothic 3 uses a simpler "one-click-performs-one-swing" system 
 that makes combat a lot easier to get into, though parrying attacks with a shield doesn't seem 
 as effective as simply dodging backward, which gives the game's melee combat a stick-and-move rhythm 
 that requires you to dodge back from your enemies and weave in to swing your sword. It may seem 
 a bit shallow, but it's not the only option; you can also choose to bring a bow or, later in the 
 game, sorcery into battle. You can get into ranged combat with an easy-to-use first-person shooter 
 interface that lets you point and shoot at your foes.  

          The combat system is a bit more shallow than that in previous games, but it's easier to 
 get into.     

  Even Gothic 3's audio is pretty good. Much of the game's music is subdued but suitably symphonic, 
 and it changes dynamically and appropriately, depending on where your character is and whether 
 you're in battle. The game also has a lot of spoken voice dialogue, and while it isn't great, it 
 mostly gets the job done. The dialogue itself isn't snappy or witty, and the actors' delivery isn't 
 always very enthusiastic, but at least the nameless hero sounds much tougher and his delivery isn't 
 as stilted. Also, there's actually a varied cast of voice actors in this new sequel who try to 
 give appropriate performances, as opposed to the embarrassingly tiny pool of voice talent that 
 stretched itself too thin in the previous games. So no, Gothic 3 doesn't have any crotchety old 
 castle guards warning you about orcs and wizards in a thick Yiddish accent, or any jive-talking 
 pimps trying to draw your attention away from purchasing a rusty battleaxe at the docks.  

  Unfortunately, just like its predecessors, Gothic 3 was released in a buggy state with some notable 
 technical problems, including a tendency for the game to briefly hiccup between frames of animation, 
 depending on how powerful your computer is. Our upper-midrange system with 1.5GB RAM and a 256MB 
 graphics card experienced only occasional frame rate hitches, while our lower-end system with 512MB 
 of RAM and a 128MB card had noticeably more frame rate issues, especially when trying to render 
 new areas. And like the previous games in the series, Gothic 3 still has issues with polygon clipping -- you'll 
 still see both enemies and your characters getting "stuck" on geometry in the gameworld, and you'll 
 occasionally see characters clip right through walls, especially when provoked to attack. Also, 
 the game has some issues with character and monster artificial intelligence, particularly when 
 you either gain followers or need to escort characters to safety as part of your quests -- a combination 
 of pathfinding issues and getting stuck on geometry often causes your wards to get lost, which 
 means you have to backtrack and go looking for them.  

  Gothic 3 is also a great-looking game that has detailed character models and interior environments 
 and beautiful outdoor vistas, especially if you have a higher-end computer system and can get away 
 with turning the game's graphics settings up. The game's good-looking graphics go a long way toward 
 making the game seem like an epic adventure in a huge, sprawling world, even if the flat dialogue 
 and issues with characters getting stuck on things sometimes detracts from it.  

          You'll find plenty of quests and new areas to explore in the game.     

  All things 
 considered, it's unfortunate that the game shipped with its technical problems, and that it shipped 
 in the same year as The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, since it's almost impossible to avoid comparing 
 the two. Gothic 3 doesn't have Oblivion's huge breadth and might not look quite as impressive just 
 because of that difference in scale, but it does offer a fairly well put-together story in its 
 set of linked quests, as well as plenty of freedom to roam. To enjoy the game, you'll need a high-end 
 computer, time and patience, and tolerance for a brisk challenge -- but if you have all these things, 
 Gothic 3 could be what you're looking for.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (196 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: topsemag55
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Initially I refrained from purchasing Gothic 3 because of the myriad technical problems. But when 
 Community Patch 1.7 was made available, that made this game both viable and enjoyable.
  
  The cinematics display well-rendered graphics; however, I found myself wishing for a bit more polish 
 with the in-game graphics and animation. Nevertheless, the graphics coding is GPU-specific for 
 nVidia GeForce users, and Gothic 3 has the nVidia Logo prominently displayed during the opening 
 credits, along with nVidia's "TWIMTBP" (The Way It's Meant to Be Played) rating.
  
  The fact that the developers of Gothic 3 took the time to crack open the books and write GPU-specific 
 coding speaks volumes about the game and the people behind it.
  
  Gothic 3's executable has shown a marked improvement in performance with the issuance of Community 
 Patch 1.7. I put the game to the test, and the program responded flawlessly - nary a CTD to be 
 found. Gothic 3 joins Drakensang: The Dark Eye in the list of RPGs that won't crash a PC running 
 XP SP3.
  
  It's also nice to be have selectable Anisopteric Filtering and Anti-aliasing. I like the World 
 Map, but the Quest Log seems to be a bit bland, in my opinion. The Inventory layout is very workable 
 and well thought-out. I was annoyed at not being able to find a screen showing the keyboard assignments: 
 aside from the standard WSAD movement keys, not too many others are where you would expect them 
 to be in a RPG, which means I'll have to wade through a bulky PDF manual while I'm not playing 
 the game.
  
  This game has a few nice touches of realism added-in, such as clicking on a campfire, and you find 
 your character roasting a chunk of meat over the flames. It's the little things like that which 
 can make or break a RPG, and it's a welcome change to see these touches of creativity within the 
 genre.
  
  Gothic 3 is a good deal overall - well worth your time, effort, and your cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemushroomed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Gothic3 is an excellent addition to the Gothic series with the new community patch 1.7. Before 
 this patch the game was an, almost, unplayable mess. I've yet again found myself immersed within 
 the Gothic universe and i'm glad i've waited this long to be able to enjoy it in a bug free state.
 
  
  Pros: The map layout is excellent. The graphics are now indeed very good since they've added antialiasing 
 and, i believe, new shader (s) , the story is interesting, excellent voice acting and a great sound 
 track.
  
  Cons: The fighting takes a little time to get used to and it's still not perfect, AI is lacking. 
 
  
  If you enjoy free roaming RPG's you will most likely enjoy Gothic 3!
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreeak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:37 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best rpg games i have ever played, its very deep and the game pulls you 
 in, you feel like you are inside that world. World is very big and open, and your deeds have impact 
 on that world. Soundtrack of this game is awesome, its epic. Graphics are awesome, movie like, very 
 high tehnical requirements but if you can pass it you will have expirience that you will not forget 
 for very long time.
  
  One of the things i dont like in this game it haves a lot of bugs but its getting fixed so it will 
 be ok, and i realy dont like combat, its not good.
  It realy depends on how fast you click mouse and if you dont click mouse good wolf will kill you 
 just like that. Physics are not realistic when you are killed by wolf you fly 3 meters like wolf 
 is on steroids.
  
  If they fixed all the bugs and made combat sistem more player-friendly this game could be best 
 rpg ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  I really debated internally about what score to give this game. There are so many now infamous 
 flaws and bugs that one could easily give the game a sub-par score and I know many fans did not 
 finish or avoided the game due to these flaws. Yet with a lot of patience, this game really has 
 a much to offer RPG fans. I'm not a diehard RPG fan and had grown very tired of the "diabloesque" 
 hacknslashers which are just mind-numbingly boring after a while. I quit Titan's Quest half way 
 through. Gothic 3 is much more than a typical hacknslash rpg and quite comparable to Oblivion. 
 It's a deep and open-world game with a more involved combat system. Ultimately, I liked it better 
 than Oblivion, which I actually did not finish. Oblivion is a far more polished game but just didn't 
 pull me in enough to keep my interest. It's really a shame that Gothic was not more polished on 
 delivery and even with loads of official and community patches it still has many bugs and lose 
 ends. However, and it's a bit hard to explain, there is a certain character and style to the game 
 and the universe that makes it enjoyable nonetheless and worth playing. 
  
  Below I will itemize my positive and negative points about the game. 
  
  1) There are many 
 graphical bugs, but overall the game looks quite nice. There are three distinctly different settings/climates 
 in the world that are presented well and offer variety as well as some differences in gameplay 
 style.
  2) I've read several negative comments on combat. Honestly, it seems every game of this type receives 
 loads of complaints about it's combat system. Yet if you compare this to your general hacknslasher 
 the combat system is far superior. This is not just a click click click system. You have various 
 moves all with the mouse and a parry system. Some similarities to Oblivion but much better, especially 
 range combat.
  3) Speaking of ranged combat, it's the deal in this game. Fighting with crossbow or bow is a lot 
 of fun. Arguably the best ranged combat in an rpg type game or game not dedicated to this specific 
 type of combat - like the Thief series. You really get the feel of drawing the bow back and unleashing 
 death on your enemies. As you develop your skills and attributes you can become highly effective 
 and knock out certain enemies or beasts with a well aimed head shot.
  4) Hunting: I really liked this aspect of the game. There are some quests tied to hunting certain 
 packs of animals. Regardless, there are tons of beast in this world that allow you to ignore the 
 game for a while and just head out hunting and collecting trophies that increase your income. You 
 can hunt deer, wolves, boar, bison, rhinos and a number of different creatures unique to the game. 
 It's almost a game to itself.
  5) The story is deep enough and open ended to immerse one in the game. It's not spectacular and 
 I do have some negative notes, but it's otherwise sufficient. There are tons of sidequests and 
 goals that are satisfying, especially liberating cities or regions.
  6) I wasn't into the magic as much until later in the game. I've seen much larger spell books, 
 but there's actually some pretty cool spells to use and magic can be quite powerful, especially 
 when you are fighting against it. I think my favorite spell was "Tame" which allows one to bring 
 a beast under your control to assist in fights. Also, the summoning spells were quite useful. I 
 think magic is not useful until you build up enough skills and points to make it effective.
  7) While this may be a negative to some, I like how your character was basically classless. You 
 can choose a path towards range, melee or magic but ultimately you can gain all these skills after 
 a time a build them fairly evenly, although I recommend at least focusing on one for a while to 
 be effective in fights early on.
  8) Voice dialogue throughout. You can certainly read everything but all the dialogue is spoken 
 and the voice acting is decent. Of course, it's pretty obvious that certain voices are used quite 
 often, but it sure beats sitting there watching two dudes face each other dumbly while you read 
 a bunch of text.
  8) Large game, large world, tons of gameplay. I'd say one can easily spend a good 100 hours or 
 more on the game, although I'm not the fastest gamer and have no desire to be.
  
  Now for a few negative comments:
  1) It almost goes without mention, but this is a frustratingly 
 bugged out a game. I can certainly see many gamers losing patience. I'll touch on a few major ones 
 below. With the patches though the game is certainly playable but you need some patience
  2) One bug that really annoyed me was the use of companions throughout the game. You are able to 
 bring one dude in to follow you and fight at a time. The issue is with the following. It's not 
 worth going a long distance with someone because they get lost, stuck or disappear into something. 
 Even worse is your follower will not teleport with you when you use a teleport stone. There are 
 several places that have an NPC available to join but it's still a nuisance if you prefer a certain 
 NPC. 
  3) Your character, NPCs and enemies/creatures can - at times - disappear into walls, mountains, 
 surfaces, etc. - you name it. An example is a skeleton archer getting stuck in a temple wall. He 
 keeps firing at you and hitting while you can do nothing to stop it. A reload will fix it though. 
 Again, the worst is having your partner disappear when traveling.
  4) There are some crashes in the game. These were not frequent and happened to me more late in 
 the game for whatever reason.
  5) Some quests including the main one can be broken fairly easily. I recommend doing hard saves 
 often, besides frequent quick saves. Perform a hard save prior to doing something major regarding 
 a quest like liberating a city.
  6) As mentioned the story is decent and one that you can immerse yourself in rather deeply. I didn't 
 play the first games, so I didn't have much background. However, I still felt the hero's story 
 was pretty "meh". There are some very satisfying end results to certain quests depending on what 
 side you take. I felt certain factions were not fully realized with respect to the scope of the 
 game and story like the nomads and rangers, but they still add a nice touch to the game. 
  7) There are some pretty cool weapons in the game, but really that wasn't a whole lot of variety 
 and basically no full sets of special gear. At a certain point in the game you should have lots 
 of loot and gold, but very little to spend it on other than necessities like arrows, quarrels and 
 potions - and the best weapons are ones you make for yourself anyway.
  8) Certain lower level enemies can actually be much tougher than statistically tougher enemies, 
 even late game. Wolves were 50 exp each but drove me crazy throughout the game. Snappers were fairly 
 weak, but for some reason I had the hardest time hitting them with a ranged shot. Yet many of the 
 500 exp creatures were dumb and slow. You can easily defeat them with hit a run tactics using ranged 
 weapons. Technically, I'd say there really were no bosses in the game.
  9) Enemy spellcasters like orc shamen seemed overpowered to me and I didn't really find much protection 
 against them. I definitely recommend rushing in and killing spellcasters first because they can 
 put you down fast regardless of how high your heath is.
  
  There's probably a few more minor points to harp on. But really the key point to get across in 
 this review is that... yes, the game is severely flawed but still very playable and enjoyable. When 
 playing I just sort of lose myself in the Gothic world. It is a shame, whether it was the publisher 
 or developer's fault, that they could not fix all the apparently fixable issues. It's no wonder 
 that Jowood severed themselves and the franchise from Piranha Bytes. This game had so much potential 
 to be a classic RPG and it still almost is a classic. It's still very much worth your time if you 
 like playing RPGs. 
  
  Edit: Additional point: The role of females in this game in any capacity - playable character or 
 NPC - is basically non-existent. I'm not exaggerating this in the slightest. It was many hours 
 before I even encountered a female in the game and it turned out to be a female slave that said 
 "don't bother me". The only role in the entire game for women is the female slave and nothing is 
 tied to the story. There is one sidequest that involves escorting a couple of female slave dancers. 
 Now, I'm not really harping on having only a male playable character. It's been that way from the 
 beginning with this series and well it's not all that uncommon. However, I'm trying to look at 
 this two ways. First, as a male myself, I tend to think we like to have some beautiful and interesting 
 female characters and possibly love interests in games we play. Second, I think girls/women, let 
 alone having a girl character to play, would like to see strong or important female characters 
 portrayed in video games. This game is sorely lacking a feminine touch and I hope that is remedied 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garnog
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 10, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can be said about this bug-infested crash fest that hasn't already been dissected in 
 the forums and reviews? Not much really. I read the reports of its numerous bugs and horrendous 
 load times, yet in a fit of artistic pique (read: boredom) I actually dug my van out of the snowbank 
 and drove down to EB games to pay MONEY for this frustrating but strangely compelling nightmare 
 of half-assed game coding. I really really really WANT to like this game... it has SOOOO much potential, 
 but the 'GURU' keeps making his presence known with maddening frequency. Death in Gothic 3 also 
 carries significant penalties; while you are waiting to reload a previous save ( which you most 
 assuredly will be doing regularly) you might as well go off and make a pot of coffee or do the 
 dishes, clean your room... don't worry. You'll have plenty of time. Really. Add to this mix a baffling 
 AI with the pathfinding abilities of a blind 3 year old and 'buddies' who randomly decide to attack 
 NPC members of opposing factions thereby quashing any quest lines associated with said NPC, any 
 SANE person would ask; 'Why on Earth would ANYONE even bother?" Ahhhhh.... truly a question for 
 the 'GURU'. Despite having more patches than a leaky rubber boat ( mostly thanks to the community, 
 not Piranha BITES) and an absolutely unoptimized game engine that runs as well as your granny using 
 a walker on ice, I STILL WANT TO PLAY IT!!! WHY??? I DON'T KNOW!!! Maybe I'm just demented, or 
 missing the 'give it up already Gene'. See, I can't give it a score because on one hand I utterly 
 DESPISE Piranha BITES for releasing this atrocity on the gaming community knowing full well it 
 was untested and in all likelihood rushed out well before it was ready. On the other hand, the 
 artistic direction is so compelling and the world feels so alive I just want to keep exploring. 
 Truly, this game is unique in its near-Universal condemnation and yet it also has a rabid fan-base. 
 So, I'll wrap this up by saying this is not a game... it is an experience in dealing with maddening 
 frustration and yet moments of sublime bliss. Best taken with a bottle of whiskey and a fistful 
 of 'ludes. Hardcore fans of Gothic ONLY need apply.... and the rest of us poor deluded souls in 
 need of an RPG fix. Don't cry for me... I'm already demented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erezike
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 was one of the best games because it made you feel alive, wary of your choices and surroundings.
 
  And also big and epic.
  The cities were more alive.
  
  In gothic 3 there are too many cities, too many quests. to many directions
  
  As it is said 
 in the games you would rather have one sharp axe than a few daggers.
  the designers of the games didnt believe their own saying.
  and tried to create an epic world.
 
  
  but in the end it doesnt cut it, and you would be left having this feel of having eating something 
 sour. sure the graphics and sounds is of great quality.
  also the ability to explore the surrounding rural areas freely.
  
  But there is no point to 
 this game.
  it doesnt feel important to choose either of the sides/
  you dont feel special once you accomplish anything.
  gold means nothing, there is not need to 
 plan ahead.
  
  no are no serious choices. and if you go for two hander the battles are very easy. and you can 
 wipe out all of the challenges in the game from very early stages. 
  
  The good: good graphics, sound, free area exploration, no map transiation.
  
  the bad : boring 
 gameplay, to easy, no depth to the characters, weak plot.
  nothing epic in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Personally i am a HUGE fan of Gothic series.
  
  I played the first Gothic over 5 times and the Gothic 2 over 2 times. I absolutely loved the storyline, 
 all the twists and turns and overall how the game was designed.
  
  Gothic 3 improves the graphics, game play and few other aspects of the game itself. BUT it goes 
 very far from the roots of Gothic and Gothic 2 and that was what ruined the game. And another factor 
 that ruined the game is a buggy engine that took TOO LONG to fix.
  
  I had to wait over half a year after buying the game to play it normally without ridiculous bugs 
 that made me start over.
  
  What Gothic 3 lacks that made other Gothic games so much fun:
  1st Camps - Gothic 3 eliminated 
 joining a camp quest chain and made it so you can choose who you want to do quests for without 
 choosing a side. Part of the fun in Gothic 1 and 2 was that you chose a side and then did the quests 
 that lead mainly to the same goal through different paths. Camps in previous games had special 
 abilities such as magic or weapons. In Gothic 3 camps are basically replaced by factions. Humans 
 / Nords / Orcs / Hashishin. You can learn whatever you want from whoever you want without restrictions.
 
  
  2nd and probably the most disappointing is that Gothic 1 and 2 were based on small maps that had 
 plenty to explore and never got boring. After playing Gothic 4 times i still managed to discover 
 something new and it was an old game. Gothic 3 expanded the map but the expansion of the map was 
 totally useless. Exploring Gothic 3 is boring and takes lots of time and in the end you will not 
 find anything interesting.
  
  There are many aspects in this game that went wrong and hopefully they will fix it in the Gothic 
 4 but until then this game isn't worth much.
  
  As a fan of the series i will still play this though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silva1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is an imersive game that throws you into a world over-run by orcs. There are many different 
 skills you can level up to your playing style, whether you want to be a mage, a hunter, or warrior. 
 Despite some issues with bugs and game crashes this is a very solid imersive game. I read a few 
 reviews about people complaining about load times. If you are running on an older computer i can 
 see this being an issue, but if your like me and have a fast computer the load times are nothing 
 different from any other PC game I have played. The game has a great number of quests, ranging 
 from very simple ones to some that make you grind your teeth in frustration, which isnt bad if 
 you like diversity. There is a also a chance to be a good or evil hero, whether it be liberating 
 a village from the orc hordes, or hunting down human slaves for their masters. Over all this is 
 a very good rpg among the many that have come out in recent years to be a dissapointment. If you 
 love free-roaming rpg's this is a game to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok so huge amount of bugs... this game crasheed on me endlessly, the load/save times were horrific 
 etc etc.... and to begin with I hated the combat system...
  
  Oblivion was its main rival when it was released and I have played oblivion all the way through 
 also. This game is better, don't believe what you hear, this really is a much better game in so 
 many ways.
  
  Only though if you can overlook the bugs, crashes, save/load issues... and admittedly they are pretty 
 major issues...
  
  In terms of story, immersive atmosphere, enviroment this game is in my opinion, a different league 
 to oblivion... oblivion felt like it's quest system and enviroment were very mechanical and "by 
 the numbers"... this is where Gothic provides something different, the world feels more real, the 
 enviroments are more spectacular. It just immerses you far more into the story... if you give it 
 a chance...
  
  Obvlivion I remember playing, enjoying and completing. This game was like an epic journey, something 
 that sticks in the memory...
  
  One of its best qualities is the soundtrack, which is vastly superior to any other RPG i've ever 
 seen and it really helps with the enviroment.
  
  As for the combat system it is actually quite good, certainly better than Obvlions clunky slash 
 slash system which I found quite tedious. There is a certain weight to the combat in this game, 
 using melee weapons. Using bows or crossbows is also much better than any other RPG, it feels precise 
 and skilled, unlike many other games.
  
  Really I understand that a lot of people wouldn't have given this game a chance with all the bugs 
 and problems it had, Oblvion ran so smoothly and easily in comparison... but when it comes down 
 to the actual game, the enviroment and everything important that provides a good experience for 
 this game... it is the best out there... still.
  
  If you are considering playing this game... do it, it might not take you through by the numbers 
 like oblivion or have the flawless engine it had., but it is a far better game. Far better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaifrecap
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome, but impossible to enjoy.
  The Glitches make the game very frustrating.
  Their is 1 glitch that would make this game so 
 much better if it would just dissappear, that glitch is that the time it takes to recover from 
 a hit by a foe is longer than the time it takes the foe to strike again, resulting in a never ending 
 combo that ends up killing you. If you dont kill the enemy before you get stuck in that combo then 
 you are dead. The game's graphics are not as great as games nowadays, and everything is a bit dull, 
 with dull colours, which makes it look much more realistic, In the middle ages i doubt people wore 
 yellow or red. 
  The gameplay and the game's system is the most incredible feature of this game. You can assemble 
 your character in any way you want. When you level up instead of recieving health and mana and 
 strength, etc. You recieve 10 Learning points, which you can spend in anything you want (everything 
 having a different cost) , for example 5 learning points buy 20 health points or 5 strenght poins, 
 etc.
  The story is amazing and you can CHOOSE YOUR PATH, you can choose to help the humans or the orcs 
 or the human rebels, and it feels like playing the game 3 very different times.
  If it weren't for the glitches i would give this game a much higher score. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshjo9
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  i liked this game even though it crashed ever time i played it they should make a patch for that 
 this game was enjoyable but frustrating at times its a over all good game if I liked it then you 
 will maybe like it its worth a try gameplay is addicting no load times free open world my kind 
 of game :]
  i never play gothic 1 or 2 so dont ask me anything about them theres one thing that got me mad 
 at this game i was realy far in the game then it crashed right in front of my eyes and i didnt 
 save but so thats a example of it crashing save often thats good advice this game gets a 9.0 this 
 game will serve you a few 100 hours of fun try it and you will not be dissapointed download all 
 the patches you can get and enjoy i would pick this over oblivion and i love oblivion if you enjoyed 
 oblivion then you might have a better chance of likeing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekkoe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  I honestly don't understand the high ratings of the "expert critics", of GameSpot and the user 
 rating.
  
  I do not want to dismiss this game as awful right away; if I would have, it'd been a 1.0. Instead, 
 I'll start out positive and list the good things.
  
  + The graphics. They are really dynamical and they succeed in making the simple environment feel 
 large and explore-worthy. To me, they even had qualities Oblivion's graphics didn't have.
  + A lively world. The world really feels like it's been living before you got there, so it's not 
 pretentious. Your choices affect the world.
  + Skill system. While not perfect and somewhat messy, the training is original and satisfying.
 
  + Equipment and items. The different types of armour and weapons feel like they are worth to collect 
 money for and the many types of herbs add to the livelihood of the world.
  
  Those are about all the pro's I can list. Some people might call the magic system and polymorphism 
 a pro, but imho, game features aren't pro's. They're just necessities. Next up, the cons.
  
  - The beginning. It's worthy of a separate minus, really. I enter a new game and I feel it 
 should drag me in, make me feel like playing. Instead, it doesn't even allow me to get used to 
 the controls, it just dumps me right in and after clearing the town, I don't know where I should 
 go and frankly, don't feel like going either.
  - The bugs. The game has a very thick beta feel over it. Just an example: I couldn't talk to the 
 guy in the hut you have to visit after clearing the town. I didn't know what to do, turns out I 
 had to wait for him to sit by the camp fire and get really lucky or something. I have no idea.
 
  - The combat system. I wanted to go all fighter, but some of the animals just butchered me with 
 some spamming stun attack, so instead I had no choice but to bring a bow. The combats are either 
 dull and easy, just clicking the same button over and over, or they're ridiculously hard. Example: 
 I managed to kill dragons using my bow from certain angles, I killed orcs left clicking all the 
 time, but two boars were unbeatable.
  - The quests. They're simple and they give you the feeling the whole world is on your shoulders. 
 Why can't someone else pick up gold for a corrupt orc? He just trusts a random person who stops 
 by?
  - The story. I'm not saying it's a bad story, but it lacks credibility. They game doesn't feel 
 creepy or mysterious, it's very blatant and obvious and last time I checked, only Blizzard could 
 pull that off.
  
  I could probably keep on going with the cons, and they strongly overrule the pro's in this game.
 
  
  The most painful thing happens every now and then when you get this feeling of satisfaction when 
 you finish a quest or when you buy that cool new armour: You run out to test it, run into a bunch 
 of boars and get killed right away.
  
  What's the most painful thing? The feeling that this game COULD have been good, they just totally 
 messed up and made it feel as if they released a beta of a budget game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaWeitzel
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  I've played this game once right after purchasing, got very angry with graphic and sound problems 
 (and some bugs too) so I just removed it and let it go out of my mind. Right now - one and a half 
 a year later - I told myself thing must have gotten better as I have got a much faster and top-end 
 PC + there are lots of new patches for Gothic - both official and community ones. However another 
 40-50 hours of playing and my final conclusion is:
  - fighting system still sucks, there is no tactical playing at all, one cannot implement brain 
 and cleverness here, it's all about fast clicking or running away for miles and shooting beasts 
 from distance. Your character dies too ofter from colliding with objects and sliding down in least 
 appropiate moments. Killing a fly can be more difficult than an orc leader and this does not change 
 too much as your hero gains levels.
  - bugs that make it impossible to finish MANY quests (including some very vital ones) still exist. 
 NPC won't talk to you for no reason, some quests get stuck and looks like the only way to avoid 
 it is to have just one quests in a queue in a time. Which doesn't sound really RPG-ish, does it?
 
  - patches fixed some things but created new problems. Latest community patch 1.6 caused some mess 
 with picking up items. After screwing up ('cos of bug) another quest I moved back to my last save 
 and - TADA! - items I picked up in the meantime where no longer in the game. Just as if the game 
 engine marked them as already taken and doesn't matter you moved to the save from before even entering 
 the given city or cave. This can be really frustrating, believe me.
  - graphics does not match the Oblivion one - though it's supposed to be the same graphic engine
 
  - use the paper map to mark things and people on it - game does not help in any way to track down 
 things already visited or quest givers
  
  I advise you to stay away from this game unless it's really cheap or for free. There is some very 
 good leveling system implemented, the story told is nice, you can identify with your hero and feel 
 the world around you but the fight against the bugs is bringing down. There is no fun once you 
 have to reload all the time to save yourself from stupid deaths that should not happen and stupid 
 NPC not giving the quests for no visible reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagencs
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  The third adventure of the nameless hero, which picks up the story where his prequel ends has a 
 great story, the visual design has a nice touch, but that's all.
  
  First with the good stuff: 
  - free-roam in the world is great. I mean really. You wander in 
 dense forests, open fields, you can visit any town, pick up quests and so.
  - visual design is cool, and it goes well with the game's atmosphere. Bivons and wolfes running 
 around in packs, hunting each other really makes you feel, that you are walking around in a wilderness.
 
  - i think that the faction system is quite adequate. Maybe it could have used some more polishing, 
 but i've found it to my liking.
  
  And the cons:
  - bugs. Lot. Whoever played a minimum of 2 hours sure knows what i'm talking about.
  - broken 
 combat system. With pushing mouse1 in diablo-style can make you kill almost any enemy. But you 
 can get also stuck and killed by some stupid wolf when you are level 30+. 
  - steep system requirements. I played it on a dual core processor, with 2 gigs of ram, and 8600gt, 
 but still experieced some pauses (suppesedly some loading) . The problem is that there should be 
 any after 2-3 minutes of loading, when it should load all the map data.
  - save and load are a nuisance. It takes quite some time to save, and feel forever on loading. 
 In a combat intense rpg, where danger lurks on every corner, it is very frustrating.
  
  Overall it could have been a very impressive game, with a great atmosphere of the world of Gothic, 
 but its flawes ruin the immersion, and you just find yourself not playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterarbider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay overall is great and offers ALOT of play time especially with the expansion pack. 
 The game has so many things to do that it's hard to decide where to begin. You start out defending 
 a village and then are given a task. Free the humans.
  
  Well, this may seem easy at first but, with over 50 hours to complete the main goals, you still 
 have side quests and pickpocketing, stealing, and killing innocent chickens.
  
  I think that this game is definetly worth it and i would invest my money into it, i reccomend that 
 you have a good computer though, vista, 2 gigs of ram, and a great video card to get the most out 
 of your experience though. Be sure to adjust your settings accordingly and the game should run 
 beautifully. I also reccoment the expansion pack and for another great open-world rpg i would buy 
 OBLIVION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pr3DaToR92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  The game generally looks great, but it hurts from some bug issues which makes the gameplay somewhat 
 distracting. I didn't complete the game, though it was good, but when it came to the animals, as 
 someone here mentioned: they were sometimes overpowered and killed me in a moment. I found that 
 hard and therefore quit playing. Maybe the characters could swing their weapons more randomly, 
 not the same wave again and again... makes it feel empty. The game simply gives you the RPG feeling, 
 and the best part in the Gothic franchise, you can choose whether you want to be a bad guy (ORCS) or 
 a good guy (REBELS) . That I must say is something you can't find in many good games, like Oblivion 
 for instance, which of course is a GREAT game. 
  
  Being a Mage was not as hopefully as I thought, the sound quality on the spells, the lightning 
 spell for instance, sounded like a 8-bit crap game.
  
  Apart from that, it looks good, so does the graphics. Some patches/fixes, eventually the upcoming 
 expansion pack, could make the game likely more playable. As of the problems with the graphics.
 
  
  A good trilogy for RPG gamers worldwide!
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  A very controversial game: a brilliant idea and world design overshadowed by serious flaws. 
  
  I was a fan of Gothic 1 and 2, and I was waiting for Gothic 3 as well, but when the game came 
 out my machine was just unable to handle it. Now I gave it another chance. And I found that the 
 ideas and the game world are still brilliant and the characters and the story are still very entertaining, 
 it was very enjoyable to meet the old friends from the previous games.
  
  I always liked the character development system in the Gothic games, and it is still intuitive 
 and motivating. I also like how the game guides the adventurer through the awesome lands of Myrtana, 
 Varant and Nordmar, and it is always a challenge to face the dangers of these lands.
  
  Now the shortcomings, there are quite a few. First of all, the game is full of bugs and technical 
 problems, and it is almost unplayable without the patches. And even with the patches experiencing 
 weird bugs and graphical problems occurs quite often. The new combat system of the game is again 
 quite frustrating, it seems that everything is decided with the first hit; whoever hits his opponent 
 first wins the fight. It needs luck not the skills of the player to win a fight.
  
  On the whole, while sometimes frustrating, even irritating the game may be, the well-designed and 
 living world makes the player want to go on. As long as the fun factor exceeds the frustration 
 factor I will be playing the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebanewolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  As i said, everything about Gothic 3 is perfect, story, quests, items immersions and so on, except 
 for two things, the technical side and the combat melee system.
  
  The technical part is as bad as it can get, i have a 8800, 2 gigs of ram and a 2.66 core 2 duo 
 and whatnot, yet it still displays frame rate issues and sometimes 4 hours into playing, starts 
 chugging really bad, and unless i restart it, it will crash because it "ran out of memory", if 
 you use some of the user made ini configurations it'll help a bit, though the game is technical 
 unacceptable, I'm hoping that the new expansion may help.
  
  now for the combat, melee wise, it is very shallow, yet it could be acceptable since the game has 
 so much else to offer were it not for the animals, they have some weird ability to evade up to 
 5 attacks in a row by backing up, then launching 3 consecutive attacks themselves, which make them 
 very frustrating.
  
  but all in all i found the game to be very enjoyable actually, and i even managed to play through 
 it, so if you're a big RPG fan, and your computer is somewhat up to date, this should prove en 
 otherwise enjoyable game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naimek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Beginning:
  
  You have come to an Island called Corinis by a ship with some heroes from the 1 and 2 Gothic series, (I 
 won't name them because you might not played 1 or 2 before) As yo come off the ship you see Orcs 
 raiding the City.
  Your first mission is to kick the Orc's ass. As yo could see there has been a war lately between 
 the Orc's and the humans. (now called Rebel's) Your main mission is to help the Orc's or the Rebel's (it's 
 your choice) to control all the city's.
  
  Graphic's 7.5/10
  
  The graphic's of monsters are quite good but still need a little work. The human's graphic's are 
 better from the monsters' but still not great. The overall (mountain's path's and more) are the worst 
 of all but not very bad. 
  
  Movement/battle 8.0/10
  
  The movement of the character is normal nothing special to be honest and thre battle is actually 
 one of the best thing in the game. The battle style changes as you have equipped different weapon, for 
 example let's say you have a halberd (that's a type of spear) a halberd is a weapon I recommend for 
 usae when you fight for example with 4 enemies at once. I forgot to say that there is strong attack 
 a fast attack a killing attack and a jumping attack.
  
  Thank's for reading I hope it helped you in someway. :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jalem01
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ever get into a game and feel lost or like everything is slightly off center? Thats how this game 
 feels. As you wander around from one town to another you feel llke there's something you're missing. 
 But thats the least of your problems. Between ugly graphics, a god awful combat system, and a frame 
 rate which dies for no reason you'll probably forget about plot.
  
  The game itself does have a few redeeming features. The game world is huge with many places to 
 visit and interact with, it has a decent crafting system, and the general concept and potential 
 is a bit exciting. Unfortunately you probably won't get to truly enjoy these handful of things. 
 Assuming you bite down and push through the frame drops and horrid combat you still have to deal 
 with some of the worst load times I have ever seen. Even if you just loaded 30 seconds ago you'll 
 still have to sit through a full minute or two of loading. At one point I spent a full five minutes 
 at a loading screen.
  
  And of course all of this is assuming the broken quests and glitches don't throw you off.
  
 
  All in all this game is a poor man's Oblivion. There are parts which even feel like Oblivion, 
 only not even close to as good. Don't waste your money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 has the familiar sprawling world of the previous Gothics 1 & 2, more sprawling and heavily 
 populated than ever before in fact. It resembles the first two in look, with greatly improved graphics, 
 but not function.
  
  It diverges from 1 & 2 mainly in the way the plot is structured. Basically, there is none. Your 
 ship lands, you start fighting Orcs, and now you're on your own. The objective is to either destroy 
 the Orc oppression and free humanity, crush the human rebellion and enslave humanity, or side with 
 Xardas and portal away. There is no story progression per se. Your only barrier to entry is reputation, 
 which you build by helping one faction or another. Once you have enough rep with a certain group 
 you can speak to one of its leaders and do bigger quests which earn you bigger amounts of rep. 
 Once you get up enough rep to talk to the head honcho of a faction, you do the final set of quests 
 and the game is finished.
  
  The major failing of Gothic 3 is that it's too open when it comes to the 'story'. Since there is 
 no planned storyline with specific events, you end up doing the same kinds of quests over and over, 
 centered around liberating towns or ratting out rebels. Fetch X number of weapon bundles, kill 
 this guy in this town, collect fire chalices, etc. The gameplay becomes quite repetitive liberating 
 town after town, doing nearly identical quests for each, and regardless of faction, all of which 
 ask you to do the same kinds of things.
  Even the main characters, Gorn, Diego, Lester, etc., have no direction of their own and very little 
 to say or contribute. For the most part, they're there to help out in combat, and no longer play 
 a role in the story, such as it is.
  
  The environments can look incredible when the settings are tweaked, putting out draw distances 
 as far as your hardware can handle. The gameworld in terms of virtual square mileage is much larger 
 than those of Oblivion and Gothic 2. Character models are another story. The Orcs look ok (though 
 not nearly as well-designed as those in Gothic 1 & 2 - why they changed them, I don't know) , but 
 the humans all look like cartoon characters with tiny heads and blocks for arms and legs. The other 
 monsters are all nicely designed and modeled.
  
  The gameworld has plenty of places to explore - caves, mountaintop ruins, waterfalls, lots of towns 
 and buildings, and so on. Exploration is the most enjoyable part of Gothic 3, which is the trademark 
 of the Gothic series. The downside is that you can't swim underwater like you could in 1 & 2, only 
 on the surface.
  
  Combat is unbalanced and not very well implemented. Enemies can only attack one at a time and some 
 monsters can knock you back or down with a high frequency, causing what is referred to as stun-lock. 
 Whenever I was knocked down by a wolf or boar, 80% of the time it would end in death as my character 
 would be unable to recover from their rapid knockdown attacks. Patching has helped a bit, but it 
 still persists. Some weapons are badly overpowered, like the high-strength 2-handed Orc weapons 
 that do enough damage to kill multiple enemies in one swing. Magic is a bit out of whack too - 
 fireballs and such hit 100% of the time unless it hits another creature or obstacle in its path 
 first, usually making running or dodging futile. NPCs using slower 2-handed weapons tend to be 
 at a disadvantage because they either miss when their opponent jumps back or they're hit with a 
 rapid succession of strikes from which they are unable to recover. Friendly NPCs often hit each 
 other accidentally in combat, usually leading them to attack each other afterwards, something that's 
 only funny the first few times. Armor doesn't protect very well in proportion to its cost. I went 
 most of the game without any armor at all, bypassing everything else and saving to buy the Paladin 
 armor instead. There are other difficulties with combat, but it's workable. That's all you can 
 say for it.
  
  The voice acting sucks, but it's Gothic, so what do you expect. 
  
  Gothic 3, despite its many flaws, was fun. Of course, this is after tons of patching. I wouldn't 
 have played it in its initial release state. They've got the exploration part, but they're missing 
 the story and characters, and that's why it's half the game Gothic 2 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  aside from the bugs its a great game. the game area is wide but my favorite part of the technical 
 side is that there are no loading times! but the downside is that there is one primary load to 
 the game that can take up to several minutes. downloading the community patches change around the 
 screenshots in the loading sequence.
  
  its a fun game because, like many great RPGs it has a skill system! but in this game it works a 
 little differently (the skill system isnt the only thing making it fun) in this game you pay for 
 your skill training. there are various abilities or "levels" you can buy once youve reached the 
 minimum skill level. some abilities take multiple skill levels.
  
  you might find this game a little like elder scrolls 4: oblivion if you look at it right. the magic 
 system is EXACTLY the same except theres less spells weapons, armor just items in particular. you 
 get the items in different ways though. 
  
  there are many glitches in the game but that can be easily fixed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastfoul
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I've ever played, and believe me I've played a lot. I love the whole gothic 
 universe, because you can take all three parts (gothic1,2,3) , and play them as one story. The in-game 
 world is huge, and you can move in it however you want. there are many quests, and you can chose which 
 of them you want to accept, but if you want to solve all quests, well, then you will have to play 
 the game again and again. there are three possibille endings, and I have played them all, so I think 
 I've already sad enough, you can play the game three times and not to get bored with it. The orcs 
 won the battle against humans, and you can choose do you want to help the orcs, or stay with humans, or 
 be neutral. There are many arenas where you can fight for money and respect, the game is three times 
 biger than gothic 2, and there are always some bad things, the game is full with bugs, but since the 
 game was released before testing, and that yowood released the pach right after, it is acceptable. The 
 game is wonderfull, and you will not regret buying it, ENJOY PLAYING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertykeys
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 seemed to be an interesting fantasy RPG and seemed to have a lot of promise in the beginning. 
 Until I actually played it.
  
  This game has choppy combat with characters that are almost not responsive. All the controls are 
 complex and too half baked. I felt the graphics were not as great as they could have been and the 
 story was almost nonexistent. The inventory and customization screens are confusing and way too 
 cluttered to make any sense. It's almost as if it was created ten years ago. 
  
  There were many glitches in the game and it was basically a bad experience to play. 
  
  The 
 game felt very limited since there were only certain spells to use, you could only basically chop 
 and hack at enemies with a sword and the creatures were not well thought out.
  
  
  I know there are a lot of others who like this game, but I really didn't. This may be that I like 
 games that are a tad more simple and easier to get the hang of. Other fantasy RPG games I've played 
 have had more interesting creatures, less of a learning curve, and a more enjoyable storyline. 
 It's mostly in these things I had a problem with in Gothic 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar7676
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  I haven't been this frustrated with a pc game in years!! I have already broken my mouse because 
 i slammed it down so hard in anger. The story concept is unique because it allows you to free-roam 
 while adapting your character to that ever alignment you wish. The game universe is huge, but it 
 reminds of me of Two Worlds. Simple wildlife slaughter is the norm, you; l be killing boars, wolfs, 
 snakes, lizards, and if you want turtles and deers. While I applaud all the eye candy and story, 
 the bottom line is that this game is flawed badly. The upgrades to your character appear not to 
 have any effect. I am a level 10 warrior, yet a meager wolf does me in with 4 bites even though 
 I am at full strength!!!!! I don't mind dying, its the incessant load times! You will spend more 
 time staring at the load screen than you will be playting this game. I had such high hopes, I mean 
 all of the Gothic games are buggy, but this is just rediculous. Bethesda still is the king of this 
 genre, maybe they should lease thier game engine... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonsuperstar
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  ... and you have Gothic 3.
  
  I'll be honest, i did not complete this game. But with all the issues it possesses, its likely 
 that i'm part of the majority who bought the game, tried to enjoy it, and gave up somewhere along 
 the way.
  
  Gothic has alot going for it. Since after completing oblivion i found replaying thru that the second 
 time round exposed how stale the latter could be, i decided to try this game based on some strong 
 previews from many game websites. And almost straightaway I was struck by the duality of the game. 
 There was a crap opening cinematic after a grueling 2 hour long install. Then a very basic menu 
 system which i like because it cut to the chase quickly. Graphics wise, wonderful environments 
 and interesting creatures with no extra loading screens, but then horrible character animation, 
 ugly character models/texturing and a tutorial so wimpy that it hardly qualifies as one. You are 
 thrust immediately into a warring village, with no backstory or foreknowledge, and fighting strange 
 orcs that can kill you in one lucky hit.
  
  Yes, the major problem with gothic is the absurd fighting system. I can appreciate the realism 
 of combat if tension is created by having a powerful enemy that can kill you in 1 hit. But if there 
 are combinations of enemies who can 1 hit kill (orcs) and enemies which can perma stun (wolves, 
 boars etc) then combat becomes a real deal-breaker. Especially when can apparently be a high level 
 character and yet die in seconds to a simple level 1 wolf. Did i mention the lethargic "quick" 
 save system?
  
  Gothic is also filled with a perplexing array of bugs that should have been fixed before release. 
 Performance issues are common, with my 3ghz , x800xt , 2gb ram equipped system (that was 2006) 
 unable to achieve framerates above the teens in medium settings. Competing with the excruciating 
 voice acting was my hard drive constantly spinning away noisily. Also in general, the game lacks 
 polish. Some elements of the game, such as the crafting or certain plot elements, seem rushed in 
 or bolted on as an afterthought. Most of the fun i had in the game was luring enemy monsters all 
 the way from their lair right into an enemy orc camp and watching a couple of "pathetic" wolves 
 and boars slay a whole garrison of heavily armed orc warriors.
  
  In short, avoid this "hardcore" RPG. Unless you know what you're doing and what you're getting 
 into.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Now, I started this game like a year ago.. but I gave up due to bad fps (it was close to unplayable 
 for me back then) and overall difficulty that followed in its tracks.
  Like a fat kid chasing the ice-cream truck, I went back to the game (started all over again) about 
 1 month ago. What followed is 40+ hours (probably 70-80 hours total) of swearing, evil laughter 
 and overall bliss ;)
  
  Im going to cut this 'review' short (who has the time to read through page in and page out of drivel 
 anyways)
  
  
  The good:
  
  * Story
  * Open ended world (atleast it felt that to me)
  * Character buildup is (imho) very good (although 
 abit confusing at the beginning)
  * Attention to details
  * It's huge
  * There are things to do besides hack n' slash (mining, alchemy, hunting, smithing and sidequests)
 
  * The music (First game in a long long time where I didnt turn it off)
  * Difficulty (I played on normal... and it was hard. I can imagine the Hard setting being nasty)
 
  * Meteor and mana-regeneration... Kaboom!
  * Diversity of places/towns/caves
  * You do get pretty powerful at the end
  
  
  
  The not so good (And what can turn you off) :
 
  
  
  * It takes time to get in to (give it atleast 5-6 hours before you give up)
  * The graphics aint exactly what I would call mind-boggling.
  * The start is very hard. You have 
 problems with just about everything (especially combat/healing/locks) and _you will_ die alot.
 
  * Loading time can be frustrating at times (after you have died)
  * The AI isnt' the greatest ever (still, Ive seen much worse)
  * The ending was abit.... wierd 
 if you ask me. I was bracing myself for pure evil terror... but it sort of never came (if you're 
 not counting my Meteors ;) ) .
  * Once you get mana regeneration and Meteor (or any other 'instakill' .. or even Fireball) , the 
 game becomes pretty easy imho.
  * It does get abit repetative after awhile (a long while) and you want to see what comes next so 
 you will start skipping mini-quests and so on and just 'hunt the big game'.
  
  
  
  Compared to Morrowind or Oblivion, I'd say that Gothic as a game wins hands down. Compared to The 
 Witcher I'd say The Witcher is slightly better due to the 'no real good vs evil' world (questionable 
 morals) and that The Witcher is better looking.. more polished and more... hmm... sinister.
  
  
  Replay value is.... well, I dont really know. The time it takes to complete it the first time 
 is probably going to be a turnoff... so Im guessing its pretty low.
  I crashed 2 or maybe 3 times during my whole Gothic 3 experience, so I guess its pretty stable 
 once it's patched.
  
  
  Overall a great game that I would recommend to any RPG player out there looking for something to 
 play besides MMO's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Great mist, smoke and other effects. Great visuals with the distance fading out of site. neat quests, 
 story line and continuation of previous Gothic games (not that you need to play them but what value 
 with Gothic Universe) .
  
  just make sure you upgrade Gothic 3 to v1.6 community patch. Everyone from Jo Wood production should 
 be fired for the pathetic product that they released. The community conversely has done a phenomenal 
 job at fixing things up: admittedly with the help of Jo Woods so maybe they aren't too bad.
  
  This game is very expansive. You can go anywhere you want but the farther you stray away from 
 certain areas, the less likely you'll be to take on the bad guys, the monsters etc. So from that 
 perspective, the game has a very unique solution to open world but "funneled" story. 
  
  You can go any way with the story to any degree: fully for the bad guys, fully for the good guys 
 or try to find a balance in between that appeals to your nature.
  
  I found the hacking reasonable but the apparent options didn't do much. instead I settled on a 
 couple of tried and true techniques and just kept hitting them first keeping them off balance.
 
  
  For the truely bad monsters (ogres and trolls) , stay away from them and shot them with arrows and 
 bob's your uncle but don't let them hit you.
  
  I scored it 7.5 and disappointing because of all the major flaws in the game prior to v1.6. But 
 I do recommend the game to RPG players. Just make sure you get v1.6 (and not that previous saved 
 games do not work in v1.6 - well they will but not all the bugs are fixed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  The Gothic universe has always been one of my favourites. It has a very distinctive own atmosphere 
 which makes it unique. Moreover the series are notoriously hard and all achievements in the game 
 feel really rewarding. And last but not least, there is always something to find in the rich, even 
 though small world of Gothic. The third installment of the franchise takes a rather sharp turn 
 in many aspects.
  
  I first start with what I did not like in this game.
  
  The combat system! It sucks! Fighting is much degraded since the last two installments. It is easier, 
 yes, but not better. An attempt is obvious that they tried to improve it but they fell short. You 
 can actually act out interesting duels if you like, but it is much easier to just abuse the LMB 
 and win the game. And you will do a lot of fighting so this can really bore you at some point.
 
  
  Character development is also botched in this game. You still earn experience which brings you 
 learning points upon leveling up and then you spend them for everything you would like to learn 
 from teachers - from basic atributes like strength and life, through special skills, to spells. 
 The system worked great in the previous games because everything you could learn was useful and 
 learning points were scarce. However, in Gothic 3 everything yields tons of experience and there 
 must be over 500 side quests so half way through the game (which won't be fast, actually) you will 
 be running around with 100+ unspent learning points and being a master swordsman, deadly archer 
 and an experienced mage at the same time. Another problem is that most skills are completely useless 
 - why would I ever want to be able to sneak on wild animals?! Or what's the point in investing 
 in endurance when the thing is used only to determine how long you can sprint, but when you stop, 
 it is recharged magically in seconds?
  
  A good thing is that alchemy in this game could be useful, as is smithing. However, both are not 
 necessary. While true that the most powerful weapons are self-made, they will never make much difference 
 from what you can get from slain enemies.
  
  A much hated thing in this game is how buggy it is. I understand that it is practically unplayable 
 at version 1.0 which is the main reason behind low grades on the net but I must say that the guys 
 from the community team have done a great job! With the latest patch on, there are neglectably 
 few problems - mainly clipping issues that can be sometimes annoying but never too problematic 
 and two or three bugged quests which is nothing to the number of side quests I mentioned above.
 
  
  And now comes the good part - even though it has lost a bit of its identity, Gothic 3 still has 
 this thick atmosphere that made previous games great. You would really feel like you are deciding 
 in a world on the edge of ballance. First off, I started kicking orcs in the butts but then I realized 
 they are no longer the mindless animals from the previous parts while the rebels started to seem 
 too fanatic to me and I gradually changed sides leading to me killing the king who, although noble, 
 was the one who threw me behind the barrier in the first place.
  
  You will be deciding, alright, and some decisions are heavy. I was interested in the Hashishin 
 fraction and wanted to enter their capital and meet their leader but in order to be admitted, I 
 had to kill the Water Mages - familiar faces and friends from waaaay back in the colony in Gothic 
 1. Furthermore, if you help the rebels too much for example, soon the orcs will start attacking 
 you on sight. The ballance is sometimes difficult which yields great satisfaction.
  
  What is more, although much enlarged, the world of Gothic is still very interesting to explore. 
 You will find many hidden caves, wandering characters and more. Some quests require you to get 
 lost in the wilderness. Towns look fantastic and much alive. All sceneries are marvelous thanks 
 to great artwork and beautiful graphics. The orchestral music is great but it will get old for 
 the 150+ hours of gameplay. Sounds are dumb but the voice acting is still goofy and charming, may 
 it be inappropriate for a medieval setting.
  
  To sum it up, I highly recommend this game to all hardcore RPG fans now. It may have got low marks 
 before but that was because of its D-cover. The actual product is an A which you can enjoy now 
 with the latest community patch installed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtherT
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  The Gothic series was.... What can I say always had it's pros and cons Gothic III was a good game 
 but had it's deficiencies I didn't like the way the changed things from the the old game (Gothic2)
 
  
  The Storyline:-You're the nameless hero that has been always an Orc hater You arrive to Myrtana 
 to find It occupied by Orcs You fight your way through and learn that you have either two choices 
 Work and support the rebels against the Orcs or quite the opposite and learn to become and Orc 
 lover I would delve more into the story but i don't want to spoil it I Give It 4/5
  
  The Music:-The Music Is Sooo Wonderful It Totally Sucks You In You'll Find Yourself pausing while 
 playing to listen to the music I Give it 5/5 
  Voice Acting:- The Voice acting was well..... not very impressive it Doesn't sound very authentic 
 we could call it bad dubbing really I give it 3/5
  
  Combat System:-Well The new combat is sooo simplified that it lost it's authenticity It Became 
 Like A Hack And Slash kind of combat all you have to do is smash the mouse with your finger as 
 much as you can The Combat system Interestingly the new combat system was admired by new Players 
 but frowned upon By longtime fans (me) I Give It 3/5
  
  Visuals: Graphics would look really awesome if you have enough power under the hood for it (And 
 I Did) Otherwise You'll Suffer From low frame rates excruciating loading times Which honestly doesn't 
 feel really good I Give It 4/5
  
  Programming:- Not very good Even With the Patch and the bugs are soo annoying they'll get to you 
 I Give It 2/5
  
  Game Play :- Not Bad It Immerses you in a wonderful open ended world if you can take on the the 
 bugs and let it get to you I Give It 4/5
  
  Bottom Line Is The Game Is Pretty Great If you can handle all the bugs and have enough hardware 
 power for it
  
  Computer Specs I Played It With
  Intel Core 2 Quad 2.4 GHz
  ATi HD 2600 XT 512MB
  3 GB RAM DDR2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maak27
Rating: 1
Date: May 11, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Once again, JoWood creates a game that is so full of bugs, it is unplayable. I'm playing on a quad 
 core machine with 2 gb's of DDR3 and I'm running their 1.6 patch and I can't go 20 seconds without 
 it freezing up. The combat is just as frustrating. This group obviously could care less about putting 
 out a game that works. Tons of other bugs as well, like destroying an entire city just to have 
 the game flash and be occupied by someone else. No ability to pick up anything off of the one's 
 I just killed. Avoid this turd!!!!
  
  Once again, JoWood creates a game that is so full of bugs, it is unplayable. I'm playing on a quad 
 core machine with 2 gb's of DDR3 and I'm running their 1.6 patch and I can't go 20 seconds without 
 it freezing up. The combat is just as frustrating. This group obviously could care less about putting 
 out a game that works. Tons of other bugs as well, like destroying an entire city just to have 
 the game flash and be occupied by someone else. No ability to pick up anything off of the one's 
 I just killed. Avoid this turd!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hesmene
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I never expected that. A completly real world. I am waiting for gothic 4 now. It has great grafics. Music 
 is very mystery and great. Only the combat system is the thing that i didnt like because it was 
 simple but i don't care. All gothic games are great but that great i didn't expected. The story is 
 great, i like the guilds  IT!!! BEST GAME 
 EVER. I think that noeone has to miss it. Take it original. Buy a new computer to play it. If you dont 
 stand the bugs just download the Community patch 1.6 and the bugs will be no more. And with the 
 pathc it requires only 1 gram. There are some people who say that it is easy. Play it in hard if 
 you think that. And if you still think that is easy then download the insane mod. It makes the enemies 
 many and generally it makes it very difficult. So, BUY IT NOW!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erictheripper
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is flawed. Its been said time and time again. Its not all that bad though. I think its 
 more important to look at the games gameplay content rather than its presentation because, lets 
 face it, snazzy graphics and cool soundtracks don't always make a good game. some of the most immersive 
 and enjoyable games are filled with bugs and technical problems. Not that this should be the case, 
 but the bugs and technical aspects won't overshadow a game if it is truely fun to play. The most 
 hardcore players will still grin and bear it because there is something there driving them on. 
 
  With all that said, I would like to look at the gameplay content value of Gothic 3. Story, NPCs, 
 and World will be what my rating is based on. 
  
  Story: Er... is there a story . . . I can't remember. This can't be a good thing. The game is open 
 ended but lacks direction. This hurt my motivation to continue playing it. Not that I don't like 
 choices, but it was more fun to walk off the beaten path than to engage in the actual story.
  5/10
  NPC: What a let down. In the past Gothic games NPCs actually meant something. I actually 
 cared about the NPCs in the past Gothics and they helped immerse the player into the game world. 
 Here they don't do much. Even old friends become dull.
  3/10
  World: Wow. This world is awesome. There is a lot of space to explore and quite a number of places 
 to visit. This is probably the highlight of the game.
  10/10
  
  overall roleplaying score: 6/10
  
  This is not a bad game. Its something that I will probably 
 come back to now and again but I probably won't play it for extended periods of time. Its the only 
 Gothic game that I can actually ignore. The others absorbed countless hours of my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 8.5 - Interesting story, and quests keep you going with the game. Very fun rather you 
 follow the story or not.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9 - Fantastic graphics, a bit of tearing but rarely but still fantastic. Physics 
 are a plus simply just because I can kill a rabbit and it goes flying, not really physics but hey 
 it's still awesome.
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Very realistic graphics and music is noticable but not overbearing or annoying.
 
  
  Environment/Maps: 9.5 - Maps and landscape is very open and great for roaming and exploring, but 
 do becareful since there are tough enemies out there. Environment is beautiful!
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 6 - Tons of bugs and errors, some even will crash the game certainly get 
 all patches and updates before playing. Game requires a way unusual amount of PC horsepower, Loading 
 screems are terribly long and still slow on quad core systems. Game will also randomly lag and 
 tank out.
  
  Interface: 8.5 - Huge amount of obtainable items, spells, skills and fun! Controls are pretty simple, 
 for some reason swinging any weapon is really slow.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Best out of the series! Even 
 with the huge performance problems, I found this game to be quite addicting and great fun! Make 
 sure you PC is equipped well enough before considering playing on high graphics or the game will 
 tank. If you have played either of the previous Gothic games, you must try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Gothic 3 for $20 recently not expecting too much. Really I was just looking for a diversion 
 from Oblivion and Neverwinter Nights 2 and something to fill the gap until Mass Effect arrives 
 on the PC in May. Well, I have been pleasantly surprised by this gem of a game. I played the demo 
 when it first came out and unfortunately it had some major technical issues, plus I was immersed 
 in Oblivion at the time and really wasn't interested in starting another open world RPG.
  
  Well since then it has had several patches (1.6 is the latest) which apparently has improved things 
 considerably. Now lets clarify, this is still a system hog of a game engine. I have a top of line 
 rig (e6600 C2D, 8800 GTX and 3 GB of RAM) and this game still can chug along at times especially 
 when in towns. That being said, the game's graphics are very nice. The textures are better than 
 Oblivion's (although recent mods such as Qarl's Textures Mod improves this) and the beauty and 
 the lighting of the landscape is very nice and subtle and has a little more personality than Oblivion 
 IMO. The character models and animation are serviceable at best.
  
  The role-playing is pretty good, there is lots of things to do. Create armor and weapons, brew 
 potions, you can follow the path of a swordsman, warrior, archer, mage or thief. Better yet you 
 can combine those skills and develop your character how you want without being stuck in a particular 
 caste. There are lots of quests and different factions with different goals and you ally yourself 
 with these factions and play out the game whether to help the Orcs and enslave your own people 
 or help the Rebels defeat the Orcs. The role-playing does have some issues, this isn't deep RP 
 that you will find in the NWN series, but it does give you some options on how you can play the 
 game. I think the RP in Gothic 3 is superior to that found in Oblivion.
  
  Combat is tricky, it can be very frustrating and you may find the difficulty setting of medium 
 to be a little too difficult (others have stated this) . I've found it to be just about right. The 
 land is crawling with alot of creatures anyway, so when you do get in a fight, I prefer it to be 
 challenging. If you your really not that into the combat part of the game, the easy setting makes 
 the fighting a snap.
  
  The size of the world is immense, it is open and sprawling and is probably, if I had to guess, 
 three or four times larger than Oblivion. Just exploring the world is fun and there are tons of 
 herbs and plants. On that note, alchemy is much simpler than Oblivion. The potions are fewer but 
 are much more useful. I never got into alchemy in Oblivion because it really wasn't necessary. 
 You can also do some smithing and create armor and weapons, again its pretty straight forward, 
 get some training from a smith, buy or find a weapon/armor schematic, find the materials, then 
 go to the smith shop and create the item. And that item will also be worth something because the 
 economy is very well balanced. Good armor and weapons are very expensive and is hard to find. So 
 it makes smithing very worth while part of the game-play.
  
  On a side note and this may not be very important to some, but its an added bonus, this game has 
 one of the best musical scores I have ever heard in a game. It is also appropriate, when you go 
 into a deep dark cave it naturally transitions into something more ominous. I haven't gotten tired 
 of listening to it.
  
  
  Well, that's it for now. I am only about 14 hours into the game, with probably at least another 
 100 hours to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  This is a single player RPG with many options. Because the world you find yourself in is really 
 undefined for you many choices are available. And the growth of your character is something that 
 happens smoothly. 
  
  The most interesting factor in this game is that you actually find yourself "feeling" like you 
 are in this environment. You are walking around looking for familiar trees, listening for sounds 
 that might help you find your way to the hidden camps of the rebels. 
  
  There are major and minor quests. And some of these get pretty complicated. To fulfill the one 
 major quest, to find all of the Fire Chalices, means you have to explore the entire world. From 
 deepest desert to coldest mountain retreat you search for which characters are holding the precious 
 chalices. 
  
  For two thirds of the game play this is really interesting. You've got a full world to explore 
 and you're trying to stay alive. Your character grows. But once you've reached a certain strength 
 you want to start taking out the enemy cities. Unfortunately if you take out a City before you've 
 recovered the Fire Chalice from that City, well there doesn't seem anyway to finish that major 
 quest once the city has been destroyed before the Chalice has been recovered. 
  
  It is addictive to search this world. The feeling of being there is intense. It does take a rather 
 heavy duty computer. With less than a gig and a half of RAM and a good video card your game play 
 is going to be slow, at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blabla112
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Hello! The first thing i would like to say is that to know the whole story start from Gothic I, 
 The game is quite the same, but worse graphics.
  
  Gothic 3 was one of the games, that i waited for a long time. The game generally was very very 
 good, but at some point the technical issues started to get on my nerves. Gothic is the kind of 
 game, you don't want to stop playing, or even don't want to finish the story, you want to live 
 in the world, with your caracter.
  
  Who ever says this game is crap, i would like to say, give it a nother go ;) Everybody find's something 
 in it.
  
  In conclusion, the game is my most loved RPG game ever, But guys, try to solve the technical issues 
 in your next installment. If you do that, i'll bet Gothic 4 (what i eagerly wait) will be the best 
 RPG of the year!
  
  The gothic series was and will ever be an instant classic.
  
  Martin, from Estonia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermes666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Gothic III its the kind of rpg that really focuses on the story... on fighting skills... on "travel 
 to discover'' and it creates a world of his own. I think its wrong to compare it with Oblivion, because 
 the TES game is more like a simulator of social life. Its SIMS with sword and magic.
  Gothic gives you the feel of responsibility. You choose to help the orcs or the human race... or 
 you just start over with the hasishin. The combat system is way better that the one found in oblivion. The 
 camera behind the hero helps a lot. And the engine of the game really gives life to the created 
 world, of course if you have a high-end computer. The time spend in the game is huge. You must level 
 up to go to certain areas. witch is good and should be the core of RPGs. In Oblivion if you are 
 level 1.. well every animal found on the entire map... will be level 1. I find that very **** up. 
 The story is great and if you played Gothic 1 and 2 you will find yourself smiling when you'll 
 see diego, gorn, milten and lester.
  The music is great... though sometimes becomes annoying... you don't see what is coming for you... and 
 the "battle sound" already started.
  All in all its a great game that worths you time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_hooligan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Well to be honest, when I first played G3 I was thinking something like:
  "WTF is this s**t?". And then the second day because I was so bored and had nothing to do I gived 
 the game a second chance. I started to walk trough the forest and despite the fact that the forest 
 didn't want me ( I found my self being chased by wolfes, wild pigs, goblins, mutans bees, little 
 dinos, lurkers, giant spiders etc) when I wached the clock I realized that I was playng for 14 
 hours or so. 
  So taking this game slowly, geting settled with the controls, with the quest dinamics, with the 
 story uncovered step by step you actualy start to like the game. I have to admit that the quality 
 of the texture connot be compared with Oblivion's but the "level design" to say so, is far better 
 then the one in Oblivion. It gives you the filing it has something magic, hidden, that waits to 
 be discovered. 
  Now the bad part: You need a strong PC ( I had problems with framerate when rendering new areas: 
 1 GB Ram, GeForce 7600 GT 256 mb, AMD Athlon 2.4 Ghz - by the way Oblivion and Bioshock worked 
 perfectly on this configuration with every thing set to maximum) .
  You need to get used to the damn musical theme. I mean we are at war or at the opera? How does 
 it feel to get killed by an Smeagel like goblin listening to Mozart like overture?
  The first person view is not the best ever, but...
  Some bugs... like the ones in the kitchen.
 
  
  So that's it. In conclusion it's a outstanding athmosferic cRPG. A world were you get lost in. 
 The choice is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastic89
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I have played it for about 30 hours until my patience finally vanished and I kicked this out of 
 my comp. I can only wonder how this "master piece" looked like when came out for the first time. 
 Have you ever heard word beta testing??!!! This game could be awsome (like its predecessors) but 
 result is hurried broken crap (thank you Jowood!!!) . 
  
  good
  -visuals are not bad (worse than oblivion, better than two worlds)
  -large world
  -story wasnt 
 bad (I didnt finished it, so i cant really tell)
  -ok immersion and athmosphere is there, but gets sewere beating from frustration, boredom and finally 
 pure hate and despair
  -sooooo much potential (but its not really positive thing, is it?)
  
  bad
  -battle system is icredibly broken, its one of the most frustrating things I ever seen; 
 dont get me wrong its not difficult or challenging its just frustrating (hit first or die etc.)
 
  -requirements do not correspond to visuals, stuttering (even on hi-end comp)
  -AI almost doesnt exist, enemies and npc are absolutely dumb
  -voices during combat sound pretty 
 much like gay porn
  -all this revolution thing is good idea and even fun for the first time, but sooner or later gets 
 boring, killing 30 or 40 orcs and mercs in every city is just boooring (mostly due to combat system)
 
  -side quests are repetive and not that funny as they use to be in G I and II; its just kill this, 
 bring me this, take this there; where is any invention?!
  - and where are women? I found only these "female slaves", "female rebels" etc. or is realm of 
 Myrthana women free?
  
  Wanna play good rpg? Dont buy Gothic 3! Buy The Witcher or just play again Baldurs Gate, Fallout 
 or Gothic I. Gothic 3 is simply not worthy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  OK, here's a quick "new" review which accounts for the excellent 1.7 Community Patch (1.7 CP) which 
 was released several days before this edit. My earlier review ("Broken") is pasted below in brackets, 
 for posterity's sake.
  
  It took a long, long time, but the latest community patch has proved me wrong where I originally 
 said I thought the game was released in a state where patches wouldn't fix it. The 1.7 CP actually 
 makes game play acceptable, if still not ultra-smooth. That's quite an accomplishment.
  
  Now that the game is playable, I have had a chance to get into it and follow the storyline and 
 explore a little deeper.
  
  Frame rates are never going to be super high, and load times are still a bit long, although DRASTICALLY 
 decreased from what they were circa the 1.6 CP. But with the new 1.7 CP Gothic 3 is actually playable 
 on my fairly dated machine (P4 2.66 MHz, 2 GB RAM, GeForce 7800 GS, the FSB is overclocked approximately 
 7 percent) . I am playing with resolution at 1280x1024, most of the detail settings are medium or 
 high, and I turned the audio settings down to stereo (I imagine that might free up some CPU) .
 
  
  While the graphics do not justify the rather low frame rates, this is really a breathtaking, WIDE 
 OPEN game world. There are no "rails." In my opinion, Gothic 3's world outmatches the Oblivion 
 game world by a fair margin. Now don't get me wrong; Oblivion was a beautiful game too, and in 
 many ways the game play and the mechanics are far superior to Gothic 3 -- and can you say "quick 
 load times, quick save times, and reasonable frames per second"? -- but one of my gripes with Oblivion 
 was that far too many of the encounters were scripted to occur underground or indoors. The Gothic 
 3 world really is tremendously fascinating and gorgeous to look at. It's hard to grow tired of 
 running around exploring it.
  
  I am still not far advanced in levels, but combat seems sort of dumbed-down to the detriment of 
 game play. Nevertheless, the new patch has options to improve the enemy AI, and the game story, 
 character development system, spells, and overall layout of this fantasy world are more than enough 
 to interest an RPG'er. Just don't expect Blade of Darkness when it comes to combat.
  
  It's just too bad that the developers couldn't have done their job in the first place, and that 
 this game ultimately relied on who knows how many hours of diligent hard work from the community 
 to finally make it playable years after its release.
  
  ==========================================
  
  EARLIER, "PRE 1.7 CP" REVIEW PASTED BELOW:
 
  
  [Score: 4.0
  
  "Broken"
  
  Recommended by 4 of 8 users
  
  ***DECK: The game is playable, if you do not mind low frame rates that result in eyestrain, and 
 load times that are minutes long.****
  
  I am a huge fan of Gothic 1 and 2 (see my glowing reviews) . Therefore, I was horribly disappointed 
 that this third installment was released with a game engine that is basically broken beyond repair.
 
  
  OK, I admit I do not have the most top-end system on the planet, but it is respectable, with a 
 P4 2.66 GHz processor, a GeForce 7800GS, and 2 GB of RAM. I can play a game like Oblivion with 
 most of the settings up high -- including max textures, 1280x1024 resolution, and HDR lighting 
 -- and get consistently smooth frame rates, in the area of 25 fps or more.
  
  I loaded Gothic 3 and immediately had performance issues. I spent a lot of time poring over posts 
 in various forums, getting advice on how to tweak this game for optimum gameplay. I also installed 
 the latest 1.6 patch. Some of the tweaks made a little bit of difference, and resolved some of 
 the bugs. But nothing I could do would really allow for decent, playable frame rates, especially 
 in cities, where the game went into eye-watering slideshow mode, even with most of the graphics 
 detail settings turned way down or completely off.
  
  Even after patching, the game's performance is so bad as to make playing it a chore and a headache. 
 I don't think this game's engine can ever be patched effectively. I think the core of this game, 
 technologically, is an unmitigated disaster. The initial load time alone, which can be upwards 
 of three or four minutes, should have caused the developers to return to the drawing board.
  
  I repeat: the initial load time is upwards of three or four minutes. Also, reloading in-game 
 takes between one and two minutes. This in and of itself is really, really unacceptable. I mean, 
 come on. We are beyond the era of the 386, are we not?
  
  It's a shame, because the game world is obviously a treasure trove of interesting places and creatures. 
 The art is beautiful and the living, breathing, atmospheric world is true to the Gothic series. 
 But I just cannot see playing a game that stutters and goes slide-show even with lousy-low video 
 settings, and requires minutes to load.
  
  This game should never have been released in this state. Paying customers deserve a product that 
 is technically sound, and fans of this series deserve better.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  When you begin to play this game you will probably think that it is very hard, but if you download 
 the patches it is one of the best games that have been made. The only thing that I can come on 
 that is bad in this game is the start, because it takes time to get in to this game, but after 
 that you will love it for ever. In gothic 3 you have many choices, and for each you take it will 
 be wrong for the other team, so you can say that it is very real. And sometimes it can be a bit 
 to realistic. You can move where ever you want and take what side you want, and that is what makes 
 this game so good. You can either team up with the rebels, the orcs or the hashashin. In the start 
 of the game you can do missions for all of the sides, but sooner or later you will have to make 
 a decision. Gothic 3 is one of the best rpg games I have ever tried, but you will need a pretty 
 good computer if you want to run this game smooth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limneosgreen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:58 am PT
Review:  Hey everyone...
  
  I will not make some long review, I just wanna say that this is really best game i ever played. 
 Graphics are on ultimate quality and Gothic 3 world is much more colorfuller than Oblivion. Sound 
 is simply connected with game. I know that game has a lot of bags but it works perfect on my PC: 
 C2D E6600, 8800GTS, 4GB Ram. Gothic 3 also have very good story and u can chose are you gonna help 
 pplz or orks. This game is maybe not so popular but i think it worth few bucks. I think that u 
 should upgrade ur PC to play this game ... there are a lot of items to collect like plants, food, 
 magic potions. Game have 3 separated areas forest, desert and mountains you are starting from Myrutana-Adrea
 
  
  .. sorry if my english is not so good and this is my first review x')
  ~lime&original hippie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Man4ever
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  That's right lousy combat. And when i say "lousy combat" i mean, the type of combat you usually 
 get from a 1975 - 2D super mario game. Now you may think that this little thing can't ruin a game. 
 Well, it can actually. It's the game's essence. What point of learning new skills (fight/combat/strenght, 
 and so on) if they don't really show. Let me explain. The most common creature in the game... the 
 wolf. After level 10 you can beat one empty handed. If you fight more than one wolf... let's say 
 ouuu... two, the odds are GREATLY reduced. Plus, the "enemy" doesn't actually fight with you. As 
 soon as you start swinging your sword it starts to back up.... and back up... and back up.... until 
 it hits a obstacle or fall off the map.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 8/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Physics: 4/10
  Replay value: 6/10
  Value for money: 3/10
 
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 3/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is Great with minor bugs ... it doesnt disturb the gameplay though.... yeah the combat in 
 the game isnt good, only thing you do is press the right or left mouse button... but it doesnt make 
 the game so boring. It just makesit harder to get use to it... but it doesnt disturb me soo much 
 but it the game would be excellent if the combat would be good...
  The game has alot of disturbance.. gets stuck alot even if you got a good computer, thats a bug that 
 the game has it can just get stuck whenever..
  
  Gameplay is really good.. you can cook, frie, make weapons, make armor, get stuff from animals, carve, skin, steal 
 items in towns and other places, reputation, Monsters and alot more stuff like this make the game 
 highly addictive....
  
  Graphics 8/10 only cause the highest version can get more bugs and gets stuck more often even though 
 I would say the graphics are great in HD... it looks just amazing..
  
  Overall the game is almost perfect... everybody who is looking for a easy learnin, interesting, great 
 graphics alot to do besides fight play this game ... You wont be dissapointed ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the previous games in the Gothic series so I can't comment on that. Though I've 
 heard that people like Gothic II much more.
  
  Gameplay: 3.5/10
  - The game would be SO much better if it weren't for the combat system. The game area is quite 
 large with many quests (some of them really boring, though.) The good thing is, that if you do 
 something, it affects the world around you. For example if you rid a town of Orcs, (your enemies... 
 or your allies, depending on what you choose) the humans will eventually move back there. But still, 
 the combat system pretty much destroys this game, since combat is a HUGE part of it. Though you 
 have multiple strikes available, basically you cannot win most of the enemies if you don't keep 
 clicking left mouse button (the normal attack.) It's quaranteed to hit the enemies, and the enemies 
 simply cannot hit you while you do it, they just stand around you like they are paralyzed (unless 
 they have bows or magic.) The other strikes are quick and power strike. The quick strike does very 
 minimal damage and the enemy usually gets a combo of 5-10 strikes on you after you hit it. And 
 then you die. The power strike does much damage, but it doesn't hit the targeted enemy for an unknown 
 reason 60% of the time. So the combat system is just pure garbage.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7/10
  - The game is quite immersive for the reasons described above: 
 The world is medium-large and the things you do actually affect it. The combat system unfortunately 
 ruins immersion too.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  - They are... decent. Not much else to say.
  
  Sound: 4.5/10
  - The voice acting is well... different. Quite horrible actually, ruins immersion, 
 but still better than for example, in Two Worlds. The sound effects are run-of-the-mill. Music 
 is quite good.
  
  Physics: 4/10
  - The ragdoll effect is WAY overused here. They sometimes literally fly 5 meters in air when simply 
 hit by sword. Smaller animals fly even higher. I've seen a chicken fly over 20 meters, heh. There 
 isn't really other physics than ragdoll, except that if you are on a steep surface (roof, hill 
 eg.) , the player actually SLIDES. I haven't seen that in other games so that's a little bonus. 
 Small things like that add immersion.
  
  Replay value: 6/10
  - You could probably play this game twice or thrice, using a different type of character (warrior, 
 mage, assassin...) or allying with the other side. But I really doubt that anyone has the nerves 
 to finish this game twice... So few will even finish this game once.
  
  Value for money: 3/10
  - If you like buggy games with horrible combat, buy this. I really, really 
 don't recommend buying it before testing it, since you will most likely be disappointed and/or 
 angry. Luckily, I got this a gift.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 1/10
  - Just horrible. The game lags like hell, even on high end PCs. Sometimes it pauses for over 5 
 seconds. There are SO many bugs, the patches correct some of them but not nearly all.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Not a chance.
 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who is REALLY desperate to play a new RPG. Though I recommend that you buy Oblivion or 
 Two Worlds instead, if you haven't already.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidkolakoski
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  
  I consider Gothic 3 to be one of the most enjoyable and immersive roleplaying games I have ever 
 played. This is both in spite of AND BECAUSE of its flaws. 
  
  I have the North American version of the game. The technical problems of the game are adequately 
 discussed and dealt with in other forums. The game is highly playable in spite of them. However, 
 it requires a certain mindset, or lack of one, depending on your point of view.
  
  1. Consider the Gothic Universe as unique, with its own permeable reality. Don't get hung up on 
 realism. Accept the new laws of physics. Play within them. 
  
  2. The stun-lock issue: I fight with both the forward and left (OR right) arrows engaged, using 
 the mouse for direction. Stun-lock is reduced (on ME) to such an extent that I kill most enemies 
 before it affects me. Also, when I am stun-locked, I turn and run/jump away immediately, regroup, 
 and return to the fray. I don't block, but I do measure my strokes and my distance from my enemy. 
 Very satisfying melee combat, in a Samurai or Barbarian attacking style.
  
  3. I take advantage of the terrain shamelessly to rain arrows on climbing-challenged foes that 
 are tougher, too numerous or too well placed (in tight places like caves with no room to maneuver) , 
 consider my character intelligent, and keep him well supplied with arrows.
  
  4. I am never going to get to enter Ishtar or become a master of dual weapon fighting. (This may 
 change, but right now it seems like too much work.)
  
  5. I take advantage of forum information. For example, got the list of teleporter stone locations, 
 avoiding hours of footslogging.
  
  6. I save often.
  
  Within this context, I have the power to make REAL choices that have REAL, far reaching consequences. 
 That fact flavors everything in the game. That is what separates Gothic 3 from all the other games 
 I have played. That is what makes it a GREAT game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahaan_arsenal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  An excellent game that has its own class with very good graphics. NPC interaction is one of the 
 best features of this game and there is a vast world to explore. But the bugs really lets it down. 
 The game has great potential and if the bugs are fixed, it could be second only to Oblivion. Could 
 have got a 9.0 if it were not for the bugs. The most disappointing bug is "where is the guru" bug. 
 But the newly released community patch 1.6 fixed it and a lot of other performance tweaks for me. 
 This game sucks you in and lets u feel like a part of its world.... you will realize that only after 
 you have played for 1 or 2 hrs. Another important feature is the unique development system, and 
 I really liked it. Its better than in Oblivion. It also has a nice and long storyline with multiple 
 endings and that adds to another plus point for the game... Well done Piranha Bytes and JoWood....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Gothic III is like a woman who irritates you until the point you want to break up, but who in the 
 last minute knows how to coax you into staying with her. 
  
  I LOVE YOU when swarming orcs fall around me in an epic combat where I really feel like a great 
 warrior.
  I HATE YOU when I take damage and can't react fast enough to avoid being comboed to death, when 
 my character slowly sheathes his weapon during a fight for no reason while being bashed, or when 
 he strikes my allies when I am actually aiming at a foe.
  
  I LOVE YOU when I enter a new town and have the real feeling of discovering a place I have never 
 seen before, when people seem really involved in their lives and personal purposes, and for the 
 way they react realistically to my presence.
  I HATE YOU when a whole town goes mad after me just because I take a bow in my hand, when people 
 sink knee deep into the ground, when they don't know how to find their way, and when NPCs repeat 
 again and again looped and meaningless conversations.
  
  I LOVE YOU for the way you look, because you put a lot of attention to details, realism and diversity.
 
  I HATE YOU for the way you think, because your AI is so flawed that you are the most stupid person... 
 I mean, RPG I have never met.
  
  I LOVE YOU because you immerse me profoundly in your world where I feel extremely involved, and 
 for the wonderful exploration possibilities you offer.
  I HATE YOU because you are so frustrating, though I can't leave you and can't stop playing.
  
 
  Gothic III, I love you, but you're mean! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick1025
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  A truly good RPG. The negatives: A must is to download all the patches before you play, patch 1.09, 
 patch 1.12 and the community patch 1.5 because the original game has quite a few annoying flaws. 
 Even after downloading the patches the game does have NPC's and monsters/beasts clipping through 
 walls, etc. Someone else complained about the reload times and they are slow compared to other 
 games. The positives: Patience, patience, patience. This is not a good game for console gamers 
 who want to get from start to finish in 2 hours or less. To really enjoy the game and develop both 
 the story and your character you must explore every nook and cranny. Do all the quests. Upgrade 
 your skills, armour and weapons. There are chests and NPC's all over the entire landscape which 
 does appear huge but on analysis is very compact. Geographically the locations are in close proximity 
 but in the game they SEEM very far apart. Explore and explore some more. I have been playing for 
 over 60 hours and am still only about 30% complete. If you enjoy RPG's and like playing games with 
 a good story and continuous character improvement this is a fine, fine game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Gothic 1 &amp; 2 were very unique RPG games: rather than providing huge world to explore it was 
 more about attention to detail that set it apart from other games. NPCs and quests were pretty 
 well woven into the plot, which gave the game more life-like feel. Chapter system from previous 
 Gothic games was convenient way to make the world even more dynamic: after each chapter NPCs would 
 have different dialogue options and would react to important events. Gothic 3 somewhat splits from 
 this formula and tries to become more like Oblivion; what we get is something in between. While 
 it offers huge world to explore, it also has somewhat diluting effect on the quest system and 
 skill advancement. Every Gothic fan remembers how precious skill points were in Gothic 1&amp;2 
 and how carefully they had to be spent. Gothic 3 offers so many quests and monsters to kill that 
 prudent skill point spending is no longer a concern. Unfortunately, this also renders some skills 
 outright useless, like pick pocketing. Alchemy is much less important here because you have so 
 many skill points that brewing permanent potions and colleting of ingredients dont feel like worth 
 the effort. There are also some skills that do not seem to be implemented at all. There are resistance 
 to cold/heat/ poison skills that do not make any noticeable difference. And no matter how hard 
 you search you will not be bale to find trainer to attain that master of fire magic skill. Combat 
 is definitely unbalanced: it varies from frustrating experience of being fighter to tedious combat 
 of over-powered mage. Fist time I played I got to be very powerful fighter, yet very easily killed 
 by orc shaman or even weaker goblin shaman. As a matter of fact, since 2-3 three hits by fireball 
 meant death I would run for cover anytime my opponent wielded magic. Second time around I decided 
 to stick with the formula if you cant beat them, join them and become mage myself. Gothic 3 
 has variety of spell from four schools of magic, but in reality you need only two to be successful 
 in combat: good old fireball and summoning spell (like demon or golem) . Once you build your mana 
 level high enough and you get that mana recharge skill, you become close to being invincible. Combat 
 becomes tedious from then on: you pound anything that moves with fireballs, and occasionally summon 
 an ally to distract the larger groups of enemies. Summon demon spell is definitely overpowered 
 because demon can take on successfully group of orcs by himself. So, if you are lazy type you can 
 just keep summoning demons to do dirty work for you while you enjoy the show over some popcorn 
 and a drink. Its been a while since the release of the game and most of the stability/performance 
 issues have been fixed through the patches. Overall Gothic 3 is a good game that could have been 
 great if its numerous bugs and balancing issues were addressed early on. According to information 
 available the developer and publisher of the game parted ways in rather hostile circumstances, 
 no doubt the result of arguing over blame over shape the game was originally released in. Given 
 the fact that developer still holds a lot of rights to Gothic titles, this might be the last game 
 in the Gothic series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 isn't easy. It requires numerous reloads. It doesn't hold your hand. There is no large 
 tutorial level although this version certainly gives more tips than previous games in the beginning. 
 The world is large and immersive, not linear. And while I'm not excusing its technical flaws, it 
 does have its fair share of bugs that require someone with patience who isn't a short attention 
 span gamer to enjoy. Make sure you install all patches, including the community patch.
  
  If you enjoyed the first two Gothics, you're going to love the third game. Far and away the largest 
 Gothic world yet and the most detailed character stats. My only complaint is the world may be too 
 large now. Sometimes I just want to get on to the main quest but there are so many cities and NPCs 
 to explore. I also was surprised that a mainstay in the Gothic series wasn't as prevalent, and 
 that is recurring NPC characters although all the old favorites such as Diego and Gorn are back 
 in action. Also, while a difficult game, it doesn't require a huge amount of strategy other than 
 knowing where to pick and choose your battles, making sure you're not flanked or overwhelmed by 
 hordes, and finding out which weapons are best for certain situations. Fighting requires a large 
 amount of mouse-clicking. Gothic really is one of those games that separates mainstream from hardcore 
 RPG gamers. I would guess that people who enjoy the MMORPG genre would probably enjoy this game 
 the most because sometimes it feels like a huge offline MMORPG world. Cutting orc heads off to 
 uber-leveldom is the name of the game with a big focus on inventory and character detail. Crafting 
 your own items is essential, and it's also similar to an MMORPG in that you may be penalized if 
 you try to become too much of a "jack of all trades" and neglect specialization in one combat direction.
 
  
  You're either going to love or hate this game. The only middle ground may be that the Gothic world 
 is so large this time, you might lose focus after 60-100 hours of gameplay. I also wouldn't recommend 
 this game for outdated systems. I have top specs on everything and this game still uses everything 
 my system can give, but it really helps having a top of the line processor, RAM and video card 
 so that your view distance increases. The graphics are beautiful and the world feels alive if you 
 can view it in its full glory.
  
  Give this game a chance. It's not as click and point dungeon crawler as Neverwinter Nights. It's 
 not as easy as KOTOR or Oblvion. But it has its own uniqueness that has managed to pull a dedicated 
 fan community through all three versions, eagerly anticipating the next installment with your nameless 
 hero and the powerful wizard Xardas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestepher
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  -There is NO charachter customization in this game. None. Zero. You are forced to play some loser/slave 
 with a brown MULLET. Crap.
  
  -Whoever designed the combat animations in this game has never lifted a braidsword before. Granted 
 few have, but I have and if I were designing a game with swordplay in it I'd want to find a real 
 sword. Crap.
  
  -The game is buggy as hell and the movement and panning is sceitchy at best. And then there are 
 those combat animations... GAWD.
  
  I was sorely dissapointed as I wanted an offline RPG that i could really immerse myself with. Goodness 
 was this ever the wrong choice. Yay for brown MULLETS. The hype over this game was mental but it 
 was a huge, huge let down. Steer clear friends!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donbartos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  I played Gothic I and Gothic II before this one and it's is a clomplete story, what can't be found 
 in every game. the graphics are very good but somehow a bit bad to. further is the game made as 
 a Bug everywhere are bugs in the game but with the patches you shouln'd find them anymore.
  
  Before you wan't to play the game better first play 1 and 2 because there are some humans that 
 you already know then and then it's more fun.
  but if you wan't to play it without doing the first 2. you shouldn't have problems with understanding 
 the game. I'm looking out for GothicIV. they say it's coming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyranasaurus
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  whts really irritating when ppl review games like this and give it a 1 or a 2 .. they dont even 
 like these kinds of games in the first place.. they are just looking for boring as hack and slash 
 games that you just have special moves and bash buttons repeatedly.. if tht was wht gothic or oblivian 
 morrowwind were i would NEVER have played them.
  
  so you read them to find out wht the game is like and get bombarded with ppl saying it sucks completely 
 when even if there was NO glitches at all they would still say it SUCKS because they dont like 
 rpg's or rather only enjoy silly boring hack and slash games tht do NOTHING for anybody lol. and 
 require almost ZERO storytelling ability to make.
  
  its annoying especially when these ppl havent even played gothic 1 or 2 so they arent even making 
 a judgement based on previous titles or even PREVIOUS RPG's.. which quite frankly doesnt qualify 
 as a look at a game at all. its does nothing. for pl that are thinking of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  For those who haven't played the 2 previous installments, jumping into the third game may be a 
 little overwhelming in terms of catching up with the story and getting a feel of things. Gothic 
 3 is a game that immediately draws you in with it's endless attention to detail, small towns, grassy 
 hills, flora and fauna have been carefully crafted to give a sense of reality. All of which incorporate 
 into a immersing experience. The sense of freedom is easily felt when you can do anything you want, 
 this includes killing important characters, siding up with a certain faction, then betraying them.
 
  
  Audio
  The music stands out on it's own as a masterful work of art, it is streamlined into the game world 
 and certainly adds to the atmosphere. Though most sounds are well designed the voice acting leaves 
 more to be desired.
  
  RPG elements
  The RPG aspect of character building is quite basic and is not too involving. Most skills such 
 as sword fighting and archery can be learned early on in the game except for more powerful magic, 
 which can be acquired much later on.
  
  Quests/Missions
  The game is separated into a main quest and several side-quests, which are useful in gaining experience, 
 items, faction points, but most of them are very tedious (item hunt, creature hunt) and feel out 
 of place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsivertsen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 was by far the biggest game to date. The world is enourmous. You can walk for hours from 
 one end to the other. The world is richly populated by NPC with nice dialogues.
  
  Gothic 3 is a fantasy role-playing game where you play the role of the Unnamed Hero. Your old world 
 has fallen to the orcs and the humans have been made slaves. You enter a shattered world at the 
 beach of a small village which has been enslaved by the orcs. You immidiately start the game with 
 a big fight with the orcs. The fighting is OK, but could have been better. Some might say it's 
 a little basic. You soon find out what you should do. It turns out your old friend Xardas is behind 
 the orc invasion. Time to rescue the world.
  
  With plenty of role-playing elements like quests and level-up, this game should apply to every 
 fan of fantasy role playing games. Unfortunately the game has some flaws coming from a number of 
 bugs, like slow load and save time, buggy combat and broken quests. Despite this, I really enjoyed 
 the game and the possibilty to chose different sides. You can either join the orcs, the dessert 
 people or the human rebels. The game is truely open ended. If the bugs were solved, this might 
 have made Gothic 3 a classic, but unfortunately, the developers seems to have gone bankrupt. Luckily 
 there have been initiatives by the online community to develop patches. As a closing, I can recommend 
 this game and I am looking forward to Gothic 4 (which I've heard is in the making) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulclark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  OK, so that might be a bit much. But I just installed 2G of extra RAM (on top of 1G) , and that 
 made all the difference. I had given the game up months ago because of the pervasive I/O problems 
 (loading, saving, texture thrashing, constant stutter) that made it unbearable.
  
  That having been done, the load times are manageable (not pleasant) , but the main difference is 
 in the constant stutter. People have knocked the framerates, but that wasn't really the problem. 
 With 3G RAM, the game is still 20 FPS for me (Athlon X2 4600, GeForce 7900 GS) , but totally playable.
 
  
  Now that it is, I can better appreciate the usual Piranha Bytes world-building magic. There's no 
 shop that better creates a lifelike, believable world. The graphics are beautiful - I find myself 
 going certain places at certain times of the day just because the lighting and scenery is so beautiful. 
 That's no longer just a game. The graphics, interactivity and atmosphere of the game exceed Oblivion.
 
  
  Gothic 3 doesn't match Oblivion's deep quest structure, its characterizations or its conversation 
 trees (once you've done the quests in a town, it pretty much turns into a wax museum) . In that 
 regard, it's a step back from Gothic 2, which was the best game of that sort at its time. PB has 
 said they were busy exploring the capabilities of the engine and the next in the series will improve 
 those elements. Let's hope so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Even with a patch or two the game is still buggy and crashy, with lame AI and poor melee combat 
 system.
  Graphics are nice and so is the music and roelplaying. It is playable, but the lousy melee combat 
 ruins the fun at times. It is like getting stun locked by quick attacks over and over, or you stun 
 lock your enemy by a similar means. Human type AI seems a lot easier to beat, animal AI will stun 
 lock you if you aren't careful more often.
  You lose your NPC's that travel with you if you use a warp stone. They are also very stupid in 
 battle as they just stand there and the enemy will run by them. When they do fight they are about 
 useless as well as far as dealing damage.
  (Update Edited)
  After playing the game longer I found myself addicted some how. The role playing and character 
 development along with the nice looking world to explore kept me hooked. After learning a few good 
 spells and using the bow and arrow more often along will pulling a bit like in WoW, combat was 
 bearable. If you can tolerate the games flaws it does have some really good aspects. Save often.
 
  
  If they would have debugged and balanced the game it could have been so much better, maybe even 
 close to a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  A very nice game and a real shame that the original publisher stopped supporting it as the available 
 patches (Official 1.12 and Community 1.4 (who writes this by the way? Thanks to whoever!) ) only 
 just keep it playable.
  For me, the main issue is long save and load times  especially load as I die many times, especially 
 at the beginning trying to do the simplest things! There are also big clipping problems  my bow 
 is continually half through my shield and one time I fell out of the wall of a cave while being 
 attacked by wolves.
  Its also a pity that the spectacular teleportation effects usually grind to a halt and become 
 a series of jerky stills instead. (By the way, my Core 2 Duo and 7600GT should handle all this. 
 I have read the game does not support dual core processors but would be surprised if this is true 
 as there is an advert for Intel Core 2 Extreme in the intro!) .
  Nevertheless, my interest is so far maintained (a feat in itself for most games) but these issues 
 will stop me playing it a second time, which is a shame as there are many possibilities to explore, 
 mainly siding with the Orcs or the Rebels.
  Apparently there is a Gothic 4 on the table so lets hold out hope for that although I wont be 
 buying it for a year after release to make sure it is well patched (my rule for all new hi-spec 
 games now as so many are poorly put together and pants fresh out of the box) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oggden
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  From a technical standpoint this is the worst game ever. The load times are
  frustratingly slow, even on a high end machine. The lock ups are frequent and unrelenting. Save 
 games disappear. Quests are often not available or when completed don't come off your to do list. 
 The fighting is absolutely the worst.
  Your hero stands sideways and gets into a beat me up mode from which you can't escape. I finally 
 used the cheats to give my guy immunity to fighting, it was so frustrating. The staggers will make 
 you seasick. As my opening line said, someday, somewhere some lawyer is gonna do a class action 
 law suit against companies that put out stuff as crippled and untested as this piece of crap. I 
 did play it to the end, just because its my nature to dos so and the ending certainly was underwhelming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoneisdev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  To play the game on my computer; you would have to be patient at best. My computer has a decent 
 video card; just not enough ram. If you want too get anywhere in the game you need some down time. 
 There is alot of variety in the game. I would not compare it to oblivion, because oblivion is an 
 outstanding game and that would'nt be far to gothic to compair it to a masterpiece. I have nothing 
 to say about the combat system other than you click your mouse until everything is dead. It would 
 be a good idea to look in a bargain bin. But otherwise it was a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-Man2006
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is perhaps a very underrated game. Obviously many RPG fans refused it because of its combat 
 system, minor bugs, progress, etc. However, if you download the demo, you might like what you see. 
 (it might take you a week to finish it though) Anyway, in Gothic 3, you arrive in a world where 
 orcs enslaved as many humans as possible. Their only obstacle are the Rebels. Basically, the Rebels 
 are trying to free the humans from the Orcs so there could be some happily ever after ending. However 
 awesome this sounds, it is a bit of a disappointment because in the combat system, you get special-move 
 free attacks. You just swing your sword at enemies. Its still fun fighting a dozen monsters because 
 in the game, you can get easily killed by weak monsters (wolf) . A lot of people hate this, but 
 I think it makes this risk fun when you start raiding a city. For me, it was fun killing orcs in 
 Cape Dun (You'll find out soon) .
  
  The most annoying thing about Gothic 3 are its bugs. Fortunately, they are not too big since they 
 consist of clipping issues, graphical glitches, etc. However, it could be that graphical glitches 
 are due to your computer settings. You really need a fair computer to run this on max settings.
 
  
  Anyway, unlike Oblivion when there's a low chance of no satisfaction, I recommend downloading the 
 demo before trying anything out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramid
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game after almost one year later when I was hugely dissapointed by the demo. 
 The demo was a let down because it would not run other than stop-frame animation at that time.
 
  
  Now I saw the game lying in the shop's for 9 euros. I thought I'd give it another go and am I glad 
 I did so! Somehow, patched up to V1.12, now I'm able to run it, on the same computer, on maximum 
 settings (bloom disabled however) . This opened this world of Gothic 3 for me which has been an 
 adventurous, immersive, exciting and beautiful experience so far. This game is easy to get into, 
 the story (thank god) is just right for me. It doesn't require the player to go through half a 
 novel of text. It's got freedom like I never experienced in a game and most importantly it's just 
 plain fun. I'm not rushing to finish the main quest in this game, the environment is just screaming 
 to be explored and you are rewarded around every corner. I love the part that you can even finish 
 quests that you didn't receive yet, if you wipe out a camp of orcs that was part of a quest anyhow, 
 you finished the quest halfway already. All you have to do now is find the guy who's giving this 
 quest to you. You're time never feels lost this way.
  
  The AI is great for a player like me, I like to trick two parties into fighting each other instead 
 of me taking on the whole world by myself. Great fun ! You can also get other characters to follow 
 you on all your quests. So you always have some back-up.
  
  The graphics have to bee seen to believed. Crancked up to 1920x1200 with all sliders open it looks 
 like you're running through true nature. Woods, fields, cities, rivers and caves all have a great 
 adventure look to them and are the icing on this gaming cake.
  
  There are some things that are somewhat annoying but it greatly outweighs the fun and excitment 
 I'm having playing this game. Buy it, patch it and enjoy it !!!
  
  (playing on Dell XPS1710 laptop) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rejected777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  After the end of Gothic 2 I have eagerly awaited Gothic 3. When it finally arrived (and I was lucky 
 enough to land myself a collectors box) it didn't disappoint one bit. The graphics were wonderful, 
 the story was as good as always and finally they hired more than 3 voice actors to do all the voice 
 acting, which was a big minus for the previous two installments.
  
  First off: Graphics. When turned on maximum settings, the game is stunning. The problem is, the 
 engine is *very* demanding. My system is high end, so I didn't have any issues but a coworker of 
 mine with a medium end system said he had issues running it smoothly, even when turning down the 
 settings. So it's a big + that the game is stunning but a big - that you need a high end system 
 to see the stunning graphics. Animations are good. They motion captured all the animations and 
 actually got a hold of people doing sword combat in real life to do the combat animations. Big 
 + there. The cutscenes are all well made at the surroundings are stunning. The only big - I've 
 seen so far is the graphical glitches which makes lighting appear weird and clipping between textures.
 
  
  Story: The story follows the previous two installments, but just as Gothic 2, Gothic 3 does not 
 require you to play the other two to understand the story. When meeting familiar faces the first 
 time, you always have the option to say you don't know who they are. Of course, the game is the 
 most rewarding if you've played the other two Gothics, but it still delivers a rock solid story. 
 The story picks up where Gothic 2 ended, with a small cutscene that explains the most recent events 
 on the mainland.
  
  Dialogue &amp; voice acting: They finally hired a big cast of voice actors, but kept all the original 
 actors for the big parts they've played throughout the series. The original cast does a good job 
 as always, and all the new actors also delivers their lines well. Nothing outstanding, but nothing 
 bad either.
  
  Game World: It's HUGE. If you only do the main story, you can finish the game in maybe 20-30 hours, 
 if you know your way around. If you want to do all the side quests and explore every inch of the 
 land, you're looking at 70+ hours, easy. There are three regions: The lush forestlands of Myrtana, 
 located in the center of the gaming world. This is the original country the nameless hero (you) 
 originate from, and where Gothic 1 and 2 played out. To the north is the cold, harsh, wintery land 
 of Nordmar where viking-like people reside. This is the only country that has not surrendered to 
 the Orcs. To the south is the big desert land of Varrant. A country that instead of fighting the 
 Orcs struck a deal with them. Both Myrtana and Varrant have rebellions working to overthrow the 
 Orc invaders in Myrtana and the usurping Hashishin of Varrant. While playing you will have to choose 
 if you want to support the rebels and free the countries, or side with the Orcs and extinguish 
 the last hope of freedom for humankind.
  
  The biggest - of the game is that it seems to have a memory leak. The longer you play, the bigger 
 risk there is of locking up and while saving, sometimes it locks up, ruining your save. If you 
 then try to load that save, the game locks up so you have to go back to your previous save. To 
 this reason, I usually saved often and used many different saves in order to prevent having to 
 replay a long section.
  
  Without spoiling anything, you have to play this game to finally put a definite end to the series, 
 and whichever end you choose (there are 3) you will not be disappointed.
  
  If it wasn't for the save/long play bugs and graphic glitches, this game would have gotten 9.0. 
 Due to those bugs, I cannot give it more than 8.5. Still a score well deserved.
  
  Solid story, solid graphics, solid animation, ROCK SOLID GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhabazatknis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This is is not is not something special but its easy and fun to play. One thing that I really dont 
 like is that it has pretty bad graphics and is heavily bugged. One thing that makes the game simple 
 and maybe even abit stupid is that by cornering your enemy you can kill him no matter how much 
 stronger he is than you. It is just a matter of time and attack rate and your enemy will be dead. 
 Ofcourse its more difficult to have combat in an open field so your enemy can retreat. But if its 
 a human/orc enemy you can still easily kill it. Beasts are obviously harder to battle than people 
 ( or orcs) .
  But one thing that impresses in this game is the amount of decisions that you can make. The freedom 
 of options is really well worked out. Thats propably the thing that makes the game so fun to play 
 but otherwise its just another plain experience gaining RPG. And thinking in this game is not so 
 important. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachilders
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is an outstanding games with some big flaws. If there were no technical issues, I would 
 have given this a 10. The game stutters a lot during play, and even with the 1.12 patch and the 
 1.4 community patch, there are game ending bugs and glitches. It isn't horrible anymore, but it 
 is enough to detract from the overall experience. I love how you can affect the whole world and 
 do whatever you want at any time. You can help the rebels (read good guys) and their god Innos, 
 the orcs (read bad guys) and their god, Beliar. There is also a third option where you help the 
 god Adanos and make both of the warring gods stop fighting. The ending of the game is kind of lame, 
 but it's the choices that make it fun. The game world is also massive. If you like rpg's and have 
 a decent machine, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this is an amazing game. I have played everything worth while throughout the years, 
 every role-playing game on PC that is, but never was I blown away like I was when playing Gothic 
 3.
  
  Yes, there are some hard facts, you need a hi-end PC with a lot of power to be able to enjoy it, 
 yes, there are some bugs, but the latest patches cleared them all out for me. I played the game 
 for over 400 hours and it crashed two times during that time...
  
  If you liked Oblivion, then you are going to love Gothic 3, why? Because it is so much better. 
 The thing that annoyed me the most with Oblivion was the repetitive on-liners, in G3 you are spared 
 of that, but most importantly, you'll get a huge story, with what it seems a thousand quests, the 
 never end it seem. You improve your characters skills with everything you do, and can become almost 
 anything, not a king though...
  
  I will play Gothic 4 if it comes out and recommend G3, it is really worth the while. Big thumbs 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  This game has issues: with bugs, with crashes, with combat. However, it is one of the most enjoyable 
 RPGs for ages, refreshingly different. This seems to be no accident as it's developers seem to 
 have produced the game from a new perspective.
  
  You start mainly as a fighter, but you have no onus to continue along this path. Thievery, magic 
 and ranged combat are open career paths to you, or a combination of them all. As well as choosing 
 your style of play constantly throughout the game you are able to choose whom to serve, orcs or 
 rebels, then how noble to be. Steal and be caught and there are consequences, there are also consequences 
 with anyone you chose to kill. It's your choice but the results of your actions give the world 
 of Gothic 3 a real coherence.
  
  The game is beautiful - excellent graphics. The music is top quality too. Normally I turn off the 
 music in games such as these, but not in this one.
  
  All the speach between your character and the NPCs is spoken, which is a really nice touch. Having 
 to read box-fulls of text can really detract from any RPG. But, speach like this really adds to 
 the great atmosphere.
  
  This game has issues. But it's worth forgiving them for the rich pleasure of playing this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bhemont
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I remember first buying Gothic I a couple of years ago, I was young careless and just liked the 
 look on the cover. After I had played the game for several hours it was starting to grow on me, 
 I couldn't turn off my computer because I always had to finish up a quest, or grind my way to the 
 next level so I could beat up a certain guy to gain some respect among my faction. The game was 
 ambitious and what made it unique was when you got stronger the game got a lot easier, the voice 
 acting and music was perfect and I was in love with the combat system which was not turn based 
 like most combat systems were in some rpg's back then. Gothic II was alright and it went in to 
 the same direction as the previous game. But then I just recently bough Gothic III and it was like 
 they took a gigantic step back and skipped all the good parts. The hero's voice is different, in 
 fact all the hero's voices are different and none of them can act. Now you can whack the orange 
 juice out of the orcs with out breaking a sweat, the game is a lot more open like Oblivion and 
 you can roam around freely which should be a good thing, but the game has so many flaws that I 
 don't know where to start. You will soon learn that the beasts in this game are on the top of the 
 food chain, you will have to save very often before you engage in to combat with them and load 
 the game even more often, and each loading takes approximately one minute which makes each death 
 a pain, and the game very often crashes or some city walls disappear or turn orange.
  
  They changed the combat system so now it feels a lot less Gothic like and more Diablo like, you 
 can dual wield later in the game and learn some cool spells, and when I say cool I mean they are 
 awesome, the rain of fire has been slightly improved, acrobatic skill is back and new armor models 
 have been added. The game takes place shortly after you defeat the undead dragon in Gothic II and 
 some pirates stole all your belongings which is so convenient considering you are about to start 
 a new adventure. Now Xardas is the bad guy and there's no surprise there, your main quest will 
 be to find out what his plans are and etc, but meanwhile you can join up with three factions, The 
 Rebels, The Orc Mercenaries and the Hushishiny which are sort of Egypt type of looking characters. 
 The orcs rule the land and you can either join them or destroy them, but it's not as easy as it 
 sounds even though your character is &uuml; per powerful, there are some setbacks and you will have 
 to work with the rebels to get somewhere. All in all if you are a Gothic fan then it's worth buy 
 otherwise rent before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Videshi
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Gothic III, I was very excited. It promised to be an open-ended environment 
 with a lot of potential for character building and role playing. Indeed, in that regard I was not 
 let down... However, Gothic III has numerous, numerous issues that when taken together make it 
 a letdown.
  
  The good:
  
  Interesting character building system, based upon training and learning points rather than traditional 
 XP-leveling. Wide variety of items and spells makes it feel as if there are a lot of ways to build 
 characters (more on that later) . Beautiful environments.
  
  The bad:
  
  Very poor character modeling and movement, particularly in the strange movements characters make 
 during conversation.
  
  The worst death sound in any game I've ever heard. It's louder than any other sound, badly acted, 
 and incredibly annoying.
  
  Infinite damage combos done by animal opponents. Yes, you heard me right. Barring a cease in attack, 
 an animal opponent can perform the same attack on you over and over and over until you die. This 
 makes combat incredibly frustrating. You can destroy entire towns by simply jamming on LMB attacks. 
 Blocking is useless, backing up is useless. There is no better way to kill opponents than to jam 
 on attack until they die. Since human/orc opponents simply back up, eventually you will catch up 
 and kill them. Animals dodge just out of reach, but if you keep swinging you'll get them.
  
  Quest system is inefficient. You are usually only given a few lines of conversation to go on, 
 and soon you will have so many quests in your menu that you won't remember them all - and finding 
 the ones you want requires that you scan the whole list over and over. Buggy NPC/PC interaction 
 when it comes to fighting. You can beat the crap out of a guy in a town, not kill him, and everything 
 will go back to normal. The person won't remember that you hurt him, and for all intensive purposes 
 you've done nothing. Sometimes if you bring an animal companion into town the NPCs will attack 
 it, and when it's killed they come after you. I've also had NPCs attack me in towns for no readily 
 apparent reason. Poor, poor, poor AI. I've seen monsters walk right through walls. NPC allies following 
 the player will get confused, wander away, get stuck on a tree, or just stand around idly during 
 combat. I killed the demon of Gotha with a bow as it just stood around, ignoring me. Teleportation 
 stones are useful for finding your way around, but you have to find them in every town/city you 
 go into, which adds up to mind-numbing searches, since they are stored in obscure locations for 
 the most part. As you can see, the bad outweighs the good. Gothic III has many fine points, and 
 a very compelling game system, but is totally burdened by many bugs and oversights. At first, you'll 
 love this game, but over time you will be too frustrated to continue playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wispluII
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes thigs get harder and harder in a game but what is hard is not the game. Especialy when 
 a people get his nervs on something he tries to get himself a deep breath and continue the game. But 
 when you met this kind of games..... things are changing..... I'm not speaking english too good so 
 don't get hard on me. well where did we... o yea this kind of games... GOTHIC GOTHIC II. This is one 
 of the most rated game in the history of gaming. he somehow remain in the reviews and in the everything 
 else. i didn't say about the therd version cause not even the second version. it has been three parts 
 into one huge end opened history. not even a hole library cold store this series of GOTHIC. but tho 
 of them cold handle it. This is what i have to say i told you it's not a great review but i'l do 
 my best next time. See ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Following up the great success of its prequels and the expansion, The Night of the Raven, developers, 
 Piranha Bytes has a lot of pressure to deal with to make another great game in its successful series. 
 Could they handle the pressure and capitalize on what the fans have been asking for, while adding 
 to the expansive history of their created world? With a new graphics engine with some amazing visuals 
 and an epic musical score, the developers sure try their best. Releasing onto store shelves on 
 November 14th of 2006, a new installment in the Gothic series was born.
  
  The plotline is much like the previous games. Its there, but it truly doesnt carry the game. 
 It pretty much starts off where its prequel left off and youre on boat headed for Myrtana, but 
 once you get there, you find out that all is not as you would have hoped. It seems that the ors 
 have taken over while you were away on the island prison dealing with miners and taking down magical 
 barriers. Like I said before, there is a storyline, but you really arent lead along any linear 
 path towards that ending. And thats been one of the best things about the Gothic series. The developers 
 make it a living breathing world for you to tool around in doing quests at your own leisure, progressing 
 through the storyline how you want. And youll have choices along the way and some of those choices 
 will affect you later on in the game. Such as with whom you side with, the orcs or the humans. 
 Thatll be a large decision for you to make early on because itll depend on how youre received 
 when you walk into settlements around the vast large map.
  
  You wont necessarily get to create your character from scratch like other recently released role-playing 
 games, but in Gothic 3 youll again be playing as the Nameless One looking much the same as you 
 have in the past, but obviously a better graphical interpretation because of the updated graphics 
 engine. You will however be able to customize your character the way you choose with different 
 skills as you gain levels by completing quests and roaming the land killing beasts and this is 
 how you truly define yourself as a hero. Like many role-playing games, there are three types of 
 attacks including melee, ranged, and magical combat. But that doesnt mean that you have to pick 
 one and then stick with it throughout the game. You can advance in an array of skills to make your 
 character the way you choose. Want a raging warrior who hurls immense spells at a moments notice, 
 go ahead. Make any combination you want in this game. The choice of who your character becomes 
 is up to you. The graphics in Gothic 3 are beautiful. Everything from the different NPCs to the 
 environments look superb and realistic. And unlike some other open-ended games, the developers 
 really did well with creating an atmosphere for the player to run around in. From the beginning, 
 youll be able to travel anywhere youd like to, whether its across the sandy dunes of the desert 
 or up in the snowy mountain trails or just running across the open field expanses of Myrtana. Every 
 place in this game, whether its a cave against the edge of a mountain side or a dungeon inside 
 a broken done ancient temple, youll be able to explore it from the start of the game. Will you 
 survive, well, thats another question. The nice thing about Gothic 3 is that there isnt any loading 
 times except the initial load screen at the beginning of the game. As you travel from one end of 
 the huge expanse of land to the other, youll never see a loading screen and this adds quite a 
 bit to the realism. While every time you entered a dungeon in Oblivion you had to sit and wait 
 for a loading screen, Gothic 3 lets you keep playing until you either die or have to load a previous 
 save or just stop playing the game. The sound in the game is quite atmospheric like the graphics. 
 While traveling through the miles of expansive land including dense forests, open plains, snowy 
 mountain tops, or mass amounts of dunes of sand, the environmental music really adds to the experience 
 while you play. Youll hear ravenous wolves, birds chirping, and sometimes, the roar of an orc 
 or human swinging its club at the back of your head. Multiple voice actors were hired during the 
 development process of the game and these voices add quite a bit to the conversations youll be 
 having attaining quests or just chatting with the locals. The overall musical score is epic in 
 the sense that when it plays in the background, youll find yourself unconsciously wanting to achieve 
 greatness with your character whether its through melee, ranged, or magical combat. Like the previous 
 games in the series, there isnt a multiplayer component, but in the role-playing genre, there 
 really doesnt need to be because that just means that the development team is taking time off 
 of creating a wonderful single player experience for the player. With the superb graphics and the 
 ability of never having to see a load screen, there does come some difficulties with the overall 
 engine and its performance for different players and their respective systems. Being first released 
 in Europe, Gothic 3 came to the United States with a patch already installed and another patch 
 to update the game to 1.12 was quickly released to get rid of some of the remaining bugs, but unfortunately, 
 there were a lot of bugs left in the game. Many players have had a lot of problems with the performance 
 of the game with a stuttering issue, and turning the graphics and visual effects down doesnt seem 
 to help at all. Some other complaints would be some of the balancing issues in the game, such as 
 attaining one of the best weapons early on in the game. This would seem to make the gameplay pretty 
 easy, but the combat system restrains the player from being the godly character he strives to 
 be. What I mean by this is the fact that even though you may possess one of the single best weapons 
 in the game early on, youll still probably die easily at the paws of the wolves or boars in the 
 beginning of the game because of how the developers made the combat system. Creating something 
 along the same lines as the previous games in the series and unlike other role-playing games of 
 its time, Gothic 3 has each mouse button provide a different attack for the main character. One 
 being a slash and the other a parry. This at first would seem fun to fool around with in different 
 confrontations, but after taking on a few of the first wildlife animals such as a wolf or a boar, 
 youll soon come to partly hate it. Your hits are based upon a statistical analysis and this will 
 probably screw up your system of overall combat because you believe youre hitting the wolf, when 
 youre actually not and the missed swing, which actually looks like a hit, will leave you open 
 for a nasty strike from the creature and 80% of the time, that strike will knock you down and a 
 few moments after that, unless you pick yourself off the ground and change your strategy, youll 
 be dead. A very frustrating combat style to master, but once you get the hang of it youll come 
 to be a menace to overpower. Like every other game, it just takes time. Overall, Gothic 3 is a 
 success in the image that its a large expansive world to explore with a multitude of quests to 
 attain and complete. The atmosphere presented in the game cant be compared with any other role-playing 
 game at its time of release. A few bugs may dissuade your confidence of the overall game, but if 
 you stick with, youll be presented with a lengthy, fun experience that can be completed different 
 ways each time through. Unfortunately, the developers, in the mists of putting together the next 
 patch (which was rumored at being over a gigabyte in size) , were disbanded, and the rights to the 
 game were taken away, thus making the existence of the patch dead, but no need to worry. Fans from 
 the community have been contacted and given the code for the game to make further patches and some 
 patches have already been released to enhance the overall quality of the game. Time will tell with 
 Gothic 3, whether it will ever achieved a finished state or not, but its up to the fans now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poot101
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually not that bad. Ive been reading some of the review from other people and i 
 was wondering how it would come out. The game is fun to play but you need a pretty good computer 
 to run it with the beautiful graphics. Yes there are some laggy moments and the enemies get this 
 burst of power which you can not even land a single blow on them, but if you played the gothic 
 series and you would love to see what the nameless hero is up to now, its worth buying and putting 
 up with the laggy gameplay and the glitches that are in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdullen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Since games like Chrono Trigger, The Legend Of Zelda et cetera, the developers of great classics 
 of true RPG games seems to be losing the inspiration. Of course, a few exceptions. But in a small 
 HQ somewhere in Germany, a group of developers bring to the world the return of a era with the 
 so called Gothic games. The Gothic series of games is for true RPG gamers that are feeling abandoned 
 in that segment. What you can expect in this games is the return of fun, great songs and/or themes, 
 deep interaction between player/game and aspects that only the era of Snes could bring for us all. 
 Bugs? Yes, there's a lot. But even so the game is unique. Don't you understand? Hey dudes, how 
 a game with lots of bugs and lags (even in the high machines) can even bring a extraordinary experience 
 to the gamer? The first two games don't even had a great graphic engine, but rocks in the same 
 way. If you still play SNES games today, Gothic series is for you to buy and keep in a safekeeper! 
 As always, the patchs are extremely recommended for all the 3 games. Let's game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that my CPU is an AMD 2000 w/ 768MB RAM and a 256MB Graphics card. So yes 
 I have to endure the all white seisure friendly screen shots from time to time and yes the game 
 slows down a lot. That said I don't care I am still giving this a perfect score since this is one 
 of the best games I've played in a long time and I am a fan of the series. The music is awesome, 
 the graphics are awesome, the story line is awesome, and everything else I can't think of right 
 now is awesome. So to sum everything up this game is awesome in every way and even though I have 
 to deal with the performance issues I am still hooked.
  
  Update. I've beaten this game now and am adjusting my review. After going out and getting a new 
 computer I was dissapointed that the makers of this game said it isn't Vista compatible. I eventually 
 got it to work by finding my old saved games and moving them to the new system and loading them 
 but even with a new system that satisfied the recommended requirements for this game it was still 
 buggy. The white screen still flashed and the blacksmith from Nordmar wasn't even there. So bottom 
 line i'm still recommending this game but beware if you have Vista and hopefully next time these 
 guys will spend more time on testing their software before they release it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranthon007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why so many people are having problems with this game. I have played 40+ hours without 
 a single crash (v1.09 patched) (X2 4400 GeForce 7800 GTS OC AGP with 2GB RAM and an X-Fi sound 
 card) . The game play is way better than Oblivion and the actual design of the landscapes makes 
 Bethesda's look amateurish. Sure the graphics aren't as good but i will take substance over visuals 
 any day. Unlike Oblivion which has a crappy economic system and uninspired magical items, Gothic 
 3 delivers a good RPG experience (almost as good as NWN2- and in some ways better) . It has some 
 problems with the design (controls, not being able to pause time to take potions during a fight, 
 a mediocre journal system and the inability to make notes on the map, a so-so inventory system- 
 COME ON give us a graphic of our character to see what gear we have on- inventory slots would have 
 been nice) . Despite these flaws it is much more of a challenge than Oblivion (in which combat is 
 WAY too easy and boring) . Overall Gothic 3 offers the most interesting and challening experience 
 since Baldur's Gate II and Arcanum) . My advise, if you have a craptastic system with weak specs 
 don't bother your system will probably crash- get Gothic 2 a great game as well. But if you have 
 a decent gaming rig and like D&amp; D style game play Gothic 3 is it! I like it simply because it 
 was not designed for a console (hence Oblivion's stupid inventory and maping) , but for true PC 
 gaming. I hope they make a fourth. Final note: there are some glitches in the game's graphics and 
 AI. But find me a game without them. I can think of none, especially for those that are so big. 
 Both NWN games had them but I never read nearly as many complaints as there were about this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogswarts
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game and loved it right from the start. So what is so good about this game, 
 well, if you have a good enough graphics card then you can easily run this game to make it look 
 amazing because the shadows are simply just really dynamic and without them the game just seems 
 sort of strange and less realistic. Now the music seems to sound like something out of a Lord of 
 the Rings movie because I haven't heard that good of music in a game for a long. The fighting system 
 is not the best but if you get to a high enough level it can work really well so that is sort of 
 so so. If people say Oh the game lags for twenty minutes every five or ten feet then they must 
 have an extremely bad computer because I'm running it with three gig's of RAM and it lags aka loads 
 in this game for about 5 seconds then I'm back on my journey, but even that doesn't happen to often. 
 Now if you are going to compare this game with Oblivion all I have to say is DON'T! I have Oblivion 
 and I have played both to compare and they are totally different the only thing that is about the 
 same is the time period but that is pretty much it. Now for the bad things, I've counted and have 
 come up with only three bugs that could really impact the outcome of the game and they are. One, 
 the game failed to load a certain part of the map and I look from a safe distance away only to 
 see some slaves carrying rocks up a hill to fall through the hill and die because it didn't load 
 and to fix that was just to load my saved game and that hasn't happened since. Second, I was walking 
 around one of the many towns in the game and I saw a mercenary clip through the ground walk through 
 the map and then he came out another part of the ground. Third I was completing a quest with a 
 paladin when he started walking around in circles constantly around a rock and the only way i could 
 get him to stop was by hitting him and making him follow me to finish the quest then he went back 
 with me to a rebel camp. And all this was with the latest patch. So in conclusion I'd have to say 
 if you have a good enough computer, ready for a challenge, and patience this is the game for you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game it was so filled with bugs it was hard to look away from it, but when 
 the first patches came along it became alittle better but still alot that should be changed.
  
  Pros: -Graphic tend to look decent -its a big game, alot of free roaming to be had, aswell 
 as quests.
  
  -HUUUUGE Bag capacity to store things, its endless (you can basically have all items in the game 
 in your bag at once)
  
  -Some fun elements spread into it
  
  -Nice soundtrack Cons:
  
  -Massive amount of technical issues, bugs, and glitches.
  
  -Horrible voice Acting
  
 
  -The Story was least engaging
  
  -Basic, kill X amount of that, and Fetch X amount of that, quests
  
  -Boring Combat system
 
  
  -Not great sound effects -Spells and other things you can learn, are quite boring.
  
  in conclusion, not a bad game, i liked it alot in the beginning and played it for some time, despite 
 the technical problems and bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 19, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  This could be a great game to play if it didn't have all the errors and flaws in it.
  Let me break it down for you.
  
  Pros:
  Graphics are very detailed
  Many weapons, armour, 
 and spells
  Open world for you to explore
  Many quests
  
  Cons:
  I found the quests mainly fetch or kill (very tiring)
  Many Glitches
  Bad Combat System
  
 You die when you fall off of short cliffs or buildings
  When you die you need to load from a previous save slot
  (Saving isn't Automatic)
  
  So overall 
 this is a really really bad game. Graphics are good everything else is a total waste of time due 
 to numerous errors and flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biguglyguy
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 15, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I personally like the game and once they come out with a good patch to fix most of the bugs I think 
 that my rating will go up, the gameplay is great; I love the combat system and how much you can 
 customize your skills. The number one thing that hurts this score is the glitches and bugs. If 
 you save a lot and dont mind a few bugs I would say this game is great. I would say this is a 
 must have, once they patch it more.
  
  Minors: Messing up the screen, can't see what you write on consol, you just see white or red squares, 
 when crawling around you might get up some framerate counter and several other programs which is 
 squared out, sometimes the landscapes just dissapear if you walk on it you just messed it up more, 
 sometimes when turning around it is 10x times more sensitive, and a few others
  
  Glitches: there is a waterfall in the game where you can do a jump, land in the middle and end 
 up on top, you can alse jump on mountain sides and jump up.
  
  Majors: crash bugs lots and lots of crash bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miyagidaniel
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  One of the most gripping first-person RPG I have ever played; interesting player building system 
 and amazing storyline quest system to subtly allow the player's moral character to shine through 
 the quiet, private deeds of the player. Really amazing graphics and sound but A. I. bugs, glitchy 
 RAM-overflow, massive memory leaks and the semi-retarded pathing system makes the game a drag at 
 times.
  
  Overall, great game, IF you had the system and the maturity to see it through. Definitely not for 
 people that thinks simple button pushing can allow one's alter-ego to kill something as simple 
 as a rabbit or as complicated as an ogre. Skill is definitely needed to survive in G3.
  
  Recommended sys spec, cpu within 1 yr of 2007, vid card of at least 256mb, ram of 2GB is almost 
 a necessity, HD space and other specs are minimal in effect to the game.
  
  Requires maturity and patience, be warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 2, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  First i'm just gonna start on the technical issues that i've found:
  
  When i first installed the game i was pretty much amazed of the graphics and not lagging or any 
 kind. But i was actually met with a blow which countered that reaction, i met glitches and bugs 
 which they haven't fixed yet. I found out on some mountains you can just climb up and get passed 
 a wall easy enough. The combat is VERY repetetive when you know the combat, i met SEVERAL bugs
 
  
  Minors: Messing up the screen, can't see what you write on consol thing, you just see white or 
 red squares, when crawling around you might get up some framerate counter and several other programs 
 which is squared out, sometimes the landscapes just dissapear if you walk on it you just messed 
 it up more, sometimes when turning around it is 10x times more sensitive
  i'm pretty much sure i found more.. can't remember them.
  
  Glitches: there is a waterfall in 
 the game where you can do a jump, land in the middle and end up on top, you can alse jump on mountain 
 sides and jump up.
  
  Majors: crash bugs... yes that's right bugS... many.
  
  As i said, the battles are very repetetive, block and attack, block and attack. Pretty much the 
 same all the time!
  
  Before the real review starts i need to say the difficulty kinda movies around and can't decide 
 how easy or hard the game should game.
  
  But aside from all that, if you can remove all those bugs and other problems (pray to God for that) 
 you can actually see the graphics of the landscapes are what you can say Beautiful, when you see 
 a tree far away then you can really see how really great the graphic engine is when you see what 
 it IS designed for. Incredible immensive world, you can travel far wide around that area and see 
 new stuff wherever you go! I've been to every town and look around there and discover a new town. 
 However in the desert you can get lost.... which i'm pretty sure the developers are saying WE TOOK 
 OUR TIME IN THIS GAME AND THIS IS OUR REVENGE! yea, it's a joke :P
  
  anyways. I recommend first you borrow this first then see if you like it.
  
  PS: if you see 
 a troll, run, see 2 trolls run your ass off, see 3 trolls you run even faster while hoping for 
 help is coming. See 3 trolls holding hands while running away, teleport away and pretend you never 
 saw it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunRaq
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I have to say i had my expectations high for this game, but after a few hours palay i can tell 
 there are better rpgs out there...
  Visually- quite good Gameplay- Could say its quite a lot of efort to gain cash for items, so you&acute; ll 
 be disapointed if you think its easy to get the shiny new armor or weapon. Liked a lot the hunting 
 experience...
  Sound- Not very interesting
  
  Overall- it can be entertayning, but there are other games sooo much better out there... your time 
 could be better spent, but fell free to try it, just for a bit... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drako45
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  This has got to we one of the most irritating games I've ever played. It had so many bugs in it 
 that it was difficult to play for very long at all. I figured it would play like The Elder Scrolls 
 IV Oblivion, it did not concerning graphics and performance. The one thing that is likable about 
 it is the gameplay, how your character interacted with other characters and objects within the 
 world, such as when dialog starts your character actually speaks. Another attractive thing about 
 it was how your character learns his skills from trainers instead of just going to sleep and then 
 oh I learned something. This would be a great game to play, but the bugs and crashes this game 
 constantly gives are a pain in the butt, which is really irritating because I would love to play 
 it without the bugs. Sigh.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Gothic III.
  
  Now i have never played the previous titles so i can't review this game on the basis of its gaming 
 series. However i have had this game for about 5 months now and have uninstalled it twice and re-installed 
 it 3 times now. Heres why:
  
  ----------------------------
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay in Gothic III is basically kind of a mix between Oblivion and Diablo when you think about 
 it.... its not exactly like those two i mentioned however its still simular in the sense where you 
 bash a button to attack or another one to block. Nothing wrong with it to be honest.
  
  Basically, your main objectives seem to be: Who do you side with? - The Rebels or Orcs... or maybe 
 both? Once you make your decision you then do various quests to either free towns or enforce slavery 
 on them basically. Other quests are standard in RPG games like Kill 10 Monsters etc.
  
  Now heres the bit which kills this game flat on its back. Its game engine. Its built in a way where 
 it trys to load the ENTIRE map. So basically the only advantage of this is that you can see for 
 miles upon miles and think hmm, wonder whats over there . Other than that, theres a massive consequence.
 
  
  The engine therefore feels bugged and even if you have a computer like mine:
  
  Pentrium 4 3.4GHZ Quadro
  Radeon X1900 XTX
  4GB of RAM
  400GB HDD 7200rpm
  
  Your computer 
 will STILL load this games enviroment at a sluggish rate. Its quite terrible actually how bad the 
 game engine is. It just basically slows you down and or crashs your computer. For example, my gam 
 enever randomly crashed, but crashed everytime after 4 hours of gameplay and i tried to quicksave, 
 therefore corrupting that quicksave and losing 4 hours of work.
  
  ----------------------
  Graphics:
  
  Very nice enviroments, terrible looking character design. 
 Humans look like neandethals dressed up for a panto, or from a freaky Russian clay animation film 
 from the early to mid 90s.
  
  -----------------------
  Sound:
  
  Heres where the game wins! Kai Rosenkranz composed one of the most original and oustanding pieces 
 of music and orchestration to date. The music is thematic and gets you really into the game.
  
  I rarely buy soundtracks, however i bought the one for this game. It tottaly beats games like 
 Oblivion or anything Jeremy Seoule created hands down.
  
  The annoying aspect is the general voice acting. Orcs are all done by one guy obviously, and the 
 human voice acting ranges from Hey, i'm weirdly coming on to you whilst i'm telling you this questial 
 story of slaying some orcs for me for 500 gold .
  
  Also your death wail when you die is SO annoying:  - 
 Christ, i know your dying but quit complaining already!!!
  
  -------------------------
  Value:
  
  Basically i'm guessing this game is going by a formula which was established in the 
 previous Gothic III games. I have to say it is an healthy alternative to Oblivion since it requires 
 you to actually level up to kill more monsters.... your not instantly god at level 1.
  
  However the badly crafted game engine and terrible quick save bugs will quickly put you off this 
 game or want to like i did uninstall the game out of frustration.
  
  The music is excellent and brings alot of depth into the already beautiful looking enviroment however 
 the character design is much to be desired.
  
  Overall an ok game, its not terrible at all, its just marred by its over ambitiousness which is 
 reflected in its game engine, and even the patchs can't help you with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandosu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Following the footsteps of its two great ancestors, but with new features, gothic 3 offers a great 
 experience of rp-gaming. The main plot is quite open-ended. You can be a rebel as in the first game, 
 or follow the path of the chosen one as in the second. Unfortunately, because of this open-endness 
 the plot loses focus. But the game makes up for it with the hundred sub-quest and the fact that 
 you can choose sides in the game. There are four factions for you to join (orcs vs human, nomads vs 
 hassishi ,their interest conflict, so you must choose between them) . The world is full of details, 
 the monsters look great. If you want to see the 100% of the game, its going to take more than a 
 100 hours, and the game doesn't become boring. It may require for you to be a die-hard fan though. The 
 music helps a lot in that part.
  But a well made world for you to engorge in is worthless, if the combat system sucks. Personally 
 i liked the combat in Gothic 2 much more, but after the latest patch it is satisfying. It is mainly 
 like in an action game, lock on target, move to dodge attacks and strike when the enemy is open. It 
 is certainly more complicated than in oblivion, but you cannot be as strategic as in gothic 2.
 
  The graphics are great, especially the way the horizon looks. But here comes the great problem 
 of the game, irrational requirements. It is a pity that Piranha Bytes has so few programmers. They 
 didn't have the time to make the game machine smooth for the release of the game, so we must be 
 understanding to the problems of small developers. And this is the same reason for the second problem 
 of the game, bugs in the quests. They damage the experience of the game, to the point someone might 
 just quit playing.
  Fortunately the latest patch (1.12) seems to fix a lot, so give it a try. If it weren't for these 
 two problems the game would have been a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics In Gothic III are amazing, it is far more beautifull than The Elder Scrolls IV - Oblivion, 
 the world its incredibly big and you will never have the felling This place looks like the other 
 I passed 2 hours ago , its a very well done world with big mountains, beautifull caves, beautifull 
 cities and castles, amazing waterfalls and rivers. The water details its the most beautifull I 
 have ever seen in any platform, the overrall textures in the game are simply perfect.
  And guess what? All this without any loads, yes, thats it... Gothic III has no loadings at all, 
 you can go where you want in this gigantic world without 1 loading.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gothic III its made of simple but effective gameplay, you can block with your shield, you have 
 2 atacks, the first one is the normal atack that allows you to deal considerable damage but can 
 only be used at short distance, you can also press the button for some time and realease it, your 
 hero will than make a strong atack, the second atack its for a longer distance but it is not powerfull 
 as the 1st one.
  The running, spring, walk system its simple and familiar so players will have no trouble.
  You 
 can do almost everything and interact with almost everything in the game, you can even cook some 
 meat or other thing in a fireplace.
  
  Sound:
  
  This is a very strong element in Gothic III, the soundtrack its awsome and immersive, when you 
 enter some places the soundtrack will change so you can know where you are, for example: when you 
 reach Nordmar (In the northlands) the soundtrack will change for some classic nordic music, You 
 will instantly feel like I'm in the north .
  The voice acting its not bad but could have been much better than it his, but, unfortunetly the 
 animations while the characters are talking are repetitive and somehow bad.
  The special effects are OK but nothing like you have never seen.
  
  Lifetime:
  
  Gothic 
 III has hundreds of quests, all of them are ratter interesting, the main quest is a nice story 
 too.
  The country is rulled by the orcs and the humans are slaves, so you must free the country, the 
 orcs seems to the in command of a wizard name Xardas (you remember I'm from Gothic II for sure) .
 
  You will perform many side quests to progress in the main quest but there are lots of other side 
 quests that you don't need to do, so, depending of the way you play the game it can have a lifetime 
 of 60 to 120 hours of gameplay (You may also want to replay the game) .
  
  Performance:
  
  This is a big problem of Gothic III, if you want to play Gothic III has it was meant to be 
 played than you better start upgrading your PC right now.
  Only a top PC will make this work smooth with all high definitions.
  I can give you an example:
 
  My system its the following:
  Intel Pentium D930 4MB cache
  2 gigs of Ram DDR 2 Gskill
  XFX Geforce 7900GTX
  Motherboard ASUS P5ND2-SLI
  Maxtor Diamond Max 250GB + Maxtor Diamond 
 Max 120GB.
  So with this hardware I play games like The Elder Scrolls IV - Oblivion with no problems at all, 
 but, the same does not happen with Gothic III.
  The First 10 min of play it runs with low fps, after some time the game just gets normal and I 
 am able to play the game normally at a decent constant framrate, the details are all maxed up with 
 AF at 8x.
  People found the game almost unplayable in graphic cards like 6600GT.
  Even the 7950 has gets down to its knees while running Gothic III, so you really need a great PC 
 to play Gothic III, but bellieve me, its worth it.
  If you have the minimum specs to play the game, don't play it cause it will be almost impossible 
 to play and the graphics will be very poor since the minimum details of the game are really poor.
 
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Gothic III could have been a classic if the game was released 2-3 months later, but they released 
 it earlier and the game came with some bugs like trespassing walls and quests that are impossible 
 to finish.
  The game could have had better performance if realeased 2-3 months later, but the game was released 
 and now there is nothing that they can do besides the patchs of course, but patchs do not correct 
 everything.
  So Gothic III had everything to be a classic, excelent graphics, nice storyline, excelent soundtrack 
 and so on... But unfortunetly Gothic III failed to reach the classic stage due to bugs and unfinished 
 things.
  I hope the Gothic team will realise the releasing a game before it is truly complete is a huge 
 error.
  I wanted to rate the game a 10 but i need to rate it a 8,4 due to its problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bac_Alexander
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Patch the game to latest patch first (1.12) . There are still some bugs, but the game is playable.
 
  
  In Gothic 3 the nameless hero once again has a big adventure ahead of him. After completing his 
 adventure in Gothic 2 he arrives to Myrtana to find out that orcs have won the war and enslaved 
 the humans. This time the hero/player has to decide which pass to take. The player can choose to 
 fight for one side or the others, orc, rebels or Hashishins. Player can fight everyone if he/she 
 wants to and all of the NPCs can be killed. There is a lot of territory to explore in gothic 3. 
 The game has great graphics but there are some problems with sound. It is amazing what a team of 
 20 people has done. Gothic 3 provides a huge land to explore and it is filled with quests, and 
 most of them are side quests. There are a lot of different creatures to fight. How you do the quests 
 and kill the creatures is your choice. There are usually 2 ways to do a quests, for one side or 
 the other. The player has different fighting styles and weapons that can be used. Single handed 
 sword, double handed, shield and a sword, long weapons, crossbows, bows and magic. Gothic 3 heavily 
 favors the long weapons especially the halberd (the longest weapon) especially against the creatures. 
 The fighting system is not your average in RPGs and it can get bit frustrating at times as it takes 
 more than just button smashing, also involves some maneuvering and different attacks. You can fight 
 up to 10+ enemies at once. To get around the land faster you can find teleporter stones to a city 
 or camp. Gothic 3 has a unique level up system, first you need to get enough xp (by killing and 
 doing quests) than you receive 10 learning points. When you got your learning points you need to 
 find an NPC or a god shrines that can teach/increase you what you want (skills or just increase 
 your health, strength, learn magic and etc) . To use the different fighting styles mentioned above 
 first player needs to learn that skill (use heavy weapons level 1) . You can find some characters 
 from previous Gothic games, they and some other NPC can follow you into battle.
  
  Graphically this game is game is impressive, Gothic 3 has a nice and unique graphics style that 
 has stayed since the first gothic game. You will explore different landscapes: snowy mountains, 
 green plains and the desert. If you want to enjoy the full graphics than you need a good computer, 
 if you were able to run Oblivion than you can run this game.
  I though there are few problems with the sound, personally I thought that there is not enough voice 
 acting but I think like that after playing Oblivion. When you finish the quests you can no longer 
 talk to NPCs, and even after you do something good for them all you get from NPCs is Dont you 
 have something better to do?. Still Gothic 3 has a lot of voice acting. There are some sounds 
 and voice acting missing and some voice acting is bad, one reason is that English was not the original 
 language of the game. The game does come with good and enjoyable music.
  
  Gothic 2 vs Gothic 3? Personally I enjoyed Gothic 2 more. It had a better story, unique quests 
 and did not feel repetitive like Gothic 3. The fighting system was harder but more interesting 
 and understandable. Of course Gothic 3 is bigger, has better graphics and physics but that is not 
 all the game needs. If you enjoyed Gothic 2 than you probably will enjoy Gothic 3. Gothic 3 is 
 a great adventure/RPG, It is very impressive with great graphics but it still requires some improvement 
 Gothic 3 needs another patch and preferable an expansion pack to improve different areas of the 
 game. Nevertheless the game is good and enjoyable. There is a demo but be warned that it has problems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronzeman77
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is definitely my least favourite of the series. Firstly, there are the well-known performance 
 issues, even with good up-to-date systems. Secondly, its quite buggy, even after two patches. Thirdly, 
 and this for me is the real downer - the combat system. Believe me, it is a disaster. Fighting 
 can work out one of two ways - either the enemies stunlock you constantly until you die, or you 
 kill the enemy simply by spamming the right mouse button constantly, without any real need for 
 strategy or tactics. This actually seems to be quite effective, and i've managed to kill far superior 
 enemies this way. It feels shallow and empty, unlike the combat in the first Gothic, where you 
 needed to think and you felt like you were really swinging those weapons, and every move was important. 
 Also gone is the fear factor. I remember, as a low level, creeping through the words in Gothic 
 1, and feeling terrified when stumbling across shadowbeasts and wolves. The enemies in G3 just 
 don't seem as scary anymore.
  
  However, in praise of G3, it is a big game with lots of places to explore, and the graphics and 
 environments are really beautiful, and you will feel impressed when you reach the top of a mountain 
 and see the fantastic view for miles and miles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etheven
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is one of the few games that really has a consistent world. You can feel the live of the 
 world goes around the orc invasion. Your actions have consecuences. If you go against orcs, the 
 orcs hate you and you can't access to their quest or if you go agains rebels there's no chance 
 to enter to their camps without being attacked. The combat system is not perfect but it's entertaining 
 enough. The story is interesting and there's a bunch of secondary missions to complete, most of 
 them are to define to which side do you want to join. When you play Gothic you relley feel the 
 inmersion in a live world that changes with your acts.
  
  The worst part of Gothic 3 is the thecnical part. I think this games has a lack of 2 moths of testing 
 to correct bugs and to improve the performace. I have to disable a lot of details to play it fluently. 
 If I compare this to Oblivion this second one can look much better with more options activated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of bugs in this game, so looks like have to get patches now and then. This game 
 is good but not the best. And if you want to play this game smoothly you have to buy a super computer 
 ( RAM should be at least 2 GB) . Without a good processor and large RAM useless to play the game.
 
  Because frame rate is a big problem in this game if your pc is not SUPER enough. Frame rate can 
 be reduce intto very low and you are going to feel that most of the time with a low capacity RAM.
 
  
  For game play it has no quick way to travel from one location to another like in Oblivion ( Or 
 you have to find teleporter stones which are in the various places in the game ) . So some times 
 in becomes really boring walking in the same path over and over again. So for me that's a big minus 
 point.
  
  But one of the good points in this game play is the different endings. Unlike the Oblivion this 
 game has three different endings ( Which should be in a role-playing game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenma25
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Awsome game! Beautiful graphics and visuals. Yes, it takes a highend computer to run, but so does 
 oblivion. In my oppinion gothic 3 (with the latest patch) runns way smoother then tes oblivion 
 does. Gothic 3 does not have as huge world as oblivion, but it is much more detailed and much more 
 variated. I would not reccomend full textures with anything less then 2gb system memory. If you 
 got Win Vista, readyboost can increase performance alot. The use of memory is easily explained 
 when you see all the different textures everywere. for not mentioning NO INGAME LOADING! If you 
 liked oblivion try, then buy this game! Demo version takes a few hours to complete and offers great 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Beautiful looking env, good storyline, AAAAARGHHH-factor gameplay...
  god, Ive never torn my hair out in a game as frequently as I did in this!!!!!!
  
  This is waaaaaaaayyy 
 too buggy, seems pirahna bytes wanted to come out with it without testing even basics of gameplay..
 
  heres a MAMMOTH LIST of gripes that I'm positive EVERYONE will face..
  
  1) SideKick AI : AAARGH-factor 100 times over.... god knows I wanted to SLAUGHTER every sidekick 
 everytime their stupid pathfinding took them over-the-hils-and-far-away from me.. Ive spent a good 
 10-20 hours looking for the idiot sidekick who got stuck on a crag or simply decided a 2 foot jump 
 isn't worth it and took a long-cut all over myrtanna to find me.... DESPITE The fact I'm standing 
 3 feet from him... Ive saved the game once too many often to find the @#$@$# has disappeared... sheesh... If 
 they weren't useful as cannon fodder.. I swear to god I would've done some serious harm
  
  2) Cave battles : More often than not, u'd find yourself praying to god to strike down the developers 
 who created the cave environments.... my sidekick (no surprises there) , on MOST occassions seem to 
 disappear into the cave walls, and most of the times, the enemy NPC's seem to just vanish into 
 the walls without a sign... I had to fight Angir 3 times because the mofo tended to disappear without 
 a trace..... many times the sidekick even refuses to enter into the cave, and I would have to do 
 hug-and-push to slowly force him in...
  
  3) Additional NPC-SideKick : NO - NEVER-NADA!!! Never try to take ur constant sidekick and quest 
 sidekick together.. they'll usually kill EACH OTHER even when being rained by blows by NPCs... I've 
 had to do countless quests again because the mofo's couldn't understand the difference between 
 ENEMY and ALLY!!!! What the HELL were the developers thinking???? Once a new sidekick joins, he 
 should become integrated into the ALLY framework.. but it seems he's still treated as a random NPC 
 who can be slaugtered, hence , if u rain an accidental blow in a heated fight.. he'll start attacking 
 u, and (unlike Oblivion) u cannot ask him to stand down!!!! Kill him and quest failed!!!!!!
  
  4) Environment : BEWARE, if you're standing on a 10 foot high crag... the baddies can kill you 
 by merging into the rock and killing you from INSIDE the Rock!!! Ok, some magical beings COULD 
 do that, but a friggin' wolf???
  Yup, it seems wolves, bisons, rhinos have this ability in G3!!!!! I've had one rhino chase me through 
 an entire friggin' mountain!!!
  
  5) Game Crashes : Not kidding - over 35 game crashes in 50 hours!!!! Many times if you try to overlap 
 quests (happens) the game doesn't seem to understand for which quest to award XP - CRASH!!!!!!
 
  
  6) switching between melee and magic !!!! No can do!! use the friggin' inventory (which is live 
 during combat btw) ... if you suddenly want to change ur spell (since there are only 10 quick slots) , 
 open the inv... the mob starts attacking, and hopefully before you DIE, u manage to get to the new 
 spell, and unleash... but this takes way too long... i can appreciate the developers trying to give 
 a Reality touch... heck in the real world if you're fighting, the whole world won't PAUSE if u open 
 ur inv.. but WHAT THE HELL!!! This ain't real... if you wanted to keep it real time, give a quick 
 toggle or at least MORE THAN ONE QUICK SLOT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: practicekid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time i play gothic rpg, well... i'm a bit surprised when i saw the minimum requirement 
 that it needs at least 1 gb ram just to play the game. I can't barely play it because of the lag 
 and long loading time. Well.... gotta buy a new memory i think, and now i can get it quite good 
 even though i still get some low fps when i get into a city. The game was so awesome, i'm having 
 difficulty when i must face some wolves and other wilderness beast, but that's before i had some 
 guide about playing this game and it helps me alot about fighting style in gothic.
  Well, got some bugs here and there though but that's fine with me as long as it didn't ruined the 
 game it self or my save game :D
  
  gothic 3, you rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonfaith
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Where to begin? I know. This game sucks. That is a good place to start. It holds so much promise 
 in the beginning that it just sucks you right in. Your first clue is in the opening cut scene when 
 hordes of orcs are attacking the city. That seems fine but then why are they all just standing 
 around? You quickly dismiss this little detail and finish watching the movie where your character 
 is introduced on a ship. Your character then leaves the ship and is suddenly in front of a besieged 
 city. This is where the games starts to kinda suck. The game makers decided that the best way to 
 teach you the combat system is to drop you right into the middle of a battle. I don't know about 
 you but the hint windows didn't give me enough info to keep me from killing not only a bunch of 
 orcs but also a few slaves too. That's okay apparently because the game doesn't penalize you..... yet. 
 You meet some very hollow NPC characters then your off into the world. This is where I was killed 
 by my very first pack of wolves. Fun facts about wolves in Gothic 3:
  1. They will kill you repeatedly.
  2. They are the hardest enemies in Gothic 3.
  3. They do 
 this really fast stun-attack that leaves you unable to defend yourself.
  4. Packs of them attack you all at once.
  
  But they are not the only enemy that do this. All 
 the non-humanoid races in Gothic 3 have the potential to stun-attack you to death. The exception 
 is the humanoid races because they will take turns attacking you so that you can kill them hundreds 
 at a time. This so grossly out of balance that you will be loading saved games repeatedly just 
 to advance in the game. Which would be fine if it didn't take forever to load games. That and the 
 fact there are numerous bugs that effect saved games and loading. You may find your games is suddenly 
 not loading. I would also like to point out that when this game is installing the developers make 
 place a banner expounding on how they worked so hard to make Gothic 3 a problem free experience. 
 WORK HARDER.
  
  Other notable game bugs:
  
  1. Flashing white screen.
  2. Everything turns into boxes.
  3. Horrible lag time.
  4. Falls off the top of mountains DON'T 
 kill you.
  5. Sudden screen freezes.
  6. Game crashes.
  
  All of which make this game too buggy to ultimately enjoy. Unless your one of the many reviewers 
 who gave this a score above 8.0. All I can say is that you must be sadists with very fast computers. 
 In closing. Skip this title. There are much better games out there than this to waste your time 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathfuryz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  i got this game for my birthday and i'v been playing it since. it is way better than oblivion (in 
 my opinion) its more realistic and has more variety in dungeons, city's, and landscapes. plus no 
 loading times :) your actions impact what happens in the game and the world is HUGE i now i will 
 be playing this one for a long time. its a very cool game even though i haven't beaten it yet. 
 and for 30-40$ i say its worth the money. and its not as buggy as people say it is its graphics 
 may not be as good as oblivions but there good but the voice overs are bad. so if you're a hard-core 
 rpg fan you should pick this game up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_elwick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Well i agree with some of the earlier player reviews on this game, i first played the demo of this 
 game and thought it was awsome!!!! but the demo did nto run very well on my pc although i have 
 a high spec one ( core 2 duo cpu, 2 gig of ddr2 memory, nvidia 6800 graphics card, 120 gig hard 
 drive ect....) .
  I presumed that this was only the case because it was a demo like in so many other occasions but 
 i was so wrong!!!!!! the game chopps and pauses and becomes such a pain in the rear!! i have added 
 a couple of patches that have eased it a little but it still struggles along and i actually think 
 it's rediculous that a software company can release a game with so many faults!!!
  Its a mighty big shame because i think that if this was nto the case, it would be one of the best 
 games out there!!! it looks amazing, very good music, the gameplay is very open and the ai is very 
 good!! unless you have a high spec pc, then i would nto bother at the moment until they patch it 
 up to work alot better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josep2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphically, this is a beautiful game with a tremendous amount of detail. However there are some 
 graphical issues such as various items floating in the air , most noticeable in the desert region. 
 Characters passing through walls. Once I got knocked half way through to become stuck. Didn't know 
 control/F8 would free me so had to reboot. In one instance a NPC, instead of sitting on a bench 
 was sitting in the wall behind the bench. Combat is a pain w/ your enemy constantly backing away 
 till you corner them. Be careful w/ wolves downhill from you as you will swing over them and they 
 will eat your lunch. A crossbow works good. I had to spend the first three days tweeking the ini 
 and data files to get the performance up. I eventually got it to ~40 frs in the country and ~20+ 
 frs in the cities. Really shouldn't have to play w/ the game so much to get it funning good. The 
 biggest problem I have had was a screen freeze that would occur either once to three times in an 
 hour session or not at all. There is no too much more aggravating to fighting a horde of orcs, 
 knowing your about to be victorious when everything freezes, neccesitating a reboot. Having said 
 all this this is a very good game. I enjoyed the hell out of playing it for the last two and a 
 half months. It a game whose deatail inspires to to say the hell w/ the quests, lets see what a 
 the end of this valley or at the top of this mountain. It was fun and in the end, that's what makes 
 for a good game
  
  CORRECTION: 03/07/07, Screen freezes were not Gothic 3's fault.. Having same problem w/ Oblivion. 
 Appears to be heat related. Still troubleshooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth__666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay, here is the thing, Gothic 3 is awesome, well, almost awesome. The game is fun and if and 
 it looks amazing, like Oblivion amazing. The sound is every better. The game play is nice, and 
 the quests are fun to do and when you do complete it, you feel like you did something great. Now, 
 those are the good, here are the bad.
  Gothic 3 is full of bugs, I mean full of it. Even with the game patched, it still runs like ****, 
 even on a top of the line rig. I mean it doesnt matter if you have 2 gigs of ram, a 8800, the game 
 is just full of bugs. The game will freeze on you for no reason at times, so save often. Also, 
 load times are way to long, same for when you save. It took me about 4-5 minutes to start the game 
 when I clicked on the icon on my desktop until the game actually started, then it lagged, and lagged 
 some more, then I played it for a bit, and then it lagged more.
  Gothic 3 is a solid RPG at heart, it really is. However, way to many bugs. I was lucky, I picked 
 the game up online for $20, so I think I got my monies worth. If I were to pay $40 or $50 for it 
 and got this performance, I would be upset. Again, Gothic 3 would have been in Oblivions league, 
 if it werent for the bugs. So, if you have patience and are willing to deal with all the BS for 
 a solid game, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xitarus-Kol
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  IF you are able to Run it !! then you will find it is an amazing game with lots and lots of Fun 
 in a big Map and what is most important .. youll see the diference from place to place like being 
 in a complete new planet.. that will make you not get bored like Ob... Which in my point of view 
 its always the same and the same
  
  so if you can run it maybe if u have any windows 32 then im almost sure youll be able to run it.
 
  
  and if the game is broke for you.. then try to find the way to fix it .. cause its a Great Awsome 
 game !!
  
  of course i hope Gothic3 piranha or whoever is the owner .. needs to take out a patch or a fix 
 or something to make players with 64 able to play it
  
  i think thats the most important think they should work on
  
  i gave it a instant classic once 
 you can play it you'll find my words are truth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Emperor
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  That which I loved about Gothic II, is mostly here as well: The tons of fun quests, the absolutely 
 stunning environments, the compelling storyline.... But the problem lies not there.
  
  The new environments found surpass the former, and the graphics engine makes them just breathtaking 
 at sometimes. All is not good about the graphics though. Since it's poorly optimised, it sucks 
 the life out of most good computers, and even so, it does look rather bad at times. The soundtrack 
 is fantastic, but it falls flat because of the unforgivable programming. For instance it sometimes 
 lets two different tracks play simultaneously. The sound itself is never disappointing, but the 
 way it is integrated with the gameplay drags it down i considerable bit, and speaking of the music, 
 it really ruins something beautiful.
  
  As for the gameplay, the part that actually makes a game what it is, it's definitely not what it 
 could have been. At times it fells really funny, but it can also feel as though you don't have 
 anything interesting to do, as the story takes you to different new places if you go with it but 
 it does a lousy job making you want to go with it, and even when you do, the quests you do become 
 out of context. The leveling system is pretty much what it was in the earlier games; nothing good, 
 but nothing bad either.
  
  None of these things, however, are the reason the game is wildly unsatisfying. It is due to programming. 
 Programming that's so poorly done that it takes the fun out of fighting, ruins your frame-rate 
 for nothing and drives you insane over the way you die and all the obvious exploits. Weren't it 
 for the programming, that made the AI worse than that of a late 90's game, and the physics engine 
 which steals all the feeling of realism, this game would have been not great, but fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawfrye
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Being a veteran of the first Two Gothic games I was very excited to hear about Gothic 3. Developed 
 by Piranha Bytes (the same people that gave us the first two installments) , I just knew that they 
 would capitalize on the mistakes made in previous releases. Well to make a long story short, they 
 didnt! I have a pretty powerful PC (AMD X2 4200+ CPU / eVGA 8800GTS / 2-GIGS PC3200 DDR / Abit 
 KN8 SLi Mobo you get the picture...
  Well when I first installed this game it ran so badly that was virtually unplayable! Frame rates, 
 crashing, you name it. Well after three patches it is now finally stable enough to play. That said 
 on a PC that eats games like Elder Scrolls, and FEAR alive it still runs like total garbage. Thats 
 not because my PC cant handle it, but because the game itself was designed in a piss-poor manner 
 like every other game theyve put out.
  This is all very unfortunate because Gothic 3 could have easily been one of the best RPGs of the 
 year! For a matter of fact all of the Gothic games had that potential! As for me I am thoroughly 
 disappointed in this game, the graphics are great, the story is interesting and the characters 
 are colorful and in most cases believable. However the game is so problematic on the performance 
 side of things that Ive uninstalled it from my PC.
  If youre going to buy this game there are (3) patches currently available try them all! Otherwise 
 do yourself a favor and play some more Elder Scrolls 4 because this isnt worth your hard earned 
 $$$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luzaran
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Either its graphic errors, I get stuck, the npc's wont die, no matter what or I get weird dots 
 all over my screen, not to mention crashes, my computer is beyond the game- 2gb ram, 7950 gforce 
 512ram grafikcard, dualcore- 2.6 proseccor.
  
  The game is highly broken, the few minuts a time i get to play is fun, the rest is annoying. To 
 those who say this is better than Oblivion, l2p :) Oblivion has much more to it, better graphics 
 and is easy to customize.
  
  I simply cannot play this game to much at a time without some huge flaw to appear, I've even started 
 cheating so I can get up to where I we're before the crash.
  
  I'm pretty bad at remembering to save, but there should'nt be any reason to save 24/7.
  
  I've 
 now simply put the game away in a box stored with all the other games I have which has failed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Well not quite... It's a good game, Very involving... But.. No options for the main charater for 
 looks... I mean... I don't really like looking at a guy's backside for 60+ hours... I would like 
 to see a female character... Oh and it's not an oblivion clone... So if you liked oblivion and 
 are looking for more of the same... This is not it.
  Okay. It looks nice. And the story is great... But Whatever happened to just killing anyone I came 
 across? I mean that is fun... :D. And the monsters... Seems to be way too many of them. Like they 
 are not hard to kill. They are just everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zek-foo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is a nice game with lots of bugs in it. That makes game-play a bit crappy. Graphics are 
 O. K., except for the eyes (bit shiny) and the desert (sand is really crappy) . Fighting style is great 
 in this game. I think we all agree that 2 swords are better than one. Such a shame he runs strange 
 with 2 swords in his hands. Sound is alright, except sometimes happens that character in the game 
 looses his voice. I must say quests are boring... in every quest you have to kill sombody or they 
 say go there and kill beasts, sometimes its like this: Go and kill That One he is rich, well split 
 the cash. He's a master swordsman be careful . every quest has a structure like this. And its really 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yopuii
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  First off I must say this to get what may be a slightly biased opinion out of the way. I am a big 
 Gothic series fan. Although I'll toss that aside for my general gaming standards to give you a 
 great unbiased review. There are technical problems within the game's coding and whatnot. But the 
 released patches fixes most of them. Note: That I played this through on Hard so anything said 
 about difficulty is from that standpoint. Let's talk about the first thing to be noticed. Graphics! 
 This game is an awesome game graphically, that is of course you have the machine to support it. 
 The shine, shadow effects, and fire effects that some only dream about. The gameplay Is really 
 addicting. The game goes in factions that you can work for. It's really free based faction too. 
 You can work for every faction or only 1, your choice. The combat is free form in wich it's not 
 turn based or anything. You can do anything from fighting with 2 swords at once or using huge blasts 
 of fire to kill your enemies. The enemies are as ferocious as they are good looking. The quests 
 are various and the game world is huge. I scored it at a 8.5. The only thing keeping it from a 
 perfect 10 was the tech problems. The difficulty is really high, if you play on hard. There's also 
 Easy and Normal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  I cannot say enough good things about Gothic 3.. Immediately I thought of Morrowind while I played, 
 yet it does what Morrowind did but a lot better. For one, the randomization of elite gear is there. 
 Meaning if you get a Master Sword (by smithing) in one game, you may not be able to get it next 
 game. Another is the Rune sword.. not available in all games. This adds another aspect of what 
 it does better, replayability.... If you explored everything there is in Morrowind, you will note 
 that it will be the same every game you play. Another aspect is end game sequences.. These change 
 depending on the manner in which you beat the game (3 possible endings (that I know of) ) and what 
 factions you helped in the game. If you helped the Orcs.. then you will see the result at the end.. 
 If you sided with Xardas and played a middle of the road path.. the result will follow end game 
 .. This makes a reply worth it.. and essential to prolonging any game. Another nice feature is 
 the lack of a level cap.. yes you have a max level.. some say it is 100.. (I have yet to try this) 
 .. but the skill points can go upwards of 500+ if you so desire.. Now to get down to what everyone 
 wants:
  Gameplay.. great IMHO, You have a thrust.. a slash and a power thrust as well as finisher... (that 
 is more than Morrowind had) The camera angles are just right and do not distract you like some 
 games, and you have the option of running in 1st person (though the games works well in 3rd. The 
 side quests are fun and do not get old, like they did in Morrowind. Also the game length is 1/3rd 
 the length of Morrowind.. (that is if you explore every nook and cranny.. like I did in both games) 
 The game is not linear at all and you can run to Nordmar at level 1 if you want (though I doubt 
 you will get far) . The plant life you gather to collect enough ingredients such as health potions 
 respawn after a time... so there is infinite health if you like... Though rare plants like King 
 Sorrel do not respawn.. making a cap for the amount of perminent potions you can create.. also 
 the locations of said rare plants changes from game to game.. so you will NOT always find a King 
 Sorrel or Dragonweed in the same location. This makes the process of hard searching game to game 
 fun! Graphics: If you have a top notch system you will see the immense beauty there is in the game. 
 I find it way better than Oblivion, and the level of detail is truly awesome. Sound: Great, even 
 the swoosh sound when you finish off an enemy gives a certain satisfaction. The music does not 
 get boring or repeative since it sometimes changes.. and places like Varant and Nordmar have their 
 own music theme.. The weapon sounds are authentic and feel like your there in the battle. The game 
 is easy to pick up and even if you play in short bursts enjoyable.
  I do say that for a single player game this game easily is worth my 50 dollars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnyboy12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 3 Review
  
  By: Shawny Boy
  ---------------------------------
  
  Gothic 3 is a great game overall, if you have the patience. When I saw the reviews for it here, 
 I was unsure at first but I downloaded the demo and actually tried the game and it looked great. 
 So I found myself in the store buying it. And to tell you the truth, it was worth it. Now I know 
 what your saying What is he talking about, Oblivion is way better than this! and I would have to 
 agree, but after playing over about 200 hours of the game I wanted something new. And that my friends, 
 is where Gothic 3 comes in. I only wished they included a sneak cursor like in Oblivion to tell 
 whether or not you were seen or were thieving from someone else. And yes, unfortunately it does 
 include some bugs, which can mostly be all fixed by downloading only one update. Not much to complain 
 about to me. But then there is that fighting system that totally messed up it's potential for me, 
 because when you attack with a close up weapon, your character automatically pushes forward. And 
 when you do get hit you end up almost getting killed because you find yourself stumbling back from 
 what would be a meager blow that keeps adding as your enemy pounds you. Don't be like me, save 
 every second! On the great side, it has great graphics, almost like Oblivion. The storyline is 
 great, it revolves around the choices you make meaning you can join different factions, even with 
 the orcs! This game should not go quietly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narmontas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  what defines a good game? you may ask... amazing graphics?
  good story? absolutely bug-free game-play? well, maybe all of this but i think the main thing is 
 when YOU ABSOLUTELY ENJOY THE GAME PROCESS
  this is the main quality IMHO.
  and of course Gothic 3 delivers it once again.. i'm already finished the game 3 times... (the first 
 time was before second patch came out.. wow that was a nightmare) and 2 more after 1.12 released.. 
 so why i gave it 10-rating?
  because of this one reason: you enjoy it! even when it is crazy lags
  you still trying to slowly 
 move from Ardea to Reddock trying to figure out how long to push W so you will not end in the other 
 side of the map.
  or trying to kill an orc without him hitting you because one hit - you dead...
  
  it is absolutely 
 fun... and i played on low detail and some more so called minuses... recommend to every action\RPG 
 lover.. the only thing is:
  just wait for the final patch and the prices to calm down a bit and then buy... (or ... hhh whatever 
 you know...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElithKhan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I found out Gothic 3 was coming out a day before realease so i missed out on all the hype for this 
 game being released, which i think was a good thing, because it may have been built up to much 
 and id have been more disapointed.
  
  So where to start Gothic 3 starts you off in a small village fighting orcs, so your thrown straight 
 into the action. The fight system is a bit tedious at times and unfair aswell (ill bring this up 
 later) .
  
  Graphically the game looks good, the terrains look nice, the characters look good to. So there 
 is no real complaint for that. The only problem is the games thirst for high end pc's to play it 
 on. I dont have trouble playing any game on my PC apart from Gothic 3, it sticks alot, like oblivion 
 it is a seamless world, well it is and it isn't. Through out the game you will experience slight 
 sticknyess, thats the game loading in the next area, without the loading screen, now it is irritating. 
 But normally it doesn't set you back to much.
  
  The sound in the game is good its good old Gothic music there have been no real change, the voice 
 acting is to a good standard, and the varied sounds youll hear through the game makes the world 
 of Gothic 3 feel like a world and not just a large empty plane.
  
  Ok the gameplay, it's good and bad, missions tend to stay quite varied but sometimes a map marker 
 would be appreciated, also a few missions will seem similar when your trying to free villages and 
 castles you might spend a little while running around looking for weapons for the people.
  
  The fight system, Gothic 1 and 2 never had the most straight forward of fighting controls and 
 Gothic 3 holds that trend, which is annoying that they spent so much time on a good game to let 
 it down slightly by the control system. Another area the game is let down by is the enemies you 
 encounter, you would think killing a wolf would be easier than killing 5 orcs right? most of the 
 time you'd be wrong, for some odd reason the designers of the game beleive a wolf is more deadly 
 (or any other wild animal) than an orc. The animals have a stupidly fast attack speed, once they 
 start hitting you and getting away from them once they start attacking is not only hard but extremly 
 irritating. I would say Gothic 3 is worth playing, but only if you are a patient gamer or have 
 a love for the Gothic series (like me) . It's sad to see that the game turned out like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bcrankshaw
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time Ive played the Gothic series. First the positive aspects of the game its 
 good .If you enjoy a game that allows you a myriad of character development and different quests 
 it will fit the profile .The graphics and music are impressive. Not many monsters but enough to 
 keep you entertained .I found the whole AI experience of high caliber , weather changing ,NPC responses 
 etc etc Now the negative .As mentioned its buggy .In fact the frustration from the bugs can be 
 overwhelming. I never cheat in RPG on principle but I found I couldnt complete the game without 
 using console mode .Important characters dont appear in places they suppose to and some quests 
 you complete dont register .In a world of games like Elder Scrolls and NeverWinter Nights these 
 problems are almost inexcusable .However the good outweighs the bad so I would still recommend 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gereksiz13
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are well designed and it is easy to control the character and the camera.
  
  However, to make it more realistic, my character needn't hop on every stone on the road. Interactivity 
 b/w the environment and the character is so high that it gets boring in time to watch the camera 
 hop with my every WASD key strokes.
  
  Story is dull and character development is not based on the characters life experience but the 
 points to distribute. I'm really bored of hearing the word ORC. In accordance with theories of 
 social psychology, the more I hear the word ORC, the cuter they seem to me. Yuck!
  
  When there's NWN2 and ES4, Gothic is really insipid, unless you are new to the genre. When it comes 
 to Role-Playing in post 2005 releases, the games should have an immense quantity of possibilities 
 and alternatives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajoh198
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  I've not played any of the gothic series before but I am a big fan of large, open rpgs like Baldurs 
 gate &amp; the elder scrolls series. It's also worth noting that my rig is fairly respectable (including 
 2Gb of RAM) , not state of the art by many means, but powerful enough to run hl2 &amp; oblivion 
 on high settings at 1024.
  
  The first thing I noticed about the game is how long it took to load, I literally start it up and 
 make myself a drink, come back and still have to wait. Once it's loaded you're thrown straight 
 into the deep end and have to quickly learn the combat system. I like the idea of the combat system 
 with different strengths of attacks, each taking longer than the other; it also has a parrying 
 system. However this is where my love for the combat system ends, whilst on paper it seems good 
 in practice it's massively flawed.
  
  Put simply the combat system relies on you landing every blow, if you miss a blow and your opponent 
 lands a blow on you they will be able to repeatedly hit you whilst your character can do nothing 
 but recoil backwards out of your control. Frequently I've found myself attacking a group of animals, 
 managing to defeat all but one of them only losing a little health but I'll miss a single hit on 
 the last one and it'll then kill me. It just doesn't seem balanced, especially once you get further 
 into the game you start to find that the orcs and other, supposedly more difficult creatures, become 
 pretty easy to kill without taking much damage but a pathetic wolf that would take 2 hits to kill 
 gets the drop on you every now and then and you don't stand a chance. I also don't understand why 
 you can block humanoid attacks but not animals. Combat is an intensely frustrating process, not 
 because of the frequency of being killed, but the fact it seems to be based on luck more than anything 
 else. To increase this sense of frustration the quickload/save system takes a good 20 seconds each 
 way, so dying is actually a real chore.
  
  One last gripe against the game is the graphics, they look outdated, your can clearly see the line 
 where sections of the map of loading into memory and the textures are really nothing special. These 
 graphics would have been average 2-3 years ago, but despite they run shockingly slow, this has 
 to be one of the worst graphics engines out there. Add in a pathetic attempt at faux-hdr, when 
 you reach a certain point in a cave everything will suddenly go dark, you can't see the wall 2 
 metres in front of you, fair enough, but you could see that very same wall from 20 metres back 
 when you were at the cave entrance because the engine hadn't decided it was time for everything 
 to go dark - it's stupid.
  
  Yet despite all these flaws (and a huge amount of smaller bugs/flaws/inconsistencies) I've been 
 laying this game for hours and mostly loving it. The story line is good, and there is a good number 
 of side quests that keep you entertained and there is enough variation between the factions that 
 it would be worth replaying to go through the game playing for the other side. The world is large 
 and has something of interest around nearly every corner. The AI of the characters that follow 
 you is remarkably good, they can follow you around corners and through buildings quite happily, 
 something that you rarely find in a game. Another interesting tack on this game is the infinite 
 inventory, anything you can pick up you can store, there are no limits on weight or size, which 
 is ideal for hoarders like me. However the game does seem to lack much variety in the weapons stakes, 
 whilst I'm not a big fan of games with hundreds of swords each with slightly different stats and 
 bonuses I did feel the lack of choice in this game. I've been using the same sword for 20 levels 
 or so now and there are only 1 or 2 more powerful swords in the whole game.
  
  The levelling system is different to most as you have to find people or shrines to train you up, 
 but it works well and once I'd figured out a strategy I was happy with how it worked.
  
  Overall I thought this should have been an excellent game but even after a few months of patching 
 critical game breaking bugs and flaws you are still left with a game that struggles to run smoothly 
 on an average computer and has a combat system that has made me want to throw my computer across 
 the room every time I play. The strength of the story and the variety of missions do shine through 
 though and I would say that by and large I have enjoyed the hours I've put into the game and I 
 will keep pushing on until I have finished the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffroll
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Although dismayed at my early difficulties getting this to run, I now have this going and I find 
 it totally immersive and stunning to look at. Gothic 3 has had some bad press, but at first hand 
 it looks technically a generation ahead of the competition. The design and rendition of the world 
 is excellent and seamless (no flip to close-up headshots or loading screens between scenes) . The 
 landscape structure feels real and memorable, and not synthetic (as I'm afraid Oblivion 4 feels) . 
 Rendering of this is also well managed (stutters apart) , unlike the landscape conveyor belt of 
 Oblivion 4, where the scenery changes as you approach it (suddenly huge rocks and trees appear 
 where previously there were none) . Finally the music score is great and very atmospheric.
  
  This is the kind of game I have been waiting for: An plausible open-ended atmospheric world 
 with a realistic and very convincing landscape. The only previous game where I thought that maybe 
 this genre was starting to appear was Morrowind, which I observed but never played, but this seems 
 technically streets ahead.
  
  Do not be mislead by its poor player rating . Its low score is skewed by those users who could 
 not get it running (pre-patch?) and gave it 0 or similar. The median score is probably nearer 9. 
 Note however: You need a good video card (X800+) and preferably 1.5 gig or more memory. I have 
 run it well on a Sempron 3000+, X800, 2gig ram. You also need to follow the helpful tweaks from 
 the forums, but the effort is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaco123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  MAKE SURE YOU INSTALLED ALL THE PATCHES
  
  This game is very and I mean very frustraiting at first you start off fighting a bunch of Orcs 
 and your first expression will be F**k its soo damn slow!!! what the hell?? soon after you'll be 
 able to adjust your graphics understand the game system and start to get addicted by its unique 
 leveling system challenging beasts and head breaking quests.. if your smart you'll notice allot 
 of trics and use it to your advantage. And no mater what LvL you are in the Beasts are still very 
 very annoying....
  
  This game is best suited to novice-advance hardcore RPG players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happygrass420
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  No one can say that this game sucks, their might be some glitches and problems with the game, but 
 I dont care, I still play and ignore the glitches, I cant even count the number of hours I've spent 
 playing the game, and I definitly cant wait till the next gothic comes out. This game has lots 
 of missions, which im not even done half of, lots of choices to be made, and the choices you make 
 will effect future quest. I cant stop playing, and when I beat the game, im going for the second 
 time around, because the more I play, the more fun it is. thank you gothic 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giftogome
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  When i buyed and started playing this game for the first time i encountered a number of bugs like 
 game freezes, graphics corruption, saving time but soon i was able to fix some but not all of the 
 problems .this game requires very long time for gaining magic skills and special abilities which 
 makes this game really hard for playing. first you will start the game with minimum strenght and 
 no magic at all which will frustrate and disappoints you. but as you gain points after a very long 
 time you will be able to learn different magic and abilities .The graphics is very well developed 
 in this game. When it comes to choice this game is hardly in recommendation for playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I bought Gothic3 together with Oblivion and Dark Messiah of Might and Magic, all 3 games are great 
 but Gothic 3 won my heart hands down, yes it has issues, yes its very hardware demanding, it gives 
 my Nvidia 8800gtx a run for its money but honestly this is one of the very best games i ever seen 
 in my life and trust me, i played them all, from early console games to the newest PC games.
  Many games claim they are open ended but none can hold a candle to Gothic 3, its a shame you need 
 a state of the art PC to be able to enjoy this fantastic game. I never seen graphics so good before, 
 Oblivion looks very dated compared to this, yes Oblivion is more polished but Gothic 3 is more 
 fun to play... if you have the right hardware that is, (on lower end PCs this game is a **** To 
 sum it up:
  The Good: Best graphics i seen so far, most immersive and open ended game i ever experienced
 
  The Bad: Very hardware demanding, only playable on hi end PCs, some bugs.
  To Sum it up: Best game i seen in a looong while, if you have the right hardware you HAVE to give 
 this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrofire
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of gothic. so when i heard there was a 3rd i bought it right away. right off the 
 bat i noticed that the mele combat system isn't as skill oriented as the 1st or 2nd. alot of moving 
 back and forth with awkward blocking. The 2nd gothic combat seemed much much better. also right 
 away i noticed the great texture quality but the same gothic model look. unfortunatly the graphics 
 come at a big cost. Loading time take almost 5 min to get the game up and running, if you die the 
 reload takes a little over a min. Not only that but the game has the longest save time i've ever 
 seen (the game frezzes for 30secs to save your progress) plus some problems with choppy frame rates. 
 Luckly by turning down a few unnecisary options i got to to run fine. On the plus side, classes 
 have that same great gothic feel to it. spending point on various areas to make unique customized 
 charicters. On top of that even more options are given to choose sides durring quest allowing mulltiple 
 possible answers to one given problem. All of the abilities seem much more expancive with great 
 possable weapon combinations. things like duel weld, shields, magic blocking with staffs and much 
 more.
  
  all in all i would recomend this to fans of the original gothic's. but the feel of the game and 
 its tech problems would be a bit too irritating to somone new to the gothic world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  More patches so I can play the game without seeing a slideshow and I will rewrite a review, until 
 then low score, period. Gothic 2 was great and I am sure this game has potential, but it needs 
 to be fixed bad and does not deserve a good score until it is. I would not buy this game until 
 you see a serious performance patch. BTW, I have an AMD 3700+, 2 7900GT's, Asus A8N SLI motherboard, 
 and 2 gigs of ram. I have yet to meet a game I cannot run at max or close to it and 1600x1200 rez 
 except NWN2 (before the patch) and this game. Edit: I can actually run the game now, as promised 
 I am revising the score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoidCrusader
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  First, let me start out by saying that I have been able to play this game with none of the rampant 
 glitches and bugs I have heard about. I downloaded the Gothic 3 tuning utility and turned off shadows, 
 no problems. So my review may be different from your experience.
  
  Gothic 3 is probably one of my favorite games played this year, probably my favorite in the RPG 
 category. You are playing the same character you played in the first two games, having finally 
 gotten off the island you were sent to in the original game. There is a definite sense of continuity 
 in the game as you run into old friends and acquaintances from the first two games as well as the 
 story itself being a continuation from before.
  
  For those who didn't play the first games your character was thrown into a prison to mine valuable 
 magic ore for the war against the orcs. After the first game you have broken out of the prison 
 and now roam a small island that the prison was on. Eventually you come across a ship sent by the 
 mainland to get whatever ore it can. Needless to say you 'borrow' the ship. There is much more 
 going on but I will save that for the dedicated researcher.
  
  Anyways...
  
  The graphics are solid and very well done, the sound is acceptable. The music is dynamic and changes 
 with the situation but seems very repetitive as you play. The story is of course the major draw 
 of a RPG and JoWood delivers again. You can win the game pretty much following whatever path you 
 want, from siding with the orcs to the humans. Or you can just kill everyone as you go along and 
 get what you want by force. This is a true game where you can be a baddie and never perform a redeeming 
 act. If you can get this game to run on your computer and make it work, then you will have a classic 
 on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakyl996
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  The game is very pretty graphically and the voice acting is entertaning but the cumbersome combat 
 kills it for me. I played thru Gothic 1 and 2 and was really looking forward to this one. I can 
 not get bast the lame combat. Gothic 2 was elegant compared to this. Don't waste your time. The 
 quest log is mash of nastiness. It often looses quest or at least doesn't give you enough info 
 to get the job done. The character models are chartoonish to say the least. The enemies AI is sad. 
 I really don't have 100 characters to say about this game but that is what gamespot demands so 
 I will keep typing until I get them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdenonco
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has the potential of being a super game if it wasn't for the nagging bugs. Simple things 
 need to be fixed. Like being able to walk up the stairs in Fairing. The only way up/down it is 
 to jump over the first step. I've seen numerous heads with no bodies and one body with no head. 
 Couldn't even talk to Torn with out the game crapping out every time
  
  This game crashes more times than most people breath in a day. Every crash results in a 3 meg .dmp 
 file. Just what I need! Another excuse to go searching for files to clean up.
  
  Of course Aspyr's Help desk blames it on everything BUT the software.
  
  Ready to toss this 
 game into the scrap pile. It's not worth the disk it's burned on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igurman10
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  The excellent Gothic II continues, very good graphics, excellent shadowing, highly detailed textures, 
 A well done look for the game , IF you have a monster computer. because the effectivity of the 
 engine Is disasterous. they say the minimum is 512 RAM, Forget that. it is 1024. with 512 ram you 
 can only hope not to go crazy with poor graphics, long waiting times and bad FPS, while In oblivion, 
 for example, I was on MEDIUM with my 512 ram, and it looked 10 times better, But if you have the 
 means, the games looks great.
  
  The combat system Is as it was at Gothic 2, very good. the fights look great, with combos all over 
 the fight, especialy with multiple enemies, It gives a cinematic element to the fight which looks 
 very good, and it also requires skill and timing .
  
  the amount of Bugs in this game is uncountable, nothing to say about that, from missing items and 
 people to sudden flying in the air, and many many more iteresting and colorfull bugs, another release 
 delay of like.. an year? would be reasonable to solve all of these.
  
  the quests remain interesting and very cinematic and fun, many kinds of quests, from killing to 
 stealing , escorting and more, very fun and interesting story line.
  
  the new options to liberate cities is just perfect and the fights to liberate them are exciting, 
 full of action and fun.
  
  the world is big, many cities , many NPC and many possibilities, an all around good and fun game, 
 but, the bugs, oh the bugs, and the somewhat amature making of certain details in the game, and 
 the poor graphical engine along with the high system requirements can ruin your experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigzak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  I don't own the game myself, but have stolen my friends pc for a bit to play on it, it has to be 
 the best role play game game iv ever played on, the 3rd person angle feels just right and the graphics 
 are nearly as good as what you can get on the xbox 360! it is a completely free roam game, although 
 the story line does cath up with you allot, similar to how it does on the grand theft auto games, 
 although the storyline is no drag... its really good, although you would have had to have had the 
 story before this game explained to you by a friend, or play on the previous 2 games, which again 
 have a good story line, but the controls are strange and it lacks the free roaming capabilities.
 
  
  i highly recommend this game, and sorry for the short review as a don own this game myself. but 
 is this unknown game really as good as the elder scrolls 4 oblivion? well, as soon as i get it 
 for the xbox 360 (getting the console for Christmas but not the game) you'll have to read my review 
 on it to see my opinion on which is better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkown_device
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is good but very bad quests, boring and so this is what Oblivion is should be look a like 
 :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewilson248
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  First off the hardware requirements seems to be a bit excessive. My machine can play half life 
 2, quake 4 and doom 3 with NO issues. This game took my total RAM used over 1GB. The game by itself 
 seems to eat about 750mb and that was at 1024x768 with the graphics set on LOW! I would suggest 
 2gb as a MINIMUM for game play, You will need that much for Vista anyway. CPU speed seems to play 
 a major role also. My CPU is an Athlon XP 3200. It stayed at 100% usage the entire time. My geforce 
 6800 gt seemed to have no issues. The text graphics were horrible as usual, using 8 bit / 640x480 
 so the kiddies can play it on the flippin' consoles. When will game companies learn that you need 
 to pay more attention to details when cross platforming a game to the PC? Overall the game is VERY 
 pretty to look at.
  
  The gameplay was very unintuitive to me, after getting quests added to my log I had no way of knowing 
 where to go. The only thing the game keeps track of is dialog. WHICH WAY DO I GO? Throw me a bread 
 crumb of some sort will ya? An arrow on the compass would suffice.
  
  One more gripe, you have to put away your weapon to read a sign?
  or pick a plant? Do I only 
 have one hand?
  
  These are the reasons RPG's don't do better in the mainstream.
  no common sense to be found. blech . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panush
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Omg! This is absolutely the worst game ive ever played, ill NEVER EVER waste money on this crap, 
 videos looked cool, but the game totally SUCKED, the worst rip-off in history, im having more fun 
 playing super mario than this. When two or more people talk, its like 2 bac actors talking in a 
 movie, and the fighting system is HORRIBLE. The graphics is even that good. I cannot understand 
 how Dark Messiah, which by the way is an AWESOME game, got less rank than this POS. But the advantage 
 with this is that it is freeform, but Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is still a better game, but 
 nothing beats The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, absolutely not this piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mybee2fast4u
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I realy like this game because there is just so much to do and so many diffrenet way that you can 
 beat the game. The only thing that I don't like a bou the game is that there is too much going 
 an that my system dosen't hadly it. with 512mb grahics 1 gb ram and a +3800 dual core amd2 cpu. 
 and a couple more patches and it will be perficet. the graphics on high look wounderfull but I 
 can't even look and the ground because it wants to die.. if you have a lot of time and like playing 
 great games with out wating to lode then this is that game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joslum
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Unintelligible. No idea how to level up, just figured out how to equip a weapon. How can anyone 
 design such a backwards GUI? Fight music is direct ripoff of the LOTR movies, etc... Shouldnt take 
 me 5 minutes to loot 10 orcs either. Maybe its just the thing of having to look at somthing to 
 loot it, but Im a fan of being able to mouseover objects. Guess its Oblivion style in that respect, 
 but about 50 times clunkier. Its rare that I wont pley a new game even if it sucks, but I'd rather 
 play Podracer on my N64 over this pos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vojkec
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  I played all of the Gothic series including Gothic 3. Its fun the hours fly by and whit every city 
 its gettin better and better. Im very dissapoting that some of the rewiewers gave gothic 3 a 2.5 
 or 5.6 or so and in the rewiew they say its a great game, whats the matter then are u scared that 
 it might have better ranks than oblivion. By the way Oblivion is so overrated that Gothic 3 looks 
 like a game from 5 years ago. I cant understand why do you always have to compare those 2 games 
 i dont get the point, its because its an RPG or what? Everybody saying Oblivion is Better it smokes 
 gothic 3 ass and so on, but those who have played all the gothic series would say hey its different 
 not evem comperable to Oblivon. Yes it has bugs and lot's of them and they are gettin on yours 
 nerves and its a shame that a game that great has those bugs, but its playable and i finished it 
 whit much fun and u must play it on hard all other options suck.
  Its a game that binds you to your monitor and you just stare at the game ''looking good eh'' and 
 you go from town to town having tons of missions and quest and things to grab and so on, whats 
 really anoying that in every town u must defeat various monster kill this kill that kill them kill 
 everybody :) sounded like FEAR, but u have good mission to like find something in the woods or 
 in the ruins in the north help some people and the best thing is gaining experince. U can use those 
 poitns for various things like crossbows bows one two handed weapons magic alchemie stealing robbery 
 and so on, u have a lots of different magic skills like summons and fire rain and fireballs healing 
 diseases comet's and lots of other i dont wanna spoil the game. I think its 3 times bigger than 
 Gothic 2 whit the expansion and offers you from woods to north icy region to lots of sand in the 
 south deserts whit the most tempels and ruins and sandcrawlers... and hashasin :) hey i played the 
 German version because im from europe and the hashain are named Assasins not like some drugs in 
 the US version :) . U find very different animals in gothic 3 than in others series i was scared 
 when i saw dragons in a cave ( in gothic 2 it was the main quest the kill the dragons) and gargolys 
 in the woods and schrat like an adult goblin or what? Crocodiles and swamplurkers, the most suprise 
 was when i saw goblinshaman omg they are nasty shooting fireballs and heal themself then the Lions 
 and schakals, sandcrawlers in the dessert and whit sabertooth tigers in the north and of course 
 some everyday animals like deers and bisons and rhinos they are in a large groups and are peaceful 
 and attack only if u attack one of them then u screwed :) . Overall its a openended game whit lot 
 of things to do and if u forgive those technical issues and make them everyday things like making 
 coffe, then its the perfect game for at least one month to play and if u pick up every flower and 
 thing kill any animals in your way u will gain lot of experince before u even come to nordmar and 
 varant. And don't rush the game because then u are lost and those people then give scores like 
 2.5 to max 6.0 because then dont give **** about the story only the graphics and by the way the 
 game has a story but its not so in the spotlight like the secondary quests. I like this game like 
 any other game, its not perfect but you alone have to choose what u want to play. Lot's of people 
 gave games bad score because they like something better and they didnt even played it. Thats my 
 rewiew and i hope i made some thing crystal clear for those who want to play but are scared by 
 the scores and rewies of other players. Have a nice day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Pro: interesting plot, finally deciding to give this one up
  
  Con: poorly optimized engine, graphics are mediocre, and combat is less then impressive
  
  
 At first Gothic 3 seem to be a really fun RPG. It had some potential to be better Oblivion. The 
 story line was alot more interesting in Gothic 3 then Oblivion. Orcs have over ran most of the 
 humans towns and cities. You are there to either help the orcs get rid of the rebel humans or join 
 the humans and get rid of the orcs. Its really your choice to decide. The game would have added 
 some replay value if you were to decide to go one way and then decide to go to the next and see 
 a different outcome of your choice. However, I did not reached far enough to know if this is true.
 
  
  Gothic 3 uses the engine called Genome it appears to be an in house developed engine, capable in 
 optimizing hyperthread technology. The engine is very poorly optimized in video cards. It will 
 constantly lag, stopping for a few seconds before continuing on again. Quick movements like running 
 or turning makes the engine lag really bad. Freezing and crashing does sometimes happen, though 
 it is not as bad as Oblivion's constant crashing. The graphics are fairly poor compared to other 
 games released. Other games with much better graphics and detail have lesser of an issue of lag 
 and crashing. Games like FEAR and Prey having better detail quality graphics have less lag and 
 better stability.
  
  Combat is something I am attracted to when it comes to RPGs. Always love to be the melee classes, 
 fighting up close with a sword. This is not ment to be. The combat is less then impressive at its 
 best. NPCs humanoids and monsters throughout the game will commonly move back while you swing. 
 Sometimes a player will miss or not even do damage to a creature even when it is right in front. 
 Small swings would do damage, but much larger powerful swings would have missed the npc or monster 
 fighting.
  
  In the end, this game would be considered the worst game to be released this year. I will back 
 this game up and say it had some promise if it had another year of development to fully complete 
 the content and optimize the engine so it is stable with today's video cards. Perhaps it would 
 have better to license or hire someone to create an engine to be more stable then Piranha Bytes 
 used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: col_tkalec
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The story is great and I've always been a great fan of Gothic, but the only thing that makes this 
 game bad are the bugs.
  
  I actually finished the game, but with a lot of problems. The biggest problem was the bug with 
 the saved games, because I liked to save the game with the quick save option because it's a little 
 bit quicker, and then what happend. The game froze and an error appeared when I saved the game 
 a lot of times with this option. I was so mad that I wanted to throw the whole computer out the 
 window. And I could not even load the last spot where I saved with quick save. But I stayed patient 
 and load the game where I saved the last time with the save game option. And from there on I always 
 saved with this option and the game was OK.
  
  I also had some problems with the missions, because one time when I had to bring pickaxes to a 
 trader in Vengard, the mission would just not complete it self and I brought him all 20 pickaxes.
 
  
  Then there was a bug with the graphics, when I played and got to some spots my screen would just 
 blackout and I could hear the game still going on, but I just could not see anything and I had 
 go with the Ctrl+Alt+Del option.
  
  And I had a nother bug but I just can't remember. But despite all the technical issues, the game 
 is actually great. And the only thing that kept me patient throo the whole game was the love for 
 the game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The Gothic Series has always been the underdog in the RPG world oppresed by greats such as Elder 
 Scrolls and Neverwinter Nights. On paper Gothic 3's story and ideas sound golden but when converted 
 to the real game the result is nerve wrecking. Gothic 3 looks amazing in ads and screenshots but 
 when I loaded up the game for the first time I was in awe of how choppy the gameplay was. I thought 
 that this problem would pass as I continued in the game but it only got worse. The frame rate skips 
 every 5 seconds and is almost unplayable. This is very saddening seeing as my PC can run Oblivion 
 on medium high. The requirements for Gothic 3 are either way too high or there are serious graphics 
 coding issues. Beside the point of near unplayibility Gothic 3 delivers a rich story involving 
 Orcs ruling the Morra land and it being your choice to help them rule or start a revolution to 
 save the human race from extinction. The combat system is simple with click and more click kills 
 and can make some RPG experts weep and noobs rejoice. The game's enemies are well balanced overall 
 but sometimes the bad guys get crazy bursts of power usually ending in the player lieing in a heep 
 of blood with the words The End over their head. Overall Gothic 3 could have been an amazing RPG 
 that could have competed with Oblivion and NWN 2 but is ruined due to graphic issues and a simple 
 combat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Karayan-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay itself in Gothic 3 isn't that great, especially the combat is sub-par. Melee combat 
 is a button mashing-fest and does not have the debt it had in Gothic 2, which is really a shame 
 as there is a lot of combat in the game. Ranged combat is just plain awkward, and is very difficult 
 against beasts and very easy against humanoids. Magic is overall pretty easy as it locks on to 
 enemies, unlike archery.
  There's a wide variety of weapons each with their pros and cons, weapons have different ranges 
 and some have special attacks. You can sharpen weapons, bless them or make them yourself for combat 
 bonuses. There's a wide variety of spells, though there aren't a lot of them, and there are things 
 such as explosive arrows.
  All this said combat doesn't have the debt is should have had, which is a shame, because it does 
 bring the game down. It would have been better had they spent more time on it, it would have been 
 nice to have had some combos or other abilities, and if there was more debt to the combat.
  All animals react differently to you being around, some first threaten you and if you leave they 
 won't pursue you, others run away, and others yet again just try to hunt you down, this all seems 
 very realistic.
  Mostly people won't react to aggressively to a fight, unless you actually kill your opponent or 
 if you attack a friend of theirs. This doesn't seem too unrealistic as many people respect a good 
 fight (especially the orcs) .
  If you steal something people might suspect you and ask you about it, you can learn skills to talk 
 you out of bad situations, or you can use magic to make them forget.
  You won't be challenged about a crime you committed half way across the world, people just don't 
 travel that far just to inform others about you.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are simply amazing, especially the environments look really nice. Not only that but 
 the levels are well designed, it isn't just rows upon rows of trees and plants. With that the game 
 features shader 3.0 content, depth of field and other new gen graphical content.
  The world around you is alive, wolves hunt scavengers, there are countless insects in caves. Cities 
 are full of people who go about forging and sharpening weapons, getting firewood and other things. 
 There are dozens of people in your average city and not just a few guards like in Oblivion.
  The only complaint I have here is that the skins of humanoids, unlike those of beasts, are of low 
 quality.
  The performance isn't that bad if you set the texture res to medium. I was able to play it at max 
 settings at 1280*1024 with texture res medium on a year and a half old pc.
  
  Sound:
  While the musical score is excellent and teh voice acting of the main characters is very good some 
 of the other voice acting isn't that great, though I assume this might be better in the German 
 version.
  That aside, there are hardly any environmental sounds but what the animals who you actually see 
 make. It would have been nice if there were birds singing and other such things (no crickets those 
 are just annoying) .
  
  Value:
  There's a lot of content, and a lot to see. There are 3 distinctly different areas, and 3 different 
 endings to the game, as well as a lot of different ways to play the game.
  The main game itself lasts 50 hours if you only work to completing it as fast as possible and there 
 are over 500 side quests.
  
  Tilt:
  The game still has a lot of bugs that must be fixed, this coupled with the long loading times can 
 be frustrating.
  But its fun even to just walk around and admire the world around you.
  The melee combat is, despite its lack of depth, still a lot of fun. There are some cool creatures 
 like dragons and the t-rex.
  If you enjoy nature you'll especially enjoy this game.
  
  Difficulty:
  The game is sometimes pretty hard, and sometimes easy, it all depends on the way 
 you spend your learning points and how quests relate to your playtype. Some times enemies will 
 unleash an unblockable barrage upon you which can kill you in seconds, but you can learn to go 
 around this.
  
  Learning Curve:
  There's not that much to learn, and the gameplay remains the same throughout the game, but some 
 animals require their own approach and some situations require different approaches.
  
  In conclusion:
  This is a great game if you're sick of the straight forward and staleness of 
 games such and Oblivion.
  Don't expect great combat but do expect an immersive world with great characters and a good story 
 line.
  Though it might be best to wait for the upcoming big patch to buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bit77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  I really have played all of the rpgs and am a real hardcore player and in the first few hours I 
 was a bit disappointed but I believed in it and after having played it for over 50 hours I have 
 to say that it gets better and better! If you get by the initial problems of not knowing where 
 to go and not having enough info on what the final goal ist and a few technical bugs this game 
 really brings you into the atmosphere and it gets really interesting and you really want to free 
 the rebels... or maybe work for the Orks.... or maybe go to the south and become an assassin... or 
 maybe live by hunting... or become a great mage..., a lot of social metaphers, you really can choose 
 your own path.... I strongly recommend this one to all the RPG lovers as it gives you a definetely 
 great experience and a lot of enjoyable hours.... don&acute; t forget to eat and sleep! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromancer911
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  This is a good game.
  
  Of course it has som problems with the loading anf saving that takes to long time, and all the 
 bugs but if you look away from that it is a decent game.
  
  You have a good story, not the best but still ive seen worse.
  he lveling system is very good, 
 except that you hve to use mmoney to build up your stat, but besides that very good.
  The weapon system has been slain by som and other sai it is quite good, vell from my point of veiw 
 it is very good, easy and not to difficult to understand.
  The graphic isn't the best i have seen but i do not have the best pc to run the game, but after 
 what i have seen it is very good.
  
  I wouldn't call this game a Oblivion killer because it's not, but it is a very decent game.
  
 
  So if ypu have a good pc, patience and like RPG's than you will love/like Gothic 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dev-null
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game could be great, but it's too broken to be much fun.
  
  When people who have systems that exceeds the recommended (as opposed to minimum) requirements 
 cannot play the game out of the box due to poor frame-rates and performance issues, you know there 
 are problems.
  
  If you have the patience to tweak the .ini files, deal with dodgy patches, and deal with constant 
 memory errors, then the game can be quite fun.
  
  If you don't have the patience, then don't bother with this game until a few more patches have 
 been released.
  
  Of course, the last two patches created worse bugs than they resolved (for example, corrupting 
 savegames, causing the game to crash when loading save games, etc....) so it might be prudent to 
 wait until it is confirmed that the patches actually WORK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangolibasha
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok well I am kinda of torn between a good review and a bad one. I think the open ended style is 
 great. the NPCs are not bad. The fighting well its a bit lame sometimes and slick the next. The 
 Graphics fairly good for my system: AMD 64 3800, 1.25 G RAM, and a x850xt platinum Edt. It does 
 crash one in a blue moon and seems to have glitchy loading in game... that kinda makes me want 
 to go medieval on it sometimes, (Pun Intended) . The music is superb great vocals and mood. I like 
 the main three areas which give it a serious worldy feel. The weapons are kind of cool but more 
 could be had. I like the creation part when it comes to potions, weapons, sharpening, and magic. 
 Unfortunately all this coolness is dampened by an unfinished feel and that really let me down. 
 Respect Jowood for trying but it needed more time so if a 4th one is in the mix please don't rush 
 it.
  
  Dirty Bangoli 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeViLzzz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  First I want to say that I did not like my experiences so far with the other games in this series 
 and I had been told combat was an issue at times with the previous games. Well I have to say Gothic 
 3 has an awesome combat system unlike the game I have for my Xbox system ... the Elder Scrolls 
 of Morrowind ..... uhmmm my brother said he didn't like the combat but I think I know why people 
 don't like it. You have to actually balance yourself while attacking and swing your sword at the 
 enemy in different angles which is REALISTIC !!!! What is surprising about this game is I am able 
 to run it pretty well on an AMD Athlon XP 2500+ Barton, 1 GB pc3200 CAS2 ram, and a 9600SE. Yes 
 I wish I was running a better rig but obviously a medium ranged outfit with a 6800 series card 
 or the cheap 7600s. Anyway don't let someone tell you that you need a ton to run this and people 
 this game is reason enough to stay away from Oblivion. Well it gives some reasons. I like the effects 
 I see even with the card I use such as when you uhmmm use a bow to show arrows of fire. Wow do 
 they set a wolf ablaze but uhmmm I like how it looks when you use them vs the fly-like creatures. 
 As for quests and story lines well I don't really care just like what happened with World of Warcraft. 
 If you happen to complete so be it but at this point I want to see this expansive world. Bottom 
 line .... great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshaal
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  After completing Gothic 1 and 2 i though that this one will be just awesome, but i was wrong. The 
 game play is horrible, requirements are HUGE, and that pretty long list of bugs. Lets hope that 
 piranha bytes will release plenty of patches which correct overall game experience. Gothic 3 has 
 a good side of a medal too. Graphics is quite stunning and that what is most important in such 
 games: Plot. I guess that for all fans it's enjoy able to see how everything is going, and to choise 
 what to do next (help Orcs or King Rhobar) . Sometimes i couldn't finish some quests but not the 
 main ones. At the end i'd like to say that the reqirements such as 2 GB ram are suicide for producer, 
 because only realy high-ended machines can handle Gothic 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has some beautiful graphics and sound. You just better have the system for it, or it 
 will be pretty choppy. This is especially frustrating in combat, since timing your swing is everything. 
 You can't just slash away, or you and the MOB will be doing a tango backwards as the MOB backs 
 away, and you don't do any damage until you get to an obstacle. If you don't time it right, even 
 a lowly wolf can kill you quickly by stunning or knocking you down. Experience is kind of wonky, 
 since you have to spend a whole level's worth of experience to get a small increase in one attribute 
 (That includes health, stamina, and mana) . You also have to use experience to learn strength, hunting, 
 or arcane knowledge. THEN, you have to use experience to gain skills in these areas. Oh yeah, and 
 don't forget about alchemy and smithing, which require their own attributes and skills. This makes 
 the game feel very stingy, and leveling up will only get you a piddly increase in ability. Even 
 then, getting hit just once in battle can mean doom, since it opens you up to being hit again and 
 again without being able to recover. Money seems similarly stingy too. I haven't played very long, 
 though, so maybe the idea is that you reach levels in the upper hundred's.
  
  Otherwise, the quest system is good, and so is the story. There are some other glitches with MOBs 
 getting stuck. Also, DON T tell a cohort to wait for you near someone outside their faction, or 
 they will start fighting when you try to pick them up again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugyzajbl
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  The new addition to the Gothic saga, Gothic 3 is the best game i have played in several years (and 
 i own WOW) : Shure it has technical ishues, but Gothic games are the onlyones with big bugs im playing 
 for years and it is/was worth every hour and the ishues will be soon fixed anyway. i dont know 
 why are people saying that gothic3 is badly optimized. i have AMD 2,5 (old 2 years) , 1,5 GB of 
 ddr ram and a 9800pro (soon 3 years old) and im playing the G3 on medium settings and with 1024 
 resolution. Shure my fps is 10-25 but the game is playable. on this computer even G2 wasnt all 
 fluid when i was on the open (all settings high; 1280) . in some reare cases even G1 was below 30 
 fps (1 or 2 places in whole game but still) . what im triying to say is that the game is just simply 
 beautifull and it simply neads strong hardware . G3 in nicer then O and they run relatively the 
 same on my computer. The world, the quests, the story, and now even the graphics the Gothic 3 is 
 simply the best RP experience till now. PIS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lart
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of all the former parts i found this game a major disappointment in almost all sectors.
 
  First of you have beautiful graphics (granted you have a top notch machine) that create a great 
 atmosphere.
  This atmosphere is then slowly destroyed by all the other parts of the game.
  
  - Lack of NPC AI
  - Boring, repetitiv quests
  - Ambiant sound bugs
  - Uncounted technical 
 glitches (Most of the major bugs were fixed after the latest patches)
  - Lack Balancing in almost every aspect of the game (Loot, Enemies) And the most disapointing factor 
 for an RPG
  
  - Lack of story
  - Lack of character interaction with the main characters
  
  You notice everywhere, that there 
 wasn't time to finish this game properly.
  With a few patches, that would fix the technical issues, this game would have gotten a 7.
  
 
  If they fix the story (maybe in an addon) , this game would get a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilithN
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  This was one incredible fun, I just finished playing it. I can't say that it is better then the 
 previous parts, since I'm still in deep love with Gothic 2, at the same time G3 did not disappoint 
 me in any aspect (except for the huge amount of ram needed for seamless playing) . The atmosphere, 
 the truly enjoyable living world, the consequences your actions draw on yourself, incredible fun. 
 Everything was handcrafted to the smallest detail in this game, and it really truly shines through. 
 If you have the horsepower to pull this game you will be amazed at it's beauty. I liked the fight 
 system in G1 and G2 better, but one must understand that in some of the huge battles it would have 
 not worked well. I miss the strength and difficulty of orks, but the storyline of G3 somewhat requires 
 that they do not seem to be so overpowering like in G1 and G2. However you couldn't reach such 
 high levels like here. I finished the game on level 72.
  
  There are some types of quests that would be repetitive and boring, but they are really aren't. 
 It's big fun to hunt down packs of named animals, especially since they are very difficult even 
 at the end in packs. So you must strategize and sometimes lure them one by one. Im very curious 
 how the magic will make it easer, since for this first time I went with pure melee + archer character. 
 Archery (or crossbow) is almost a requirement, since you will have some trouble with the wild animals 
 especially in the beginning.
  
  As for melee: as I said I loved G2's fight system, but this one was greatly enjoyable too. It feels 
 real good to see your enemies fly and die in a circle around you. It has weight and reall feel 
 to it. The music is great as always, I was a bit annoyed by the not so well implemented grunts 
 and growls of fighting but soon I forgot to pay attention in the heat of the battle.
  
  The three main parts of the land was done in great detail, sometimes I felt as I was freezing in 
 real when in Nordmar, and almost sweating when down in Varant, and I couldn't help say home sweet 
 home back in the Midlands.
  
  The castles, the towns has this real gritty, worn, medieval feel to them which I loved in G2 and 
 love more here. Oh, yeah, don't expect Oblivion like hand-holding and built-in GPS. You will have 
 to really walk around and explore. But it's really great fun. As for joining factions. They are 
 in fact connected, as I said your actions will actually define your reputation and/or your infamousness 
 in the whole land. On smaller scale if you steal you will be probably caught, if you steal in sight, 
 you will be slapped around for good, if you do bad for the Orks/Rebells/Nomads etc., they won't 
 be so nice to you. There are real options in completing quests how you do it, and each way has 
 it's consequences. There was some incredibly funny and shocking consequence of one of my activities 
 (won't tell, because it would be a spoiler) The people here are living, breathing. They do not 
 stand around staring at walls watching paint dry. They cook, sleep, cut wood, yawn, scratch their 
 butts, dance, drum... The landscape... it doesn't look like it's computer generated. There is no 
 identical small crevice here. There is no random computer calculated slopes. It's beautiful.
  When you will look down a mountain after you climbed on it, you will be afraid. Afraid truly you 
 will fall down. :D
  
  This game still needs a few patches until the regular non-fan folk will really appreciate it, but 
 if you have the patience you will truly enjoy this game. Just try not to develop affection for 
 the NPCs as I did. It will be really painful killing them, and sometimes you will need to, to complete 
 some of the quests. All my respect goes to Piranha Bytes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CornCake
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  I can't add much that the other reviewers haven't said. Gothic 3 may be great in a few months but 
 buyers should be aware of what they are getting when they pay for it now... an unfinished game! 
 There are 2 main issues I have with this game:
  
  1) Performance is not optimized which forces many players to read tech support forums and try various 
 tweaks in an effort to get this game running halfway decently. Even then, there are a significant 
 number of people having trouble getting this game to run well no matter what they try. Others seem 
 to have little problem. One thing is for sure... there are too many people having difficulties 
 (just read the JoWood forums) .
  
  2) The game is unfinished. There are numerous game stopping bugs, glitches, broken quests, and 
 unimplemented skills. Melee combat has big issues. In the end, there are just too bugs many to 
 be ignored, imo, when giving an honest opinion of this game.
  
  This game shows so much promise and then snatches it away due to sloppy implementation (i. e. released 
 in beta form) . Fans of the series seem to love this game despite its flaws. I'm one who expects 
 games to be a little more polished and a lot more finished.
  
  In its current state, there's definitely some fun to be had. The vision of Gothic 3 is as good, 
 if not better, than any RPG out there. Unfortunately, there are too many problems keeping this 
 game from being the contender it should have been. No matter how much fun I've had, the bugs always 
 seem to be a reminder that this game just wasn't ready for release. There's a game worthy of a 
 9.0 rating (or higher) hidden somewhere in this mess of sloppy, buggy code. If I were to rate this 
 game on its potential, I could easily give it a 9.0+ rating. Instead, I choose to rate this game 
 as it was released... unfinished! My suggestion is for the consumer to wait another month (or longer) 
 to see if this game receives the patches it desperately needs before making the decision to buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanok16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  The Game that awry-one was waiting for is here and we are playing it. Gothic 3 is a superb game 
 with minor problems glitches and the game is saving to long.
  The game doesn't have that filing that you are in the safe place wen you are in the city and this 
 game is missing one thing door, there are doors only wen some one is locked up. Ok thats the bad 
 thing the good is there are ALLOT of  and the game has everything 
 that the player expects. Fighting is a bit beater. The map is separated in 3 parts desert Nordmar 
 and normal. Nordmar is the best place for hunting and ore. The first mane quest is long you wile 
 probably be level 30 wen you complete it. I cant tell much about ore but the pure ore weapons wile 
 be the best. I havent joind the guild yet cose I didnt have the chance maby there wont be a guild. 
 If you are the gothic 3 fan then you wile probavly love thise.
  
  My first Review tell me wat you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoegazer42081
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  The Gothic series has always been an aquired taste among rpg fans, and Gothic 3 is no exception. 
 If your looking for an on-the-rails action/rpg, hack n slash romp, Gothic 3 may not be for you. 
 While other games stick to the genre hallmarks, (bright fantasy enviroments, easily accessible 
 hack n slash combat, and cookie cutter npcs) , Gothic 3 shines in other categories, (sheer ambience, 
 open-ended exploration, and a complex, yet rewarding combat system) Back when GTA was first taking 
 it's open-ended world baby steps, Gothic 1 was pioneering the genre on pc. Not much has changed 
 in Gothic 3. Right from the beginning, you can pretty much do whatever you want... but just like 
 in real life though, the choices you make will reveberate throughout the rest of the game. In G3, 
 the kingdom of Myrtana is overrun by Orcs. Your moral choice from the beggining is pretty obvious: 
 either aid the rebels in overthrowing the orchish hordes, or serve the orcs, and hunt your own 
 kind in the name of self-preservation. Another thing that grabs you right from the start is the 
 sheer ambience of this game. When you draw your sword in town, everyone around you will draw their 
 weapons and tell you to lower your blade. If you decide to liberate everyone in town of their gold 
 &amp; trinkets, guards will question &amp; accuse you of being a theif, even though no one witnessed 
 you stealing! You can learn how to craft weapons at a blacksmith's, learn recipes &amp; cook meals, 
 hunt game &amp; cook meat, gather herbs &amp; brew potions out of them.... I could go on for hours. 
 It's the little attention to detail that grounds this fantasy world in real world logic. Gothic 
 3 also sports a classless, skill-based leveling system for your character. This is both a blessing 
 and a curse, in that the system allows for great depth &amp; customization for your character, 
 but if you spread your learning pts. into too many skills, your character can end up weak in the 
 later half of the game. The combat in the Gothic series has always been a heated topic in rpg forums, 
 and not much of that has changed in this installment. The new point and click combat system is 
 a refreshing change for the series. Also, the use of shields, charged attacks, and manual bow aiming, 
 infuse the combat system with new life &amp; depth. Changes aside, the combat still resembles classic 
 Gothic melee to me: attacking, parrying, evading, and creating your own combos by mixing up all 
 the moves. It may not be the best combat system, but it's more than sufficient, and it rewards 
 the player with depth if their willing to spend the learning points to improve their combat skills. 
 In closing, I think Gothic 3 is definitely caters to a more mature audience that is seeking depth 
 and detail over shine and accessibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambiorix1974
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off... for you people that had complained so much about the fighting system, Aspyr and 
 JoWood decided to get rid of the old fighting style altogether. Now it's kind of more like a Zelda 
 fighting-style. You press the left and right mouse buttons to hit slow and hard or quick and less 
 powerful. Also, now you don't have to guess the combination of chests like before. If you have 
 a lock-pick and the required skill, you can just go up to a chest and open it just like the regular 
 ones! The graphics are very good and kinda of unique. I recommend you get a very powerful graphics 
 card and processor or will will have problems running the game even on the lowest settings. One 
 thing that I was disappointed with is that this game has a lot of bugs and glitches like; animals 
 and enemies going thru walls and sometimes an enemy is standing right in front of you and you don't 
 seem to be able to hit them. Also, if you get knocked down by an enemy... it might never let you 
 up and end up killing you! Well, all said... I really like this game and the way that every choice 
 you make has a consequence. Give it a try, it's not a bad deal for the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  First of all, I should speak about the bugs.
  Gothic 3 is perfect in the stability part as long as:
  -you don't spend more than 5 hours continously 
 without a reboot. The processor needs a break.
  -you save a lot and you configure the settings correctly
  
  But enough about bugs. Let's talk 
 about the game! You people don't know what you're talking about! Stop comparing Gothic 3 with Oblivion. 
 They're completely opossite.
  
  Off course Oblivion runs better. Oblivion relies on processor power, Gothic 3 relies more on the 
 amount of DDR you have. Oblivion is good because of it's diversity and graphics. Period. Gothic 
 3 is the best when it comes to storyline, addictiveness and gameplay.
  The thing why all you people don't like Gothic 3 is because a lot of you are newbies to the gothic 
 series. If you haven't played Gothic, Gothic 2 and Night of the Raven before, then don't play Gothic 
 3!
  
  Gothic 3 comes off when Gothic 2/NOTR left off. Major changes appear in this game compared to the 
 predecessors. More animals are added and the good ol' animals are remodelled, retextured, perfected.
 
  In Gothic 3, the ideea of freedom is expanded. This means that, unlike gothic/gothic2, you can 
 start exploring the world from level 1, but that doesn't necessary promise you that you won't be 
 eaten by sandcrawlers or ogres!
  
  Gothic 3's universe is very realistic and 5 times larger than the entire old gothic universe! That 
 means Khorinis + Valley of Mines + Jharkendar multiplied by five!
  The map is separated into 3 areas: The midland ( as you know: grass, hills, cliffs, forests) , the 
 lowland (desert, dunes) and the mountain area (snow, mountains, ice and glaciers) .
  
  The fighting system is a lot improved (also improved by physics) . Fighting is now much easier and 
 smart!
  Inventory and stats, spellbook etc. can be accessed simply by the press of a button. As the story 
 goes: This game is based more about decisions. Should you rule the land by the side of the orcs 
 or should you fight for freedom along the rebels? Good, evil or neutrality? The freedom force of 
 nomads or the treacherous hashashins? Innos, Adanos or Beliar? Those are some extremely major decisions 
 you'll have to make in the game.
  
  As Xardas states: You can fight for one side or for the other side. But who knows? Maybe there's 
 a third option... 
  
  I will end this review quickly, because I'm dying for another round of Gothic 3.
  
  All I can 
 say, and I shall say it from within my heart is: If you are an RPG maniac and have good and refined 
 tastes, this game will amaze you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oickel
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I struggled with this game trying to make it work, including dumbing down the graphics, killing 
 the virus and Internet protection, and completely reloading the game. The 1.09 patch did not make 
 a difference. When my character got into the east entrance rebel cave where the goblins were, the 
 screen began to flash and sometimes fog up except for my character. In addition, everything that 
 moved began jerking between moving very fast or walking slow. When I finally got out the other 
 side of the cave, I noticed the sky would constantly flash between a day sky, and a night sky with 
 stars. Reloading previously stable saves, and even starting over, did not stop the flashing! In 
 response I tried the things listed above until finally got some level of stability. Unfortunately 
 the next time I got near a another cave entrance the day/night flashing began again! Also noticed 
 the number of days shown in the saved games goes wild when the day/night flashes begin, almost 
 like time is moving forward very fast (just like on the old time machine movie from the 1950's) . 
 Before the bug started I was on day 10, then next thing I know I'm on like day 360! Other than 
 this bug problem, I really like the game! Had fun until I about went blind! Awaiting 1.10 patch 
 for US. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti-strider
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Lets remember. Gothic 1 was a hit with great storyline and never-seen interesting fighting system.
 
  
  Gothic 2 was a hit with great storyline and improved interesting fighting system.
  
  Gothic 3 is a great game with good old -school fighting system and almost no... storyline
  
 
  Thats right. You know how the game ends almost at the start of the second chapter. Choose a side, 
 choose a weapon, choose a fighting style and choose a main quest you want to complete, or instead, 
 choose one of thousands of secondary quests just to level up fast.
  
  The storyline is quite simple, you'll feel DEJA vu often. In fact, its very common to the Gothic 
 2 story.
  
  But Gothic 3 is'nt about the great storyline, it's all about choice.
  
  You can choose how
  to end the game in many different ways
  
  Be the evil follower of the 
 darkness, be the follower of the light and the good, or just be a simple hunter who wants to end 
 the madness and chaos in Myrtana region.
  
  Thousands of choises, wich will have thousands of outcomes. Gothic 3 storyline is all about the 
 choice. Graphics are wonderful. Wonderful textures, great landscapes, every model has been done 
 very well.
  
  But... the game system requirements are so large, you will have to think of buyng a new computer.
 
  
  First, the game requires 1024mb of ram, and if you have that in your Pc, you will have to have 
 more, because it's Not ENOUGH. Second, the game runs well only on next gen video cards, so don't 
 expect too much if your video card is 1.5 or 2 years old.
  
  The worst side of the game is bugs. Lots of bugs. Very annoying bugs. Some patches have fixed a 
 lot, but thats not enough.
  
  Well, the conclusion could be : If you are a fan of RPG's and particularly of Gothic, you must 
 buy this game. In all other cases i dont think you'll be so amazed and happy like playing Star 
 wars KOTOR or Diablo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lippsaj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is the best single-player RPG out in a long time! However, it has a few technical issues 
 such as minor lagging, a few crashes and lockups, and sound muffling. Otherwise, an excellent installment 
 in the series.
  
  The game environment is huge, like Oblivion, so unless your running a high end PC, you won't get 
 the most out of your experience. Fortunately, the game still looks good with some to all of the 
 graphic settings turned low or off. But you can expect a few lags here and there since the environment 
 is so huge. Often when your running and are panning and scanning around as you do so. The only 
 load time is when you start (and when you die and have to load a saved game) . So if you die often, 
 expect some load times. Otherwise, quicksave often.
  
  Even though the US version has version 1.08, and they say that the most recent patch 1.09 is unneccessary, 
 still get it as it fixes a possible memory error when saving. There are some sound problems (depending 
 on your system) that include not hearing the voiceovers. This can be solved by simply setting the 
 audio to stereo. Also, with the music, ambient, SFX, etc., and the angle you are facing towards 
 the NPC, some conversation are hard to hear.
  
  Fortunately, most of these can be overlooked when considering the nonlinear gameplay. It's exactly 
 as its advertised, whatever you choose. You can go anywhere, anytime, and do anything you want. 
 Attack, steal, help, explore, then take your experience and build your character.
  
  Thus far, it is an amazing game with much to do. Just needs a few more patches to be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhajduk
Rating: 2.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3. It was a game with such potential, such ambition and such hard competition. With the 
 likes of Bethesda's TES IV: Oblivion in the market JoWood could not afford to lose face by releasing 
 a less graphically advanced game. This at least is something they managed.
  
  The game is essentially broken. It seems as if very little or no beta testing went on before this 
 game turned gold. Enemies (especially bestial creatures) within the game can perform inescapable 
 attacks that hammer out about two hits in a second each taking off a quarter of your total health. 
 Armour is so utterly broken that it makes no discernible difference whether you are wearing the 
 max mitigation armour or the leather cuirass you start in. Melee combat has nice animation but 
 it is essentially a battle of who hits first. If you hit the enemy first then you can simply spam 
 right-click until they die as with each hit they stagger back slightly, unable to block or attack. 
 If they hit you the same thing happens. So naturally when a creature like an ogre (with incredible 
 reach) comes ambling your way, you had better hope you chose ranged combat.
  
  It is also broken on the other side of the spectrum. Magic is massively overpowered. If you choose 
 magic all you have to do is hold-down the left mouse button and unleash a seemingly heat-seeking 
 projectile to annhilate your enemy from afar. Archery is similar in this aspect, as long as you 
 continuously back away and aim for the head then the enemy doesn't stand a chance. Skills also 
 make very little impact upon your ability. Levelling good archer to master archer makes no noticable 
 difference on your damage, it merely allows you to meet the prerequisite for another skill.
  
  The game is also very bugged when it comes to performance. Without serious '. ini' tweaking 
 (to allow the game to allot the correct amount of RAM) it stutters and freezes continuously. Game 
 saves and loads can take upwards of a minute, making the high number of deaths encountered whilst 
 melee fighting unbearable. So how does this game compare to Oblivion? It is a shoddy unfinished 
 shadow of what it could have been. JoWood spotted a game destroying bug in their game and postponed 
 going gold for a mere two weeks, Oblivion noticed a similar flaw and spent 3 months trying to fix 
 the bug so that they could release their game as the best it could be.
  
  I am very dissapointed in JoWood to say the least as, even when patched, this game is at parts 
 near unplayable. So be warned: If you buy this game you are paying &pound;25 to become JoWood's 
 beta tester. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jer042880
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I would love to give this game a great rating, unfortunately there are too many technical glitches 
 in the game for me to do that. Despite the fact that my system meets all the recommended requirements 
 I still have to run it in a minimal graphics mode. This in and of itself is forgiveable as it has 
 been the trend in games for awhile now. However, on top of this there are many other smaller glitches 
 that take away from the total gaming experience and while I enjoy playing the game, these minor 
 irritations add up. On the positive side the game is very large with no loading times (in my experience 
 there have been a couple times were my character stops for a minute or less and nothing happens) . 
 Sound is pretty good, and graphics even on minimal don't look bad. AI seems to be lacking, I've 
 found companions to be particularly stupid. The story seems pretty good so far, and you get to 
 kill plenty of orcs, or side with them if you want, all in all an enjoyable experience if somewhat 
 buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dems06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Gothic games have some of the most involving single player worlds you can find on the PC. Very 
 in-depth and with a seriousness in execution lacking in many games today.
  
  Has been rock solid on my rig. I read some of the early reviews and I think there are too many 
 complainers online who love to badmouth PC games too easily, before looking for solutions for their 
 rig setup. PCs have so many possible configurations to deal with, it is no wonder why many developers 
 are leaving the PC Game market for the more standardized console platforms.
  
  The only problem I have with the game is the loading time. I guess it is kinda a trade off.... 
 There are no loading times during the game except for the rare stutter, but when your character 
 meets an untimely end, loading the save game is a little long. Though it is a motivation to get 
 good quick! :-)
  
  Gothic Rox!! Peace... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mong115
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I Give Gothic 3 a 7.5 . I tried to play this game when it firt came out only to be greatly disapointed. 
 I was expecting a game that run smoothly, and so was everyone else waiting for the game. Any way 
 after six or eight months i returned to the game and started it again with the latest patches... It 
 is better however it still shuts down on regular basis. But i have been able to deal with this.
 
  If you have played Gothic 1 and 2 you will want to give this a try provided you can handle the 
 shutdown problem. The game itself is great. Graphics are excelent and the story line is just what 
 i had hoped for. 
  To the makers of Gothic 3. Why make such a Great game, just to release it with so many problems.
 
  Gothic is one of the few great R. P. G.'s. I would hate to see it end befor its time. 
  
  The News is there is a 4th in the gothic seris called
  Arcania , A Gothic Tale. 
  With this 
 yet there is hope! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I will start off with the pros and cons.
  
  Pros that effect my review score:
  great story.
  great value.
  more replaybility then any other RPG out there.
  The combat system 
 is actualy fun for an RPG finely.
  open ended world which is almost impossible to thoroughly explore.
  The quest are all diffrent 
 from the previous quest.
  Dueiling areninas are awsome.
  Liberating citys is the best thing to come to RPGs.
  theres 3 ways to finish the game.
  Exceptional 
 skill building system.
  Great graphics, just as good as Oblivions.
  The music, its probelly the best Ive ever heard in a video game.
  
  Ofcourse there is alot 
 more pros to talk about, but you have to get the game to see it for yourself.
  
  Cons that effect the score:
  You have to upgrade to 1.9, and even 1.9 doesnt cover all the bugs, 
 but it does fix alot.
  the game crashes sometimes if you have 1gb of ram.
  if you have 1gb or less its gona be very rough sometime splaying the game.
  the AI isnt that 
 bad but it couldve been better.
  The armor isnt as good looking as Oblivion's in my opinion.
  
  Cons that dont effect the score:
 
  I know its gothic series, but I wouldve loved to created my own charecter.
  The end of the game makes you feel like, thats all? the games over?. 
  But because of that you 
 can try the game in a diffrent way.
  
  Anyway this is a great overall game, and it did have the potential to be the best RPG ever. But 
 its not as polished as it couldve been, eitherway get it its really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Not everyone who runs the same game have the same system specs. Base my review base on my spec:
 
  
  AMD 4200+
  2 GB OF RAM
  7900 GTS 256 MB
  
  The world of Gothic 3 is big and expect to be doing ALOT of walking, which is great, because the 
 environment is a beauty and breath-taking (with the right hardware) . Everything from the wild life 
 to the trees waving in the wind, chasing a herd of deer through the forest, picking off a bison 
 from it's family, it's carefully crafted -- simply beautiful. However, with such beauty, like a 
 rose, expect some thorns. And ouch! They really go deep into the skin. A closer look at this world, 
 you'll find that it's not polished. Trees floating over head, grass growing on thin air, rocks 
 levitating in the middle of nowhere, wild life disappearing and walking into mountains and hills, 
 you own character glitches here and there. These flawed are not everywhere, but encountering them 
 every once in a while ruin the beauty and immersive-ness of the game.
  
  The gameplay is as expected -- repetitive. CLICK CLICK CLICK CLICK CLICK Others will argue that 
 there is a strategy to hack/slash your way into victory such as careful balancing between dodge 
 and slash. However, this is only half-true, it only applies when you are fighting humanoid enemies 
 in large areas and your character will be lock in attack mode, making it extremely difficult to 
 move it out of enemy attack range. The majority of the time, youll be trying to corner your enemy, 
 so you can trap them with the CLICK combo. You can also see this repetitiveness from enemies as 
 well, especially from the wild life, which can be frustrating at times. The next time you see a 
 wolf, wild boar or a tiger, you better have an escape plan.
  
  This repetitiveness in sword-play does not however imply that the game isnt enjoyable, or its 
 bad. Its challenging in a way, forces you to show some respect for the wild life. It forces you 
 to think about the environment, a bit of planning before drawing your sword or maybe just use a 
 bow/crossbow from high ground. There are also the usual restore and projectile spells and some 
 unique spells such as Tame , Summon Animal just to named a few -- which gives you some control 
 over the wild life, which is great being that about 50%+ of the NPCs of Gothic 3 are wild life.
 
  
  The AI in Gothic 3 is off. I am sure as with all games, the developers were aiming for the Moon, 
 but landed among the other stars. NPCs CAN NOT follow simple directions. They will get stuck on 
 steps, vegetations, and often just walked backward  kind of like they just rewind themselves. 
 Your own teammates will attempt to kill each other (both have blue color names) ; while you cant 
 do a thing, not a slash/spell will go through. Your own character will freeze in odd positions 
 like sit, eat, and fall just to name a few. There are still many more bugs in this game that 
 needs to be sort out. If you can accept the facts that no game is made perfect, then youll enjoy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougie-fresh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Although graphics not as awe inspiring as Oblivion, it is without a doubt the most addictive and 
 enjoyable game ever created. No game since the original pool of radiance game back in the 80's 
 has kept me this entertained. I'm sure there will be better in the future as there has been in 
 the past. As of today no other game can make you feel as immersed as this on will. The character 
 development in this epic game is what I think makes it so unique. Although Gothic 2 was a milestone 
 and on the cutting edge of character development Gothic 3 takes it even further. As of right now, 
 it seems that you are able to develop your character into every area of expertise by the conclusion 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meforero
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Really very very slow with low details and 800x600 resolution, (i have gforce 6600) it seems that 
 to did not have video card, other games as FarCry, Need for speed, and Prince of persia see more 
 realistic and run super well in my computer.
  
  In real 3d (with 3d glasses) obvious it is not possible to play, the image are twisted and distorted, 
 other games as FarCry, Need for speed, Prince an other games run with my 3d glasses very well and 
 fast.
  
  Seem very pretty in preview images (I like the games of vegetal forest) , but those are the consequences 
 of run over on MicroSoft .net
  
  The unique good in this game are the sound is incredible.
  
  Finally i desistall the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Ahh Jowood can't even release a demo that isn't buggy, despite every single game that they have 
 overseen.... their still releasing extremely buggy games, they don't have to get all of the bugs 
 out but atleast take out the ones that won't let you play, better luck next time jowood. Despite 
 the fact that the game has a good looking world the way that the character moves is just plain 
 crappy, he even runs all fruity. The way the characters look is even worse, whats with the constant 
 arm and head movement when their talking? I could see if some people moved that much while talking 
 but everyone? good god. Why can the characters not stand still and attack, their always lunging 
 forward.... I dunno about you but I wouldn't lunge at a big ole orc who has a weapon bigger than 
 you he'd sidestep and take your head clean off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcf80
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 1 was stunning - great atmosphere, interesting story, amazing gameplay. G2 was brilliant 
 continuation and another great adventure.
  
  I've expected that this great adventure started in G1 will continue, but nothing like that happened 
 when I've launched G3. It's much more like one of many hack'n slash game now than real G2 continuation 
 - plenty of small quests (that's nice, of course) , but no main plot, no real story, simply conquering 
 towns one by one. It's not something I expected from G2 continuation.
  
  Game looks nice, but it's not optimized - almost unplayable if you have less than 1.5 GB of RAM. 
 And there is still plenty of bugs in there as of 1.09 - some pretty annoying, you can get many 
 quests blocked easily.
  
  Unless you are big series fan, it's not really worth spending your money. Previous parts were much 
 more involving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  I will tell you from the beggining of my review - I am TES fan and this is the first time I am 
 playing Gothic game. And of course it was really interesting for me to play the game that looks 
 so familiar to me....
  I'll just express what I am filling after playigng this game:
  Graphics - It is nearly the same to my favorite Oblivion, but the difference is that the world 
 looks less realistic than Oblivion's one. Especialy I don't like the way plants for alchemy look 
 in the field.... i will compare it with TES plants - you see in Oblivion all plants are looking 
 like the real one that you will easily find in your own yard or nearest forest, plus they don't 
 alocate from the enviorment, while in Gothic 3 all alchemy plants looks like they were just putted 
 in one place withou trying to make em look a bit more realistic or make em look a bit the same 
 to the other plants in the fields. Of course in total the graphics is great, but the way the world 
 was created you are instantly forgeting about it.
  Sound - sound is good withou a doubt but still there are only 3-4 soundtracks wich are constantly 
 looping plus to the not a high quality sounded enviorment... the forests look like a place where 
 all creatures with exept of several ones, died out.
  Gameplay - gameplay is the worst thing in this game. First of all I didn't like the thing that 
 from very beggining I wasn't told about the control system. Where are hints that could tell me 
 - Press I for invertory or M for map? I had to hit each key on my keydoard to understand how to 
 control the game. Plus there is no description on how to develop your character or how to play 
 some other aspects of game like alchemy, smithing and etc. Yes I have a manual for that kind of 
 stuff but let's again compare this game with TESIV: Oblivion - In Oblivion you don't need to be 
 a fan of Elder Scrolls series or to have a manual by your hand, you can just start playing and 
 the game itself will give you hints on how to control it!
  In total I can say one thing - Maybe it is because i am Oblivion fan or maybe it is cause of i 
 have never played Gothic before, but this game, Gothic 3, seems to be an unsuccessfull attempt 
 to beat TESIV out of it's first place on the market of hi-end RPG games. But still I think that 
 fans of Gothic series will love it and will be playing it for hours and hours in a row. But personaly, 
 I would suggest you to rent it first or to buy TESIV: Oblivion, system reqs are nearly the same 
 but Oblivion is a lot more interesting and amazing than Gothic 3. Tahir Yazon Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I have invested over 100 hours in Gothic 3 and without a doubt it is by far the best game and RPG 
 I have ever played. Simply put, this game is a masterpiece and I'll tell you why.
  
  1. G3 has the most engaging story of any RPG I have played, including NWN, NWN2, Oblivion, and 
 such. The only game I believe would match the epicness of this story would be the original Baldur's 
 Gate from Bioware. The story is indepth and magical, captivating the end user more and more as 
 they delve deeper and deeper into it.
  
  2. Graphics. If you have the hardware to run it the game is beautiful. I'm not sure how it looks 
 on a low or middle-end system, but in widescreen 1920x1200 with all settings maxed and a tweaked 
 ini file, it's breathtaking. I have yet to see a game that can rival the crisp textures, gorgeous 
 scenery, and diversity that G3 offers.
  
  3. Gameplay. From building your own character path as you go to the flexibility and diversity of 
 quests, G3 has so much to offer. The game is unbelievably addictive, unlike Oblivion, which lost 
 my interest after 60-70 or so hours. Not only is it addictive, but the sheer epicness of the game 
 world is staggering. I am not even close to finishing the game.
  
  4. Sound and music score. Sound is spectacular and music score is a pure masterpiece. I honestly 
 have not come across a music score as brilliant as the one in G3. I felt Oblivion offered an incredible 
 music score, but after hearing the tracks in G3 it is pale in comparison.
  
  If it wasn't for the bugs, which hopefully will be fixed soon, I would award this game a 10/10. 
 Here's looking to more titles in the futures from this brilliant team of developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegazull
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The best beginning I ever seen. You start with a simple slaughter to get you warm. Most things 
 are different then the previous games: enhanced character upgrading, stamina except speed potions, 
 recipies, blueprints, etc. All this thinks makes game play better. Talking to other NPC's is the 
 same but the reputation system is much better then faction chooseing in previes games. Graphics 
 are ... can't find a word. On my Gf 6600 I can only set medium every think and SH2 to have an average 
 FPS about 20, but it's still great. Their isn't much to say about sound. It's nice. The only bug 
 which certainly makes my mad is flashing scan. It makes gameplay completely unplayable. It happens 
 mostly in dark corners and almost everywhere in VERAND desert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffle_god
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is a quite interesting title. This title generates alot mixed feelings about the total 
 value, but it really depends on how you look at it. If you are a fan of die-hard action then you 
 will hate this one, but if you like immense RPG's then you will love it.
  
  The story is strait foreward, big evil guy, has big evil army, and you can kill him in any way 
 possible. That's your standard RPG, big and alot of varieties. The gameplay is particularly great 
 for an RPG, there are many many many, MANY diffrent ways to kill something. Stealth, Magic, and 
 Swordplay are not your only varaeties. Part of this game is to stratagise, which if you don't, 
 you will die fast, very fast.
  
  The graphics are really great, they are ones to rival TES:4 Oblivion themselves! But there are 
 countless bugs that need fixing in this game. You get stuck in obgects, walk through stuff, the 
 water sometimes dissapears, and my favorite : the sun. The sun is the biggest bug in Gothic 3 and 
 the most annoying, it seems that the sun can go through obgects now, houses, cliffs, and sometimes 
 you get sun in caves. This makes the game best playable at nighttime (the only time you will never 
 see the sun in your eyes)
  
  The Sound in this game is really great, it may not be perfect but there is SO MUCH DIALOUGE!!! 
 Which, again, brings up mixed feelings. Evrey conversation you will have even to say Hi will take 
 over 3 minuts. The characters like to blab on and on and on and on.......
  
  This game is particularly difficult. You will not start off easy either, in fact it is so difficult 
 for n00bs that they made you immortal in the first mission. That's right, you can't die! Partail 
 to the reson that you have to fight an army of orcs, but it can get ugly. The interactivity however 
 is really awesome, there is nothing you can't do in this game (besides hide from the sun in daytime) . 
 People will loot your corpse if you are knocked out, people like you, dis like you, you can kill 
 ANYONE you want to which is really great (and lacks in several RPG's I know of) and you can craft, 
 steal, make meatshmallows etc...
  
  The Last Word (s) : This game is your standard RPG, there is arguably not too much diehard action. 
 The gameplay is made for third person, the interactivity is awesome. The graphics rock, but it's 
 really buggy! I would buy this game, because it is too big for a rent, Gothic 3 gets an 8.3 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naujleunam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Great game in all aspects... the bugs will disappear in the next patchs... don&acute; t worry about 
 that... is a game full of life... in this sense oblivion suks... until the animals and creatures 
 sleep at night... the world has a great size... full of diverse and funny quests... the main quest 
 is intelligent... and the system of reputation is extraordinary... beautifull... big... gothic 
 to the extreme... buy it... don&acute; t worry by the bugs... the elder scrolls series is great... 
 but the gothic series is amazing... gothic feels plenty of life... full of quests and a big variety 
 of creatures and animals... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tboatcap
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Despite the controls being a little clunky I really enjoy the action and exploration of Gothic 
 3. Waaaayy better than Gothic 2!
  
  The voice overs are a lot better then prior games of the series but still no where near where it 
 should be for a major US release.
  
  The number of quests in areas and how those quests are organized is a low better then another big 
 free-form RGP I can think of where you end up following the compass indicator around all the time 
 to find quest objectives.
  
  I look forward to seeing what the endgame has in store and think that I will enjoy the ride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLAXXLV
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  I am sure many will disagree, however this is MY opinion :P
  
  After playing 5-8 hours and after liberating my first town (other than the intro town) of orcs, 
 this game rocks!
  
  The graphics are fine, in fact the textures look more realistic than Oblivions, more gritty and 
 natural.
  
  The story is good and so far very non-linear
  
  The NPC AI is almost neck in neck with Oblivions, although with all the bugs (many which are addressed 
 in the recent 1.09 patch) Oblivion wins until they are all mashed.
  
  The skill system rocks, it's like Burger King baby have it your way!
  
  The landmass appears 
 enormous, stretching fields, far draw distance, excellent clouds (finally someone does clouds RIGHT) , 
 they actually dissipate and reform.
  
  Combat is better than Oblivions, MUCH better.
  
  Working with alchemy/herbalism is MUCH more fun than Oblivions.
  
  One cave does NOT look like 
 another, unlike Oblivions cookie cutter cave system.
  
  Are there still bugs? Yes there are. Are they game stopping? For me not yet.
  
  Honestly for 
 someone to truly say Oblivion trumps G3 in every way must either A - never played G3 or Oblivion
 
  
  B - Has a crappy machine and cannot run G3
  
  C - Just a troll My 2 cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Tested on: Athlon64 3000+, 2x512Mb DDR, GF6600GT 256Mb. (Patched)
  
  Gothic3 developers didn't lack any ambition when making this game, their goal was to make a huge 
 and completely open gameworld free of any kind of loading times. Unfortunately they failed miserably 
 .. instead of standard loading screens when entering a new area, the player will now experience 
 some serious stuttering for about 5 seconds, depending on how much RAM he has. This is highly annoying 
 and breaks the atmosphere completely.
  
  There has been lots of talk about bugs in Gothic3, I played this game from the beginning with a 
 patch installed and hence never experienced any game stopping bugs. Some minor annoyances do occur, 
 but nothing major like the game completely crashing or not being able to complete quests. The game 
 runs decently on medium settings, only when new textures are being loaded I got major lag and stuttering. 
 I'm not sure what Gothic3 is exactly doing that causes my HD to scream in pain and fps to drop 
 to 0 at times, but it really takes away from the experience.
  
  I have a bit mixed feelings about the graphics, sure on high it looks amazing, but not many people 
 can play it that way because of the high requirements, and even on highest settings the textures 
 look ugly at places and some objects lack details. The lack of antialiasing doesn't help either. 
 Even tho some parts of Gothic3 do look fantastic, the general graphics quality doesn't justify 
 the high system requirements, and that's why so low score for the graphics from me.
  
  But underneath the technical issues emerges an awesome game. The world in Gothic3 is filled with 
 life, much more so than for e. g. Oblivion. And there is some real variety in the environments and 
 missions too. The story is immersive yet simple: Mainland has been overrun by orcs, and humans 
 are now either slaves for the orcs or hiding as rebels. Player has a complete freedom of choice 
 in what he wants to do.
  
  People who have played previous Gothic games should feel comfortable right from the beginning. 
 Interface follows the same principle as in Gothic2 but is now more intuitive. Controls have changed 
 quite a bit, and for the better I must say.
  
  The combat is unforgiving but fun in Gothic3, you can kill opponents quickly but on the other hand 
 if they get a few good hits at you, you're a goner. Animals are a bit overpowered, tho the character 
 does start off a lot stronger than in Gothic2, so you can easily kill orcs and minecrawlers right 
 from the beginning. Deaths in Gothic3 are usually result from the player's own stupidity. Despite 
 the button smashing style of combat, it does include some fun moments, like shooting goblins with 
 a heavy crossbow from 1st person perspective; one hit kills and even pushes their bodies backwards. 
 Arrows and bolts also behave realistically when hitting trees and rocks.
  
  Sounds are decent, all dialogue is naturally spoken, voice acting is not as good as in Kotor for 
 e. g. but still better than in Oblivion. Music is excellent and very atmospheric, it suites Gothic3 
 perfectly. But some combat sounds and other smaller details could had been better.
  
  The character creation system is similar to previous Gothic games, with some new abilities. It's 
 a good system that doesn't force the player to make his choices too early in the game, but still 
 leads to unique characters. And since both equipment and developing the character cost money, the 
 player has to make some hard choices between a new armor or extra strength that allows him to wield 
 that two hander in the inventory.
  
  Gothic3 is definitely a great game, but the technical issues take down the score considerably. 
 At this stage I wouldn't really recommend the game to others than Gothic fans and people with 2Gb 
 of Ram in their rigs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkCypher0x0
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  We all know hard it is for Developers to make up to par sequels as good or better than their predecessors, 
 very few can pull it off and with the Gothic series the second installment was actually the ringer 
 in this case.
  
  The third installment however has some great visuals and rather well put together game play though 
 the nagging crashes and constant stuttering while roaming across the land was just to much to overlook, 
 not to mention on my rig with around 2Gig's the load times were just atrocious.
  
  Patches, if you are able to install them, seem to calm down a little of the stability but, not 
 enough to bring life back into the game, it would have been nice to finally be able to play something 
 new in the single player RPG world as very few worthy ones are ever made.
  
  It was nice looking project and good concept but very poorly executed, so if you really want a 
 good RPG to play that won't cause you to pull your hair out after an hour filled crash session, 
 steer clear. TES: Oblivion, Fable, Never-winter Nights 2 simply are the best in the past few years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozbb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  just great!
  You have saved your home island from the forces of evil in Gothic I and Gothic II. Now it is time 
 to travel to the realms of the mainland. Invading Orcs have enslaved the human kingdom. There are 
 but a few free humans in the icy north and the southern desert and a handful of rebels hiding in 
 the forests and mountains of Midland. You may either join the rebellion or serve the Orcish Usurpers 
 but you will ultimately tip the scales and decide the outcome of the last war to save humanity. 
 There is no simple linear story in Gothic 3 - every game will be different and unique - but all 
 will ultimately lead to you deciding the fate of humankind. Game Information Game: Gothic 3 Released: 
 Oct 2006 Game Type: 3D Adventure / 3D Role-Playing Developer: Piranha Bytes Publisher: Aspyr Media 
 / JoWood Productions Homepages: http://www. jowood. com/gamers/? lang=en&amp; site=2&amp; GameID=gothic3
 
  http://www. gothic3. com/
  http://www. aspyr. com/product/info/54
  http://gothic3. aspyr. com/ FAQs: None listed by 3D Gamers Requires: Windows / Direct3D Supports: 
 Multiplay: None Keywords: third-person / Medieval / fantasy / fighter ESRB Rating: Unavailable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattx13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for about 20 minutes before i was forced to turn it off, almost convlusing from 
 the constant white flashing screen whenever i looked to the right, repeated freezing, glitchy voice, 
 crashing (twice) and other glitches that render it unplayable... This may be worht getting once 
 it is patched extensively, but as of now, STAY AWAY (it is not my PC that was at fault; AMD64 3400+, 
 2gb ram, Radeon1900 512mb) . stay away stay away stay away stay away stay away stay away stay away 
 stay away stay away stay away stay away stay away stay away stay away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskeren
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Gothic 3
  
  First i would like to start with the bad:
  
  Gothic 3 is made by sloppy heads, it's been released 1 maybe 2 months to early, the bugs in the 
 game completely overwhelms everything.
  They made the game far to easy, there is only a small amount of challenges. Even on Hard.....! 
 When that's said, we get to the graphical requirements: This game requires far to much, sure it's 
 pretty, it's actualy close to amazing, but it's not revolutionary or anything. So the extremely 
 high graphical requirements, ruins it for many ppl's.
  Now the graphical bugs: In every caves on the map, the inside of the caves are red in the sides, 
 Huge areas of grass is blue and white just like the sky, and then at last, it lags in the city's! 
 (Not because of req. cause i tried setting everything on low, didn't help at all. And the city 
 problem isn't only me, my friend has the same problem)
  
  BTW: I have a Geforce 6800 ultra, 2Gb ram and a 3.2 Ghz processor (just saying that so you wouldn't 
 think it's because i can't run the game proberly)
  
  But now i said all these bad things, i would also like to mention that it was the first patch, 
 i'm commenting and that i have also tried later with newer patches, and some of the bugses are 
 fixed. But that doesn't changed the matter that they simply released it to soon!
  
  Now to the good:
  
  Gothic 3 may have alot of major bugs, but now i will look past them, because 
 they don't steal the entire picture, there is also good and amazing things in Gothic 3.
  The entire world in Gothic 3 is amazing, and really makes you addicted, each quest have it's unique 
 touch, which makes it all fun. This is without a doubt the best game in the Gothic series, and 
 that does say something, i was a big fan of Gothic 1 and 2, and i think they both were and still 
 are amazing games, but this beats them both, even though it has these really annoying bugs. The 
 gameplay simply saves the day.
  Graphics: As i said before Gothic 3 has huge requirements, but if you have what it requires, you 
 wont be dissapointed. I run the game with most on medium and somethings on high, and i must say 
 i'm impressed, the medium graphics are truly amazing. BUT still remember that it also requires 
 so much. There isn't much to say about the sound, it works and it goes to 7.1 surround, so i guess 
 it's okay good, and the music is really good in the game, suits the game perfectly.
  
  But with everything put together and remember i'm making this oppinion from the first release, 
 where it hasn't been patched yet.
  I would say it gets 8.6 which is a really good grade, and put in mind that it's without being patched, 
 so it's really good.
  But my advice to you is, wait until a patch is released, then buy this amazing game!
  
  And 
 now i just want to add, that with the newest patch (1.09) the game has changed allot, it's become 
 almost everything it was missing before, so with the new patch i would give it 9.3 because many 
 graphical bugs, have been fixed, which not only emproves the graphical grade but also the value, 
 and then i actually first now realised that the sound have improved quite a bit, and being that 
 said the amazingly well gameplay remains, just as before, just as it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codeman3D
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  After the dismal failure that is Neverwinter Nights 2, thank the Gods for this game.
  
  While I have heard some people complaining about bugs, I have not had and difficulty. It does like 
 a speedy machine - I ended up setting things to 'Medium'.
  
  If you like Gothic II you will LOVE this game. From the get go, I was emerged in the story and 
 lost 8 hours of my life in a blink of an eye, the first night.
  
  I am usually quite gifted at skimming through dialog without stopping to understand the story. 
 I have it honed to an art. I actually found my self listening to the NPCs.
  
  I enjoyed Oblivion, but it was too open ended for me. I ended up feeling like I was playing a bunch 
 of mini games in the same world. So far in Gothic III, I am getting swept up in the story. It feels 
 like you have actual impact in the world.
  
  Combat is fun (and difficult as always) When you fight you feel like you have really struggled. 
 It is much better than Gothic IIs control.
  
  The magic is interesting. The great mystery of all RUNE magic disappearing puts in interesting 
 spin on the wizard among us.
  
  Well worth the $39.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Well its finally here and im in love. Gothic 3 takes place directly after Gothic 2 which took place 
 after Gothic 1. yea yea Goths are **** but this has nuthin to do with them. Gothic is very popular 
 over in europe it never really got much publicity here in the west which i have no clue why, the 
 Gothic series has been the best RPG's I've ever played. Its pretty much like playing Gothic 2 just 
 with updated graphics which is absolutely perfect. Gothic 2 took me 40+ hrs to beat with the addon 
 it was 60+ hrs, I'm hoping the same for the 3rd. Very detailed story, lots of dialog. The graphics 
 are comparable with Oblivion, not as pretty but close. Oblivion seemed to put all their time in 
 graphics and their main story line was beatable in a few hrs. Gothic has put most of their time 
 into the story line which makes the game very long. If you're a fan of RPG's and or liked the game 
 Oblivion or you're a fan of the previouse Gothic games you should definatly get this game. Outta 
 all the games this year this is the game i most wanted to play, actually wanted to play it since 
 playin gothic 2 4 yrs ago, ive put alot more hours into the game and love it... the games a bit 
 of a resource hog i tried max graphics and the game looks awesome but so choppy, im playin on med 
 graphics now with texture detail set a bit higher and it runs pretty smooth still chops a bit when 
 approaching a city. About the story line, in #1 there were many factions within the prison you 
 could join cant remember all, in #2 you could join up with either the mercs, palidins or mages. 
 This 1 takes place after the war, where orcs rule most of the land and cities, you can either join 
 the orcs and murder the rebels or join the good side with the rebels and take back the fallen cities, 
 so theres a fair bit of replay value to the game, im doing the rebels and the game is fun as hell 
 i love but the bugs can make the game frusterating. Theres 3 Sections of the playable world, you 
 start off in the middle, where its green land. rebels and orcs roam here, King Robar has his castle 
 here protected by an energy shield like the prison in #1. to the west is desert with people called 
 hassisian (sp) who live with the orcs theres rebels here as well, also the water mages from gothic 
 1 &amp; 2 are scattered throughout the land, you can help and unite them, or murder them all. to 
 the east is like the arctic, all snow. All orcs here are hostile, theres 3 clans that have villages 
 that are against the orcs. Xardes has his tower here. In the upcoming expansion the north will 
 be open land, Gothic 2 has a great expansion that works into the game, so its not like you install 
 and continue the story but its build into the original story, thats how I believe this expansion 
 will work as well. Great game, worth any price for the game play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  At first I was very skeptical to this game, as everyone was talking about countless bugs and gameplay 
 issues, but as I enjoyed the previous installment in the series, I wanted to give it a chance.
 
  
  At first I was a bit put off. I noticed a lot of things that annoyed me after being used to polished 
 Oblivion. Like the unrealistic way other characters react when hitting them hard, the silly grunts 
 your enemies let out when you hurt them, bleeding undead skeletons or the permanent lens-flare 
 from a sun shining even through mountains. Being able to slice up a huge troll with ease, while 
 being ripped to pieces by a boar, who made my character stunned and unable to fight back, particularly 
 made me feel disappointed.
  
  But, from then on, the game just gets better and better, you are greatly rewarded for ignoring 
 the first few issues on the surface. It seems to never stop pouring new amazing content at you. 
 The game just drags you in, and soon you will be wandering around the beautifully rendered woods 
 realizing how life-like the nature surrounding you is. The atmosphere is magic, and exploring the 
 world is a true joy because of its amazing diversity. The graphics is by far the best I have seen 
 in any role playing game, perhaps with the exception of Oblivion, it is just so full of life and 
 it's astonishing to see such a huge world being filled with such varied landscapes, with varying 
 themes like desert, grasslands and of course the great winter plains of the north. It is all accompanied 
 by some really fantastic music, that sets the mood spot on. On my computer the framerate is surprisingly 
 smooth, even on the highest settings (I have an overclocked Geforce 7900, dual core CPU, 2GB RAM) . 
 It runs much smoother than Oblivion.
  
  Both the main quests and side quests are varied and interesting. There's literally hundreds of 
 quests, and the characters involved all have their own unique voice as you communicate with them, 
 which helps immerse you into the story. The amount of speech put into the game is mind boggling, 
 must be countless of hours of dialogs in there. However, after a while you do find some repeating 
 patterns in the quests. It's basically fetch that thing, or kill that beast or enemy, in various 
 wrappings. But, the way you have to accomplish this varies a lot, and even better, you usually 
 have lots of different options on how you want to solve a quest based on you or your character's 
 strengths. For example, you could steal an item, help the owner so he will give it to you or just 
 use brute force to relieve him of it.
  
  Building your character is an interesting process, and you have a lot of options leading to a very 
 unique personality and gameplay experience. Unlike in many other RPGs you do not get the benefits 
 from leveling up automatically. You receive experience points which you need to spend by finding 
 the right teacher or magical shrine. You also need money to get the new benefits. So, you need 
 to put more work into developing your character than normal, but it is also quite rewarding once 
 you get through this. The various abilities are quite demanding on experience points, which means 
 you have to play a really long time before you get close to reaching your characters full potential, 
 which is good as it leaves something new to be discovered for long time.
  
  I have not yet completed the game, as I enjoy playing all the small side quests. But, I imagine 
 it has a lot of replay value. The game has several outcomes, and you are left with many choices 
 that will decide the fate of the world. Basically you need to decide whether you want to take sides 
 with the Orcs or humans. But, by playing smart, you can get the most benefits form both fractions, 
 without taking any side before things gets really serious.
  
  There's a lot of talk about which game is better, Oblivion or Gothic 3. At first I thought Oblivion, 
 now I think Gothic 3. But, it does not really matter, if you enjoy this genre, you owe it to yourself 
 to play both. And finally, please do patch this game to the latest version before you play! It 
 makes a big difference, and is hardly an optional thing to do. The game has technical issues in 
 its original form, however in the age of Internet where we get patches delivered so easily, I see 
 no point in whining about it. The latest patch fixes most problems, and you should ignore any review 
 basing the score on the problems that are now already fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryax242
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game is great, very smart AI, good combat, awesome world. Feels very close to oblivion, graphics 
 are pretty much the same. One thing i dont understand is how i can walk down a fully detailed city 
 with my graphics all the way up at a resolution of 1280+ But yet on Gothic 3 my computer is constantly 
 cacheing my harddrive is going nuts most of the time playing this game. i had to drop down to 1080 
 resolution and im still lagging some what. This is with a nice system using a 7590 SLI card.
  
  If they can fix that, then this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcek
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  More of the good stuff. did you like the first two parts?
  
  well this third part is just as good as the others.
  
  recomanded for oblivion programers to 
 see how a real rpg works!!!
  
  this is what i waited from oblivion to show but got from gothic 3 insted.
  
  like in oblivion 
 all is very repetitve. you get a feeling your doing the same thing again and again... for each group.
 
  
  in gothic u get immersed in the plot and the very addective advancing your figure system. you also 
 get a very beautifull surrounding like in oblivion.
  
  thumbs up!!! keep up the good work.... waiting already for gothic 4 :) ) )
  
  the more i play 
 this game the more im amazed.... you now get three areas each with its fauna and weather... simply 
 beautifull.... this game has reach the limit... for me fallout was the best... i can now defently 
 say this game is up there with the best. This is the best playing experience i had in years.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Finally I get to write something, I've had this game for some time now since Oct and love it!
 
  
  It begins with the story line. It's a epic one involving either saving a kindom (s) from the Orc's 
 or joining them to destroy the human race.
  
  ....... but the story doesn't really start until you first set off on your first quest which could 
 be anything from collecting wolf skins for the local hunter to hunting down slaves (yes, I said 
 slaves) and then deciding to free them or turn them to the Orc's.
  
  You'll love to just walk around and explore the country side because it's truely amazing with steep 
 mountains, huge forests, endless deserts and so on. The creatures in G3 for the most part are a 
 mixture of many different species you've probably seen in other fantasy RPG titles like Ogers, 
 Blood Flies, etc.... oh, and even dragons which is a amazing site to behold once you find one or 
 two. Combat is lacking for the most part but I discovered that actually need to increase your skills 
 to look good in battle meaning you start out slow and weak as you swing your sword at enemies but 
 as your traits increase you start to move quicker and swing harder. Now I understand and it works 
 perfectly in a game of this type.
  
  Graphics are in some places dull or blocky but in other smooth and glossy. Oblivion I believe looks 
 a little better in this regard but if you really look at the world in general in G3 compared to 
 ES it looks more fasisful than ES world could ever pull off. You will need lots of RAM like at 
 least 1.5 gig worth to run it at the higher settings with most if not all the eye candly in place. 
 I have below par system 2.66 ghz P4 which has come back to huant me lately but I can still turn 
 G3 to medium with shadows to low or off and distance drawl to the lowest the setting (that's the 
 key for good FR's) .
  
  Replayability is there and ten fold and the nature of this games makes you want more and more each 
 time you play. ES Oblivion was good in it's own right but I would have to chose this one of that 
 because of what makes any RPG great, immersion into a fantasy world called Gothic 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taibroncos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Fable is alot better. I was really let down when i played this demo. I would not buy the full game. 
 The graphics in Gothic 3 were pretty cool. But on the other hand my computer couldn't even run 
 it, and my computer is pretty new. They have alot of stuff to work on to make this game good. The 
 only thing Gothic 3 has over Fable is the graphics. Not having to load when you change zones is 
 a great feature and a huge world with alot of things you can do. but if your looking for a good 
 action rpg with a really awesome story line... check out Fable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  The Gothic series for the PC has always been the epitome of the ambitious, unpolished gem. If you 
 played both of the previous games, then you were probably able to overlook their numerous rough 
 edges to experience the deep and immersive role-playing experiences that they offered. If that 
 is the case, then you wont be surprised to hear that Gothic 3 is similar. It can be lots of fun, 
 but youll have to look past a couple of major problems to enjoy it. In fact, Gothic 3 has some 
 of the biggest gameplay and technical problems of any game in the series so far  of any game on 
 the shelves, for that matter. This game has all sorts of great features, but it was undertested 
 and released with some enormous glitches. Thats too bad, because this series has always been underexposed 
 in America, and thats not likely to change with this iteration.
  .
  Playing through this game, you will find yourself alternating between delight and frustration. 
 One moment, youre at the top of a mountain viewing a breathtaking landscape or completing a fun 
 quest. The next moment, youre watching a slide show or getting killed by a stupid wolf and staring 
 at a three-minute loading screen. For that reason, Gothic 3 isnt as much fun as it should have 
 been.
  
  Gothic 3 picks up immediately after the end of Gothic 2. You have escaped from Khorinis to the 
 empires mainland, which has been taken over by orcs, thanks to the shenanigans of the mysterious 
 Xardas. If you dont recognize Khorinis and Xardas, then quit reading now and go back and play 
 Gothic 1 and 2, because the story in Gothic 3 won't make much sense to newcomes of the series. 
 The game throws you into the action right away and you are fighting orcs within seconds  at level 
 1. There is no explanation for why your character is suddenly level 1 again, which creates a continuity 
 problem with the last game. If you played Gothic 1 and 2, youre going to have to look past that 
 contrivance.
  
  Gothic 3 has a much different combat system than the first two games. Its a lot more action-oriented. 
 Its also a lot more flawed, and the best technique for winning most battles usually is to spam 
 your basic attack by furiously clicking the left mouse button. The game has shields, but parrying 
 seems underpowered compared to just clicking away. This is a big disappointment for a series that 
 has always emphasized depth and skill in the combat system. Combat with humanoids is still pretty 
 fun though.
  
  However, combat with animals is where the game almost comes apart at the seams. This part of the 
 game isnt just flawed. Its completely broken. Its pathetic. Incredibly bad. God awful. All creatures 
 charge at you and head butt you or sting you with rapid fire attacks that repeatedly stun you and 
 keep you from using your own weapon. Even if youre high level, a single hit from a bloodfly or 
 wolf can trap you in a cycle of stun, hit, stun, hit that costs you half of your health. I once 
 massacred an entire army of orcs without breaking a sweat and then struggled to kill two simple 
 wolves. Armor doesn't seem to help. If you arent convinced, you can find a handful of hilarious 
 videos on youtube that showcase Gothic 3s often horrible combat. Its extremely frustrating to 
 play the game for 20 hours and still have to quick save your game when you face a single boar. 
 On the positive side, archery is vastly improved. You can actually aim your shots this time, and 
 there are different types of arrows. .
  Problematic combat isnt the games only major problem though. Gothic 3 is saddled with an inefficient 
 and poorly optimized engine that constantly chugs and hiccups as you roam the world. Like other 
 Gothic games, Gothic 3 boasts a huge, seamless world that has no loading screens. The previous 
 games didnt have much of a problem maintaining a steady frame rate, but Gothic 3 constantly sputters 
 and chokes. The game frequently locks up for four or five second periods when it loads a new area. 
 It doesnt matter whether youre in combat or just running by yourself. It also doesnt matter 
 where in the world you are  the game grinds to a halt once every few minutes. The game is always 
 running like cold molasses. The game takes a at least a few minutes to go from Windows desktop 
 to actually playing. Quick saves are anything but, and save games take a long time to load. This 
 game has some of the worst loading times that I have ever experienced. My rig ran Oblivion on high 
 settings almost perfectly. Why cant it run this game? Tweaking your graphical settings does little 
 to improve performance. Apparently, having 2 GB of RAM makes the game better. Ive only got 1 GB 
 of RAM. Regardless of what you have, it's very hard to look past this game's enormous performance 
 issues.
  .
  If you can get over the problems with combat and performance, then you will find that Gothic 3 
 offers a lot to enjoy. Theres a huge open-ended world to explore and hundreds of unique NPCs 
 to talk to. Most of them have unique dialog, instead of repetitive, generic lines that they all 
 repeat. There are over 100 quests to solve, and if you were to do all of them, it would take 100 
 hours to finish this game. The Gothic series has always excelled at not only providing a large 
 open-ended world, but also making it immersive by simulating it in detail. Slaves will sleep on 
 makeshift beds at night and then labor away during the day. Animals roam the plains and settle 
 down to sleep at night. NPCs perform their routines and then settle to bed at dark. Occasionally, 
 youll see unscripted interactions between animals, like when a wolf attacks a pack of scavengers. 
 .
  Gothic 3 has the most versatile and robust role-playing system of the three games. Skill points 
 are much more abundant this time around, and thats a good thing, because you have a lot more abilities 
 to spend them on. Once again, you must find some friendly to train you, a nice touch that adds 
 to the games immersiveness. Gothic 3 also easily has the biggest world of the series, but the 
 size does seem to come at the expense of depth in a few ways. Loot is randomly generated this time, 
 and towns and merchants are more generic than they have been. The AI is generally pretty good and 
 it acts believably, although NPCs are way too willing to let you in their houses. You can rob 
 most cities blind by pillaging peoples houses as they stand outside clueless.
  
  This game still sports a very immersive and often beautiful world though. Some of the scenery is 
 excellent. In particular, the vegetation looks amazing, and some of the creatures, like the scavengers 
 and trolls, are stunning in how realistic they look. Graphics are a mixed bag though. Indoor areas 
 look plain and outdated, and so do humans. Water has some ugly effects and the ocean looks downright 
 awful. The previous Gothic games sported a great but subtle fantasy soundtrack, and Gothic 3 might 
 have the best yet. There is a huge score of music for this game, and it's all very good and approprate 
 for each location. Every line is voice-acted, and most of it is competent. The nameless hero has 
 a new voice, which might be better, but it also creates discontinuity between the previous games, 
 since the charming corniness of the previous voice actor is gone. .
  A make-or-break feature of any RPG is the interface, and they finally got it right in Gothic 3. 
 Gothic 3s interface has been completely reworked from top to bottom, and this time, its excellent. 
 A tap of the I key brings up your inventory, along with a hotkey bar at the bottom, which shows 
 you what actions have been bound to your number keys. Your inventory is sorted into different categories, 
 and with a mouse click or two, you can access all sorts of other functions like your role-playing 
 stats, your map, and your quest journal. The interface is a lot more mouse-friendly and icon-driven 
 than the previous Gothic games. If youre looking for the best feature in the game, this is probably 
 it.
  
  These positive features mean that Gothic 3 is good enough to overcome its rough spots, but not 
 good enough to recommend to everyone. And thus, the Gothic trilogy comes to an end, never having 
 realized its full potential. If I had to rank the three games, I would put #2 as the best, and 
 then #3 and #1 tied for second spot. I would love to have scored this one as a 10, but I have a 
 hard time giving Gothic 3 any better than 7.9. Terrible combat with animals and poor technical 
 performance really drag this game down. For that reason, Gothic 3 probably wont appeal to you 
 unless youre hardcore into RPGs. Its very enjoyable at its core, but youve got to look past 
 some major problems to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plyzorba1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  When you begin to play this game you will probably think that it is very hard, but if you download 
 the patches it is one of the best games that have been made. The only thing that I can come on 
 that is bad in this game is the start, because it takes time to get in to this game, but after 
 that you will love it for ever. In gothic 3 you have many choices, and for each you take it will 
 be wrong for the other team, so you can say that it is very real. And sometimes it can be a bit 
 to realistic. You can move where ever you want and take what side you want, and that is what makes 
 this game so good. You can either team up with the rebels, the orcs or the hashashin. In the start 
 of the game you can do missions for all of the sides, but sooner or later you will have to make 
 a decision. Gothic 3 is one of the best rpg games I have ever tried, but you will need a pretty 
 good computer if you want to run this game smooth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugnguts
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  First of all I have adventured all around in the demo. So I don't have a lot of game time 10hrs.
 
  The good
  1. The world truly is 3d the characters though not all perfectly proportional feel like true 3d 
 rendurings.
  2. Potions and plants no longer heal 10hp or mb but 10% or 50%. THis is really good as at high 
 levels you don't have to chug a dozen potions.
  3. The fighitng is easier so for nubies it isn't as difficult, I hope it turns out to be better 
 than button mashing.
  4. Though you can be a good at all in this game that means you are aren't that good at anything. 
 If you focus on one basic discipline you can kick butt. I liked this better than Oblivion because 
 I have no reason to beat Oblivion again since I was an all powerful Theif, fighter, and mage.
 
  5. You are so free. With differnet factions you can play duoble crosser or faithful servant. Aide 
 the slave, kill him or turn him into the orcs.
  6. Music and sound is great.
  
  The not so good
  1. Bugs This game needs a few patches. Center chanel on 5.1 dosen't work. Memory 
 errors. Physco fast day and night cycle glitch.
  2. Some wall textures don't live quire up to the characers.
  
  I have had a terrible time with 
 buggy games. BF2142 reboots my computer
  Never WInter NIghts 2 multiy player stops anytime any player opens a dialouge. Spent 2.5hrs with 
 toolset editing that problem out of the main quest.
  WIth all that I liked Gothic 3 so much that even though I swore two weeks ago to never again buying 
 a new release until patches come out I will be playing this one over THanksgiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  I feel this game fails at its gameplay the most. I know many people who claim to be vets of the 
 Gothic series will say that I did not give this game enough of a chance to learn how it works and 
 see how amazing it is. You are entitled to that opinion, even though you are wrong. 7-9 Hours of 
 playing should be enough to really start getting into a game. Instead I was jumping up in fury 
 every few minutes as the game did something dumber and dumber. And that was just my first try... 
 I gave it a second try for another 10+ hours after that. I just saw all these good reviews and 
 wondered if maybe I was just missing something. Maybe the blood that was coming out of my @$$ and 
 the pain I was feeling in it wasn't a direct result of the game. Well it turned out after the second 
 try that it was. Then I looked at the people who were giving such great reviews. Some never rated 
 another game, others gave games like PREY a 9.6. In the words of Jimmy, Come on... .
  
  Gothic is a bad RPG for a number of reasons. One is the fact that you are not creating your character 
 and it isn't your character who's role you are taking. You are given a character who basically 
 sucks at everything, especially responding to controls. I was a level 10 before I got a single 
 new skill (stronger swordsman) and it really did not seem to change anything for me. The baddies 
 that were killing me when I was a level 1 could still kill me just as fast at level 10. There was 
 no feeling of progression that after 7 hours of playing, something was getting better for me. All 
 my leveling up seemed to be completely pointless, and its at the beginning of a game where you 
 are supposed to really see the effects of leveling up so that you crave it each time its near. 
 Its the reason that in any good RPG you hit level 2 so quickly and immediately gain some new feat 
 or improved skill or an HP boost or something. In this game you get neither. And its even more 
 infuriating when you have to gain like 40 levels before you can make your character be able to 
 do anything at all that focuses on your style of playing. When you finally have managed to attain 
 a new weapon that you can actually use, or afford the armor, you also get disappointed to find 
 that you can see little to no difference in the damage it is doing or absorbing. Where is the pay-off?
 
  
  Gothic is a bad Action/Fighting game due mostly to the unresponsiveness of your character. It is 
 nearly impossible to attempt hit and run with your character as everytime you try to turn around 
 and run away, your character will still want to engage the enemy and will not turn around. Then 
 after a few moments he will turn and do a slight trip thing before finally beginning to run. That 
 is of course if none of the opponents have decided to attack you in the 1-2 second gap. If they 
 have, well... your character is dead. Same difficulty with attacking animals, for example, the 
 wild boar or goblin. You can swing at it all you want and probably not hit it. Even when it is 
 backed up against a rock and you can visually perceive your sword passing through it and the rock 
 directly behind it, there are times when no damage is dealt. The moment it attacks, however, your 
 character is in stun. Completely unresponsive to controls such as attack, parry, or runaway. No 
 no no... your character will simply stumble after each of the 4-5 hits it takes for him to die, 
 which takes a little over 1 second. The fighting does take some skill to use, as in timing your 
 hits, and what kind of attack to perform, but too much of it just seems like dumb luck over and 
 over. If you are lucky you can take out an entire camp of baddies without getting hit a single 
 time. If you are unlucky, the first guy will take you out in two blows. You are going to die a 
 lot in this game. Good thing there is quick save and quick load, quick save taking 8 seconds (Dual 
 core Athlon +4400 with 2 gig ram) and quick load about one minute. Count that out and see if you 
 have the patients for it, especially when it takes a little over 1 second to die against a freaking 
 boar when you are level 10.
  
  Not to mention the technical difficulties of this piece of art. Baddies that travel through walls 
 and through the ground only to pop out of some other spot randomly. Slow saves and loads, graphical 
 and sound glitches, random crashes, system freezes all plague this game. All things that make you 
 have to start from your last and only 'quick' save, unless of course it got corrupted.
  
  I have many more complaints about this game, but I also want to give it credit for something. Nice 
 big world that is filled with content and interesting landscapes, an interesting faction system, 
 not bad voice acting, and something else... To sum it up: If you have the patience to deal with 
 several hours of Bull$hit maybe the game becomes enjoyable, but there is only so far the excuse, 
 You just have to get used to it, can go, and this game crossed it by 40 levels. There is no reason 
 to put up with so much crap for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonkeeper_1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Many people complain about the huge amount of bugs in the game. I for one didn't have much problems. 
 I had a few crashes and some stuttering but with my specs that is really not anything to complain 
 about. The Good: -A large amount of different quests which are really fun to solve.
  -A large free roaming world with a realistic landshape (unlike oblivion)
  -The world really seems 
 alive and you seem part of it. -Nice graphics (but not on my pc)
  
  The Bad:
  -A rather large amount of bugs, just as many recent games who are released in a beta stage
  -everyone 
 is saying the same thing and many people have the same voice.
  -combat sounds are really annoying, sounds like someone is taken from behind pretty hard.
  -combat 
 is hard to master
  
  Overall i spent i guess about 80 hours with this game in less then a month. It really got me addicted. 
 After i played Oblivion for nearly 100 hours i really began to hate it, i didn't had that with 
 this game but that can be personal flavour.
  
  To me the battle between Elderscrolls 4 and Gothic 3 (and yes this are games to compare) was not 
 won by 1 of them. They are both great games with their only qualities and flaws and i really enjoyed 
 them both.
  Its just a shame this game is so underhyped and Oblivion so overhyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ansgarr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  First of all I have to say that I am a avid Gothic fan. I have played all the games in the series. 
 So I really longed for this game and hoped they wouldnt change so much from the older games. Graphics
 
  I have been playing morrowind for almost 1 month before I picked up this and I must say that that 
 graphics are almost the same. The blur effect on the distance is much nicer in Gothic and some 
 of the textures for stones and trees looks simply amazing. But in comparison with morrowind the 
 game suffers from low framerates, the occasional stutters and lot of clipping errors. On medium 
 settings the game is almost unplayable on my Barton 3k+ /Gforce6600 /1024 DDR2 computer. Setting 
 the graphics details on low decreases the performance (why?) .
  After I tweaked the *. ini file for the graphics the game runs very smooth with medium settings. 
 7/10
  
  Sound
  The only thing that annoys me here are the death and hit sounds. Sounds something like a pigsqueel. 
 Music is really good and the theme melody is very catchy. There is alot of dialogue in this game 
 and most of it is well spoken.
  
  8/10
  
  Gameplay
  The change to a more WOW-friendly combat interface is a fresh start but the mobs in the game (especially 
 the boars and predators) hit very fast and often cant even be blocked. The game feels very rushed 
 in this sense. Armour doesnt work and some of the animals are way too strong. The bow/crossbow 
 system tho is perfect and so is the magic using, altho the game is really unbalanced here because 
 at my 40th lvl I can oneshot or twoshoot most things with a fireball or an arrow. The quests and 
 the main story are so far really really good and is what makes this game shine. This a real RPG 
 where your decisions and actions make a difference. The world is BIG and there is alot to explore 
 and many many quests to solve. Even if you have sluggish performance and encounter some major combat 
 bugs you continue to play because this game really sucks you in. And thats a good thing :)
  
  8/10
  
  I have playing this game for approx. 40 hours and havent even started on the main 
 storyline.. (or what I suspect is the main storyline :) ) so the game lasts for a very long time. 
 I will definitely play it again after I finish it to try out some new factions in the game and 
 try to play more evil than before.
  
  Like gothic 2 the game released with many bugs but as G2 I think the devs will shape up and release 
 patches who will solve most of the bugs. This make me even more eager to pick it up again in the 
 near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsw_n97
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, the game is a little buggy. The first two patches have done a lot to resolve most of 
 the games issues. However, several things are still lacking such as good journal and mapping systems. 
 As a result, the game does not appear quite a polished as Oblivion. That said, this is really quite 
 a gem of a game. The combat system is difficult but very intuitive. And while the journal system 
 is lacking, and there are no pointers to where a mission starts or ends, this just gives us a reason 
 to explore. And what a world to explorer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephrex
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  I wasn't one of the people waiting for this game to be released and to be honest I'm glad as I 
 feel so sorry for those people.
  I'm an avid RPG fan and generally tend to avoid review scores, as most of the time I end up liking 
 it, however Gothic 3 is one such title that I wish I did trust review scores.
  
  I REALLY wanted to like this game... I kept playing and playing it hoping that after time I'd like 
 it (Enchanted arms was similar, I hated it at first) But this game is so clunky, slow and buggy 
 that it is simply unbearable! My system is hardly junk (Athlon X2 3800, 4G Ram, 7950Gx2 and Xfi 
 Sound) but the frames are appauling for a game that doesn't look anywhere near as good as oblivion 
 but runs 10x worse.
  I had texture glitches, retarded AI and terrible frame rates if more than 2 people were on screen.
 
  
  I'll try this game again when its matured (at patch 1.08 its still crap) . Also its hard to get 
 immersed when you can smash a troll but get owned by a pig!
  
  It didn't cost me much so I guess I cant complain... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjarman
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  I'm really disappointed. I've waited forever on this release of this title and it's all been for 
 nothing.
  
  This game looks like it could be a real winner - in the opening scenes and quests, the developers 
 have done a great good at drawing the player in, and the world looks awesome (even with the low 
 video settings explained in a sec) . Unfortunately, even simple instructions like go to the farm 
 and kill the orcs are almost impossible to complete due to the incredible level of instability 
 in this title. My system is no slouch - I can run Oblivion with almost every setting maxed out 
 - but I had to dull down almost every graphics setting in Gothic 3 to even get my character to 
 move. Even then, the screen freezes every 5 seconds or so as though the machine has to constantly 
 try and catch up. 15 minutes or so into a play session, and the game crashes out to Windows with 
 a memory allocation error. I've managed to get about 20 minutes worth of play out of two hours 
 in the game, the difference spent waiting for the screen to unfreeze, or restarting the game. At 
 this point I'm giving up - maybe they'll release a few more patches.
  
  Game companies have got to learn that they can't keep releasing these unplayable games and expecting 
 everyone to being okay with it when they tell us that they'll fix things with some patches. When 
 I buy a new game, I want to come home and get stuck into it - I'm buying enjoyment, not frustration.
 
  
  My advice to anyone thinking about this title is to absolutely steer clear. Maybe try it out down 
 the track when the bugs have been fixed and it's been moved to the bargain bin. As it is, Gothic 
 3 is truely unplayable, and I for one will not be buying Gothic 4 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hdhdhdhasajkalk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  In a word: brilliant. I would highly recommend this to anybody who's a fan of The Elder Scrolls 
 , especially the older ones such as Daggerfall and especially Morrowind.
  
  In my opinion its like playing Morrowind all over again, in being quite hard to get to grips with 
 at first, and the fact that you start off weak and unable to kill even a wild boar (although it 
 does kick off with an awesome skirmish in a village with some orcs where providing you get used 
 to the combat, is a joy to play) but as the game progresses especially into the 4th hour or so, 
 you really feel you're advancing in the world of Gothic, being kitted out with new weapons (like 
 a cheap but cool flaming sword - got on about my 3rd hour :D) and armour, and therefore its really 
 a very rewarding game to play.
  
  Combat in the game i find works really quite well - left click is a standard attack, hold it to 
 make a heavy attack and right click is a quick attack and holding it blocks. It works very well 
 in comparison to the recent Oblivion and you're very quickly able to string attacks together to 
 form a fluid combo. You do look really quite graceful attacking multiple enemies, dancing from 
 one to enemy to the next, and provided you don't get hit yourself, you can dispatch 4 bandits in 
 under a minute.
  
  However i do often find once hit by a creature, its quite hard not to continue to take multiple 
 hits by it, ie: the block isn't perfect, and you can quickly find yourself, especialy if outnnumbered, 
 taking a lot of hits, unable to fight back. The long loading times don't help either. The sound 
 is moving at times, but most of the time is just there to set the fantasy mood and could be improved 
 in certain dialog converstions involving the main plot, for example when a plot hint is given away.
 
  
  The game revolves around a day / night cycle, with equal hours in both. Unfortunately this means 
 that when its dark at night, it lasts for maybe 1/2 an hour. This is a small gripe, but the game 
 world looks so much better at day, and is nicer to play in the day, so walking around the countryside 
 at night with a torch for half an hour can get a little tedious.
  
  The graphics are very pleasing to the eye, i prefer them to Oblivion's, however its a matter of 
 opinion as they are definitely similar, other things such as water and sky effects are not so good. 
 However it is more forgiving on your computer than Oblivion, i'm getting much more FPS on standard 
 settings which is certainly a bonus. The vedgetation in the middle realm is ok, if a little similar 
 after a while, however its more varied in the desert kingdom to the south, and the snowy kingdom 
 to the north.
  
  For value, whilst of course i have only played it for a few hours, i would say its very good - 
 i have maybe explored 1/5th of the middle realm, and then there's the snowy north **** and desert 
 south. I've only just purchased what can be called mid range armour, and my weapons and attributes 
 still need to be greatly improved. With the 3 different factions you can align yourself to and 
 therefore 3 different outcomes, i can see this lasting me well over the said 80 hours. There are 
 also minor factions, and you also get reputation with the different cities.
  
  Overall a very good game, building on the previous 2 games, and providing for the more hardcore 
 rpg fans a beautiful game with a massive 3d world. Yes the world is smaller than Oblivion's but 
 the fact there's no fast travel means the game world feels much much bigger. With its excellent 
 combat and now manageable controls gothic 3 is my personal 3rd favourite game of all time, after 
 deus ex and morrowind.
  
  Hard, but rewarding. (hope my first ever review was ok - :D) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Be cautious of reader reviewers who say the game is too hard and where are the mission waypoints 
 so I know where to go next? . Those are kids who played oblivion and want more of the same wayyyy 
 too easy, fluffy thrills. Oblivion was a truly fun action game, but calling it an RPG is insulting 
 to classic RPG games like Baldurs Gate 2, System Shock 2 and Deus Ex 1.
  
  Bugs: Sorry, but complaining that the game doesn't run well on a first gen p4 doesnt really signify 
 much of a complaint. This is a next-gen game. Having said all of that, the graphic engine is clearly 
 not optimized at all. It has to cache every 10 seconds or so regardless of how low I set the graphic 
 options. And when it caches, it stutters the framerate. This interferes with the gameplayer's immersion 
 into the game and it really is unfortunate. Months have gone by and the patches aren't fixing the 
 most obvious problems. I; m worried that Gothic 3 will never really be patched to the point that 
 it works correctly. .
  
  After the fantastic Gothic 2, Gothic 3 is a substantive sequel that reminds me why I like computer 
 RPG's. Its also a gigantic shame the game could have used a few more months in development before 
 it was released. As of January 2007, the game is still bug filled.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Well im a massive fan of the gothic franchise having played Gothic 1 and 2 as well as the expansion 
 for Gothic 2. I waited with baited breath for gothic 3 wanting the gothic 2 cliffhangerish ending 
 to be resolved. Any wayz i got that with the intro movie and some of the chit chit, i got into 
 the game throwing the orcs out of Cape Dun and out of Andrea, Combat system is a vaste improvement 
 and the difficulty setting was a welcome addition to the game. One thing that amazed me was the 
 graphical quality of the game, compared to others on the market gothic 3 looks and feels more real. 
 Yet my suspense and all that would have lasted longer had the game not been so buggy. It feels 
 slightyly rushed and with bugs im slightly disapointed with the game, it has a feeling of a good 
 game and even looks like one but the bugs on it make some elements hell. The soundtrack on the 
 game is one of the best scores ive heard for a game since hitman and you feel like the music brings 
 the world more to life and gives you that extra determination in the game. Now im over with the 
 main elements of the game i will talk about the game play :D
  
  The overall game play is good and it feels so more fluidic and easy than the other gothic games 
 which caused me hours of stressing trying to get my charecter to do combo's. This time around some 
 fast clicks and some well timed clicks can beat the crap out of an animal or even an NPC in seconds, 
 (mwuahaha im a Scavenger killing god) Magic is really different compared to the last games to, 
 this time around you have to almost buy the ability to do magic which is fun to get as you can 
 go around setting beasts on fire and doing other countless acts of vandelism to the orcs. You can 
 also align yourself with a god which can govern how you attack or defend in battle, either roast 
 the beast, get a demon to roast it for you or turn yourself into a beast. In all the game play 
 style feels more like it is World of warcrafted up, you can mine minerals now, have partys and 
 even have a reputation with the various factions which allows you to learn from them later on. 
 In all the sheer scale of the world and the replayabilty in the game allow you to have a unique 
 experiance everytime you play which is good and makes the game adictive sometimes on the level 
 of WoW. A good game for any RPG lovers, try it but wait till they release the patchs to get rid 
 of the bugs :D
  
  Adaro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icStatic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 3 is like all new RPG games, big open-space worlds, tons of quests and dozens of enemies. 
 It has some interesting new features, very nice graphics and plenty of things for you to do. It 
 does however have a few nasty bugs to watch out for that detracts from the game play quite a bit...
 
  
  The game could be considered an Oblivion wannabe, boasting big open spaces to explore and no load 
 times, being able to walk anywhere in the game without having to watch a load bar is certainly 
 a nice feature, but unfortunately it isnt quite as nicely implemented as that - when moving between 
 some areas there is a noticeable period of lag where the game caches its new data. The game also 
 takes a very long time to load and save, which would not normally be a problem if it were not for 
 the other bugs.
  
  I dont know what Piranha Bytes did to test the game, or if they did at all, but it certainly doesnt 
 show. This game suffers from a MAJOR memory leak causing the game to crash out while saving after 
 a few hours of game play. I have observed the game using over 1.6 GB of RAM, considering it started 
 with about 800 GB, this is unacceptable. So to prevent you from losing considerable progress I 
 find the best method is save very regularly and avoid using the quick save (which overwrites the 
 existing save file BEFORE it finishes writing the new one, hence if it crashes you lose your previous 
 quick save as well) .
  
  Again, I dont know if anyone ever actually play tested this game. It is extremely unbalanced. 
 When I began exploring the world a bit I bumped into a Troll. This beast, twice my size I thought 
 would make absolute mince meat out of me. It didnt. I managed to kill 3 of these giant beasts 
 in a row without dying. This is fair enough; I was level 14 at the time. The problem is that there 
 are other beasts in the game which are significantly more lethal that shouldnt be so. The Wild 
 Boar for example is an absolute killing machine. It has an extremely fast attack speed, so much 
 so that if you get hit once it can keep you on the ground without you able to get up and even hit 
 it once and be dead in seconds. The same can be said for wolves, blood flies and other things. 
 Surely the wildlife that you bump into at the beginning of the game should not be this lethal, 
 especially when you can take on much harder things. My best advice here is save often and if you 
 see a wild boar, RUN!
  
  My next gripe is the quest system. The game essentially gives you two maps, world maps which you 
 acquire throughout your travels, and a world overview map. The overview map does not show your 
 current position, which is annoying, but it would also be nice if there was a way to get map indicators 
 for quest destinations. Yes it may be unrealistic, but having no clue where to go next is just 
 frustrating.
  
  Another interesting issue is the update system. A box pops up when you start the game with a link 
 to a patch. I only just installed the patch and it wants me to download a patch file with the same 
 name again. Is this a new patch that is badly named, or does the updater not have a clue what version 
 I am running?
  
  Ive also noticed quite a few other UI bugs, just little things, but annoying enough. There are 
 also a few bad design decisions in my opinion too. Take for example the experience system. It took 
 me a very long time to work out I could visit the shrines to ask the gods to put experience into 
 health, Mana, spells etc. There are no markers over some objects such as camp fires, shrines and 
 other objects that indicate that you can interact with them. So you often only discover these things 
 completely by accident. They need some kind of way of showing you can interact with them (although 
 I later found out it is mentioned in the manual  who honestly reads these things?) .
  
  So enough talk about the bugs, what is the game actually like? Overall I like it. Having the ability 
 to choose 3 different paths in the game is a nice touch, certainly better than a single rigid main 
 quest line. It makes it feel like you are actually in control rather than being led through the 
 game.
  
  The game world is huge. Not quite as big as Oblivions, nor are there as many dungeons etc to explore, 
 but it is certainly big enough. The quests are varied and interesting; they are not all killing 
 things, which is nice. The respect system is good, although is a little unrealistic in that you 
 dont lose respect for killing the characters who gave you the respect after you finish the quest 
 (or at least I havent observed this yet) .
  
  The combat system is interesting. It is a little complex, having 6 different ways to attack or 
 block using a combination of left and right mouse buttons. Some people seem to dislike it, others 
 like it. I would prefer a simpler system, but I dont hate it so I wont complain.
  
  There is a very wide range of skills for you to learn, this can mean that you can go off and make 
 a lot of money by making potions and forging swords, but unfortunately you do not get experience 
 from this, you have to pay to have it taught to you. I would much prefer it if you learned from 
 the things you did as well. Also on the note of potion making, I dont know if Im missing something, 
 but finding water you need to make potions is hard to come across. If you see a water barrel 
 and have an empty bottle can you not fill and reuse it again?
  
  The user interface is quite nice, the quick bar is quite a nice feature, although it keeps disappearing 
 on me and Im not sure why.
  Verdict? Its good. Not as good as Oblivion in my honest opinion, but with a possible 3 endings 
 there is certainly a lot of replay ability here which Oblivion lacks. Once they fix the bugs it 
 will definitely be worth your time if you enjoy RPGs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
