-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gothic II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/gothic2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,007 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Piranha Bytes
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 28, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're up for a challenge -- and you don't mind trial and error -- Gothic II won't hesitate to give 
 it to you. 

  Gothic II is a single-player role-playing sequel in which you play as a lone hero who must do battle 
 with bandits, orcs, and dragons in a sprawling 3D world. Like in the first game, you control a 
 soft-spoken hero from a behind-the-back perspective and follow one of three career paths in pursuit 
 of his ultimate goal -- which, in this case, is to stave off an assault by orcs and dragons unleashed 
 by the death of a demon, the same one that he defeated at the end of the first game. While Gothic 
 II has various improvements, it retains the clunky 3D control scheme for movement and combat used 
 in the first game, and it's just as unforgiving, if not more so. However, if you're up for a challenge, 
 have a fairly good computer, and don't mind the control scheme, you'll find that Gothic II has 
 plenty to offer.  

          You can expect to die often in Gothic II.     

  Gothic II's story and setting draw upon traditional medieval high-fantasy elements -- very traditional 
 ones. Your character can equip himself with swords, axes, and crossbows, as well as cast fireball 
 spells and healing magic, though like in the original Gothic, he starts out as a helpless weakling 
 and remains so for quite some time. Yet you have to engage in battle in nearly all of the quests 
 you undertake, and like the first game, Gothic II doesn't give you much of an idea of the relative 
 strength of your enemies. This basically means that you'll die horribly, and quite often, until 
 you learn through trial and error which challenges you can reasonably take on, and which you can't. 

  The combat is about as clunky as that of the first game. The control scheme requires you to press 
 and hold an action key, then move in a direction to swing your weapon or cast a spell, while you 
 can turn and look around you either with the mouse or keyboard. The clunky setup isn't conducive 
 to dodging effectively while fighting, so unless you completely outclass your enemies, you'll often 
 find the only way to effectively do battle with them (and stand a chance) is to get them stuck 
 on an object in the environment, since Gothic II's pathfinding is sometimes problematic. You might 
 have been able to do battle with your enemies a bit better if you could quickly swap weapons or 
 use healing spells or potions with hotkeys, but you can't do either. Instead, you must use Gothic 
 II's clumsy inventory system, which opens up all items in an unchangeable list that you can't reorganize 
 or create shortcuts to, so you must navigate it manually. Accessing your inventory causes you to 
 sheathe your weapon or cease casting spells and brings you to a dead stop, making you a sitting 
 duck.  

          Gothic II offers a large 3D world to explore, as long as you're willing to visit a mapmaker 
 and take your own notes.     

  This is a shame, since Gothic II is otherwise a large and surprisingly open-ended game that offers 
 a great many interesting quests that can be solved in multiple ways, as well as a few key improvements 
 to the original game. Though the game's setting seems clichd, the world it's set in is surprisingly 
 well developed and even features a few different political factions, which your character can join 
 or oppose. Gothic II also features a first-person view that helps mitigate camera problems in enclosed 
 areas, as well as a quest journal that keeps track of active quests. Gothic II's world is also 
 large and sprawling, and it features individual spawns of monsters and minor side quests that can 
 be accessed by simply wandering off into the wilderness, but you'll need to keep track of your 
 progress and position using in-game maps that are actually objects your character must purchase 
 and manually consult.  

  Like the first game, and like Bethesda's Morrowind, Gothic II takes a do-it-yourself approach to 
 its gameplay. Don't expect to see much in the way of automaps, all-inclusive item merchants, instantaneous 
 transportation, or any other real amenities, other than the quest journal, in Gothic II. If you 
 want to keep track of your position, you have to open your own map and make your own notes outside 
 of the game. If you want to get somewhere, you run to that location. If you're not sure you can 
 defeat a new enemy, you save your game, try attacking, and if you get slaughtered, you reload your 
 last save while making a mental note that you'll need to come back at a later point, when you're 
 stronger. If you're up for this sort of challenge -- and you don't mind committing the extra time 
 to this sort of trial-and-error gameplay -- Gothic II won't hesitate to give it to you.  

  Gothic II also looks and sounds fairly good. The game features an animated sky and day-and-night 
 cycles, as well as fairly good texture work for its buildings -- a noticeable improvement over those 
 in the first game. Gothic II's wilderness areas also feature an overabundance of vegetation, including 
 trees with hanging branches and large bushes, which don't look especially good but do obstruct 
 your normal view and will make you glad to have the game's new first-person view. Gothic II's character 
 textures are decent and are also an improvement over those of the first game, but like the first 
 game's models, Gothic II's models are rather blocky.  

          Many of Gothic II's characters are colorful, to say the least.     

  Furthermore, like 
 in the first game, Gothic II's characters are also quite verbose. The sequel features a great deal 
 of speech that isn't always delivered perfectly (the hero's speech, in particular, sometimes puts 
 inflections on all the wrong words, as though the actor were reading the lines out of context) , 
 but it's all generally quite good, even if some of it still occasionally seems out of place. You 
 may find it a bit unusual to explore a medieval village and talk to what appear to be normal-looking 
 medieval peasants, only to hear them speak in a twangy Texan accent, or like a jive-talking pimp 
 near the village brothel. But this unusual delivery will be par for the course if you've played 
 the original Gothic, and even if you haven't, you may still find at least some of it to be enjoyably 
 goofy. Gothic II's other sound effects are minimalistic, as is the game's symphonic soundtrack, 
 which is certainly appropriate, even if it isn't memorable.  

  Considering both its many quests and its trial-and-error gameplay, Gothic II is a substantially 
 long game, and its different quests and different professions allow for some good replay value. 
 If you're the sort of person who takes issue with constantly reloading previously saved games, 
 who absolutely needs modern RPG amenities like an automap and an easy-to-use combat system, and 
 who doesn't like the prospect of fighting and losing many battles, you should approach Gothic II 
 with caution. However, if you're up for a real challenge, and don't mind fighting with (and against) 
 the game's clunky control scheme, Gothic II will provide you with many hours of difficult battles, 
 exploration, and interesting quests.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (84 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marined
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  gothic 2 is a great 3rd person rpg by piranha bytes.
  i have always tried to get into morrowind but couldn't but i enjoyed gothic 2 more than that .
 
  1. all the dialogue is recorded
  2. character development is simple.
  3. you make some real choices.
  4. graphics are better the day and night cycle is superb.
  
 
  gothic 2 takes place soon after gothic 1 which i haven't played.
  story:
  the story of gothic 2 is great when you get into the middle of it you really feel you are in it.
 
  music:
  great it suits the dark and gritty setting .the best moment comes at the beginning of chapter 4 
 when the dragon hunt begins, the music really sets it up.
  the whole game is divided in 6 chapters ,there are 2 big areas the valley of mines and tthe island 
 of khorinis.
  the island of khorinis has the main live city of khorinis which is really well made and fun to 
 explore.
  the valley of mines is a gloomy scary place ,full of monsters and dragons.
  
  role-playing:
  
  you can take 3 main paths in gothic 2.
  1. paladin i played beginning
  
 2. dragon hunter which i played full
  3. mage yet to play
  
  thus the game has a lot of replay value.
  
  ai:
  the ai frankly is not that bad ,but real 
 stupid the monsters can't find the path they always come in a straight line, they don; t know how 
 to climb stairs and keep falling.
  really the ai makes the game pretty easy.
  bugs:
  well the game has almost no main bugs
  1. canthar quest is bugged
  2. some dialogues are bugged.
 
  
  and a few others i don't remember
  
  conclusion:
  this a great rpg fun from the start with good lenght could have added more maps and cities but 
 it is an island i look forward to playing gothic 3 when i get 
  a better pc .just getinto it initially its hard but later it really is good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seid_killer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:37 pm PT
Review:  One of the best RPG games I played  and I7m pretty much an RPG freak.
  It is much better if you played the first part, but even if you haven`t, you will find it very 
 good.
  The control system is kind of unusual, but if you get used to it it is the best.
  Inventory is kind of shabby but bearable as other game elements make up to it as well as other 
 technical failures. 
  Not for faint hearted, pure RPG players only!
  Anyway, a game of endless possibilities with 3 sides to join so playing more then once is still 
 fun.
  
  my review 
 is to short so i have to put these things here
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtherT
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The Story line: You Play As The name less hero who destroyed the magic barrier that surrounded 
 the penal colony The nameless had to destroy the sleeper but the sleeper cried an order to all 
 evil beings to come to Khorinis The Island Which the Game Is Set And All Of Them Came Even the 
 Dragons
  The Story sounds Good and like a great sequel I give It 4/5
  
  The Game; The Game Is Set In The Island Of Khorinis In A Medieval Setting The Island Is Filled 
 With Areas Rich in Beautiful Farms And Dense Forests The World Is Beautiful Everything Goes Together 
 like honey and bees the way when you walk around the city you find people speaking to each other 
 whispering, plotting, greeting It Deserves a 5/5
  
  The Sound: It's One Of The best Made With Beautiful Orchestras And Soothing Music While You Walk 
 In The Forest And Suspenseful Music In Dangerous Fights It Deserves A 5/5
  
  Graphics And Visuals: The Graphics haven't improved much from it's predecessor although the textures 
 are quite better and the world is more detailed considering time but it's less detailed the other 
 games in it's time It gets a 4/5
  
  Combat System: its One Of The Best Ever Made Although It's Hard To Learn At First It's Battles 
 Are Never The same Always Unique And In Time You'll Develop Techniques On How To Fight With Snappers, 
 Trolls, Wolves, And Many More It Deserves A Full 5/5
  
  Replay Value: You'll Want at least play this 3 times because every time is different whether you're 
 a Paladin, Mercenary Or magician you'll never get tired of laying I've played myself at least 7 
 Times Trust Me You'll never Get Bored Of This 5/5
  
  ONE very bad thing that lowers this game's score is bugs you'll get tired and sick of it so try 
 to play it with a big heart
  
  P. S If You Run the Game at 256 MB Memory it'll take Ages for The loading If You Want It Good Update 
 Your RAM to 512MB
  
  Bottom Line is this is a must-have for RPG gamers! Takes and Deserves 9.0/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 along with the ' Night of the Raven ' addition is much improved ( especially in graphical 
 and gameplay aspect ) continuation of one of the best games in rpg history.
  
  You play as the same nameless hero who after being resurrected by Xardas after dying in the Sleeper 
 elimination process once again is needed to get rid off all the evil of this world. In this case 
 you have to get rid off all the dragons that started stalking the area after being summoned by 
 the last words of the dying sleeper. Night of the Raven additon expands the game by giving the hero 
 an alternative quest which is killing the Raven, an ex old camp right hand of the powerful and 
 brutal ruler of the colony, Gomez.
  
  First thing that came to my mind after starting the game was the great improvement of the games 
 graphics. The world got more details, the textures were much nicer. It was a much more beautiful and 
 detailed world than the one in gothic 1. The npc's models were much more detailed as well. Considering 
 that Gothic 1 didn't have the nicest graphics in the world I would consider that as a huge jump 
 in the game's quality.
  
  The world is richly detailed and isn't repetitive at all. The game has 5 chapters during which you 
 will have plenty of things to do and plenty of quests to complete. Each chapter is unique and evolves 
 the story in a very good way. Each npc ( npc's with actuall names and not guards or simple citizens) 
 is effected with those story changes not only your hero. Each npc has different things to say, has 
 different tasks for you dependant on the path that the story takes so it is really worth talking 
 to the same npc's in different chapters to hear their different opinions, their fears or to have 
 them assign different tasks for you.
  
  The climate, story, plot got even better. The constant uncertainty of what may happen or of what may 
 jump at you from the next corner is what describes the whole series. Great story and the above mantioned 
 mystical climate is followed by some great audio tunes ( especially in Raven's world ) .
  
  What also changed is the gameplay itself.
  Here's where I will share my thoughts regarding some 
 reviews and comments from people who either hate this game or can't see it's brilliance because 
 it has crappy fighting system and is to difficult to finish it, making the saving and loading so 
 frequent as frequent breathing is.
  Yes, the game is difficult and with the ' Night of the Raven ' addition it's even more difficult 
 but don't tell me that it's difficult to fight! One of the reviewers wrote that it was impossible 
 to swing the sword while staying in one place and that he couldn't swing anything and that all 
 he could do during a battle was to see his hero being smashed by everything that was moving and 
 he couldn't respond to that.
  I haven't heard such a crap for a very long time! Of course you can swing! You can do it whenever 
 you want. It all depends on the main menu settings. If you prefer to use the fighting system from 
 the first Gothic game then while clicking your left mouse button use your keyboard arrows in any 
 direction to hit somebody. And yes this game maybe irritating because the fighting skills have to 
 be improved by distributing your skill points (which you get from leveling up) towards your one 
 handed or two handed weapon abillity. Only when you get to warrior level ( 30% of the total ability) 
 you will be able to say that you hero knows how to fight. This game is difficult and you WILL fail 
 many times but who said that trial and error is wrong? This isn't Diablo 2 where all you do is 
 click your mouse button so often until it starts burning. In this game you have to think about your 
 next move, you have to think about what you're gonna do next. Not every quest can be completed at 
 first. You can't kill every monster you encounter at the beginning but that's what makes this game 
 unique. That's why this game has such replayability. That's what makes this game realistic!
  
  Gothic 2 was made for real rpg gamers who love challenges, not for some casual gamer who dares 
 to spit on this game after 20 minutes of gameplay. Finish this game first. Then try and finish it 
 4 more times like I did. Only then you will be able to make rightous judgement. Don't judge the box 
 if you didn't even manage to look inside of it.
  
  RPG means role playing. It means acting, trying to be the hero you're controlling. It should be a 
 slight imitation of real life and that's what this game does. You won't kick anyone's ass if you 
 weight 50 kilos and have no muscle on you. You have to train really hard. Take a stick and go to 
 Africa and try to kill the lion :) . Rpg's aren't games like all of the shooters for example where 
 all you have to do is to throw couple of nades and shoot whatever there's to shoot without even 
 thinking about it.
  
  Summarizing my thought..... This game is for real patient rpg fans who take satisfaction in passing 
 a quest or in defeating a troll after a series of previous unsuccessfull attempts, who cherish 
 plenty of rich dialogs and who love to roam the world in search of any hidden cave there's available.
 
  And because of that this game isn't for everyone. Not everyone has to love it. There types of games 
 we love and types of games we consider a waste of time but let's not judge something only because 
 we don't know how to play it. Let's be objective and not subjective selling statements that are 
 based on our irritation.
  Phew!
  
  back to business...
  
  The game is a little bit to difficult for my taste especially with comparison to the Gothic 2 game 
 without the 'Night of the Raven' expansion. Although the leveling system stayed the same and you 
 still get 10 skill points for each level, you can improve less skills with every point you have. Before 
 you needed 5 pts for every +5 strenght points. Now the stronger you get the more skill points you 
 need to improve your strenght for example. At the end you even need 20 skill points to improve your 
 strenght by 5pts and considering that there's plenty of other skills to improve and that to acquire 
 next level each time you need more experience points it's very hard to be strong, agile, one hand 
 weapon master at the same time. Because of that you probably won't be able to wield the dragon slayer 
 sword which requires you to have 160 strenght points and have at least 60% of the two handed weapons 
 ability to swing it the right way and to have good timing with it as well. All of this results in 
 some large dose of frustration at the beginning where all the monsters you can kill are not stronger 
 than wolves.
  
  What irritated me as well was the inventory system which didn't bother me to much at first but 
 after collecting plenty of weapons, animal skins, claws  the inventory 
 was to crowded. All of the items are thrown in to one basket, one slot so when after clicking on 
 the weapon of your choice you have to scroll down to open lets say a bag of gold it takes a considerable 
 amount of time to get there and if you have to do that a lot it really gets irritating. All that 
 had to be done to solve this problem was to create different slots for different types of items 
 and the inventory search would've been much simpler.
  
  Another problem is the in game music and videos. I run MS Vista so I had to download couple of native 
 dlls and paste them in to the game's folder to be able to hear the music at all. But even after 
 doing that the music likes to stop playing right after loading your saved game. It takes some time 
 then to make it run again ( usually in the open world ) .
  
  I couldn't see any videos from the original Gothic 2 but I could see all the videos regarding ' 
 Night of the Raven' expansion but I think this is a system related issue more than the game's itself. Everything 
 worked when I was playing Gothic 2 as soon as it was released and back then I had XP.
  
  Last frustrating thing is the game crashing from time to time. it just likes to freeze on occassion 
 and all you can basically do is to reboot your pc.
  
  In overall Gothic 2 is a great game for every adventure and adrenaline rush seeker. It sucks you 
 in right after you start playing it and makes you not wanting to stop playing it until you reach 
 the end.
  
  The Good:
  - Graphics
  - Audio
  - Story
  - Mystical Climate
  - Huge world to explore
  - High Replayability
  
  
  The Bad : 
  
  - Occassionally crashing
 
  - combat system not for everyone it seems
  - Hero development
  - inventory
  - To difficult and because of that frustrating at times
  - Some audio and video problems ( probably 
 dependant on the system or game's version)
  - Dissapearing textures, npc's or enemy stuck in walls
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who loves real rpg's and who is patient enough ( patience is rewarded in this game ) to cope with 
 some of it's difficulties. Don't call yourself a real rpg gamer if you haven't played and finished 
 this game! :) )
  
  Must have
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KinsmanFrederik
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Yes, Gothic II.... The game continues the plot of the first game in series, when our nameless protagonist 
 escaped from a prison colony with a couple of friends and wakes up in a Tower of mysterious necromancer 
 Xardas, who is known to be very, very bad and with whom nobody wants to cooperate ( you will find 
 it later on) . Our protagonist is assigned to find an Eye of Inos. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this 
 is our main quest.
  Our nameless hero meets with some of his old comrades from the colony through his adventures and 
 wanderings. Again we are free to choose, where to go and what to do in the large and open world. 
 This world is divided in three major areas: first is the large area, where we begin our journey 
 ( it includes town, surrounding farms, forest, caves, Monastery, temples ( very similar to the 
 Aztec ones) ) . This first area is also the largest of all three. Second is the homeland of orcs 
 with the castle in the middle of it ( this is the place, where we fight dragons) and the third 
 is the final area - an island with great underground communications, tombs and so on. This is the 
 place, where our last fight stands. This area is also the smallest. The ones, who have played the 
 first game, will recognize the familiar system, where you are on your own from the beginning of 
 the game. of course, you do have to follow the main quest, but you are still free to wander. 
 
  And now more about the choices. When our hero manages to et into the city, you must choose, where 
 to start your apprenticeship, because there are some masters in the town, who will teach you, for 
 example, the basics of forging, lock - picking, hunting and skinning animals and alchemy. after 
 that you must choose, whether to be a member of the Militia, Mercenaries or Mages. If you have 
 become, for example, a mage, you can't become a paladin anymore and vice versa. When you have made 
 your choice, regarding these "guilds," then you are assigned to complete the package of quests, 
 which is unique in each "guild." Also you will wear only the armor and bear the weapons, which 
 are specifically to the particular "guild." Oh, there are many, many quests to complete, but again 
 it's not obligatory to complete them to beat the game - you just need to find the Eye of Inos and 
 follow the main quest. But i highly recommend you to complete as many quests as you can, because 
 you earn experience and can find valuable items that way. The world of Gothic II is open and you 
 can choose the most desired direction. 
  The character development is a little bit unique - you can characterize a whole universe of Gothic 
 with it, but not all RPG. The point is, as you earn new levels, you are also granted with 5 - 10 
 points, which you can spend on mastering new skills ( alchemy, forging, etc) or improving the old 
 ones, or improving your stats. I agree with many gamers, who say that combat system in Gothic II 
 suffers from some issues. For example, if you are rather strong, you still can't kill an orc that 
 easily - you can run close to him, hit him 1 - 2 times and quickly run away, because you can be 
 killed in no time. It seems like all thing is in the gamers agility and ability to press the buttons 
 quickly enough to survive in the world of Gothic II. Therefore, I think that this game suffers 
 from the lack of balance in relation between the main hero and the foe. The magic system is also 
 somehow not enough effective. I would better prefer the MP system. But the joy after killing a 
 dragon is great, especially, when you know, that you will be awarded with some loot. Oh, almost 
 forgot! If you'll manage to master the thievery skills, you can get a fine loot from the local 
 townsfolk during the night robberies. Only make sure, that nobody notices you during these robberies.
 
  To sum up, the game has it's flaws (look above about the combat system) and graphics could be 
 better, but it's still an awesome game, highly recommended to all fans of Morrowind. All those 
 wanderings and non - linearity add a little bit more of realism to the game - play, comparing to 
 other RPG ( most of them are linear) . Recommended to all fans of Gothic universe and also great 
 RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gereksiz13
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  If I was one of the testers, I would have a lot to say.
  
  It really surprised me to see such bad graphics. But hey, M&M6 was really bad in graphics. However, 
 the key word is the gameplay.
  
  If you cannot use the commands those are registered in the menu, you feel handicapped. Even a moron 
 can try to sneak. Let him fail, but first let him TRY.
  
  Running in game is a pain-in-the-***. It is sooo bad to see a strange seizure attack every time 
 I try to strafe.
  
  Attacking is another issue. You cannot see what's around you when you wiled your weapon, as if 
 you get blind. You have wield-sheet your weapon every time you get into a fight and then plunder. 
 Also, you cannot attack, unless you go forward your enemy. When you just click the LMOUSE button, 
 the retard stands still and your enemy kicks your ass. It just gets boring after a while, playing 
 a retard who cannot swing his weapon, while he's or isn't moving around. Yuck!
  
  And, try-and-error thing gets really boring after a while. I haven't read any phrases more than 
 "SAVE GAME" and "LOAD GAME". I had a single save game named "TRIAL" for my trials. And in the end, 
 the game is found GUILTY, for wasting my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erictheripper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 is a game that takes you to another world filled with adventure and choices. In the beginning 
 you start off as a generic character with no real skills or abilities, but as you progress in the 
 game you are given the opportunity to take up service with one of three guilds. The guilds that 
 you can join in gothic 2 make you feel like you really are that person in the imaginary world because 
 each guild has a base of operations with characters that react to you differently depending on 
 the choices you've made. This function adds to the replay value of the game because it encourages 
 you to see what the world is like from the three different perspectives. Most people will probably 
 start off as a militia man for the city of khoronis because it is the first of the three players 
 will encounter but you can venture off and try your luck with the mercenaries as well. Becoming 
 a mage is not easy and requires the player to invest time in the sanctuary doing basic tasks as 
 an apprentice. All three guilds have things for you to do and make you feel like you are one of 
 them even if it's not glamorous.
  This is the most immersive RPG I have ever played, and it's not massive. Why is this? The world 
 is colorful and alive. Each character you meet will seem to be alive and has a daily schedule to 
 keep them busy. Unlike in other games where NPCs just stand around, Gothic's inhabitants actually 
 appear to be doing something different. You'll see women stewing pots, blacksmiths hammering away 
 on the anvil, men fixing their houses, preachers preaching, town criers shouting messages, people 
 smoking, warriors swinging their swords in practice, and farmers tending to their crops. The world 
 does not have to be huge and expansive when it feels so alive and open. With that said the world 
 is still big and offers quite a lot of adventure. It is even enjoyable to just sit back and admire 
 the scenery in the game once and a while.
  I think this game is timeless despite its aged graphics engine. It offers something that is different 
 and challenging and would be an excellent choice for someone looking to get lost in the world of 
 computer role-playing games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Good game with alot of unusual qualities. I dont like the fact that you cant see youre mouse in 
 the game its like you are a mime it isnt great for a RPG to not see an arrow. all the game is done 
 on the keyboard so it can get really boring. Graphics arent good and gameplay is bad. animations 
 are really okej but the running mode is really unusual in the game.
  Also a bad quality is that you arent able to change youre characters appearanee as far as faces 
 and size goes.. quests are really fun with alot of things to do. towns are done great and the thieving 
 system rocks. But these are my ratings hope you agree
  
  Top 5 Ratings:
  Graphics:3/10
  Gameplay:3/10
  quests:6/10
  world:5/10
  mobs, grind:4/10
  
  Nothing more to say than it 
 could have been alot better I think alot of people have played this game and felt that it gets 
 pretty boring really fast but it isnt the worst game in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: changbctim
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a highly overlooked and often unfairly critised role playing game. I am a fan of the Baldur's 
 Gate and Fallout series and lately Oblivion. While Gothic II is not as groundbreaking as the likes 
 of Baldur's Gate, in terms of enyoyability and immersiveness it is comparable. The storyline is 
 classic but flows well and is very non restrictive. Voice acting is a bit stilted but fine by me.
 
  
  The often vilifed combat system is actually easy to learn, even for a non first person shooter 
 like me. There are those who finds the game too difficult (die too easy) . But for me the biggest 
 letdown is that the game got too easy at the end (the boss battle feels like an anticlimax - even 
 with the Night of the Raven expansion) . 
  
  Overall this is a great game that should not be missed for RPG fans, even in these times filled 
 with highly polished games like Oblivion, it is still worth picking up (together with the expansion) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biverix
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  First of all it has a crapy combat sistem and a lousy inventory. But then, you just get used to 
 it. Lets put it aside and look at it positively-It has a very long well-made, inspired and most of 
 all interesting story .Then its the choices-there are three ways to follow. You can be a priest, a 
 soldier or a mercenary (recomended) , and choose between many jobs to make money  
 its the people where you can talk with anyone about anything and they will really TALK unlike Morrowind 
 where you just get the text shown on screen. It also has a cool game world, small but nice an full 
 of secret places and treasures (monsters included) . And the last thing is its very very lifelike-you 
 can cook, eat, sleep etc. even have sex in the local brothel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, RPGs were about more than scooping up cool loot and grinding away to reach level 
 42 so you could use that spiffy spiked helmet. They were about personalized characters in a setting 
 that realistically reacted to their actions and achievements. No game in recent memory provides 
 a richer roleplaying environment than Gothic II.
  
  The plot is generic fantasy fodder  orcs are warring with your kingdom, and now dragons have joined 
 the fray  but it never feels trite, because Gothic IIs world is so consistently interesting. 
 While typical RPG fare consists of NPCs glued to their locations until you deign to parlay with 
 them, Gothic IIs environments are dynamic and living.
  
  As in the classic Ultima games, NPCs have their own independent daily schedules. A character might 
 saunter to work, take a smoke break, and then grab a pint at the pub before heading home to slumber. 
 Characters also respond to your actions, so your alter-ego will be knocked on his duff if hes 
 seen looting possessions or wandering into locations uninvited. Aside from just making the world 
 more immersive, the dynamic AI directly enhances gameplay. For instance, you can circumvent dangerous 
 creatures by luring them to some beefy guards, or distract scavengers by creating more tempting 
 carnage.
  
  The detailed 3D world also looks amazing. Its replete with interactive objects such as anvils 
 (with which to hammer freshly forged weapons) and tobacco bongs that let your character, well, 
 get real mellow. Plot developments dynamically affect environments, and NPCs actively participate 
 in events rather than remaining stationary landmarks. In many ways, the Gothic series seems to 
 have picked up the baton fumbled by Origin and become the spiritual successor to the Ultima games.
 
  
  Combat is real-time and action-oriented. Your character is initially very vulnerable, so you have 
 to rein in your wanderlust to avoid being stomped every few minutes. Youre largely free to explore 
 the world in non-linear fashion: you can prematurely dispatch foes intended for more experienced 
 characters if youre adept at parrying and dodging blows. The enemy AI is generally excellent  
 different creature types maneuver distinctly and humanoid groups will try to confront you from 
 multiple angles. Battles are more tactical than arcade-ish, so you dont need to rely on twitch-based 
 skills. Success in combat also depends on your characters abilities and equipment, making the 
 investment in character-building all the more worthwhile.
  
  Gothic II uses a more polished version of its predecessors engine, and plenty of familiar characters 
 and locations reappear. Once again, there are three NPC factions, each emphasizing different skills 
 and with distinct quests. Gothic II definitely embraces its Mature ESRB rating, as NPCs frequently 
 swear, smoke, and visit bordellos. It also has the best rendition of urination in gaming history!
 
  
  You may need some time to adapt to the keyboard commands for menu navigation and inventory management. 
 Thankfully, the interface works well once youre accustomed to it. A more persistent issue is the 
 voice acting: it isnt agonizingly bad, but clearly only a handful of actors provided the translated 
 voiceovers for dozens of characters.
  
  These minor flaws do little to diminish Gothic IIs undeniable stature as a landmark RPG. It doesnt 
 quite reach the genre-transcending level of, say, Knights of the Old Republic, but fans of classic 
 roleplaying games will revel in its niche-y goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_jay
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The Gothic 2 is the best RPG game i played, at first the controls really sucks but as you mastered 
 it you will understand why are you killed by a single young wolf at the start, and always save 
 because you will die always in the game which makes it much more challenging, NOTE: be familiar 
 with the controls this thing is a must! How can you enjoy a game without knowing the basic controls 
 The game is recommended for REAL RPG gamers not for gamers who just whines about the control but 
 don't know anything about the game, , some people just play the game for 10-20mins gets annoyed 
 then go to the game sites then talk **** to the game. Sorry for my English if not so good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigOne1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The things that get critiziced the most here are the control scheme and the trial-and-error system. 
 Now, I don't have anything against easy games, don't get me wrong.
  
  But this game takes a realistic approach to RPG. RPGs are based on the principle of you going araound 
 and exploring a realistic world. But still every enemy you meet is weak enough for you to beat 
 him. But that's not real. In real life most people beat you and the only way to change it is learning. 
 Now, that's Gothic. You will die a lot and that is because if YOU were transfered into a world 
 like that it would happen to you, too. YOu walk into the wrong cave, you are dead. It's a simple 
 as that and it makes the world feel more real.
  As for the control scheme, it takes getting used to but that makes it fun to play. If you play 
 (correction) When you play the game for the second time (if you finish it once you will play it 
 again) you will find that you can beat enemies several level above you because you learned how 
 to use the system. You, as player, have to learn to fight in the game instead of some screen appearing 
 and telling you that you are the master of the universe now because you killed enough low-level 
 oponents (there are still levels and they are important but the way you work is damn important, 
 too) .
  End of line, you have to think tactically, train to use the conrol scheme and pick your fights 
 carefully.
  
  And btw, in my opinion this is the best RPG ever. ANd I challenge you to try it and then come back 
 and tell me a better one (written July 2007) . (I played it with the Raven's Night Add-On which 
 is more like an extension to the game because it does not give you another campaign but instead 
 integrates additional quests into the game and changes some stats for the enemies) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  This is the buggiest game that I ever loved playing. It's hard not comparing this to The Elder 
 Scrolls. While it is not at large or as deep as that game, it hits a lot of the same marks for 
 me. I loved exploring this world. The backstory was interesting, and there is a huge playground 
 of fun stuff to discover. You get to really live IN this world. Even though it ISN'T as large as 
 The Elder Scrolls, it's feels just right because you get the same sense of discovery and adventure, 
 without the HOURS of time spent traversing the exhaustively large worls in that other game.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is the interface and it's bugginess. In an afternoon play 
 session, the game would crash on me at least a dozen times. After the first crash, it will crash 
 again within minutes if you don't reboot first. The file system it runs under is really unstable. 
 I've seen blue screens, instant reboots, and frozen systems more times playing this game than in 
 the entire live of my laptop.
  
  Furthermore, the interface sucks. Some menus were traversed with the arrow keys, and some ONLY 
 work with the mouse scroll wheel. If I didn't have the scroll wheel, I'm not really sure what would 
 have happened. There is NO mouse cursor in this game. You have to scroll around with menus. Come 
 on, this game isn't THAT old. Lame. I should also mention that I restarted the game from the beginning 
 at least a dozen times and had to sit through the stupid opening nonsense more times that I'd like 
 to admit because the New Game option sits prominently at the top of the menu throughout the entire 
 game. Additionally, the shading change for selected menu items is so subtle, sometimes you aren't 
 sure what you're selecting even when you ARE being careful. Again, lame.
  
  JoWood has not had a good run with me. They make buggy stuff. They really need to take more care 
 to put out better quality games. But this is the first that I haven't deleted in frustration. I 
 really loved it. The story and characters were great. The voice acting was atrocious. Otherwise, 
 I liked the music. It wasn't GREAT great, but it set the mood brilliantly. I particularly liked 
 the ominous music as you first head into the valley of mines.
  
  All in all, I loved this game, and I have every intention of playing it again as some other character 
 class at a later date. But working myself up to dealing with the crashes and bad interface is going 
 to take some time.
  
  Looking forward to the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortis_Noctem
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  This game is indeed amazing within the RPG genre, although it disposes of a ,rather more difficult 
 to learn then usual, combat system, one you mastered it, you can see that it is a welcomed change 
 from the tradition click on the monster that is of equal or lower level then you and watch your 
 STR points to everything, automatically, for you , this fighting system is one of the characteristics 
 that really makes the Gothic series worth playing, here you have to be on the constant lookout 
 for your enemies' moves and use a chase-and-click system, although the bow/crossbow system could 
 be better, it will still make you want to walk around with some arrows. The storyline is intense 
 and rich for all the hardcore RPG fans, and interesting for the common gamer, also, the fact that 
 a monster's level isn't available for you to see before fighting, could make some people think 
 less of the game, but true RPG fans will grant it some extra points for realism. As for graphics, 
 well this is were it goes down a bit, the scenario is amazing and most monsters look great, but 
 you might want to take a better look at the wolfs' head and the jumping animation will still make 
 anyone laugh, yet the graphics are still good and most computers nowadays could run it on maximum 
 detail without many problems. In conclusion, if your up for a challenging game, love role-playing, 
 loved the first Gothic and are willing to take 1 hour (or more) to master the control system and 
 a few more hours to learn that if it looks big and hairy it will probably kill you , then this 
 is the game for you, although I've seemed to state a lot of it's flaws, believe me, those are the 
 only ones it has, the game is just amazing, once you get pass these small adversities and get into 
 the game itself, you will find yourself playing Gothic 2 for several weeks. At least until you 
 convince someone into giving money to buy better computer parts in order to achieve the recommended 
 requirements for Gothic 3, a game that fixed almost all the bugs of Gothic 2, but demands that 
 you have a super computer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilBaga
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has juuu-u-st the right mix of fighting and exploring and humour that you would like 
 in a RPG. It never takes itself too seriously, and the voice acting is ambient and at times hilarious.
 
  
  The xp system works well as enemies get more complex and harder as your skills and weapons arsenal 
 increases. Yet you literally have the freedom to explore every nook and cranny of this computer 
 generated world. And you'll be rewarded for doing so. In fact, most of time I couldnt care less 
 about the main quest, vowing to myself that I would eradicate (or explore) every cave in the district 
 and take out those pesky insects and goblins! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 2 is a huge improvement from the first installment Gothic . Between Gothic, Gothic 2 and 
 Gothic 3 - the second installment clearly deserves a big cheers. It is a very long game which can 
 keep you hooked for 40-60 hours if you decided to play the side quests as well. It is plenty of 
 fun, and there is much to explore in the beautiful Gothic 2 world. One of the downside of the game 
 is various glitches and bugs - believe it or not? you can actually jump to the end of the game 
 by walking on the rope towards the boat because of a glitch. The combat can be repetitive as you 
 continue to perform routine swings of your sword - nevertheless it is better than button mashing. 
 The graphics are below average - but the game play makes up for it. The quests are fun and there 
 are many professions to explore and develop your skills. RPG fan praise - this is a must game for 
 your collection. Life is short. Play more of these type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  I recently picked up a copy of this game in a local gameshop for about 7 euros. When I had installed 
 it I was stupified to see that this was a game I'd played before a few years ago (illegal copy) 
 but never finished it! At that time I can remember my system was not really up to the challenge 
 of running this game properly so I quit after a few hours of gameplay.
  
  Because of the opening scene looking so crappy and my initial dissapointment of purchasing an oldy 
 I'd played before I didn't bother playing it until I finally got really bored some evening.
  
  I started playing
  
  and playing and playing and playing.
  
  I find the whole experience 
 very refreshing (currently at the end of ACT3) . For me it really feels like how a computer game 
 should feel. It's not overly complex with rules and statistics like D&amp; D. It has pretty nice 
 graphics, I own an XPS1710 and it runs this game maxed out. The quests are managable and the overall 
 world is perfectly layed out with lots of interesting things for all levels. What keeps me playing 
 are the nice little rewards you often receive for playing. If you eplore you find interresting 
 things, if you stick to it you will be able to beat that shadowbeast and leveling up doesn't take 
 forever.
  
  All in all I'm loving it and i can't wait to start Gothic III after finishing this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJokker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  So I opened the casing for Gothic II. I've played quite a few RPGs but none held me strapped to 
 my seat like this one. What was weird was that all the way I thought 'Man, this effect could have 
 been done so much better. That monster should have more detail. That speech could have been recorded 
 better.' I basically kept an unforgiving attitude throughout the game. I always told myself 'Damn, 
 the graphics are bad, the sounds aren't right, the story is such a clich&eacute;', but somehow 
 I couldn't leave the game. I never had a game where most of the things you do would give you money 
 if you sold it there, or more if you did something else, or it could help you get into said club 
 or guild.
  
  If I would have given up on the game then and there, I probably wouldn't have played half the games 
 I did. That game taught me that games are more about gameplay than graphics and eye-candy.
  
  The game is awfully harder than it looks. Enemies have no way of indicating what level they 
 are and how hard it would be for you to beat them, because usually it just depends on patience 
 and experience. You can beat an Orc Elite at Level 1 as long as you don't get bored blocking and 
 hitting him non-stop for one whole hour until he falls.
  
  The controls are hard to get used to, though it has several control setups so you can choose the 
 one that fits your style most. The game has various 'professions' you can learn. Such as, skinning, 
 forging, alchemy, and others. Learning one doesn't exclude the others, though you probably need 
 to find various trainers. Also, to get trained you spend 'Learning Points' which you will spend 
 at least 50% of your game-time collecting.
  
  With my ending paragraph, I will issue a warning. This game will change your way of thinking. Whether 
 you believe it or not, it will make you appreciate graphics less than gameplay, and it will suck 
 you in. You WILL be part of the ones who spent 10 hours or more simply advancing through the story. 
 This coming from someone who spent over 100 hours playing it. Overall, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Highs: Gorgeous enjoyable game-world with living characters and believable environments that will 
 suck you in to a well crafted story that serves for an excellent sequel and sets the stage for 
 a third adventure into the gothic style of gameplay.
  
  Lows: Leaves off setting the stage for a third Gothic, numerous small bugs that will cause various 
 degrees of irritation, the gameplay isnt much better than Gothic so fighting more than one creature 
 at a time can still be very painful and the inventory system is actually worse, and it took long 
 enough getting here after the German release and the English translation was finished almost a 
 year ago.
  
  RPG Fans: This is your cup of tea, if you can expand your personal taste to the amount of action 
 Gothic II provides. Its not so purely action oriented that its a relative of RPG Diablo, but 
 it doesnt slack in the fighting department. There is a tons of character development, and a large 
 number of ways to play through the game.
  
  Action Fans: This could be your cup of tea; the action isnt pure and youll find yourself having 
 to avoid things that you know are too big for you, and picking a path to develop your character 
 along. Only pick this up if you like RPGs too. Or if you feel like expanding your horizons go ahead 
 and pick it up for 10 - 20 bucks when it gets there.
  
  Everyone Else: This is a good game and you will more than likely enjoy the experience if you want 
 to try something new and put forth some effort after picking it up for 10  20 dollars from a bargain 
 bin.
  
  Once youve played a game from the growing Gothic franchise you will be among a group of gamers 
 who discovered a rare and enchanting gem back in mid 2000. You will find yourself immersed in what 
 can only be described as a style that is unique and which gamers on the Gothic forums talk about 
 as though it were trademarked Gothic Game-play. You might even find yourself agreeing. If you have 
 the gaming rig to play it with all the setting up over the halfway point, then you will be treated 
 to a visual meal that is more real than any other game on the market. The actual quality of the 
 3d engine though not weak certainly wasnt revolutionary back in 2000 and still isnt now. The 
 bottom line is what they did with it. And that is create a world with an almost completely unbroken 
 horizon that spans across an island that is filled with immensely detailed communities with problems 
 (both mundane and realistic to fantastic) that your help will be needed to solve and which you 
 wont always be able to solve by yourself.
  Like its predecessor, Gothic II invests a great deal into making various communities believable 
 in the environment. Unlike so very many games before it where each location is something of a cookie 
 cutter community with superficial differences to differentiate between them, Gothic goes to great 
 lengths to make a locations environment intoxicating. When youre in a city that is dying out, 
 in which eating is becoming a problem do to tense relationship with ever less cooperative farmers, 
 and yet still has a moderately thriving marketplace and is in some ways improving due to the paladins 
 who have come and given the local militia the support they need to help make the environment outside 
 the city walls safe again you get the feeling that youre not entirely needed and that while your 
 help would be appreciated they feel theyd do fine without you. When you first go into the old 
 world, which is an amazing recreation of the world of the original Gothic, you will be in a world 
 too harsh for you to safely navigate as most everything will be too big for you to survive long 
 without learning to run and dodge as you try to sneak into the besieged encampment of paladins 
 who are in desperate need of help just finding out whats happening outside of their walls. And 
 all of that fails to say anything of the vast wilderness that is wide open for exploration, filled 
 with animals and trees that blow in the wind and weather that is beautiful just makes it feel that 
 much more like you have been put in this world for real.
  The original Gothic took a little bit of pure luck to actually figure out the controls, and because 
 of that they were well known. It is a sad day when a game fails to document how to play it, and 
 with such a good game, something like that can even stop someone from playing it at all. Beyond 
 that, the controls were simplistic and effective to the point where the mouse became unnecessary. 
 Gothic II goes so far as to improve the gameplay, making animals easier to fight, properly documenting 
 the controls for the game as well as simplifying them. But while simplified they feel less perfect. 
 Also the system still needs refining from the original. For example, when you are fighting more 
 than one or two creatures that are a level or two below your skill level you can still be reduced 
 to only a few health points, if you survive at all without running away. Moreover, those used to 
 Gothics very well separated inventory system will be disappointed to find out that, while objects 
 are still sorted in your inventory by type, everything you pick up will be lumped into a single 
 inventory that you will have to scroll through to get to what you are looking for. Overall a large 
 improvement, and a decent system, but the feeling that the controls could have been better is palpable.
 
  The story doesnt have the attributes of a work of art or genius, but a lot of good can be said 
 of it. There could be some very legitimate complaints that the story is like that of the two towers, 
 which many felt to feel like a middle chapter with a beginning that, though it fills you in on 
 everything you need to know, feels strongly like you missed something and an end that, like the 
 last game, left a very clear message that the story of your character was not over. Interestingly 
 enough though, it provides every bit as much closure as the first game, only with a very intriguing 
 twist that I wont spoil here. But while the final fight may disappoint, the end is still very 
 rewarding.
  A good RPG is best defined by how much of the world is affected by you yourself when you pick a 
 path that the main character follows. Gothic II also exceeds by this definition as well as all 
 others. There is a great variety of impact you can have on the world and often when you do something 
 important there are valid rewards or reprimands as characters approve or disapprove of your actions 
 and will provide you with an almost custom list of allies at the final stretch.
  Among the already mentioned problems, there are a few others. There are some problems with the 
 edge of the world being pretty accessible at some points without very much effort. Some quests 
 dont reward one way of solving them as much as another way and even feel entirely unfair when 
 you choose the good path and are punished for it illogically. And it some areas there is a general 
 feeling that there was meant to be more game but it got cut off. Though that feeling can be easily 
 overshadowed by features like alchemy benches and a deeper use of blacksmithing than was available 
 in the original, but had felt like the developers meant for them to be there. Also you should be 
 prepared to play this on a high midrange system at least as the graphical beauty of the Gothic 
 world is part of what makes this game worth it and the slowdown on lower machines or the tradeoff 
 of very low graphics with an abysmally close clipping plane can detract from the experience and 
 make navigating the world a less than enjoyable experience.
  At the end of the day Gothic II does everything a sequel should. It stands alone on its own merits 
 and makes advance independent of the original. The story builds without relying on the material 
 laid out for it already. This game is for a lot of people, while it doesnt rise above the average 
 RPG excursion it doesnt rise so high that it will appeal to every die hard gamer. There is just 
 too much good here to go un-noticed though, RPG fans should consider this one of the heavy hitters 
 of the year, and put it on their lists along side Neverwinter Nights and Deus Ex: Invisible War. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingviin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Yes, that indeed was a pretty hard thing to do. You see, as the reviewer of this game already said, 
 you CAN expect to die often in Gothic II. Hell, I didn't even realize, that I was playing and already 
 a bunch of little green men came and killed me with wooden sticks. But hell, I'm up for a challenge.
 
  The graphics of the game aren't that much realistic, for example, the main character runs like 
 he's wearing panty-hose or something.
  Though the gameplay is pretty good, it's hard to follow the storyline if you haven't playd Gothic 
 I. It's not impossible though. I haven't played Gothic I before, but I got the basic storyline 
 pretty well. I'm looking forward to playing Gothic I (yes, I know, that Gothic III is out, but 
 my computer is probably too weak for it) .
  If you like RPG's and you dont mind getting slayed all the time at the beginning of the game - 
 go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gk_1985
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  It is frustrating to play this game with your mouse and keyboard because of the control scheme. 
 If you can afford a 12 button joystick (like the PS controllers) and configure them. You will really 
 enjoy this game. This is a great RPG that is really hard to miss especially for RPG fanatics and 
 does have a lasting value. The graphics are great and can compete with other RPG games released 
 on its year. Theres plenty of spoken dialogue and other things which brings the game to life. 
 I highly recommend Gothic II for gamers who are looking for an Immersive RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toroman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  When you start playing this game, you might easily give up. It has confusing controls which make 
 combat real hard and clumsy inventory that is making your life hell. But after couple of hours 
 it becomes OK. Well, you get used to controls, but to be honest inventory still sucks. Story is 
 pretty interesting and pushes you forward, and longer you play more addicted you get. Game is fairly 
 hard and it can give you a lot of play hours but only if you give it a chance. Some enemies are 
 hard to beat even when grow stronger, not to speak in the beginning so you might die often which 
 can be frustrating. The game looks fairly good and sound is OK. So, if you quit in the beginning, 
 you will miss one of the best RPGs ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagi86
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Gothic II represents a great sequet to the original, and the game has the whole package -- good story-line, 
 great world, decent graphics, and lastly great gameplay. Unlike Morrowind or Oblivion, this game 
 has a different feel to it, which is hard to describe (however, possibly due to the different controls) , 
 but it feels somehow better than the Elder Scrolls games. The graphics of Gothic II are a step 
 forward from the original, but are still a ways behind Morrowind. That said, the performance of 
 this game is great. Running a Dell laptop, I do not recall experiencing any slowdowns at all at 
 any point in the game. The sound is top notch, much better in my opinion that the Elder Scrolls 
 music. The fighting style is far superior than the Elder Scoll's fighting style. Using a weapon, 
 with combinations, etc., just feels more intuitive and more realistic than the Elder Scroll's, 
 possibly because there is no point and click with the Gothic series, as the mouse doesn't ever 
 have to be used. The game could be more stable, as glitches do exist, but these don't detract from 
 the gameplay at all. Overall, while not as big or long as the Elder Scrolls, this game may be more 
 enjoyable and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys classic single-player RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  In first part you defeated Sleeper and and broke The Barrier, giving freedom for all it's inhabitants, 
 however for this glorious victory you payed with your own life - while demon was destroyed, it's 
 temple's walls became void of it's magic and collapsed onto very own person who brought them freedom. 
 But even buried under temple's ruins you did not get well deserved rest. Xardaz, the necromancer 
 mage, summons you for you are needed once again. Dark mage tells you about the army of darkness 
 gathered in valley of mines, former territory of Barrier. Moreover, the army itself is gathered 
 and commanded by dragons, which wasn't heard about for many many years. You must find the way to 
 defeat them, otherwise dark times will come onto land of Khorinis...
  
  You start in new land , the New World witch is few times bigger then land in first game, filled 
 with even more different kinds of landscape, which are even more fun to explore, filled with even 
 more kinds of monsters, surprises &amp; secrets. In other words if you liked surroundings in first 
 game, you will definitely like it in this game even more.
  
  The New World is filled with people, most of which live in one of 2 big towns and there are plenty 
 of things to do. From a various people scattered around land you might learn things like how to 
 be stronger, how to better fight with single handed weapons , how to skin animals, etc. etc. etc. 
 Learning system is copied from 1st game and requires learning points which you gain by gaining 
 levels, with experience gained from battles and quests. Only thing witch you can't learn anymore 
 is acrobatics, which in first game gave you ability to jump further, run faster and if you fall 
 down from greater hight, get less damage. Of course game itself isn't about it, but still it would 
 be fun thing to do , or maybe it's just me...
  
  The graphics are slightly improved in terms of textures, models and landscape details. In game 
 console allows you to completely remove distance fog and change rendering a bit, but even without 
 it game looks great and combined with dynamic music flow it creates atmosphere sucking you into 
 the mood of adventure.
  
  In conclusion, it is recommended for you to play 1st game before playing this one, but even without 
 it you can make out story as characters seems to enjoy talking about old times . Also I would recommend 
 to have a console activation and console commands manual just in case you would stuck in some places 
 ( stuck as in - can't move ) .. it's just saving your time and you from extra stress as in some 
 places game seem to have some glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Does anyone know if they are going to change the combat system with Gothic III ? If so then I may 
 check it out. The combat just ruins this game for me.
  I am so sick of people making ACTION games and calling the RPG's.
  Oblivion is one of the worst. 
 I wish I could return my copy of Oblivion.
  I went back to playing Morrowind to fill this void.
  Sorry but these games are just not for me.
 
  I really miss the old school RPG's.
  Between the stupid MMO's and the Oblivion style games RPG's are almost completely dead. Thank god 
 for Neverwinter Nights 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur_digitized
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  I came to know about Gothic 2 only through a magazine and decided to give it a try. After I had 
 spent a few hrs with it, i found it highly addictive and played it continuosly for many many hours. 
 I wondered why this great game is not getting more publicity. The game is long (too long for my 
 liking) , maps vast and characters immersive and interactive. The gameplay is fun and the game provides 
 for several routes to complete a mission. All the three factions ( Mercenaries, Paladins and Monks) 
 are enjoyable. The take a while to take off but once it does so, you will be totally addicted to 
 it. But the game is not without flaws. Battle system is cumbersome ( you have to activate battle 
 mode to fight) , and raising your level becomes hard at the end and you end up killing wild animals 
 in the woods to raise your experience. The missions are immersive and you really feel you are in 
 the game sharing other characters' joy and grief. There are moments of laughter, joy, sorrow in 
 the game which makes you feel involved. You really forget about its flaws and want to play on and 
 on and on. A great game which should be given a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adlein1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Be honest! Are you easily put off by:
  
  Less-than-perfect voice acting? (Cringe)
  clumsy interfaces? (Life's too short!)
  German developer? (Never heard of - can't be good)
 
  Graphics 3 years old? (You must be joking!)
  
  Think again.
  
  Cause this is easily the BEST. RPG. EVER. Make it your personal quest to check out the demo and you 
 shall find great treasure. Do yourself a favour and crank up anti-aliasing on your graphics card 
 to max, cause there is no in-game option. Granted, graphics-wise it's not Oblivion but then again, 
 who cares when the story it so good, the gameplay so addictive and the world so immersive! When 
 the game was released in 2003, most PCs couldn't handle it. Nowadays, you can play it on your laptop 
 with everyting maxed out.
  
  Check out some of the walkthroughs / FAQs/ Survival guides and tweak some of the settings (key 
 map health restore and mana) .
  
  This is not meant to be a review, merely a plea to give this game the recognition it deserves. 
 For a good review, read this: http://www. quandaryland. com/jsp/dispArticle. jsp? index=584
  
  ENJOY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pancamo_xxl
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  this game is excelent... but i need a little bit of help... i passed trough the passe and now i am 
 valley of the mines... i've done the quests there and now i wanna gow back to khorinos... BUT I DON'T 
 KNOW HOW..... because when i passed from khorinos to the valey i had the map of khorinos and i didn't 
 have the map of the valey... so i need some help... could u pls help how the find the pass? i'll give 
 u my email.. gutza_nl@yahoo. com pls if u know things about gothic 2 pls tell me and about the game..... the 
 game is absolutley AWSOME... i've played gothic 1 when appeardover 4-5 year ago... that version in 
 german and i like it to but this one.. is deadly... surley makes u an addict 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroguy305
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Recently I was talking to my friend about buying some old PC games to play just because we enjoy 
 RPG games. Well we found Gothic II at Best Buy for about $12. We figured we should at least try 
 it because we heard it was good. I convinced my friend to buy it and he went home and played it. 
 Well recently I played it at his house for maybe 3 straight hours and I feel as though ive experienced 
 enough of the game to write a short review. I dont know about the story too much except it picks 
 up where the first game leaves off. You are some un-named adventurer who was just ressurected and 
 your job is to get a hold of some amulet. To get the amulet u must get into the upper city of this 
 town. To get to the upper city you must be a citizen or a paladin.. To be a paladin you must first 
 be a citizen. To become a citizen you must be the apprentice of a master. *sigh* to the be the 
 apprentice of a master you must do quests for all the masters... so there is a lot going on at 
 one time. That is good for u. Trust me. This game is HARD. I mean really hard. The combat is clunky 
 and unforgiving. You start with very little money and things are very expensive. Not too much going 
 for you. You are very weak and cant kil much at all. Once you get higher levels it becomes much 
 easier at parts however. Once you get past the difficulty of the game it is very enjoyable. There 
 is tons to do and lots of places to go. The map overall isnt too huge but it doesnt really need 
 to be because of all the things you do. The graphics are good for the time but the sound is awesome. 
 All dialouge is spoken as well as written, even the things your character says. The voice acting 
 is good with an occasional bad one in there. The world is emmersive and you can easily find yourself 
 lost in it. Gothic II is a very good, if not very hard, rpg game that if you have some extra money, 
 you should definitly go pick up a copy of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjornishigi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Its obvious whoever made this game had fun doing it and that it was a labor of love. Why is it 
 obvious you say? Perhaps because of its expressive quality and its epic sense of scale or perhaps 
 simply because its, dare I say... jaunty?. And gosh darnnit people like it. And above all else, 
 for the love of GAWD, its open ended thank you very much. Krikey. Let us explore and make unscrupulous 
 choices to our hearts content just as if we really were inhabiting a *ahem* manifest realm of fantastic 
 possibility and dire consequence. Yet keep the action fast and loose. The juice is the action, 
 the action is the juice. Remember that kidz. Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Gothic II is a game that will appeal very much to those of us out there serious about role playing 
 games. In today's gaming market, it's difficult to find a game that can live up to the high standards 
 many of us have but what sets G2 apart from the rest of the pack is that it's very hard and offers 
 very little in the way of hand holding.
  
  The closest comparable peer to G2 is Morrowind with which G2 shares some of the broader characteristics. 
 While not quite as large as Morrowind, G2 takes place in a very large open landscape across which 
 you are free to roam and explore. The graphics are a bit behind those of Morrowind but the artistry 
 put into the game makes G2 far more visually satisfying that Morrowind and even Oblivion (whose 
 environment has too much of a clean and constructed feeling to it) .
  
  A particular note is in order for the Night of the Raven expansion pack which adds a new region 
 to the game and some of the parts of this new region are simply outstanding. The swamp area is 
 thick with tall plants and trees and a huge desert canyon provides a breathtaking experience.
 
  
  The main area of G2 that you play in is heavily forested and is just covered in plants and trees. 
 The level of detail here is just amazing and beats out Morrowind which didn't have a lush feeling 
 to it. You can follow paths through the forest where occasionally you can see that part of it has 
 been dug through a small hill or deep wheel ruts carve away at the ground.
  
  There are three large areas you get to play in G2 (if you include the Night of the Raven expansion 
 pack) . The most striking thing about each of the areas is the complete lack of loading zones (except 
 between the three areas) which is something not even Morrowind or Oblivion achieves. Each cave, 
 each house, each town and each ruins you come across are all part of the same map that you can 
 simply walk through without missing a beat. This continuity adds to the immersiveness of the game 
 and really makes you feel like you're really poking around in a real cave or walking into a real 
 town. That said, one thing somewhat missing are "dungeons" in the traditional sense of the word. 
 The caves and ruins you explore are almost all extremely short and generally consist of one or 
 two rooms and never more than ten or so. Almost all of your experience takes place on the outside.
 
  
  Perhaps the most important aspect of the game to decide if you'll enjoy it or not is the difficulty 
 of the combat. When you first set out in the world, nearly every creature you come across is more 
 than likely to kill you numerous times. You will find yourself saving and reloading very often. 
 G2 is very much a game of killing one monster at a time and since there are a lot of monsters in 
 the game, you will probably find G2 to be one of the longest games you've ever played.
  
  As many other reviewers have noted, the combat system is a bit clumsy. You have to hold either 
 the CTRL or mouse button and press one of the movement keys to attack, block or cast a spell. Some 
 spells don't seem to work at close range and as you attack forward, you also move forward which 
 sometimes puts you on top of or beyond the monster you're fighting. There is also some player skill 
 needed in melee combat as the timing of your attacks can counter the attacks of your enemy. If 
 you can get into the right rhythm of attack, you can slowly take down a difficult enemy. Of course, 
 if you find yourself up against two enemies, then you're in big trouble because you can only counter 
 the attacks of one of them while the other one rips you to pieces.
  
  The leveling and skill system is fairly straightforward. You have a moderate number of skills that 
 you can improve over time. Each time you level up, you're granted a number of learning points which 
 you can then use to improve your skills or learn new tricks such as creating potions, learning 
 spells, learning to lock pick or learning how to collect various parts from a dead animal. One 
 of the weaknesses of the system however is that the number of learning points required to increase 
 a skill increase as the skill does. Since the number of learning points you gain is fixed per level, 
 it becomes more and more difficult to improve your character later in the game which tends to add 
 a slowing down feeling to it.
  
  And of course, this review cannot be complete without giving credit to the quests provided in the 
 game. As in games like Morrowind, this game throws at you quite a handful of various side quests 
 that provides for a very open-ended and full playing experience. In addition, you'll find that 
 many of the quests are quite a challenge to complete. You are often only given incomplete information 
 about where to go and quite a number of quests give you no information at all and you have to simply 
 explore the entire island to find what you're looking for. There is no auto-map that fills in locations 
 of places as you visit them so you'll be left on your own there.
  
  Finally, the interfaces used in the game are simply terrible. Fortunately, it is something you 
 can live with but I can't think of any game in the last ten years with an interface as boring and 
 uninspired as the one in G2. Every dialog and menu in the game is entirely text based with a plain, 
 single line border around it. There is no support for a mouse cursor although you can use a mouse 
 wheel to move up and down the menus. The inventory page is just a grid of small images with equipped 
 items highlighted and there is no rag doll used for equipping items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  There are two major open-ended single player fantasy RPG series for the PC  The Elder Scrolls 
 and Gothic. Elder Scrolls is the more popular series, but Gothic is pretty good too. Elder Scrolls 
 is popular because of its huge game worlds, accessible gameplay, and pretty graphics. Gothic, on 
 the other hand, has strengths that are a lot less obvious, and much harder to describe. The series 
 trades some size and beautiful graphics for superb AI, realism, and extra immersiveness. It can 
 be very hard to get into, but when its at its best, the Gothic series is as great as any RPG series 
 ever made. Gothic 2, like its predecessor, is hard and its not pretty, but its immensely fun 
 and rewarding if you stick with it. You may find the game to be fun and addictive, provided you 
 can overlook the way that it constantly shoots itself in the foot.
  
  Gothic 2s story picks up immediately after the ending of Gothic 1. You begin outside of the former 
 prison colony, on a large island. Orcs and peasant unrest threaten the land, and a religious/military 
 group called The Paladins has occupied a nearby city for an unknown reason. Immediately, you are 
 given a major quest, and you set off into the world to finish it as you see fit. If you didnt 
 play the first game, then you should before you play this game, because the story and setting tie 
 so closely together that you wont understand whats happening early in the game.
  
  If you did play the first game, then you will be in familiar territory at the outset  wrestling 
 with Gothic 2s unintuitive and klunky control scheme. The game does feature some improvements, 
 but like the first game, Gothic 2 sometimes begs you not to play it by making simple tasks difficult. 
 The interface is slightly better than the first game, but it still lacks basic features like mouse 
 support for the inventory or menu screens. When you open your inventory, you have to use arrow 
 keys to navigate between items. There is no paper doll for your character or drag-and-drop ability 
 for armor or weapons. The buy/sell interface has no mouse support either. You can hotkey up to 
 9 actions, but there is no HUD to remind you how your hotkeys are set. You cant hotkey potions 
 either, so forget about drinking one in combat. Gothic 2s bad interface seems like it was set 
 up for a console, but it wasnt, which is why its so puzzling.
  
  The controls for Gothic 2s combat also follow in the footsteps of Gothic 1, which is to say that 
 they are bad. They always feel sluggish and somewhat unresponsive. Spellcasting is cumbersome and 
 impossible at close range. Its impossible to evaluate this game without comparing it to Morrowind 
 and Oblivion, and combat is one area Elder Scrolls games completely blow Gothic 2 out of the water.
 
  
  In order to enjoy this game, you will also have to look past its often subpar presentation. Graphically, 
 Gothic 2 was not a great looking game when it was released in 2003, and the years since then have 
 not been kind. This game is downright ugly at times. Characters and environments are extremely 
 blocky and look like they are something out of a game from five or six years ago. The games skyline 
 and dense foliage look really nice because of the long draw distance, but the foliage can be a 
 real annoyance up close. Its so dense in some areas that it blinds you. This experience is extra 
 frustrating when youre trying to fight some monster in front of you, but cant see it because 
 theres a huge green blob in the way. It helps though, that the outdoor areas, caves, and small 
 buildings are completely seamless. Its possible to play this game for 25 hours without seeing 
 a loading screen, which means that the sub par graphics come across as a worthy tradeoff.
  
  Gothic 2s audio also comes across as somewhat average. The music is pretty good and it changes 
 depending upon what area you are exploring. A huge plus of this game is that it has thousands of 
 voice-acted lines of dialog and sound bites. A drawback to this approach is that it seems like 
 only five voice actors did all of these lines. In particular, the guy who does Xardass voice seems 
 to be everywhere, and he sticks out like a sore thumb. Combat sounds range from average to bad. 
 In particular, the squishy sound of a blade connecting with flesh sounds really weak.
  
  While the games faults are obvious, its strengths arent. Gothic 2 excels in ways that are very 
 hard to describe  so hard, that you almost have to experience it yourself to understand it. Theres 
 a lot to be said for big sandbox games like Oblivion and Grand Theft Auto. Many times though, these 
 games are characterized by great breadth but little depth, but not Gothic 2. Gothic 2 manages to 
 simulate a huge, living breathing world better than any RPG ever made  period. This game has the 
 depth and variety of a linear game, but the open-endedness of the best games in the business. Therein 
 lies the games greatest strength.
  
  Dungeons and wilderness areas never feel like copy and paste tile sets. They are all uniquely crafted 
 areas that reward you richly for exploring. No RPG has ever made exploration as fun and memorable 
 as Gothic 2. If you survive the battle with some tough monsters in a cave, theres always a good 
 reward for you at the end. Say goodbye to randomly generated and leveled loot. Towns feel like 
 actual towns, with people working, sleeping, and going about their daily business doing whatever 
 it is they do. People will get angry when you enter their homes uninvited and eventually attack 
 you if you dont leave. They will also get offended if you approach them with a weapon drawn and 
 unsheathe their own. Even with Radiant AI, Oblivion cannot match the NPC AI and activity in this 
 game. 
  
  Gothic 2 has over a hundred unique NPCs, intermingled with miscellaneous characters like worker 
 or citizen. The unique NPCs are truly unique  they have their own conversation trees, agendas, 
 activities, and abilities. Never is there a time where you talk to a named NPC and feel like he 
 or she is just a cookie cutter Xerox copy of another one. NPCs attitudes and dialog change towards 
 you as you accomplish your goals. Its one way that the game rewards you richly for your trials. 
 Its one of the games many underappreciated features that only shine through after you have played 
 it for a while.
  
  One of the side effects of Gothic 2s realism is an extreme learning curve and level of difficulty 
 early in the game. You do not start off the game with a map. There is no encounter scaling in this 
 game, and there is nothing keeping you from running off into an area that you are unprepared for 
 and getting massacred in two seconds. These obstacles are actually blessings in disguise. Once 
 you become stronger and get better equipment, triumphing over your former enemies and feeling yourself 
 becoming more powerful is incredibly satisfying. It can be said that the core any RPG is the carrot-and-stick 
 process of solving problems, earning experience, and gaining levels. Part of the draw of an RPG 
 is to start off as a helpless weakling and gradually progress to near Godlike power. No game released 
 in the last three years is as addictive in this area as Gothic 2.
  
  Like other open-ended games, how long you spend on this game depends a lot upon your playing style. 
 The game world is bigger than the first Gothic, without any drop in quality or attention to detail. 
 It took me 50 hours to finish it, but I can see somebody else spending 35 or less. You can stop 
 to explore, smell the flowers, and do every quest you can. Or, you could go directly through the 
 storyline as fast as possible (which would be hard) . There are tons of quests in this game, none 
 of which are a mundane fetch me this necklace type. Regardless of how long it takes, Gothic 2 
 does a great job of keeping you engaged throughout its entire length. Herein lies its greatest 
 trump card over the Elder Scrolls series. Theres enough choice in character development to support 
 replaying the game at least once. Gothic 2 has tons of content  even more than the first game, 
 and you will surely get your moneys worth out of it.
  
  If you liked Gothic 1, then you will be very pleased by Gothic 2. It is a substantial improvement 
 over the first game in a few ways. Gothic 2 offers a sense of realism, immersiveness, challenge, 
 and attention to detail that no other RPG can offer. The only question is whether you may have 
 to patience to endure lots of dying, ugly graphics, and some clunky controls. If you ask me, its 
 more than worth it. Overall, Gothic 2 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I describe Gothic as down-to-Earth because its world and characters tend to resemble real world 
 circumstances much more so than your typical fantasy RPG. The characters are all very human in 
 their design, whether they're greedy, devious, cowardly, lazy, friendly, gruff, arrogant, or just 
 plain stupid. Everybody has an attitude and angle, which makes the game much more immersive, as 
 opposed to having a vast number of copy-and-paste characters whose sole purpose in life is to give 
 missions to passerby heroes. All the NPCs have daily activities, further adding to the immersion 
 - smiths can be seen pounding metal on an anvil or sharpening a sword on a whetstone, alchemists 
 brew potions on their lab benches, guards practice their combat moves, farmers tend the land hoeing 
 and weeding, etc. After work, everyone heads to the inn/bar/wherever for some food and drink and 
 then retires to their homes for the night. Gothic has the most convincing NPC routines I've seen 
 in any game to date. 
  
  The combat AI also behaves quite realistically. People will get angry and give you a warning if 
 you draw your weapon in front of them. Some monsters will give you a 'don't come any closer' warning 
 before attacking, while some will attack straight away. Some will pursue you to the ends of the 
 Earth, while others will stop chasing after a while and give up. The only place the AI has a blindspot 
 is with summoned monsters and friendly NPCs. Companions and townspeople will attack any monster 
 you summon, yet fail to recognize the obvious source of said monster, which is you. Individually 
 summoned monsters may also attack each other depending upon their proximity to each other and nearby 
 enemies. The AI also tends to lurch forward when attacking, so oftentimes in an NPC vs. NPC battle, 
 you'll have multiple combatants going round in circles, missing each other repeatedly, which looks 
 a little silly.
  
  The story is laid out in chapters that alter the gameworld as you progress. Places that you visited 
 before will look different, new monsters will appear, characters will change locations and behaviors, 
 relationships will change, etc. While you obviously can't go back to an earlier point in the timeline 
 of the story, the gameworld is always open and allows for free exploration (in some cases, a few 
 areas may no longer be accessible due to a big event) . The story itself is well-constructed and 
 has good pace, though I'd say I preferred the story in Gothic 1 because of its creepy atmosphere 
 and the mysterious nature of the Sleeper. Gothic 2 has dragons, which may be straying a little 
 to close to the prototypical RPG. Even so, there were plenty of memorable moments in this one and 
 probably more of them than in Gothic 1. The factions in this game are so diverse, each with their 
 own quests/story and armor/weapons/spells that it's worth playing through a second or third time 
 to see how the other sides do things.
  
  For the loot-farmers looking for a full set of adamantium platemail of godly might, here's a warning 
 - Gothic ain't got none of that. There are weapons and armor, but all but a few are of the non-magical 
 variety. Armor doesn't come in multiple pieces (helmet, cuirass, leggings, etc) - there's one suit 
 and you put that on.
  
  The skill/leveling system is quite different from most RPGs. You earn skill points when you level 
 up and you can spend them on attributes/weapons skills/spells by speaking with a trainer. Weapons 
 have minimum requirements which must be met in order for them to be wielded (melee weapons generally 
 require strength, missile weapons require dexterity) . 
  
  The gameworld itself is large and varied with forests, lakes and mountains, and better yet it's 
 laid out in a believable fashion, with farms outside the city and fishermen down by the docks. 
 You can climb up a tall mountain and look out over the landscape and it's impressive, especially 
 at full draw distance, which is perfectly achievable with any video card less than 3 years old. 
 With a little jumping, you can reach pretty much every place on the map, mountaintops, roofs, though 
 sometimes you'll get stuck in a dead spot and have to reload. The monster designs are solid - I 
 think Gothic has the best rendition of Orcs out of all the Orc-related games I've seen.
  
  A lot of people complain about the interface and mouse/keyboard arrangement. Personally, I didn't 
 find it to be that much of an obstacle. The last time I played with the Night of the Raven addon, 
 I was able to remap the keys.
  
  Gothic is a great game that takes a down-and-dirty approach to the fantasy RPG genre. Very highly 
 recommended to people who like the adventure part of RPGs and are less interested in uber powers 
 and magic items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikingchoper
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Gothic II al igual que la primera parte, es excelente, no se puede decir mas, la combinacion de 
 generos es perfecta, no son los clasicos de rol que no tengo nada en contra de ellos, pero definitivamente 
 Gothic II Excelente en todos los aspectos, te la puedes pasar jugando todo el tiempo y aun asi 
 no lo quieres dejar, porque no te atreves a dejar de jugar, la historia es perfecta, los graficos 
 en su momento fueron buenos, todo en ese juego estuvo bien, no hay pero que se ponga, definivamente 
 revoliciono la forma de juego y el mismo estilo de juego, no hay nada mejor que tener un juego 
 asi en nuestra coleccion porque se volvio un clasico instantaneamente, desde la primera parte!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marsp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  I played Gothic 2 a couple of months ago for the third time. I can say that although the game has 
 some bug problems (I heard that there is an expansion but not sure) its a very good game. 
  First of all the game has a main quest that will lead you to explore the world of Gothic in order 
 to fulfill it. The secondary quests that you will find are not independent from the main quest 
 and they are going to help your character rise up in levels. 
  The game starts with a Dark Mage (little bit necromancer) Xardas who sithin a ritual summons you 
 in his tower. There he is telling you about The Eye Of Innos an artifact that gives you the ability 
 to speak with Dragons and the importance for you to take it. How and why you will take itplay 
 the game to find out.
  For that moment you start your game. Fist you have to travel until the city, find out a way to 
 get in. The city is closed due to mercenaries and the orcs that fooling around the world. When 
 you entering the city you have to decide what you would like to be, Mercenary or Paladin?? I dont 
 now which is better it depends and I dont know if you can enter the Monastery and becoming a kind 
 of priest-mage. I think that you will need a sheep and some gold and somehow you get one sheep 
 that you can even speak to it!!!! I must admit that I laugh a lot with it. The sheep has been stolen 
 by some bandits in Ornas farm and it is in a cave near. But I suggest becoming a Paladin or a Mercenary 
 it has more fun.
  So whats the good on this game?? I say it has good graphics the sound is nice and the story is 
 very attractive. I tell you the first time I found myself playing it the whole night long. How 
 can you stop if you have been hunted by 50 orcs goblins and wolves and you have to find a way out 
 to enter the castle? And then you are told to go and kill a Dragon! I tell you that this game some 
 times is very exciting to play. And my last advise... Explore the whole world because you will 
 find some interesting armor and weapon and many others that will help you built up a strong character. 
 Finally I have to say that the difficulty level of the game is very good even if I find myself 
 get killed a lot of times. 
  However there are some disadvantages of the gameFirst of all is that the combat system is a little 
 bit confusing. Second is the dialog box that sometimes you have to decide what you will say and 
 with which order because its easy to fail and your conversation ends up with zero results. Moreover 
 the leveling up of the character could be better. You gain learning points on its level but they 
 are not enough even you want to be the best Paladin.
  Personally I m looking forward for Gothic 3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PvtSlayer1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is Great in just about every aspect! I am not going to write a large review for this 
 game, but will mention a few things that people have complaints about such as there is no hotkey 
 for potions and so on. The potions can have a hotkey you just have to look on some faqs on great 
 websites such as GameFaqs and get instructions on how to do so which adds a very nice feature to 
 the game and makes the game easier to play. 
  In many ways this game is realistic in that the sounds of nature in the forests are spectacular 
 for its time and the sky, trees, and other forestry looks Great and almost gives you the feel you 
 are IN the game with the new FPS feature. The combat is not clunky, but you must actually learn 
 how to use the combat as its not like other games where you can just pick up a good sword and do 
 combos, you must learn how to execute these combos and learn which attacks are effective against 
 which monsters. ( Example- When you should execute a sweep attack or a serious of advance attacks) 
 
  You must actually take time to take out your map to read it... there is no magical knowledge of 
 where everything is in other RPGs... This gives you a sense of realism whether or not that is what 
 the Developers were going for. There are also 3 Factions to choose from, and many different tradeskills 
 you can learn and the Feel that you start out as a little wimp and grow up to be a Ferocious Warrior/Mage/Archer 
 or a mixture of everything if that is your will.
  This games has many approaches to it and does not hold you back from assaulting towns, citizens, 
 or gaurds. You have complete freedom! The story line is fantastic and executed well in the final 
 game. 
  There are VERY few bugs in this game... And if you played GOTHIC 1 then you won't die but maybe 
 a few times the whole game unless you get too big for your britches.
  I give this game a SUPERB 9.7 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nik440
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  I cannot speak very good English but let's try.
  I think Gothic is one of the best game for the PC. The graphic is better than The Eldar Scrolls: 
 Morrowind. I know people who think the game is too difficult.
  So when you dont know how finish the game...... theres Internet!!!
  Look for cheats or FAQ, there 
 are many cheats in the Net.
  I played the game 3 months, and 76 hours. Thats enough for me, because i don't like games where 
 you played 130 hours. That's for Junkies who sit there WHOLE LIVE in front of there PC. But when 
 you are a people who plays very long, the game is also very well for you, because you can make other 
 things like hounting, make swords or equipment, help people or learn to use the bow orcrossbow...... and 
 so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 2 has a way with the game not only makeing a whole new land and clans for the new game but 
 at the same time takeing the old things from Gothic 1 and useing them in the game but not as other 
 games do Gothic 2 put the whole land mass towns and everything in as part of Gothic 2 just later 
 on in time "dead citys and wars" so playing and beating Gothic 1 would be a great idea befor playing 
 Gothic 2 and when Gothic 3 comes out i will Deff pick it up i hope it uses the same concept that 
 they used for Gothic 2 with Gothic 3 i love the game because thare is sutch a wide diss. of things 
 to do wansent a bit of a let down for me i loved it played it a lot even after i beat it i played 
 and beat it 3 times "merc. mage and the other ones" i cant rember its been a while saince i played 
 but for noobs i recomend go to the merconarys for ur first clan thanx and go get um game it on! 
 -Shane- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevarine220
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  this game has it all, everything except for charactor creation, it has so much more than you think, 
 its hard in the beginning, but once you get into it an learn tthe basics, its highly addicting, 
 you can be a blacksmith, or an alchemist, its much like morrowind, and arcanum combined into one 
 huge game, plus you can farm. I also liked the day and night effect, and the magic is awsome! everything 
 about this game is great except for a little buggy movement, and some bad sound effects. Its fun 
 roaming aroung the forests at night, with just your torch to light the way, you never know what 
 will come out of the bushes next, overall this game is one of the best rpg's i have ever played, 
 have fun with it. (and in the beginning of the game, there is a skeleton to the left of the waterfall, 
 in the trees, he has magic scrolls, potions, and a bow and some arrows, the bow kills goblins in 
 1 hit!, and the fireball attack kills those giant bugs near the farm in 1 hit alo, but it uses 
 up a lotta mana) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt one of the best RPG games I have ever played on my pc. The graphics are 
 quite good, the story is good and the amount of choices you can make is also quite impressive. 
 The amount of freedom is also huge in the game, you have free choice of the quests that you do, 
 there are a lot of side quests that you can do for some extra xp points or some extra cash. The 
 game may not have the greatest graphics available but the style fit the game perfectly. The only 
 thing I found disappointing about the game is the hard difficulty. Especially in the beginning 
 of the game you can expect to die a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcarpent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  There are many, many things to discuss about Gothic 2. The game is truly ambitious. It tries to 
 give the NPC's in the game "lives". Unlike just about every other RPG out there, the NPC's in Gothic 
 2 actually do stuff. The blacksmith actually makes swords, the carpenter makes furniture, and the 
 guards patrol the town during their waking hours. At night, they might relax on their porch, go 
 to local tavern for some drinks, or just chat with their neighbors in the street. At night they 
 actually go to bed and sleep. This one thing alone creates a very immersive environment when compared 
 to RPG's where the NPC's just stand in the same spot waiting to sell you items regardless of what 
 time of the day it is. Towns have a completely different feel at night than they do in the day. 
 This gives the user opportunities to try different techniques and strategies, and makes the town 
 actually feel real. The game has no lack of quests. At times the sheer number of quests can seem 
 overwhelming, but most of them are not part of the main storyline (meaning they can be skipped) . 
 Still, the side quests and the main story quests will be more than enough to keep one engaged in 
 questing for a very long time. 
  
  The game also has a unique classing system. When the game starts, the hero is classless. Over time, 
 though, the choices made and the way quests are completed will lead you into one of three major 
 classes: the mage, the paladin, or the mercenary/warrior. While many of the classes have side quests 
 in common, their ways of solving the quests might be very different. Also, some quests are only 
 available to certain classes. The class choice does make a very real difference in how the game 
 plays out and how NPC's react to the character. The paladin, for example, is a holy knight in the 
 service of the king. Those who don't like the king (or the government, etc.) might attack you on 
 sight if you are a paladin, but might leave you alone if you look like a mercenary. The combat 
 system is interesting, if not very deep. Still, though, through different skills and different 
 weapons, varying styles of play can be effective. Timing is a big part of combat, since parrying, 
 dodging, and linking attacks together are all very timing intensive. Sometimes it can take awhile 
 to learn how to best fight an enemy, and the technique can make all the difference in a fight. 
 The world is quite expansive, and it is unlikely that a person will ever feel like there aren't 
 enough places to explore in this game. Over time even more area open up to explore, so explorers 
 should have a field day with this game. Also, most characters in the game are killable. I say most 
 because nearly all are. There are a few exceptions, though, where the designers chose to make some 
 NPC's that are integral to the storyline invulnerable. Personally, I would have preferred an "all 
 NPC's are killable but when the storyline is broken a warning message appears" technique as was 
 used in Morrowind. Overall, though, it makes little difference unless you are roleplaying a crazed 
 murderer. The game is full of decisions, choices, etc. All of these have consequences - some good 
 and some bad. There will undoubtedly be times throughout the game where you'll wish you hadn't 
 done something, or you thought a choice wouldn't affect anything but it did. I like this in a game, 
 though. It shows that the world actually is affected by the things you do. You actually change 
 the world. It's a good feeling. 
  
  The environmental effects are very well done. Rain falling, the glare of the sun, and even an eerie 
 green fog help add more variety and realism to the game.
  
  The leveling system is fairly basic, though well done. When the character levels up, points are 
 received and can be put into any combination of different skills. These skills affect the character's 
 ability to accomplish tasks such as fighting, forging swords, casting spells, or moving silently. 
 It is much the same as many other RPG's out there, so I won't waste much time on it.
  
  As far as the difficulty of the game, I found it to be quite hard. I played Gothic 2 Gold, which 
 has Gothic 2 and the expansion bundled together. The game is really hard. You will die. In fact, 
 you will die a lot. A wrong turn can lead to a sudden death and the loss of time. All I can say 
 about this is to save early and save often. Especially at the earlier levels, the hero is incredibly 
 weak. Insects, wolves, farmers, and just about anything else will kill him. Be careful and stick 
 it out, though, and you'll be in for a great RPG that has a lot to offer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreagnore
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This a real good example of a good RPG. 
  You don't know for how long I expect a good RPG in third person and Gothic I & II exceed everything 
 that I could hope for.
  By having:
  * AWESOME graphics
  * A world so rich, so BIG 
  * The freedom of doing whatever you want to, the countless forms of doing a mission or an assignment
 
  * A character fully adaptable of the user's gameplay
  * An original way of gaining abilities
  * Full of action
  * Chalenging Missions
  
  A piece 
 of advice, this is a really hard game and there are two ways to deal with this
  * The Challenging way: Saving every chance you get because you never know who or what you can encounter 
 ( Creatures of low levels and creatures of high levels are in the same area )
  * The Fun way: Download the cheats use god mode and have fun slaughtering everything in your way 
 ( Watch it there are some creatures that you won't be able to scratch them even in god mode, unless 
 you become stronger )
  If you have a lot of patience, I mean A LOT of Patience don't play it the challenging way, besides 
 you don' t lose THAT MUCH if you play it the Fun Way
  
  One Last thing I apology if my english isn' t very good ( Because it' s not my language )
  Well 
 that's all Enjoy the game and goodbye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guntizz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  It is starting quite simple You `re been thrown into this great journey without asking... If You 
 have already played first Gothic than You know what I`m talking about, but still Gothic II can 
 play all who did not tried first part.
  Wolfs, Blood flies, little goblins can be quite annoying.... all kind of creatures ... Orc`s and 
 of course Dragons! A lot of space to walk around and at the end I know all those lands without 
 any problems or even maps! At the close end You are the most strongest character in this land, 
 You can freely walk around with no borders, with no enemies, OK Trolls are quite a BIG problem, 
 but if You know the right way to deal with them than it can be quite small problem :D
  Join, play, enjoy! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 os a very good RPG because it is a very large map and huge playing choice like which guild 
 would you will be. You can choose between Paladin, Dragon Hunter and Fire mage. The game concludes 
 a lot of questing and many mosters. Graphics are not really changed but it is more nice than the 
 first Gothic. The gameplay is very easy and you get the touch quickly. The game is preety long 
 if you do all the quest. Fighting is improved and more intense. The weapon training takes more 
 experience but you can upgrade the critical hits to 100%. That makes you a Swordmaster if you chose 
 one or two weapon training. If you like stealing there is a lot to steal, you can even join a Thieves 
 Guild, but you still need to choose between the three main Guilds. I will leave you to discover 
 more of the games good gameplay and sounds. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_558
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those rare games where the world actually feels alive and while its still scripted 
 it really immerses the player in the game unlike many other rpgs. The graphics also seem a bit 
 dated but that also allows for a wider variety of people who are able to play it. The amount of 
 spoken dialogue in this game is incredible. Every character has spoken dialogue which is very rare 
 for rpgs of this size. And While this game has depth it is also very easy to pick up. The only 
 problems I found with this game is the lack of a side map while your playing and the lack of detail 
 in the quest descriptions. However, I highly recommend this game even to someone with a casual 
 interest in role playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Emperor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  The storyline is something of a cliche, not very innovative, but what fill is just great...
  Although the voice acting is ludicrous at times and the fighting system and physics engine quite 
 poor, the world, both people and environment, is fantastic. The way you quest and explore, the 
 way you develop your skills in, combat of course, but also taking trophies, brewing potions, and 
 so on, this just makes it a great deal of fun, if you don't mind the bad things, which sometimes 
 get kind of stupid.
  The graphics are technically rather good, but no more. It is although well and enough to make the 
 world come alive in all its glory, something it does only thanks to the superb designing of all 
 the environment. A fantastic environment.
  I am aware of the bad, and it is perhaps quite a lot, but this i still one of the best game i ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmareseh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 is a tremendous good game.
  Everything about it is good. The gameplay, The graphics almost everything.
  There are a few things 
 that not good of course. Not a single game is so good that there's nothing wrong.
  By this game it isn't much the gameplay or the graphics or what so ever.
  It is the things that 
 should be in the game and arn't there.
  Like those dragons you have on the end. I had a few dragons but long not all. It's not so fun to 
 can play the game correctly but i can't change anything so.
  But it is not so wonderfull to miss pieces of the game. I had to use cheats to finish the game!!
 
  That can't be good. Or is it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dare365
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 is simply amazing, however, i recommend playing the original gothic before because there 
 is much backstory and characters that would definatly confuse a new player. The plot of Gothic 
 2 is interesting, the world is even more interesting, I wont spoil it for you. Though thats all 
 great, the controls for Gothic are a bit hard to get used to and require a bit of practice. The 
 game is very buggy however, and it can get annoying with crashes and getting stuck in small corners.
 
  
  Gothic 2 has large diverse land scapes and different lands inhabited by different races and rival 
 groups that all strive for supremecy but band together when the Orcs begin to attack. You can choose 
 your own group to join, you can become a monk, a mercenary, or a knight. There are seperate ranks 
 for all these different groups, and with these ranks comes special spells. 
  
  The AI in this game have pretty realistic emotions, if you anger them, they challenge you to a 
 fight, if you defeat them in the public, they get humiliated, if you talk down to someone they 
 hurt or they may plan to kill or frame you. Many of your actions have circumstances and these usually 
 lead to a large amount of side quests that are fun. 
  
  Unlike other RPG's, Gothic wont often send you to collect 123125132451 items for no reason, if 
 anything, you will collect things for a new weapon, or new armor for your self. The AI is very 
 helpful when it comes to battles. Messing around in console is just plane fun as well. You can 
 spawn monsters in the middle of town and watch all the NPC's either run for there lives, try to 
 defend there village, but get slaughtered in the process or actually slay the beast. 
  
  Graphics - 8
  Not bad, nothing spectactular. Nothing out of the norm, though, some buggy flickers 
 tend to happen.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  Fun as soon as you can get used to the fighting, after you upgrade your fighting abilities, new 
 combos become usuable and the fighting becomes more interesting. Targeting system is a bit hard 
 to work with however.
  
  Storyplot - 9
  Great storyplot, very original, and plane fun. Makes you come back for more just so u can discover 
 the world. 
  
  Sound - 8 
  Great music that gives you the feel to go out and explore or fight or just plane run for your damn 
 life from giant fire breathing dragons and swamp snakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mong115
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 2 gives RPG gamers every thing you would expect in a game. The story line excellent. It 
 keeps your attention throught the game. There is a large world to explore, It takes place on the 
 Island of Corinith where the people are preparing for an invasion of Orc's from the Valley of Mines. 
 There is plenty of time to explore and you'll like the NPCs they actualy speak . This makes them 
 far mor interesting. There are Excellent weapon's melee and ranged. I only used magic as defensive 
 but there are good spells too. In later stages of the game you will be able to teleport to most 
 places All I'll say about the Graphic's, They are Excellent. And just when you think you were getting 
 a handle on things you find out there there is something bigger nd meaner just around the corner. 
 I Think the most interesting thing about the game as it opens up to you as you are able to handle 
 it. this both keeps the game from getting to easy or to diffacult. One last thing to every one 
 still playing the game. There is an expancion pack coming out. Check out the posts for G2. Not 
 sure if it's been released yet. 
  Makes me wish i still had G2 on my computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Any unfinished story has to have a continuing point, and in the case of Gothic II, the story advances 
 from the moment of ending of Gothic. 
  The launch of Gothic II meant that Gothic has not died, and is back, in full force.
  
  You 
 are required once more to step in front of the forces of darkness and save the world. This time 
 the universe of Gothic II stretches even more, containing both a new world and the world from Gothic 
 in the same time.
  
  The graphics, in the two years pause between Gothic and Gothic II have improved much, as well as 
 all the other aspects of the game. Even the former bugs of Gothic have been repaired and the gameplay 
 has been simplified and has become much more comfortable. The game itself is much more stable than 
 it's predecessor. Gothic II not only improves the technical parts, but also the plot.. It's involves 
 much more liberty. Theoretically, Gothic II is Gothic updated to the max!
  
  My opinion about Gothic II : If you don't have Gothic II, stop thinking wheter if you want to get 
 it or not... Just get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banzino_gothic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Gothic II is the most creative game I ever played it is design to keep you on the edge of you seat 
 .and you give your best to finish it . and what so special about that it gives you ability to be 
 apart of it apart of its virtual community and be apart of many groups like magician .sword fighter 
 and so on gothic gives you freedom to the limit that you can make enemies of your own by fighting 
 them ,steeling and by saying bad words to them. Choose your way throw the game either being good 
 or bad .gothic offers you vast kinds of swords and bows crossbows and axes and magic scrolls runes.. besides 
 all that gothic gives you a sense of adventure. And its story is out of this world.
  gothic II starts where you left it in gothic I .and you begin you quest as the nameless hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game continues from the first game, after you have slayed the demon at the end of the last 
 game, you was left behind and was traped under the rocks and rubble.
  
  You became tired and weak, and nearly dead, until the wizrd that you was after helps you by returning 
 you once again to the next lot of challenges for you to plunge stight into.
  
  You start off very weak, but are soon on your way down the main road for a little fight, unless 
 you play the story different.
  
  The game plays different, depends how you speak to people.
  
  You can join the imperial guards 
 and work for them and go under cover and find what the theifs are up to and find out what they 
 are planning, you get to learn the tricks, and hand signals, and move like them, one wrong move, 
 the whole thife guild will be after you, and no one will help you, so your on your own.
  
  Once again, your up against more Orcs, and the land that was once shileded is now open by the wizards 
 and demons, which has let all the demons free, so you have to find the artifacts and try and kill 
 all demons and put a stop to there evil game.
  
  You also can go back in time, and visit the old landscape, but be aware things have changed for 
 the worse, and now Dragons live there.
  
  Have the gift of the tongue allows you to communicate with them.
  Else if you try to challende 
 them, you will pay with your life.
  
  This was a well played game, and now looking foward to Gothic 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 was a surprise. A surprise how great an RPG game can be. Unfortunately, this game hasn't 
 an adequate image and propagation, so it isn't popular enough in the US. And also the Gamespot 
 review is quite underrated (seems to be a bit typical for European games by Gamespot) and this 
 makes the chances for Gothic 2 not much better.
  
  At the start of the game you might be confused by the absence of the mouse cursor. Don't let this 
 discourage you! It is a matter of practice and after a while you'll get familiar with it.
  
  The game may be too hard at the beginning, you might expect problems in battling the enemies 
 which will overpower you and you'll have to find for many of them individual tactics to defeat 
 them. Later on in the game after you've got better equiped and leveled up the combat will be a 
 matter of joy and you'll become an enthusiastic trophy collector.
  
  But the most valuable element of the game is the huge story and the gameplay itself. The plot is 
 sophisticated, logical and you'll never get tired of, the characters you encouter are created as 
 realistic, their personalities are very individual and detailed. Also their (English) voice acting 
 is really excellent and funny. During the whole game you'll never suffer from a feeling of repetition 
 even when you'll have to battle hordes of orcs lately. Also the quests are well designed, logical, 
 funny and believable. The game in its complexity will still have much to offer, there are many 
 hidden secrets and many surprises.
  
  The graphics is well made, like in Morrowind there is every piece placed and every place designed 
 individualy, especially in the "New World". You'll have to keep your eyes open, because there are 
 everywhere plenty of objects you may pick up, especially plants. Also every human character in 
 the game has its own face lines and characteristics. Only the design of the Valley of the mines 
 looks a bit clumsy, it seems that the programmers exhausted all their energy and inspiration on 
 the mentioned immensive New World.
  
  The sound (the mentioned voice acting inclusive) is astonishing and varies immediately from place 
 to place and from occasion to occasion with smart and subtle transitions from one theme to another. 
 So you will, for example, know when the music becomes more tense that there are enemies or monster 
 lurking in the near and prepared to attack you.
  
  There might be complains about the controls, tough combats and the fact you cannot heal during 
 a fight. But on the other side this is not an action game with constantly respawning monsters. 
 The fights are not the primary element of the game and you'll mostly have to encounter not more 
 than 1-2 enemies at once. And once learned the controls and found your own tacticts it will be 
 great fun too.
  
  At least - Gothic 2 is a great game, truly one of the best RPGs ever made. There are really few 
 similar ones with such a story and virtual universe. It deserves among the Dungeon&Dragons games 
 an honorable place in the Hall of Fame together with Morrowind, the Baldur's Gate series, Neverwinter 
 Nights or Arcanum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFuturePerfect
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This is my favourite PC game gothic 1 and 2 that is. I honestly can't believe how good this game 
 is it has a great story violence and everything else you could want in a game if you have a computer 
 then go out right now and buy this game it is the best game ever it is so fun that you will be 
 stuck to your chair just not litterally but seriously its a great game so go buy it it has something 
 for everyone. even most people who dont really plays video games will find something fun about 
 gothic 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck10000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  Now as i said i like adventure games...
  and well a great adventure game that i got was this 1. but enough of that...
  gameplay10/10
 
  great quests. but it was not only a quest bound world, you are put into the seat of this hero 
 that is supposed to be some bearer of The Eye Of Innos (which is a sacred artifact that you would 
 get in the third Chapter {well, starting of forth} but enough of this) . so you are just going to 
 get level and what not so um yea...
  Graphics10/10
  now the graphic are what make the game good in my opinion but you can actually select what kind 
 of graphics you want (for your computers help too) and just go with them. and the items are not 
 like playdo made...
  sound10/10
  well they do have great voice acting and it does have music i kid you not but you need to go to 
 the options screen to get music.
  value7/10
  now i say that because of it being kinda laggy but you can adjust that but it does get kind frustrating.
 
  tilt 10/10
  well everything was discussed in gameplay except i sill play the game today.
  9.5 outta 10 is what i give the game and yes i do mean that i still ply the gam today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h_areg
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  
  
  Gothic 2 is an amazing game. Mostly the people that I have met have 2 kinds of attitude towards 
 this game; some think this is the best RPG ever created, others, on the contrary think that it 
 is not the game they would like to play or even discuss. There is no golden middle for this game! 
 You either are going to love it or you will hate it. 
  The game offers a unique world where you have an enormous degree of freedom. For example the only 
 limitation to your movement in the world of gothic is your ability to survive. If you feel you 
 can handle it, then you are free to try. This creates an interesting and exiting world where you 
 can have everything your own way (not always it will be the wisest thing to do, but at least you 
 are given a chance) .
  The fights in the game can be quite tough some times. But I came to love the principle buy which 
 the fighting works in the game: it doesnt only conceder the stats of your character but also your 
 own ability to handle your character. This makes the gameplay more exiting and reach, you actually 
 live the fight and not just left click and sit back to see weather you can kill the monster or 
 not.
  The world of the game is very rich (though it is not a very large one) , every area in the game 
 is unique, no 2 areas look the same, and if you have visited the spot youll surely recognize it 
 when you pass there later. It looks grate too.
  Another thing I came to love about this game is that the characters look, dress and behave differently. 
 And I am not talking only about the main characters; even an insignificant peasant in a farm looks 
 different from the others. 
  And all the above mentioned wouldnt be worth anything if it wasnt for the captivating and deep 
 story of the game. 
  In short; I love this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsotcs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 is possibly the best game that I have played in several years. It scores highly in most 
 aspects, and if you like RPG's, you're almost bound to like Gothic 2. 
  
  The graphics are excellent, while possibly not amazing, they are still among the best that I have 
 seen in a long time. So far I have encountered no graphics errors, and while the graphic are great, 
 they don't bog down my mediocre computer. ''Clone Syndrome'' is avoided, and not all characters 
 of a certain kind look the same. 
  
  The music sets the mood excellently, and the sound effects are very good. Voice acting is absolutely 
 perfect. 
  
  Enemy AI suffers from very few bugs, and is well-made. Wolves will chase sheep, rats and scavengers 
 will stop chasing you to feed on corpses. Enemies have different ways of attacking. All in all, 
 well-made. 
  
  NPC's are more than just the walking signposts we saw in Morrowind. And most of them have schedules, 
 they also do some background chatter when not busy talking with the hero. 
  
  The storyline is good, but not constricting, allowing nice freedom. The world is big, and doesn't 
 suffer from ''corridor sickness'' like some worlds do, where while everything is an outside terrain, 
 it's nothing but corridors and passages. There are also countless secrets to be discovered all 
 over the Gothic 2 world. And since everything is just one big area, even indoors areas and dungeons, 
 load times are kept to a minimum. 
  
  The combat system is slightly unusual, but avoids feeling like an FPS (First-Person Shooter) like 
 Morrowind's did. The controls also take a bit of getting used to, but only at first. 
  
  When it comes to replayability, the game is good for at LEAST a second replay. To find more secrets, 
 and choose another of the game's three paths. It's impossible, as far as I know, to make the storyline 
 of the game deviate much from it's set path, so that impairs replayability. 
  
  The only complaints one could possibly have about Gothic 2 is the lack of a toolset for customizing 
 it. But that's only if you absolutely want to nitpick. There are a few problems with some NPC movement 
 patterns, and a rare few places where it's possible to ''fall out'' of the world, or get stuck. 
 But again, compared to games like Morrowind, they are EXTREMELY rare. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barlienb
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  yes, it is clumsy and blocky. But what a gem! I've been playing it since i bought it in late 03! 
 If you only give it some effort, it will blow you away! Two thumbs up! 
  And now the expansion finally has come in English! Its AWSOME!!
  
  And to be honest, when you 
 get used to the gameplay, its not the worst ive encountered! So if you are a RPG fan, and you're 
 looking for a game to ceep you busy, buy Gothic 2 Gold and you will never look back!
  
  Now my Review isnt loong inouf so, sorry. :D 
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: VladCatrina
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  Alright, I`m writing this review after a long period of playing Gothic II. And I`ll explain later 
 why did I really had the nerve to play it.
  
  As you know, Gothic 2 is a sequel to Gothic 1. It has many improvements from the first game and 
 the graphics aren`t as pathetic. But, don`t expect it to look fabulously. It`s more frustrating 
 than any other game I`ve played. You should expect to die more often than kill a foe. And another 
 thing: the protagonist is a complete jerk!
  
  Ok, enough of the bad things. Gothic II is a truly fantastic game. You will have a lot of fun, 
 but only if you have patience. All enemies that surround you are stronger than you at first. You 
 need to find your way to safety before getting killed. After that, you can do farely anything you 
 choose.
  
  The first location you visit is the town of Khorinis. There you can choose the weapon you want 
 to train for, or the master for whom you`ll work, or many other things. Later on, you will chose 
 from working for the royal guard, the mercenaries or the monastery of Innos. These are only few 
 of the choices Gothic II provides.
  
  Furthemore, the game is open-ended, and many quests are open-ended. You can battle orcs, monsters, 
 trolls, and even duel with human opponents. You can be a pikeman, swordsman, archer or crossbowman. 
 You will need a lot of training, too.
  
  If I would mention every good aspect of the game, it would already have been night. It`s up to 
 you to choose your path. "May Innos be with you!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RageRioter2030
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  Gothic ll takes you on an epic adventure through fire and snow, City and forest Fighting orcs and 
 dragons, Using bows or crossbows one-handed or two-handed blades. You take the role of a nameless 
 hero who after defeating the almighty sleeper and getting crushed by boulders is brought back by 
 Xardas the Black Magic Magician to aid in the fight against dragons an other deadly enemies. As 
 you level up by gaining experience and you gain learning points and can train your abilities including: 
 Strength, Dexterity, Mana, One-handed wepon skill, Two-handed weapon skills, bow and crossbow accuracy, 
 and learn abilities such as, lock picking, hunting skills, pick-poketing, weapon forging, and magic 
 rune creating. The graphics are great and the gameplay is good too making this game a must-play 
 for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnCahgNeetoh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, to enjoy this game you have to have patience. The button configuration does take some 
 getting used to. It's fairly clunky, but once you get the hang of it, you really surprise yourself 
 on how it seems to flow. 
  
  It may be a few years old, but this is definitely one of the most under-played games I have ever 
 set my hands on. The first game was excellent, and I was curious how this would fare. What improvements 
 could it bring? Would it be as gripping as the first? How would the plot go?
  
  Well, the graphical improvement is pretty good. They also FIXED some of the combat bugs from the 
 first Gothic. It sounds odd to say that the clunky system was WORSE in the first, but it was. It 
 is much MORE gripping than the first as well. The plot seemed to flow quite well as well. So, in 
 an early summation, they seemed to make the game better on almost every level.
  
  It has an odd feel to the game. You can tell it isn't an American release just by the overall environment. 
 There isn't the typical swords & sorcery, the menagerie of different races. There are boatloads 
 of weapons though. Some are very useful, others not so much. That's the same for every RPG though, 
 right?
  
  Your character (who never has a name) was a convicted felon, thrown in some mining colony (from 
 the first game) , and after you do some good you start the game on the country outside the mining 
 colony of the first game. What makes for one piece of nostalgia is the necessity to go back to 
 the mining colony and get stuff taken care of. I'm just a sucker for re-living maps/stages from 
 previous games (so long as they are done correctly, as it is with this) . 
  
  They even incorporate into the plot why your character never has a name, it is VERY late in the 
 game when this is revealed, but it is there nonetheless. There is a bit of a twist at the end of 
 the game, but it is foreseeable. I guessed it at the end of the FIRST Gothic. It was on a whim 
 of "Oh, it would be really cool if this happened." Luck was on my side I suppose. Another piece 
 of nostalgia, are the appearances of many characters from the first Gothic. It helps give the sense 
 that you are in the same world, but just a much different portion. 
  
  The overall world of Gothic II is gigantic. The overall world of Gothic I was one of my favorite 
 features. Even if the graphics are outdated, it is still fun to just roam the world and do what 
 you want. Killing whomever you see fit. They somehow managed to improve upon this further. It is 
 possible to just roam around and kill things. This is INCREDIBLY hard in the beginning, but still 
 doable.
  
  This game is one of the best RPGs ever made for the PC. It may not be as engrossing as Baldur's 
 Gate 2 or as mystical as Morrowind. But it hits the spot if you have the patience to learn how 
 to play it and better yet, to master it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torlof1123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  My opinion is that Gothic2 is a good game. Its just the type of game you have to get used to, and 
 only haveing one difficulty makes it even harder when you start. From beggining to finish, Gothic2 
 has hidden things, plot twists, action and much more all packed together. The only thing I didnt 
 like is when you first start, you need to kill to get exp. So, you go out, find low lvls (famers 
 for example, or civilians) and then later on, those people you have killed are needed for a vital 
 guild quest or that like. Beside the slow learned controls, some what undeveloped storyline (you 
 can get lost pretty easy) and glitches here and there, I love Gothic2. P. S . Im using the same 
 char three times through the game, to do this, use the import/export cheat on the marin menu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  Gothic 2 is the sequel to Piranha Byte's sleeper hit, Gothic 1, and after originally being released 
 overseas it's finally available in the States. The game picks up right where the original left 
 off: a monster named the Sleeper has been defeated and the necromancer Xardas has rescued you from 
 certain death. You awake in his tower on the island of Khorinis, stricken with a case of memory 
 loss. This serves the purposes of both forcing you to start as a level one character as well as 
 not requiring you to have played the original.
  
  Gothic II is a really long game, just getting in to see Lord Hagen is enough to fill the first 
 of the six chapters that encompass the game. The citizens are a little paranoid these days, so 
 getting to see Lord Hagen forces you to gain entrance to the town and then become a citizen of 
 the town by becoming an apprentice with one of the Masters in town. If the enemy was really on 
 the ball, they'd have invaded long before you even get to tell Lord Hagan they are coming.
  The quest to become a citizen showcases the open-ended nature of Gothic 2. There are few quests 
 where there is only one solution, which is a good thing since the obvious route in many cases is 
 the most difficult. In order to become an apprentice with one Master, you have to gain the approval 
 of all Masters. Naturally, they won't just give you their approval; they'll want something done 
 first. The Blacksmith's approval is the hardest to get since he wants the weapon of a powerful 
 monster to prove you aren't a wimp. The obvious way to get the weapon is do simply kill the beast, 
 but at your level that's suicide; instead, there are at least 2 ways to get the weapon without 
 even approaching it.
  In addition to a lengthy main quest, there are several hundred side quests scattered throughout 
 the game's six chapters. While most people consider side quests to be optional, the game is scaled 
 to your finishing most of them, so your best bets is talk to everyone and do their tasks. Initially, 
 I went through the game sticking mostly to the main quest, but soon felt underpowered as the game 
 progressed, forcing me to go back and do some of the side quests to get more levels. These side 
 quests are a lot of fun, and do an excellent job at introducing you to the politics and factions 
 in the game and subtly steer your way to choosing the Guild in which you become a member. I did 
 find that even though I tried to always take the moral high road, having some sneaking and thieving 
 skills was invaluable.
  Gothic 2 differs from your traditional RPG when it comes to choosing your class and advancing your 
 character's skills. Rather than choosing your class at the start of the game, you instead sign 
 up for one of three guilds during the game: the Militia, which leads to the Paladin class; the 
 Mercenary, which leads to the Dragon Hunter class; and the Novice, which allows you to become a 
 Magician. One thing to keep in mind, the name "Novice" for the class is a misnomer as the term 
 "Novice" really means Novice Magician and it's recommended that only advanced players follow the 
 Magician class. Once you've chosen a guild, the decision is final and you cannot change your mind. 
 In most games as you go up in levels your skills and stats automatically rise, or give you some 
 means of raising them instantly. In Gothic 2, each time you level you gain "Learning Points" which 
 you then spend at a trainer to raise your attributes (strength, dexterity and mana) and weapon 
 skills. You'll come across items in the game that will require you to have your attributes at a 
 certain level, forcing you to make some decisions as to which is more important: raising your strength 
 to use a new weapon, or raising your weapon skill so you can use the weapon you already have more 
 effectively. If you spread yourself too thin, it's very possible to stunt your character's growth 
 making it very difficult to succeed later on. Specializing in one area and then using left-over 
 points to fill in the gaps is your best plan.
  Gothic 2 can be a very frustrating game, both in terms of difficulty and controlling your character. 
 I rarely found a middle ground where the fight could have gone either way; I either won easily 
 or was defeated easily. There's no shortage of monsters either, just head off the path a few feet 
 and you'll find more than you can handle. Heck, even staying on the path will tell you when you've 
 gone too far for your level. Unfortunately, that distance isn't too far at the start of the game 
 since just getting from Xardas' tower down the path to Khorinis can prove challenging. While gaining 
 levels seemed to help a little, given the low frequency of level-ups they don't make the huge difference 
 they should. You'll want to avoid drawing the attention of groups of monsters as well, as any time 
 I encountered 3 or more opponents I was quickly back at the loading screen. While I'm all for games 
 being challenging and don't want the thing to be too easy, I felt that I was loading saved games 
 with a greater frequency in this game than I should have.
  The control scheme takes a lot of getting used to as well. Your movement keys are pretty typical; 
 you use the arrow keys to move and your mouse to look around. Combat takes some getting used to 
 though, since it requires three key-presses to initiate. When you see an opponent, first you press 
 the spacebar to enter combat mode, then you press the CRTL key to focus on your opponent while 
 simultaneously pressing the arrow keys to perform combat moves. It's not easy to swap out and cast 
 the spells you need so you'll probably die often trying to master the Magician class. Every character 
 does have the ability to use magic of some nature and you'll find some scrolls that allow you to 
 heal yourself or take the form of a monster to sneak past a tough opponent. As with weapons and 
 armor, many of these scrolls will require an attribute to be a certain level so you'll need to 
 decide for yourself just how important using that scroll really is. One handy magical item you'll 
 come across is teleportation runes that instantly send you to the specified location, cutting down 
 the lengthy travel times. You don't start to get most of them until about 1/3 of the way through 
 the game, so expect lots of running in the early parts of the game.
  I found the keyboard controls the buggiest part of game. If I was fighting several opponents, sometimes 
 it would take several presses of the spacebar to initiate combat. Having a delay that costs precious 
 seconds can mean losing a battle, which makes working around some of the control issues much more 
 frustrating. Needing to repeat the key-presses wasn't unique to combat either, as I noticed it 
 several times with other actions. Using the combat system to perform magic is very difficult, hence 
 the warning it is for advanced players only. While most of the other bugs are minor, and are usually 
 scripting errors or some left-over German bits, there is one major bug where the game will think 
 you've killed all four dragons when you've only killed three, robbing you of the opportunity to 
 get the loot and XP from the last dragon.
  There's no auto-map in the game either, but I find Gothic 2's system better than the usual method 
 of having the map reveal itself as you explore the land mass. In Gothic 2, you buy (or steal) maps 
 from vendors which you then equip and call up using the appropriate hot key. This map is usually 
 fairly detailed visually, but doesn't have any location notes. It does serve as a good reference 
 as to where you are, and some quests will also give you maps with the locations of your destinations 
 marked. I would have liked the ability to make notes on the map in-game, but you can work around 
 that by just printing out a screenshot. There's also a delay when you bring up the map, ostensibly 
 to add realism while you unfold and orient yourself on the map.
  In spite of the frustrations I experienced, I still enjoyed Gothic 2 and would recommend it to 
 any fan of the genre. It's similar to games like Morrowind, so if you enjoy a somewhat slow paced 
 game that's open-ended and challenging, you'll also enjoy Gothic 2. It's a lengthy game, giving 
 you plenty of value, which is a nice change from games you can get through in a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Painkiller29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I played this game about 6 months ago but it still sticks in my head as one of the most fun action/rpg 
 hybrids in recent memory... do yourself a favour and pick this one up if you're craving the following:
 
  
  - an adventure RPG that portrays a gritty, mature gaming world
  - tactical combat that relies on reflexes as well as RPG elements
  - a fun, addictive game in 
 a graphically rich environment
  
  I found this game a lot more enjoyable than Fable, for instance, and that title had quite a bit 
 of critical acclaim and exposure. This title is a little gem that many people have missed; don't 
 count yourself as one of the unenlightened.
  
  In the meantime, I'm eagerly anticipating the 3rd installment of the series after this extremely 
 absorbing title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I had heard many people talking about this game, and decided to give it a try. Normally I don't 
 really like action RPG's, but Gotic II still gave me much enjoyment. Gothic II is similar to Morrowind 
 in concept, with a few major differences. Graphics are about the same and so is sound, though Morrowind's 
 might be a little better on both parts. 
  
  One of the major differences that you'll probably notice first are the controls. Many have legitimate 
 complaints about them, and have often not been able to play the rest of the game. The controls 
 can not be editted and are a bit hard to get used too, so you'll have to have a bit of patience 
 to begin getting enjoyment out of this game. 
  
  Gothic II has a much smaller size map than morrowind (though it's still quite large) . An improvement 
 over morrowind though are the townsfolk. All of them have schedules of what they do during the 
 day and night which really brings life to the game. 
  
  Another major difference from Morrowind is that Gothic is not as heavy on items. You will only 
 find a few sets of armor throughout the game, 2 being for any class, and one or two for each class. 
 There are more types of weapons, though they're a bit scarce. It really brings out the need for 
 your character's skills over powerful weapons. 
  
  Fighting is probably one of the biggest differences. Combat depends alot more on YOUR ability, 
 since you have to time your attacks and blocks, which is a bit difficult to get used too. Taking 
 on more than one enemy at a time is nothing more than a suicide run. 
  
  If you can get used to controls, don't mind challenging games, and like action RPG's, Gothic II 
 is a great game worthy of the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preben_kristian
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The game may look dull at the first 15 minutes, because the gameplay is just not right. The lack 
 of the ability to make the character do multiple strikes and the high mouse sensitivity. But if 
 you just go with the flow and dont rush it. You will see that the gameplay ain`t that bad at all, its 
 actually magnificent. The replayability is great you can choose guilds all from bad ass mercenary, 
 protector of the city "knight" to the holy keeper of the flames "magician". The choices are great, 
 when you are training to mercenary you got to kick a lot of ass to gain respect on the farm. And 
 when you train to militia, you got to be a respected citizen of the town, and to become a respected 
 citizen you got to get a job. How awesome is that? And to get invited into the monastery you got 
 to pay them money and a sheep, that is not that special really, because when you are a novice you 
 shall live in solidarity from money and things that can make you a "bad person." The creators of 
 this game are just some of the smartest people in the world or something.
  
  The graphics, what can I say, its incredible. If you cherish the little things, this is the game 
 for you. It is plants everywhere and the best thing is that you can pick them up. this gives you 
 a lot of freedom in the game and that is what RPG is all about. You also get a lot of cool looking 
 armor in the game this is a big pluss.
  
  The sound is just plain and simple amazing. the roars from the orcs to the voice acting. i found 
 one cool thing in the game and that was farmer`s that talk Texas, That was really cool. And that 
 the scavengers sounded like chickens. but except all that the sound in the game are perfect.
  
  this game is worth its weight in diamonds, and worth any amount in my book. but at the current 
 30 bucks or something, i would say it is an absolute steal.
  
  The biggest drawing point in this game is that you have so many choices in the game. If you are 
 keen on a good RPG, this is the game for you! Just give it a little time and you will love it, 
 that`s a promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canine_Knight
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 21, 2004 2:40 am PT
Review:  a fantastic game that puts you in an open ended world with total freedom to do as you please. every 
 choice you make influences what you do in the game. there are 3 main secs you can join each with 
 different attributes and strenghts making for a lot of replay value. all the peopel are interactable 
 and will repsond to your actions. the controls can be a lil clunky but u get used to them and the 
 graphics are standard but great for such a big game. the game wont run well on all PCs and its 
 recommended that you have a stronger PC to playt his game. all the people have voices of there 
 own and spoken diologue. the music is very atmosphereic and is really one of the games strong points. 
 its a game of desicion making, twist and turns, and of epics. no rpg fan should pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 4, 2004 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Athlon XP 2500 
  1 Gig RAM
  ATI Radeon 9700
  
  The game is a three disks installation (if I recall correctly) . After installing and launching 
 the game, it begins to explain the occurrences of the previous game through a non-interactive movie, 
 which is the backbone of the storyline. You would be caught off guard by the lack of eye candy 
 and the mediocre performance of the game, but you can optimize the performance by altering the 
 visual settings until you find the setting that is right for you. The actual game starts with a 
 short cut scene, which allows you to ask questions. Through these interactive cut scenes the storyline 
 slowly unfolds and you find out your purpose.
  
  After this introduction youre met with what is probably the worst control scheme you have ever 
 experience in your life. WTF would be ringing out of control either in your head or through your 
 mouth causing you to immediately exit the game in absolute disgust. Well there is good news. The 
 control scheme is actually good. But you just said it was bad. Yes it is bad but its actually 
 good, in fact its great. After forcing myself to play the game, I realized that I was trying to 
 hard to control my character. If you do get the game, just go with the flow and use the controls 
 just the way they are. Use the arrow keys or WASD to move (I used the left and right for turning 
 not strafing) and the mouse to softly look around. When youre in building its best to leave the 
 mouse alone and just use the keyboard. The control aspect of the game is really the breaking point 
 of the game. If you cant overcome it your will not be able to play the game but its very easy 
 to use once you dont try to play the game like a typical third person action adventure game.
 
  
  In addition to the overall movement is the combat system. Again I was horrified by what at first 
 seem illogical and annoying but once I understood the working it was quite easy to control and 
 win fights. In order to attack you must equip yourself with the weapon or spell, and then use the 
 arrow keys to execute the action. In melee (which would be used the most especially at the start) 
 you use the forward key to strike forward, back key to block, the left key to swing to the left 
 and the right key to swing to the right. At first its a bit disorienting but once you understand 
 how it works you wouldnt run into the control shock that many have undergone. This control scheme 
 while odd works out pretty well in the game and allows you to execute combos accordingly.
  
  Another good aspect of the game is that the battles are in real-time. Youve total control 
 of the characters timing and timing plays a significant role in battles, especially against stronger 
 opponents. The better youre timing the better the chances are in counteracting strikes, blocking 
 strikes and striking. 
  
  The game sports day and night cycles in addition to NPCs reacting to these cycles. So that NPCs 
 go to sleep when night falls and awake when the sunrises but they all have different cycles so 
 some folks may go to sleep or rise earlier or later than others.
  NPCs eat when theyre hungry, socialize with other NPCs and do daily work. All these additions 
 make the game feel more believable and realistic. These features not just gimmicks but can affect 
 certain aspect in the game depending on your path. Each NPC has voice, so there is no need to read 
 (except questions being asked) . There are times where responses are the same using the same voices 
 but this is expected especially when there are so many NPCs. 
  
  Overall the sound is great, the chirps or birds, grunts of beasts in the bushes, conversations 
 of NPCs, the voice acting and sound of the environment are all well done. There are occasions where 
 the sound is out of sync, this usually occurs in battles.
  
  Even though the game is open ended, the storyline is very strong and your decisions play a significant 
 role with your alignment with villagers, farmers, militia etc. Decisions made (especially earlier 
 parts) in the game can lead to rewards, scorn or death, adding to the overall difficulty. Decision 
 making is not black and white, there is a lot of grey areas and this aspect adds a lot of replay 
 value to the game, cause your decision can change your path.
  
  The enemies found throughout the world are hard to defeat at lower levels especially non-human 
 creatures. You must learn through trial and error how to pick your fights and when to pick your 
 fights. This is something that must be learnt or else you will die and die a lot. Exploration becomes 
 nerve wrecking at times because of this, cause youre always uncertain (especially if youre weak) 
 of what is around the bushes or in the cave, cause death can come very quickly from vicious and 
 deadly creatures that are freely lurking.
  
  Graphically the game is acceptable. Even though the terrain is blocky and the overall detail of 
 models are not high, the seamless experience and the detailed textures compensates for these deficiencies. 
 In the end the game looks good and does a great job in bringing the world to life especially with 
 the healthy amoung of foliage found everywhere.
  
  With all these attributes and many other features, the game keeps you coming for more and more. 
 I have played the game for about twenty-two hours and I have partially explored the first half 
 of the game. There is a lot to do and a lot to see. Because there isnt any loading times exploration 
 is easier. With that said, the game is more than worthy of a purchase, especially since its ONLY 
 $9.99 on Amazon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomha_Domizoko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2004 12:46 pm PT
Review:  this was the best game ive played in my life. the choices you could make are great. but if you 
 go to wrong areas at the wrong time, your dead. you can be A PALADIN, A FIRE MAGE, or A DRAGON HUNTER 
 either way its the best game so far! and there will be an expanson NOTR where you go to the mainland. to 
 stop the orc war and beliar once and for all. but can you stop the great evil or will they rule 
 the world. may Innos the fire god help you or forsake you? Will xardas betray you or what? what? what 
 does he do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 19, 2004 5:55 am PT
Review:  This game is the reason I continue to game at age 37. I don't give a darn about graphics - I care 
 about storyline and character. I can get used to just about any control scheme. And I actually 
 *like* the control scheme in Gothic II. I started wondering why more first person fighters don't 
 adopt it. I am usually an adventure gamer; Why? Because I like story and character (did I say that 
 already?) . But this game has a better story than many adventure games and a nameless character 
 that is somehow haunted, brave, sometimes beligerent and believable. And when the game makes explicit 
 references to his namelessness I just loved it - it is obvious the game designers made an interesting 
 and excellent choice. The world is big and varied, the quests are interesting and playing through 
 as a fire magician is interesting. I cannot wait for Night of the Raven to try out being a Mercenary 
 or Paladin. I also want to put in my pre-order for Gothic 3 - it can't come soon enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phyrr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2004 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequel to "Gothic" but with many improvements, better graphics and a wider array of 
 quests.
  
  I'll agree that it is much of the same except the quests seem a bit more detailed and even more 
 NPC interactive. This game is king when it comes to NPC interaction. If you enjoyed Morrowind but 
 felt "alone" in the gameworld because all of the NPCs were fairly static, then you will LOVE this 
 game for it's level of interaction. I've been playing PC role playing games since Eye of the Beholder 
 and I can tell you that this as well as it's predecessor are classics in the RPG genre. Chances 
 are that if you love RPGs, you will enjoy this game a lot.
  
  I will admit that the interface is just a little clunky (better than the first) but it's quick 
 and easy to learn over and isn't bothersome once you get over the first 5 minutes of dealing with 
 it. I'll sacrifice a little intuitiveness for gameplay and depth ANY day of the week (that IS in 
 fact the reason for playing RPGs, is it not?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeldor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2004 10:41 pm PT
Review:  An open ended fantasy environment with a great story and full voice acting. Why can't more RPG's 
 be like this?
  
  The Gamespot review and some other reviews seem to disfavour the combat engine, but I actually 
 quite like it. I like the fact that there is some skill in combat as opposed to it being just a 
 numbers game. I think full on hack-and-slash is too arcadey, but this is a great compromise.
  
  The graphics are a little dated, but with everything cranked up it is still very pretty. The 
 voice acting is a little on the 'redneck' side, but regardless it definitely adds to the overall 
 immersion of the game. I like the first person mode, I think it adds again to the immersiveness 
 of the game (I wish KOTOR would have had a first person mode) .
  
  Weapons and stats have been kept pretty simplistic which is nice, because there is plenty more 
 in the game to concentrate on. Loads of side quests and different monsters. Night and day combined 
 with NPC sheduling (they sleep, work and play) is great.
  
  At $20, this is without doubt the best value I have ever got out of a game. If you haven't already 
 got this, and you like fantasy and the open ended RPG games such as KOTOR then go buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2004 11:26 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. It is a unique RPG which offers something, like the first installment did, 
 which you'll really find no place else: every line of dialogue is voice recorded, and there is 
 TONS of it, plus you'll get a HUGE real time game world to run around in, with many NPC's, monsters, 
 items, and locations. It really is a unique and beautiful game.
  It's just somewhat grim. The voice acting is often slightly disturbing, the death experience is 
 painful, the relationships with NPC's can sometimes be uncomfortable, maybe it's the sense of ultra-realism, 
 I don't know, but for me at times it was more somber and palling instead of light hearted fantasy 
 fun.
  Still, a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jinxmasta-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2004 5:51 am PT
Review:  I'm shocked at how "average" the reviews are for this game. I've looked all over the internet and 
 everything, and there aren't many reviews (other than reader reviews) that do this game justice.
 
  
  To start off, the gameplay in this game is amazing. The game starts off slow, boring, and tedious 
 at first, but I guarantee you that if you stick with it, you will love this game. Everyone I have 
 talked to that didn't like it said they stopped playing after thirty minutes or so. Tough luck 
 for them, because they just missed one of the most underrated RPG's of the past few years.
  
  At first when you try to fight a monster, you might just get your butt handed to you, because 
 you have no idea how to swing a sword. It takes some getting used to, but when you get the hang 
 of it, the combat system will be your new best friend. You can pull off a bunch of cool combos, 
 and for once, combat in an RPG actually requires some skill and timing.
  
  What really makes this game special, though, is how it portrays itself as a real, alive world. 
 All the NPC's go about their daily tasks instead of staying in one static place. You can be moving 
 around town, and you can hear the smith making swords (you can see it as well) while the carpenter 
 may be hammering a closet together. Also, everything in the game is spoken instead of a dialog 
 box popping up with no sound. With everyone having a unique voice, it gives you a sense of every 
 character being unique and actually having a personality. If you want to be immersed in a great 
 fantasy world, Gothic 2 is definitely for you.
  
  There is one small gripe I have about the game, however, and that is the items in the game. There 
 is a good amount of items, but it is still not up to par with some other PC RPG's. In many RPG's, 
 I love it when I acquire some new armor and a new weapon. I also love it in this game, but it doesn't 
 happen all too often throughout the game. The greatness of this game, however, overshadows the 
 fact that there isn't a massive amount of items, weapons, and armor.
  
  As you can see, the gameplay is great in this game. However, the optimizing in this game, is not 
 so great. The graphics are just fine, nothing great or anything, but they're not terrible. I have 
 a very beefy rig, so I could handle the game just fine. If you like the long view distances, however, 
 you will need a beefy rig, as I have played Gothic 2 on worse PC's, and well, the details had to 
 be turned down pretty far, as well as the draw distance.
  
  The sound quality and all that may not be superb, but the reason the sound gets a 9 is because 
 of all the different sounds around you in the game. Like I mentioned before, you have the smith 
 smithing in town, the carpenter hammering, some people talking (even to themselves) , but there's 
 also lots of sounds around you in the wilderness. The amount of sounds around you really add to 
 the immersiveness.
  
  I gave the value a ten, mostly because this game is awesome, but also because I picked it up for 
 only $30 at Babbages (the price might be lower now) .
  
  Finally, the tilt also gets a 10, because Gothic 2 is definitely in my Top 5 RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baaser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2004 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Gothic II is set in a dark medieval world of humans, orcs and other creatures of various types 
 from scavengers which are ostrich like birds to the more familiar trolls and dragons. The story 
 is somewhat clich but that doesnt make it poor or uninteresting. If you grew up like me and played 
 Dungeons and Dragons and read books of high fantasy such as J. R. R. Tolkiens Lord of the Rings, 
 then a trek through a somewhat familiar world is welcome. Yes, its nice to experience the different 
 tastes and cuisines of the world, but every now and then plate me up a big burger and fries to 
 hit the spot, and sure add a few unique ingredients for a twist. This is what Gothic presents and 
 presents it very well. The game is an RPG which primarily focuses on exploration with a lot of 
 simple but challenging combat. It is very important to note that this is not a pure action game 
 and if you are looking for that then play Diablo I/II, Dungeon Siege or some of the clone like 
 button mashing level driven console style RPGs (eg Baldurs Gate Dark Alliance) instead. The game 
 takes off right from where Gothic I ended and that is after the defeat of the evil demon called 
 The Sleeper, the unnamed hero finds himself tossed into a world beset by an army of orcs lead by 
 dragons. It is not necessary to play Gothic I in order to play Gothic II, but it would provide 
 some rich detail to the unfolding story not to mention hours of enjoyable adventuring. The game 
 starts with the nameless hero magically teleported to his old friend Xardas the necromancers tower 
 right after defeating the sleeper. Xardas informs our hero on the growing orc army led by the dragons 
 and sends the character on a quest to find an ancient artifact that would help defeat the evil, 
 called the Eye of Innos. This is where the game really shines, be prepared to get absorbed into 
 a rich and detailed, large and believable world that allows complete freedom of exploration. Few 
 games have successfully pulled this off and the list is quite impressive including Ultima I-VII/IX/UW 
 I/II, Fallout I/II and of course Baldurs Gate I/II. Im sure there are many others deserving but 
 I mentioned the top games that immediately came to my mind. As the humble nameless hero rises in 
 skills and experience he is ultimately faced with what faction to join. The groups are the Paladins 
 of the city which are gifted with both fighting and magic skills, the Mercenaries which are strong 
 fighters and the Magicians of Fire which possess strong magic skills. The game progresses a little 
 differently depending on which group you join but ends up in the same place when its over. 
  
  One complaint reviewers and players had about the game related to its interface. In my opinion 
 the interface was brilliant, once you get used to it. The design allows you to access everything 
 without having to reposition your hands on the keyboard or mouse. All movement, inventory, item 
 equipping and item usage is handled this way. A warning should go out to the players out there 
 that prefer hotkeys for potions and spells and auto maps so they never get lost, I suggest that 
 they dont play this game and load up something else like Dungeon Siege, Baldurs Gate Dark Alliance 
 or some other (yawn) hack and slash games for their fix. Personally, I cant stand fumbling around 
 the keyboard looking for a hotkey so that my character can drink a healing potion while simultaneously 
 fighting off 5 enemies and holding a shield (eg Dungeon Siege) . Gothic II is a game of free exploration 
 with many hidden side quests to discover driven by a good story with action elements thrown in 
 to provide a different kind of challenge for players. The graphics are good but feel a touch dated 
 but that never detracts from the games other strong points mainly feeling like I am actually in 
 this amazing and richly detailed world. The trees, forests, paths, dungeons, ruins, valleys and 
 distant vistas are incredibly beautiful and make you feel as if you are really there. Another great 
 feature of the game is that all the players have voices and despite the fact that a few of the 
 voice actors were used for more than one character it didnt diminish the benefit of the feature. 
 The music in the game adds to the atmosphere using a frantic theme during combat and many different 
 relaxing themes when wandering the beautiful countryside. The sound effects are quite well done 
 and highlight actions in the game from the metallic swoosh of unsheathing your sword to the howling 
 winds heard when enjoying the view from a mountain top. Overall the game puts all these elements 
 together incredibly well. The whole is definitely greater than the sum of its parts. If you want 
 to be immersed in a living breathing detailed and believable world where you decide when and where 
 to explore get Gothic I/II. On the other hand, if exploration is not your thing and you want to 
 be guided down every path and fight endless hordes of generic monsters in meaningless and painfully 
 boring repetitive combats look to other titles (some were mentioned in this article for reference) . 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2004 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is without doubt the best RPG game I have ever played, and I played many of them. 
  
  It has everything: Great story line, full freedom and nonlinear play, perfectly balanced gameplay 
 and some of the best graphics and atmosphere I have ever experienced in a RPG game.
  
  This is the first perfect 10 I have given to any game here on Gamespot, but this one is truly a 
 great investment.
  
  To me it came as a lightning out of a clear sky. I never heard of Gothic at all before I played 
 this one, but once I started playing I could not move away from my computer before it was entirely 
 solved. I am happy to see there are still great game companies out there who make excellent games, 
 even if they do not have powerful brands or huge adverti****t budgets in their back. So, I feel 
 lucky I discovered Gothic 2, despite it's lack of hype.
  
  Even after the game is solved, it offers great replayability, as you can play through the story 
 from many different angles, and each quest can usually be solved in many different ways that will 
 have an impact on how things appear later.
  
  You should not consider yourself a true fan of the genre without having played through this one. 
 Just be careful to get it if you have any plans of social activities the following two weeks! :)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiotCommander
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 21, 2003 3:41 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I thought it would be something like morrowind. Was I ever wrong, the game 
 itself seems to have had some work put into it, for the life of me I cant figure out why they would 
 want to ruin it with such a lousy combat system, controls, and crappy inventory. Most of these 
 problems were addressed in the review of this game, but I didn't think they would be such a henderance. 
 Having played tons of RPG games I have to say this is one of the most disapointing games I have 
 ever played, and I didn't expect that much from it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  The GS review is strangely wrong on a number of points. 
  
  You can make the game easier and create "hotkeys" for health and magic potions if you want (just 
 read the readme file after installing the game) . The graphics are actually quite good and no other 
 game has this dense foliage and complicated and variable landscape that Gothis 2 has. The world 
 is fun to explore because it is so varied and large.
  
  The combat is hard at first and success in the game requires genuine thought and planning. You 
 can't simply run around and kill things. Gothic2 is very different than the typical PC RPG game 
 because you acquire abilities quite slowly at the very beginning of the game while you are in the 
 main town. 
  
  Later in the game, the sense of reward one gets when one succeeds in a fight or quest is great. 
 Some of the quests are quite original and not the standard "FedEx" delivery quests. 
  
  There are factions and sub-factions that really do figure into the game and the decsisons you can 
 make. The world changes as you make those decisions. You make permanent enemies and friends depending 
 upon those decisions. 
  
  I don't easily give a game a 9 out of 10, but this one actually deserves it. It has flaws: the 
 combat gets wayyyyy too easy in the last 3rd of the game and the last chapter is disappointingly 
 short and a tad lame. But if you like long, complicated games like System Shock and Thief2 and 
 Deus Ex1, you should think about Gothic II. The first Gothic was a strong 8, but Gothic II deserves 
 a much better score. 
  
  I strongly suspect the GameSpot reviewer didn't actually play this game for long before he reviewed 
 it since the game has a few faults that only appear later in the game and he makes no mention of 
 those. If he mentioned those faults, I might understand his score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maethlin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2003 4:20 pm PT
Review:  (Repost - from Druski99 in the forums)
  
  I live in europe and played G2 quite a while ago now so my memory of it isn't entirely fresh, but 
 if I'm not mistaken I don't believe the Gamespot reviewer payed much attention to the game.
  
  I don't want to come off as a fanboi either, the games actual score (8.1) is pretty much what 
 I'd give it; it had some problems but overall it was a good rpg. However I'd like to point out 
 the following inconsistencies:
  
  1) There are hotkeys for your weapons and spells. User definable ones too. I don't remember exactly 
 how it goes but you do something like go into your inventory and press the number key you want 
 to correspond to that item. Veeery basic gameplay element.
  
  2) There is instant transportation in the game, once you progress farther in the game. In fact 
 it comes with perfect timing once you are pretty much done with Gothics initial enormous area allowing 
 you to quickly teleport around it.
  
  3) I find it difficult to believe that the reviewer prefered to play this game in first person 
 mode, first person mode was miserable and it is very difficult to engage in melee combat in first 
 person. (Note Jedi Knight2/Academy switches to 3rd when you use a lightsaber even though its a 
 FPS)
  
  4) Why is the review only 1 page long when most other GS reviews are 2-3 pages long? This is a 
 game that has at least 20-30 hours of gameplay in it. 
  
  5) The combat system is slightly awkward, but once you pick it up its very easy, since its not 
 that complex. There simply aren't that many combat options open to you to learn. You just swing 
 your sword and if something is nearbye it gets cut. Monsters however, are not impossibly difficult 
 throughout the game, in fact I would say that towards the middle to end of the game the monsters 
 are too easy. Especially if you are a paladin with the Holy blast spell (or whatever its called) . 
 The monsters are really only very dangerous in chapter 1 of the game.
  
  6) There is no mention of a feature which I find to be a very appealing one about this game: The 
 extremely large size of the maps, which are densly packed with stuff to look at, kill, and do. 
 The map designs are excellent in that they make you feel that you are in a real breathing environment.
 
  
  7) There were no very typical review items pointing out that players can cook food, skin animals, 
 and forge their own weapons and spells. I'm not remarking on the quality or necessity of these 
 features, but on the fact that it is the kind of stuff that reviewers like to mention (virtually 
 all other reviews of G2 mention these) mostly because they are characterstic of the detail of the 
 worlds in the Gothic series.
  
  In short I think the review was a rushed job by someone who wasn't very interested in the game 
 and didn't play it very long but thought that it had potential, or that he should like it, or simply 
 looked at other sites review scores for his review number. Not quite up to the quality I have come 
 to expect from Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codepunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2003 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I love RPG's but have yet to ever finish one (I think) . Morrowind was a great game and is extremely 
 epic in scope, but I got bored (I still recommend it though) . GothicII is one game I plan on finishing. 
 It has held me attention for many hours so far and I still have a long way to go. Here's my justification 
 of scores:
  
  Gameplay - 10: This game is fun. I love when developers say "Here's a world... go have fun". You 
 can just wander around the world as you see fit. I had one troublesome moment when an NPC would 
 aggro on me because I had something he wanted. I could not beat him. So, I jumped off a cliff, 
 into a lake, and swam around him. Yeah, awesome. There's so much to do and so many paths you can 
 take your character (paladin, mercenary, mage, subquests, apprenticeships, etc...) . 
  
  Graphics - 8: This is not Morrowind. Morrowind wins hands down. But, the graphics are not bad either. 
 Its good enough for me to want to take a screenshot in some instances. One thing with regards to 
 graphics that it does have over Morrowind is trees... lots of em. When you're in a forest and off 
 the path, it really feels like it. Also, the spell effects are some of the best ever seen in a 
 game.
  
  Sound - 8: Music is good. Ambient sounds are good. But nothing really stands out.
  
  Value 
 - 10: You can play this game over and over and never have it turn out the same way twice. Estimates 
 say 50-70 hours a game for each guild and there are 3 different guilds to join. That's a lot of 
 gametime and I won't be doing all 3.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10: Unforunately, this game is going to go down in history as one of the most 
 underrated. C'mon, Gamespot doesn't even have a review for it yet. Why? This is a very fun game 
 and one I can't stop thinking about. It's a must have for all RPG'ers. I just hope the developer 
 releases the expansion pack (Night of the Raven) in the US. I'm definately picking it up if they 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moacg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2003 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I feel like I'm still barely into the game, but I've played for a few days now. Gothic II is very 
 immersive and reminds me somewhat of Ultima IX (which I really enjoyed) . I've only had a few technical 
 problems, but none really worth mentioning because they were probably caused by something other 
 than the game itself. It uses just about every ounce of power you can give it. I have all settings 
 at the absolute max and only get stutters once in a great while. I have a P4 2.53 Ghz with a Geforce 
 4 Ti-4200 video card (64mb) .
  
  I'm finding JoWood to be an excellent provider of games. This is the third game I've really enjoyed 
 from them (the others being: Arx Fatalis and Chaser) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmalis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2003 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This sequel improves upon the original in every way but graphics. The story is excellent and the 
 sound and dialog superb. The control scheme, which was lousy in the first one, has been revamped 
 and is very easy to use. All in all, if you like RPGs, this is the most immersive RPG to come out 
 since Divine Divinity. It has all the small things that make the game world thrive and you can 
 see the results of your actions at every step. The only negative thing is the graphics. It looks 
 like the developers used the same engine as the first game, but the graphics are still more than 
 passable and the distance you can see is awesome! I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
