-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gothic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/gothic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,146 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Xicat Interactive
Developer: Piranha Bytes
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 23, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it has an unusual story, lots of spoken dialogue, and a substantial amount of gameplay, it 
 also has frustrating action sequences and some noticeable technical problems. 

 Piranha Bytes' Gothic is an unconventional game that takes place in an unconventional setting: a 
 magically sealed prison in a stark, grim fantasy realm. Even though the developer calls it a role-playing 
 game, Gothic is a hybrid game that features RPG, adventure, and action elements. Gothic does have 
 standard role-playing elements, such as experience levels and character development, but it also 
 places heavy emphasis on dialogue and inventory puzzles and has some real-time action sequences. 
 And though it has an unusual and open-ended story, lots of spoken dialogue, and a substantial amount 
 of gameplay, it also has frustrating action sequences and some noticeable technical problems.  
          Gothic is set in a magically sealed hard-labor prison camp.    

  The most interesting things about Gothic are its offbeat story and the way that you can interact 
 with it. You play as a single character, an anonymous, soft-spoken convict who's been thrown into 
 the game's world, which is both a prison and an ore mine. Though you'll start the game as a lowly 
 peon with no skills or abilities, you'll eventually become an accomplished adventurer who will 
 join one of the colony's three main camps, but not before you get into a tussle with some rowdies 
 or with some of the colony's indigenous monsters. Both of these can and will squash you flat, at 
 least at the beginning of the game. To Gothic's credit, these vicious enemies make the game's world 
 seem as hostile and as unforgiving as you might expect a prison colony to be. However, once you 
 start exploring and meet a few of the game's characters, you'll find most of them to be very talkative, 
 even chatty, as they explain how to interact with the game's world, as well as give your character 
 simple quests to perform. Most of Gothic consists of running back and forth to collect and deliver 
 items for these quests, though at several points in the game, you'll also have to fight against 
 enemies.   

  Unfortunately, Gothic's fighting system just doesn't work well. It's fairly simple; you ready a 
 melee weapon, a bow, or a magic spell, target your enemy, and attack and defend by pressing the 
 "use" key together with movement keys. Most single enemies simply come straight at you, and though 
 they'll occasionally dodge to the side, you can usually wait them out by defending until they attack 
 and then attacking yourself. However, Gothic usually throws groups of at least two to three enemies 
 at you (presumably to reinforce the fact that you're in a harsh, hostile world) . Multiple enemies 
 can and will surround you, attack you from the rear, and cut you down before you even have time 
 to angrily curse Gothic's largely unresponsive control scheme. Moving and fighting both require 
 you to use your movement keys, so actively trying to dodge while fighting and defending is basically 
 impossible. And using ranged weapons like bows can be even more frustrating, since attacking enemies 
 from a distance invariably causes them to come charging straight at you -- and they'll usually knock 
 you out before you can even reach for your melee weapon.           You'll speak with plenty of 
 characters all too eager for your company.    

  That's not to say that Gothic's control scheme is flat-out awful, but it does have problems -- and 
 so does the game's interface. For whatever reason, Gothic uses a fixed third-person, behind-your-character's-back 
 view -- a view that usually gets blocked as you explore the game's winding mountain passes and narrow 
 caverns. Most recent third-person action-adventure games either feature an alternate first-person 
 view or make your character transparent when it's pressed against a wall or corner; Gothic does 
 neither. What's more, though Gothic lets you use your mouse to turn your character, the game doesn't 
 actually have a cursor. This is puzzling, considering that the only way to interact with your surroundings 
 is to target them by turning and facing them to highlight them; being able to use a mouse cursor 
 to point at and click on whatever you want to interact with would have made the game easier to 
 play. Also, Gothic has several characters that'll actually physically guide you through the world 
 if you ask them. These characters display remarkably good pathfinding, but after trudging around 
 after a few of these characters, you'll wonder why the developers didn't simply implement an in-game 
 map, which would have made navigating the game's huge outdoor areas much easier.            
 Gothic's 3D graphics look good, but can tax even high-end systems.    

  Even though Gothic does have plenty of things going for it, most of its elements have noticeable 
 problems. For instance, consider the game's graphics: Gothic features some impressive lighting 
 effects, most notably in the pulsating magical seal over the prison where the game takes place. 
 The game also features day-and-night cycles, and the lighting effects are at their best at night 
 around the different prison camps, where moonlight and torches cast realistic glows and shadows. 
 Unfortunately, Gothic's architecture and scenery are generally rather plain, and its character 
 models are very blocky and are textured crudely. Even so, the game itself has surprisingly high 
 system requirements and will prove extremely taxing to most computers. We tested Gothic on a PIII 
 900MHz with 256MB RAM and a 32MB card, as well as on a PIII 450MHz with 128MB RAM and a 16MB 3D 
 card. Even on the former system, which is well above the game's recommended specs, we still encountered 
 some frame rate problems, and it ran so slowly on the latter machine that it was barely playable. 
 And on both machines, Gothic had surprisingly long loading times.   

  Gothic's sound is also a bit uneven. The game's music consists of appropriate, if generic, symphonic 
 tracks that are so subdued that you'll often forget they're even there. Gothic also features decent 
 ambient sound effects that are especially good in outdoor areas, such as the forest and swamp areas. 
 In addition, the game has an enormous amount of recorded speech for both your character and those 
 he meets in his travels. In fact, many of the characters you meet will tend to drone on and on 
 about whatever task you'll need to perform next, and it's clear that only a few actors provided 
 the voices of the game's many characters. However, most of the dialogue is delivered quite well. 
           Gothic can be frustrating, but has plenty of places to go and people to see.    

  If you can actually get past all of the game's problems and can also appreciate its strengths, 
 you may well enjoy Gothic. Its action sequences are weak, and its role-playing elements are straightforward -- you 
 gain experience points either by performing quests or fighting enemies and eventually gain levels 
 that yield skill points. You can use these skill points to develop your fighting or magic abilities 
 or to improve a few miscellaneous skills, though these are generally less important than fighting 
 or casting spells. However, Gothic's adventure elements are actually quite strong. Furthermore, 
 the game itself is quite lengthy, and to complete its many quests, you'll need to speak to many 
 different characters. In several cases, you'll actually have a choice as to how you want to complete 
 a quest or whether you want to complete it at all. Apart from its main quests, many of which are 
 open ended, Gothic has several optional side quests. And for the most part, none of the game's 
 quests have any time constraints, so you can often try out a certain approach, fight any monsters 
 in the area, rest until you recover from your wounds, and try again.   

  Should you play Gothic? Not if you want a deep character-development RPG or an action-packed hack-and-slash 
 game, or if you'd have trouble dealing with the game's various problems. And not if you don't have 
 a good computer that's substantially better than the game's minimum requirements. However, if none 
 of these conditions really bother you and if you'd be interested in playing a game that places 
 more emphasis on character interaction and quests than on fighting monsters, you should give Gothic 
 a try.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: anotherwraycool
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Gothic is an underrated game that takes your breath away, not to mention a dozen hours of your 
 life that you don't mind giving up. It is an original peace of work presented by Parana Bites that 
 takes you to the kingdom of Myrtana. A magical kingdom that is under siege by orcs. You are an 
 anonymous convict sentenced to work in a magically protected penal colony to mine magic ore for 
 the king... don't want to give too much away. :)
  
  In Gothic you don't start with any class in particular (warrior, archer, mage) instead you build 
 up skill points to add on to any of these classes and abilities and skills they may possess giving 
 you a lot of freedom for building up your character. My favorite is Mage primary and warrior secondary.
 
  
  The magic in the game is fun. You can summon demons, transform any of the iconic beasts and animals 
 in the story, render unsuspecting victims asleep and rob all of their belongings, or bust out the 
 trusty storm of fire and toast your enemies... 
  
  The melee combat controls are like nothing I've played before. You swing your weapon based on the 
 arrow keys and time your hits to pull of combos. Although in Gothic the blocking system isn't perfect 
 we see it patched up in Gothic 2
  
  The role playing aspect in this story was revolutionary for 2001 and although it might not be oblivion 
 for you elder scroll fan's it's like rpg candy with an intuitive original story enveloped in rich 
 universe that will inevitably make you buy Gothic 2 (which is worth it) and then Gothic 3 (which 
 is... not as worth it) all in all find yourself a copy of this German RPG and get Gothic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wutevar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Gothic is the first game in the long-running 'Gothic' series, and is easily the most innovative 
 title by far. 
  
  To understand why Gothic is considered a cult-classic you must understand the story, and experience 
 the vibrant, living world it offers because no RPG before it, and only a select few after it managed 
 to execute said parameters so well. 
  
  As a criminal sentenced to lifetime servitude in a confined penal colony known as The Valley of 
 Mines, you are thrust into an unforgiving, surreal world with only a letter addressed to the High 
 Magicians of Fire residing within. The Valley of Mines is cut-off from the outside world thanks 
 to a magical barrier surrounding the valley. You can enter it, but you can't get out once you're 
 inside - this creates some clever gameplay twists; goods from the 'outside world' such as bread, 
 cheese, wine and even women are considered invaluable while gold coins have absolutely no value 
 at all - instead, chips of magical ore (which coincidently can only be mined at the valley) are 
 regarded as hard currency. 
  
  Since the positions of power within the isolated penal colony have shifted from the overseers to 
 the criminals they were supposed to be watching over, the valley has become the shining example 
 of the natural selection rule where the strong survive and the weak either perish or are taken 
 advantage of. It all fits nicely into the gameplay - you'll see numerous examples of low-lives 
 attempting to mug you, make you do their chores for them or outright lie to you to and so on. Influence 
 and the support of influential people is invaluable in the world of Gothic, so in order to move 
 up in the food chain you'll be spending a good portion of the game running errands for such people 
 - thankfully these errands are fairly creative and fun, often having more than one way to solve 
 them. 
  
  The power of choice in Gothic is prominent throughout most of the game, there are 3 possible factions 
 for you to align with: The Old Camp, where self-appointed Ore Barons call the shots in a hierarchic 
 power-structure with the lowest being The Shadows, and organization composed of thieves, spies 
 and various operatives, The Guards - the guys charged with the defense and peacekeeping in the 
 camp, and the Fire Mages who are an authority in itself thanks to their destructive powers.
  Parallel to the Old Camp stand the Sect Brotherhood, and the New Camp with Novices, Templars and 
 Gurus for the Sect and Rogues, Mercenaries and Water Mages for the New Camp. So the first order 
 of business for the player is to align themselves with one of these factions starting as a Shadow, 
 Rogue or Novice and then moving up to either the 'Combat' specialists or the Magician castes.
 
  Each such faction feels distinct enough to warrant multiple replays thanks to the different quests 
 each such faction is eligible of - all are equally fun. Even as the story progresses and narrows 
 to a more linear path the game doesn't lose its fun factor thanks to the engaging storyline that 
 gradually changes the world you'll come to know in ways you least expect them.
  
  As has been mentioned, the world of Gothic feels like a living world. All of the NPC's have their 
 daily routines - they work during the day, relax in the evening and sleep at night. From a gameplay 
 perspective it means you have much better chances of not getting caught stealing during the night, 
 All the while it is safer to hunt for wild beasts during the day. The world itself is huge, all 
 hand-crafted landscapes with many exotic locales such as old ruins, swamps, mountain peaks, Orc 
 burial grounds, ancient temples dedicated to long-lost deities, enormous underground mine complexes 
 and so on. It is also static, meaning that generally you'll find easy pickings the closer you are 
 to the camps and progressively harder prey as you stray farther from them. At the start of each 
 chapter the world gets re-populated with new monsters, making backtracking seamlessly fun again.
 
  
  The combat in Gothic is often critisized for its cumbersome controls. It isn't easy to combat 3 
 opponents at once, most of which will try to flank you and use their numeric advantage against 
 you - but in all fairness, it shouldn't be easy unless you have far superior equipment and abilities 
 in which case the odds even out. Moving around and interacting with the game world is easy and 
 handles just right. This usually doesn't apply to high level magicians who can decimate groups 
 of enemies within seconds, by the way. An archery-focused character would also have an easier time 
 just nailing down enemies from an unreachable vantage point.
  
  Bugs and technical difficulties are no doubt the number one drag in this game. Skipping conversations 
 will often cause the game to crash, and it's not unheard of to get stuck in the scenery while jumping 
 around.
  
  The graphics are long sub-par by today's standards - but to old-time gamers they should be more 
 than palatable. by 2001's standards they were beautiful. All dialogue is spoken, and is delivered 
 in a good to satisfying way with capable voice actors that do the job, but don't quite manage to 
 execute it in a spectacular way like, say, in Freelancer.
  
  All-in-all, Gothic is a unique RPG with a great plot that is enhanced by its world and memorable 
 characters. If you like RPG's, you should definitely give Gothic a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all dont get fooled by user reviews like i did it suprise me too THAT underated? BUT you 
 know how people are oh awesome, ehm it doesnt work propely , so? yo wont be able to play it? so?
 
  
  SO, gothic is a crappy game i do admit that the fact of been a prisoner in a magically isolated 
 prison colony is cool but apart from that the sound is average maybe the world sucks you in but 
 its awfully deisgned, first of all if the controls dont let you down, in order to pick up stuff 
 you got to press mouse 1 and then forward arrow, tab is inventory and again click l forward arrow 
 now to fight you got to hold down left mouse button and use the arrows or wasd tp fight also you 
 got to press them in a specific way in order to attack or you character's combo will break and 
 you break with him, thats right you cant move while attacking bu the hordes of enemies can and 
 will kick your ass also while holding left mouse button while fighting you cant move the camera 
 around so you get your ass kicked by the dancing running around you goblins that its impossible 
 to hit with auto aim without moving and without being able to control the damn camera its stationary! 
 there are no difficulties its pretty hard by default also id like some freaking tutorial to explain 
 how you move attack and fight but NO not even the bad crappy awful i ma not kidding manual doesnt 
 help, this game is so pro historic anyway no autosave and it crashed about 7 times., also well 
 you say ok but eventually ill get there right? in the past you need a hell of a system in order 
 to run it without awful frame rate thats why no one played it, so now am sure that the human mind 
 says yeah but ill get there right? NO first of all combat is uncontrollable and unfair it doesnt 
 explain anything and the monsters DONT i say again DONT reappear so you gonna have to save try 
 your best with the clumsy control and if the monster and his 10000 buddies prove to be tougher 
 than you since it s doesnt auto lock to more than one opponents, then ou gonna load a save game 
 you gonna keep trying to kill something to gain some xp also some but quite a few monsters reappaer 
 in chapters, so you gonna mkae a strategy for the best outcome ill killl these these and these 
 and then in the next chapter ill kill one of 2 of them that reappeared again, exactly an rpg than 
 monsters just aint there to level up, the map is pretty good but your map is upside down adn doesnt 
 even shows indicators on it like quests or something, its just a piece of paper! ehn you get a 
 level you gain learning points you can use them if you go to a trainer and upgrade either your 
 strength so you an use stronger weapons or dexterity so you can use better bows also you can increase 
 your fighting skill with one handed tow handed and bows ans crossbows, so you gotta find those 
 guys pay them and give your skill points and then try finding monster to kill , NO THANKS I LL 
 PASS!
  
  Still armor and good weapons are getting acquired by joining one of the 3 factions, the quests 
 are about the same but it changes who you doing them! the buying menu usually doesn't have anything 
 and its buggy also few npcs have something new to say if the game doesnt bug up there also i walked 
 into a house and the npc said HEY GET OUT OF THERE NOW!!!
  But when i talked to him he replied extremely friendly!!!!! or many times in the towns npc decide 
 to kick your ass and the guards are all against you, you character is extremely weak and npc fights 
 automated! once somebody asked be to follow him follow him so he got me out of the town to kill 
 some thief's and he lead me to his friends and they kicked the crap out of my low level character 
 the 3 of them while i was unable to do anything, if survive he runs back to the city WITH HIS SWORD 
 UP , BUT THE GUARDS IGNORE HIM HOWEVER THEY KICK THE CRAP OUT OF ME FOR GOING IN WITH THE SWORD 
 OR HUNTING HIM, HEY HE IS THE CRIMINAL YOU IDIOT, YOU STUPID GUARD! needless to say this guys re 
 like 12000 times stronger than you anyway i got back to town and after a conversation i decide 
 to kick his ass but everyone else in the city took his side, i dont really understand how Gothic 
 asks from a low level newbie character to kick the crap out of a legendary warrior to be accepted 
 form the camp one of the starting quests, by the way the quests aint as many as people say lets 
 just say that you pick a camp and it has 6 quests each you gonna have to do the 5 of them to proceed 
 the game so you gonna keep wandering and keep reloading, also some enemies are, well running around 
 skeletons and goblins that you cant hit or buggy wolfs that their head is buggy or the miss pathing 
 orcs also most four legged creatures have the ability to jump back EVERY FREAKING TIME YOU ATTACK 
 EVERY FREAKING TIME! at this point you ask yourself why ant i do that? the designers say we think 
 its lame to use healing items during combat, oh yeah? AND I THINK ITS LAME TO PUT A CRAPPY CONTROL 
 CHARACTER THAT YOU CANT LEVEL UP BY TIME (ITS CALLED RPG) AGAINST HORDES OF ENEMIES THAT KICK THE 
 CRAP OUT OF YOU AND CALL IT REALISTIC! gothic is like a survival horror game on hard, learn the 
 controls master them and figure out the game tricks by your own and by saving this and that hope 
 that you survive if it doesnt crash, spells require tons of skill points and they are hard to equip 
 and taking ages to use against, USELESS also to equip stuff you got to use space and up and down 
 arrows to select your weapon! another type of monster is a fly that dodges attacks and you have 
 to somehow change your looking position since you cant look around or move while in combat mode 
 you got to release mouse button 1 to look around without being ready to attack with the arrows 
 since if you release the mouse button they became movement buttons and avoid the lethal fly, also 
 you got to get skills to skin creatures and get their meat and then do the same action again to 
 cook the meat 1000 times, if it doesn't bug up or crash, another creature is a lizard that does 
 FSSSS and way i got to die because of that, and if you attack it moves backwards really fast, EXCUSE 
 ME YOU FREAKING PIRANHA BYTES IT DOESNT TAKE TO BE A GENIUS TO SIMPLY REALIZE THAT A LIZZARD CANT 
 MOVE BACK BECAUSE OF HOW LOW TO THE GROUND IS AND THAT IT WILL BACK HIS HUGE TAIL IF IT DOES! lol 
 no seriously lizzrad dont move backwards they will hit their tail blocks the way so i wanna say 
 that if they do that they gonna get stunned! also some people say its a hardcore rpg with a lot 
 of npc dialiogue, excuse again but the dialogue chocies aint deep like fallout so no matter what 
 you say it aint something special, also and a hardcore rpg doesn't ahve unlimited inventory, more 
 issiues like npc miss pathing and falling of trees, or the patch makes the game crash sometimes, 
 this game should be sued for carrying the name gothic also at some mines YOU CANT CLIMB UP A FREAKING 
 LADDER, i looked everywhere to the awful community, it is awful am not kidding, these gusy should 
 get the sites to work to the offical pages to support and patches to walktrouth and all those said 
 TO USE CHEATCODES TO NO-CLIP THRU THE LEVEL I MEAN IS ANYONE GONNA FIX THIS? GREAT I GOT OUT OF 
 THE LEVEL, AGAIN! Near the endin their ar many misss working buggy puzzles and jumpinmg points 
 or the fianl battle its just those thing dont work propely you will get dissapointed,
  
  Gothic is a crappy low low low budget game that never works propely or even runs! my recommendation 
 dont even try to find it, i happen to find it on e bay dont even try dont be fooled there isonly 
 one rpg OBLIVION and morowind, low biuget german developers can step aside, no thanks i like quality 
 besides thats why i give my money for right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Procrastin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I actually came to the game Gothic in the reverse order (I played Gothic 2 first) . That said, even 
 though this game is quite old by now, the graphics are still very reasonable and you don't have 
 to suspend your disbelief too much. 
  
  I found the world to be very engaging, and realistic.
  
  The game play could be very frustrating 
 in the early levels if you're expecting to be able to go anywhere and do anything within the first 
 hour. I found that you really needed to learn to fight properly, and learn the behaviour of each 
 foe you went up against.
  
  The day/night cycles, and the weather and ambient lighting/sounds are very engrossing and really 
 draw a player into the game.
  
  The one major drawback of this game are that there are several points where things get glitchy. 
 This is somewhat do to the game being open ended, and if you explore the world a lot before you're 
 "supposed" to you might encounter more bugs then if you follow what you should be doing.
  
  Overall I'd recommend this game to anybody who likes RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Well.... now this is what I call a brilliant RPG! I remember when I first got the game couple of 
 years ago I couldn't stop playing it. I was waking up in the morning and played all day and all 
 night with some short lunch breakes. Of course coffee was a necessity. This game just caught me of 
 guard. It's just plainly brilliant.
  If I was writing this review 5 or 6 years ago I would give this game a very strong 10 without hesitation. Different 
 times different hardware and different expectations. Couple of years ago this game was way ahead 
 of it's time. Reviewing this game in 2008 sitting by a dual core, Geforce 8800gtx and 4GB of ram 
 computer after playing such a huge graphical titans as CRYSIS or FAR CRY or OBLIVION this game 
 isn't impressing me as it used to from a graphical point of view but even a new BMW M3 will get 
 old after a while and will be replaced by a new, better model which doesn't mean that an old one 
 got much worse all of a sudden. It still drives great, you still have the same horse power and this 
 pure pleasure of driving.....
  
  You start as a typical unknown guy who is sentenced for life to work in a colony where along with 
 a gathering of all other cryminals ( even those sentenced without any specified reason) you will 
 have to work in mines which provide King Rhobar with magic ore that is crucial for the empire with 
 regards to the incoming war against the Orcs. To prevent the prisoners from escaping the colony 
 12 of the best archmages created a magic barrier but something went wrong and everyone is trapped 
 inside without any hopes of getting outside. And before you know it you're inside the barrier having 
 your face smashed by a guy named Bullit. The only thing that kept you alive was the presence of 
 another guy named Diego who saved you from being slaughtered by Bullit and his companions.
  
  And this is what the game is all about. It's about fighting your way through all the challenges 
 you come across. If you want some respect show that you're worth it, fight for it, grab every ocassion. Don't 
 stand around selling statements that you're a good guy. There are no good guys in the colony but 
 as someone said even the ugliest of character types have some friends so you won't be totally alone. You 
 will meet friends but even they will test you before they can acknowledge you as a friend of their 
 own. This game is about friendship and treason, loyalty and some cold calculation concerning your 
 options. Who to ally with? Who to betray? This game is also about moral dilemma: Should I pay for 
 the potion or should kick seller's ass and just take whatever he's got?
  
  Sooner or later you will have to join one of the 3 factions. There's the Old Camp, The New Camp, and 
 The Sect Camp. Each of them has different philosophy, each of them has different ideas of how to 
 escape the colony and considering that in at least 2 camps you can choose the magician's path it 
 only makes the dilemma even greater but that's also what gives this game a very high replayability. You 
 can play this game couple of times and still be involved in something different!
  
  
  That's what makes this game unique. The plot, the atmosphere, uncertainty of what may happen. If you 
 add to this pile of pluses changing weather, day/night changes, even the environment changes and 
 has a life of it's own. Even if you clear the area of all the monsters and animals they will reproduce 
 after a while so you never know how long this forest or that swamp will remain empty for. The game 
 is also great in that it rewards the player with every hour spent by the monitor. You start as a 
 total weakling who doesn't even know how to handle a pickaxe ( that's the first weapon you're gonna 
 get :) ) and through different combat training and through gaining experience you watch your hero 
 grow in power. What was previously impossible to do or whatever monster there was that you couldn't 
 even scratch it's now lying on the ground after showing it what a meaning of bloodshed is. The game 
 isn't by any means repetitive. The plot as well as the whole scenario changes frequently so you 
 won't have this 'been there done that already' feeling.
  
  
  The graphics are very nice. It' not the same as it used to be 5 years ago but still is pretty good 
 despite weak tree textures for example. the environment looks very empty comparing to richly detailed 
 Oblivion but you won't be dissapointed. It's still very nice and if I had to choose between graphical 
 amazing Oblivion and not that impressive Gothic I would pick Gothic without any hesitation. Every 
 great fan of RPG's will say that a good rpg isn't about graphics only. It's about the story and 
 a decent combat.
  
  And this is where I have to say that well.... the combat isn't perfect. It takes some time getting 
 used to it. If you want to attack you have to press the forward arrow and click the left mouse button 
 or CTRL (by default) . Same thing with every other action like talking to other NPC's, opening doors 
 or chests, picking up items. It may be frustrating at first but after a while it's easy to get used 
 to it.
  
  The character itself is able to master the art of one hand and both-hand melee fighting or he can 
 develop some skills with a bow or a crossbow. he can learn to lockpick, pickpocket, sneak, he can learn 
 acrobatics and although there aren't to many skills to chose from it is more than enough.
  
  the inventory system isn't perfect either. It's divided to a number of columns. Each column stores 
 different types of items. From weapons, armor, magical runes and scrolls to different types of food, potions, books, parchments 
 and other Misc items. It isn't perfect because it would be much easier to have a look at one inventory 
 where instead of scrolling through all of those columns you could see everything at once ( the 
 way it was solved in Gothic3) .
  
  The music and sound effects that accompany you are very nice, brilliant even at some stage. Drawing 
 the weapon sounds very realistic, monsters, people act realistic and if only the voice acting of 
 some NPC's was better or the amount of dialogs between 2 NPC's was bigger I would say that the 
 game from the musical point of view is also perfect.
  
  What this game irritates me with the most are bugs. Game crashing from time to time without any 
 reason, animation bugs ( drawing a sword animation with actually drawing a sword) , NPC's or monsters 
 lurking from inside the walls or standing above ground, some bugs where let's say Mordrag instead 
 of accompanying you to the new camp starts running in the opposite direction after some not so 
 tough encounter with a wolf.
  One advice.... Save the game very often. Saving and loading times are very short so it's always better 
 to load a game than repeat 15-25 minutes of game only because it crashed or something happened 
 that prevented you from continuing the game further.
  
  Summarizing:
  
  The Good
  The game is brilliant in almost every  is very good.
 
  
  The bad: Some bugs, game tends to be unstable on occassion, Combat system could be slightly better, inventory, some 
 technical/graphical glitches like textures dissapearing, npc hidden inside wals or rotaing 360 degrees.
 
  
  But if you are able to swallow some of the shortcomings and if you are a great RPG fan then this 
 is a game I can recommend without any hesitation
  
  It's just a MUST HAVE!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard209
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  i normally do not enjoy games that push the limits of hard gameplay, but this one surpasses my 
 usual bias. yes, you will do alot of saving and reloading even long after you have passed the learning 
 curve; but the world you encounter in the game, the story you are set to complete, and the challenge 
 it puts to you form one of the most enjoyable pc rpgs i have played to date.
  
  the first thing you will notice upon playing, is how open the story is. you can do anything you 
 want, any way you want, and go anywhere you want (though you will meet a quick end if you just 
 start off into the unknown) . the first thing you will learn with playing this game is too save 
 more than you have ever saved in a game before. if you kill a creature, save it. if you are running 
 between settlements, save it maybe twice. this game is hard. there is no getting around it. you 
 will die, and die often.
  
  the world you are in is constantly moving. each npc follows a schedule of working, eating, sleeping 
 and so on. this does make it hard to find people important to your quests at times, but it is a 
 perfect touch to pull you into the game's reality. depending on which of the three factions you 
 join plays a huge part in how you play and which path you take within thoughs factions separates 
 into more options making reply value high. you can play as a pure fighter (one or two handed weapons) , 
 an archer (bow or crossbow) , mage, or a mix. you also select which stats you want to increase based 
 on which character you want to be.
  
  comabt takes getting used to. even after you have figured out how to time dodging and blocking, 
 you will not always win. there is also much to be learn as far as strategy. it is easy to be overwhelmed 
 by too many enemies. you have to pick them off one or two at a time or you will have to reload. 
 magic can be tricky and is only useful if you go to full out mage. it places your character at 
 a disadvantage in many situations and so is a major challenge in any already challenging game but 
 can still be enjoyable.
  
  the npcs all have unique personalities and i am sure you will come to enjoy more than a few of 
 them.
  
  the stroy is well done and very involving. the game also does an excellent job of keeping you busy 
 with quests and corners of the world to explore.
  
  there are a nuimber of glitches in the system. players and npcs getting stuck on objects is not 
 uncommon. buttons within the game that do not always work has also happened. there are also imaging 
 issue at times. you will want to download patches to play this game at its best; but for all these 
 little bugs, the game is outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chad19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying that this game is heavily underrated in the sense that it is one 
 of the best RPG games ever and it simply didn't get as much publicity as some of the more mainstream 
 titles like 'Diablo II' or 'Neverwinter Nights' for example. Here is this game conceived in the 
 mid-to-late 90's (then Finally released in 2001) and I believe that it was way ahead of it's time. 
 (For those that haven't played or heard of it, it could be loosely described as a medieval 'GTA', 
 however 'slightly' more in-depth) .
  
  Now that that's outta the way. This was the first time I had played this game, and after playing 
 right through it (which it took me about a week to finish (and I was unemployed at the time...) ) 
 I had found the beginning to a fantastic series... (After I found out that there were sequels :P)
 
  
  Let me just say quickly that he controls are a bit 'Tricky' buy once you get used to them, it becomes 
 second nature. Now first off, I couldn't believe the graphics of this game, when compared to other 
 games of the same genre released around the same time like Dungeon Siege, Neverwinter Nights or 
 Diablo II, because they were just stunning, versatile and detailed and the fact that you controlled 
 the character from 1st or 3rd person view you really were able to take in all of the 3-D beauty. 
 One particular thing stood out with the 'boundaries' of the game because you never ran into that 
 'mysterious black edge' that was so apparent in many other RPG's of the time, whereas in Gothic 
 if you can find a way to get somewhere you can get there. 
  
  Now to the stuff that really blew my mind! The Gameplay and the Storyline. First the Storyline: 
 *MINOR SPOILER* You are a convict thrown into this colony of many other convicts surrounded by 
 a death-forcefield (So No Touchy) and basically you have to decide which of the 3 main camps of 
 convicts to Join (The Old Camp, The New Camp... or the Stoners who believe a God called the 'Sleeper' 
 will come and rescue them from the colony AKA The Swamp Camp) and you have to 'get by' to survive, 
 learning techniques and skills and ultimately either killing or kissing a whole lotta ass to get 
 to the top. Once you are there you then get caught up in a plot to escape from the colony and ultimately 
 free yourself... and every other convict back into 'Society'. I think that this storyline is just 
 brilliant because it's so simple and very different from the generic "Be a Hero, Save The People" 
 Storyline. (Now you might say "But hang on you just said that he frees all of the convicts in the 
 end... so it is the same generic storyline"... and you might be right but i like to look at it 
 as "He is trying to free himself and the fact that every other prisoner escaped isn't his business"... 
 However, he doesn't state it, I'm sure that there are SOME people on the inside that he's thinking 
 about other than himself) .
  
  The Gameplay is outstanding because you can literally do almost anything... e. g. Forge swords equip 
 them or sell them, collect herbs turn them into a potion, kill an animal: eat the meat, take the 
 claws and fur and do with them what you will, go and mine some gold, sneak into someones house 
 and loot it, sneak up behind someone and oh so skillfully pick their pocket, run, jump and climb 
 almost anywhere, choose what to say in conversations and determine how that person reacts to you... 
 (Now that might not seem impressive to some people but for a game released around that time and 
 compared to even some of the games of today the things you can do are simply astounding) . 
  (Just one thing that I did, I'd like to point out... I met this guy in the game and he asked if 
 he could join me so i agreed and he followed me everywhere and every now and then he would say 
 something and interrupt my gaming experience... So I took him to a secluded cave, and killed the 
 annoying @#$%$!... lol)
  
  Unfortunately i haven't got much to say about the soundtrack, only because honestly I was listening 
 to my music when i played through the game... However I did have the SFX on and the SFX were pretty 
 great everything sounded good from the clanging of my blade to the sound of my feet padding the 
 ground to the creatures growls, squawks or hisses. Also every character (NPC and the Storyline 
 characters) had voices and if you spoke to them they'd at least tell you to "bugger off". Also 
 the voices chosen for the Storyline characters really suited each Persona.
  
  So all in all I definitely have to say that this is simply one of the best RPG's out there, and 
 it's a Must Play for any RPG enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zek-foo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Maybe its graphics are poor now, but seven years ago they were bombastic. It has some glitches 
 and stuff, but thats just a small downfall of this game. It has a great landscape on which you 
 can venture, and some "camps" (one camp could be a small town) . There are multiple NPCs with quests 
 inside so you dont get bored and some NPCs with no quests. If you're good you can kill them without 
 being seen so they aren't completely useless. You can join different civilization like swamp people 
 or mercenaries. It's up to you to decide which are worthy of your greatness. You can learn multiple 
 skills like pickpocketing and hunting beats down. Money can be earned on multiple ways. (you can 
 skin animals if you like or pickpocket wealthy men) Gothic is an unique game which I bet you will 
 never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinjedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  First, I want to demolate the critics: 
  
  1. About the interface. Once you got it, it's simple. You press the ACTION key and then use the 
 direction keys for 
  interacting with the environment, trading and fighting. You don't need the mouse,
  you can use 
 it but then you'll have to provide different controls via keyboard for side weapon swings.
  The fighting system it's simple and very tactical, because it's about timing. I still
  wonder 
 why many people enjoy lots of crap games, like Diablo, for their stupid fighting system: click 
 and click and click 
  until you get a finger strain! Gothic lets you use you brain and your intuition. Timing
  is, 
 beside having a good weapon and armor, everything!!!
  
  2. Many said the game is very difficult. No, in fact it's much more simple than most other games 
 once you KNOW HOW to play the beginning
  of the game. Just follow the main road to the Old Camp, work in the forge, craft lots of blades, 
 sell them for ore and aquire the best piece
  of armor from the markets (Fisk in the Old Camp, Templar guard in front of Swamp Camp) , then defeat 
 the molerats near the camp and equip the dead guard's amulet. Invest in STRENGTH at least the first 
 levels (
  considering probably you'll want to become a mage later) and use one of your new forged weapons 
 for fighting. Okay, once you get all these straight (patience
  is required, of course...) , you can go hunting scavengers, molerats, bloodflies. Stay away from 
 bigger monsters, even from wolves. Visit all camps by
  making Baal Parvez and Mordrag take you there. You get free XP from their fights. Try to enter 
 Gomez castle as soon as you can (You must give up the dead guard's amulet to one of the Shadows 
 but don't worry,
  you'll get a much better one soon!!) . Once you enter the castle, don't go to Gomez!!! You can go 
 to him later, if you really must.
  Go up the staires and empty the chests from the upper floor. In one of them there is a very powerful 
 amulet of protection.
  I recommend you join the new camp if you are a beginner. Lee will instruct you in two handed
 
  fighting once you get level 10 and you don't need prerequisite one handed like you do in the other 
 two camps!
  Anyway, if you have the armor and the amulet (Fisk's or a novice loincloth from the swamp camp 
 & dead guard's amulet) you should be able
  to advance very quick in the game. 
  
  3. Monsters don't need to respawn like in other games! They still respawn but in later chapters 
 and in smaller number. 
  Don't worry. That's the most realistic part compared to stupid Diablo where you could fight bosses 
 and others endless, annoying times. Consider it, once you kill a boss
  it should be quite dead, right?
  You gain enough experience from monsters, more than enough. 
 If you join the New Camp you'll find yourself even in middle game with lots of spare points
  which you could invest in archery or magic or whatever. Consider melee combat most important, though. 
 It's
  a game where this counts.
  
  4. System requirements? What if I tell you that when I first played the game I had a PC with
 
  a 1,70 Celeron, only 128 RAM and a video card Savage integrated on the motherboard??? It woked 
 on minimum but I could
  still play it well enough. If you have about 256 RAM and a video card of 64 RAM, it runs perfectly. 
 I tried it later when I had
  a Ge Force 4 and increased my RAM to 256. Perfect!
  
  What critics can I add to this game? Well, there are melee hits which do nothig to some monsters 
 (this bug is corrected, it seems, in Gothic 2) , even if you have the maximum strength and
  toughest weapon! That is the worst thing about this game. Also, the fact that Gorn, a friend of 
 yours,
  attacks you sometimes while in that mine... But if you avoid those big monsters in the beginning 
 and if you have patience in fights later,
  it's not a problem anymore. As for Gorn, try to use a sleep spell scroll and then run :) )
  
 
  It's a wonderful game, a game based more on psychological than brutal, a game I could still play 
 and play, never getting tired of it. Have you tried infiltrating the orc town as a meatbug early 
 in the game? There is nice
  stuff there and the best two handed sword in the game (not counting URIZIEL) FOR FREE!!! 
  
 
  It's a perfect RPG and a fascinating universe: lots of landscapes (you can go anywhere) , beautiful 
 day/night system, clever missions with options to chose how to accomplish them,
  dialogues (Isn't it cool when your main character speaks? Not like other mute games...) , most of 
 which are very funny, no tons of weapons and armor and objects. Just
  what you need! A top class still nowadays! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drokens90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Gothic is easily the best game I have ever played. This is not because the graphics were amazing 
 or the combat was new and revolutionary. In fact, the graphics are very blocky and old and the 
 combat is pretty standard. The reason Gothic stands out over all the other games I have played 
 is because of the difficulty, the ability to do things you can not do in most other games and most 
 of all, the story. 
  The difficulty in this game really stands out over other games. Instead of games like Oblivion 
 where everything is easy to kill, you will enter the game where most of everything will kill you 
 in one hit. You enter the game as an average joe with no really combat skills. This makes leveling 
 your skills all the more rewarding. 
  In this game there are many things that you can do that you probably won't be able to find in other 
 games. Any raw meat you find you will be able to cook. You will be able to have long in depth discussions 
 with NPCs with voice dialog. Thats right, no reading walls of text. The quests in this game do 
 include the normal quests where you go and kill a number of creatures then come back and get your 
 reward. But there are also more original quests. Like a quest where you pass out water to all of 
 the rice workers. A quest where you go to an enemy village and pass out drugs to influence them 
 to join your village. There are some really fun quests out there to explore with, aside from the 
 main one. 
  The story in this game is really amazing and well done. It seems simple enough at the beginning 
 but it becomes very in depth. The king needs money to fund a war with the orcs so he gets all of 
 the prisoners of the land and puts them in a colony to gather ore. This is where you are dropped 
 off. They give you a scroll to deliver the king. Your on your own from here without a weapon or 
 anything. From here you choose to join one of three villages that all provide unique experiences 
 for the game. So, you could technically play the game three times and aquire three different experiences. 
 This makes it very fun. 
  Its clear that gothic is an amazing game. It is very cheap right now and that makes it very worth 
 getting. I got it for only 4 dollars and it is the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toroman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I first got my hands on Gothic II and simply loved it, so I wanted to give a try to the first part. I 
 had a lot of trouble to get my copy of the game becouse it was already a bit out of date. I finally 
 founded it on one of those e-buy pages and waited for it to be delivered.
  And boy, it was worth waiting. It was all I was hoping for and more.
  Gothic, which I will rate 
 based on GothicII I played first, was almost as good as the second part. It has a lot of missions 
 and the world is pretty big for the time game was realised. Well, not as big as Elder Scroll games 
 but still pretty big and you can spend a lot of time exploring it. Missions are well balanced and 
 will take you from one part of the world to another and will get harder and harder as the game 
 passes and you grow.
  Controls are a bit tricky if you never played Gothic game. As I was playing Gothic II first and 
 GothicI second, I was already used to them but everyone who plays game for the first time, might 
 have some problems geting used to them but once you get them it is all about fun.
  All in one this is a great game and I would highly recommend it to any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  A third-person RPG with RTS elements in another genre-blending adventure? Yep  and not a bad one, 
 either. Gothic isnt a straightforward action game; its a genuine RPG packed with tons of action.
 
  
  The initial storyline is surprisingly similar to the original Ultima Underworld. Youre a convict 
 thrown into a mountainside labor prison thats magically sealed from the outside world. Its a 
 grim place run by the prisoners in tight hierarchies, where the choices you make and the risks 
 you take determine which gang you join, what skills you learn, and your friends and enemies. Gothics 
 dialogue is gritty and its voiceovers convincing.
  
  Praise goes as well to the games environment. Theres some clipping in the graphics, but the terrain 
 is detailed and varied. Day and night bring out different predators and people.
  
  Were Gothic as good as its best parts, itd get an Editors Choice, but important issues lower 
 its value. It was originally conceived for the keyboard only, and though you can reconfigure its 
 commands, the game still isnt very mouse-friendly. And the manual is awful  a lot of coy, vague 
 hints and a dearth of basic information. Some commands are missing completely, and I had to download 
 the Gothic FAQ to find out how to view my characters diary.
  
  That said, I really like this stark RPG. Its got good balance, lots of replayability, and a style 
 all its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinman_m
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Overall a pretty entertaining game. Although there are some camera issues because of the 3rd person 
 perspective; the games' atmosphere, story, character development, as well as the character's themselves 
 makes for an enjoyable experience. Another strong point was the open ended aspect involving both 
 the environment as well as storyline, as it consists of many diverse character choices; including 
 choosing one of three guild's that best represent your ethical and moral preferences. The graphics 
 are a bit dated, as expected but the immersive game play and intriguing storyline more than makes 
 up for it. Very much looking forward to playing Gothic 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Amidst a small rash of no name role playing games released at the same time, Gothic shines as a 
 rough uncut diamond. Gothic delivers an extremely satisfying but occasionally unpolished experience. 
 More than most RPGs this sleeper uses its character system to dance the line between third person 
 action and adventure gaming. Aided by the most immersive, and unbroken worlds in recent memory, 
 the story in Gothic often feels very alive and dynamic despite its scripted nature.
  
  Gothics story is well above average, but integral enough to the game that I won't share it here. 
 However some history to the story will be important. The history of Gothic really begins when orcs 
 attack the local realm. The King comes into a great need for mined ore for the production of weapons 
 and armor. Our King then proceeds to send people to the mines for any infraction of his law, however 
 the large number of prisoners makes controlling them dangerous. The King then has 12 mages summon 
 a dome of energy over the mining colony that kills anyone leaving it. Sadly, as does happen, something 
 goes wrong and the dome grows out of control encompassing the mages as well. The ever determined 
 lord of the land, not to let this stop him from saving his people from the orcs, gives in and decides 
 to trade with the convicts for ore. And so our story begins with a single run of the mill convict 
 tossed into the colony.
  
  I almost didn't play Gothic. Even after I had purchased it and installed it on my computer at home 
 I very nearly decided to uninstalled it and hid the CDs. The controls were so poorly documented 
 it took me a good 15 minutes trying to guess what I had to do just to pick something up off the 
 ground. To be honest, I've never had this much trouble with controls in a game before. A lot of 
 bad things can be said about the controls, and have been, but it is apparent as the game goes on 
 that the blame lies solely on the poor documentation. In fact, as in any good game, it becomes 
 quite natural. Another gripe that will have more baring on the beginning of the game is the way 
 combat is handled. Allowing you to only attack and defend agains one creature at a time, the system 
 makes early combat difficult with two or more enemies. This sadly is not a documentation problem, 
 on the other hand it will still have the most baring on the beginning of the game. Proficiency 
 with the system as well as better defensive items have proved to make the system very fun. That 
 and a well developed sense of when to run away.
  
  It is a testament to the quality of the game that it easily overcomes the early frustrations of 
 the controls. It doesn't take a lot to sour a game, and bad controls can really do just that. However 
 as you walk down the path from the very first area of the game you will see the first reason why 
 the the game is worth playing. The environment is almost seamless, there are a mere four locations 
 that there are load zones between in the entirety of the game. All of them go to small cavern areas 
 that pertain to specific missions. Well over 90% of the game is spent in the large open areas of 
 the mining colony, which are amazingly large and varied. Heights felt higher when i climbed them 
 myself an was able to look all the way down and see the places you've been before. Ive never had 
 the same sense of hight as this in any other game. The mountains, aside from being a task to climb, 
 provoked my fear of heights, i found myself frequently hugging the paths for fear of falling off.
 
  
  Even more amazing is the humongous amount of NPCs in the world who will go about daily lives. They 
 wake up in the morning saying, A brand new day and nothing has changed. Then on to start the campfires 
 to cook breakfast with, gather around the fires in groups and chat for the morning before some 
 of them go off to work, and the fires die down. There are NPCs who travel most of the world every 
 single day to the mines and back to their camps. The evening fires will start up and people will 
 gather around them again, the work will cease while the characters will laugh and talk and drink 
 beers to relax for the evening. Late at night all the fires will die down and everyone will be 
 in bed sleeping. If you go into an NPC's house uninvited, they'll get confrontational and draw 
 their weapons against you. Even cooler, they will give you time to get out before they use them. 
 They will take the same hostile stance if you draw your weapon in their presence.
  
  The sound in the game was a mixture of bitter sweet. There is a crashing bug if you use more than 
 two speaker output. And as of now there is not yet a patch available to fix this. On the other 
 hand the sound effects satisfied deeply. Equally satisfying but less memorable, the soundtrack 
 fit perfectly with the game, often times blending in with what you did. Furthermore, voice acting 
 of low to medium quality fills the entire game, an excellent average for game with all spoken dialog.
 
  
  Gothic contains quite a number of unpolished edges. Yet, despite all of its flaws the quality of 
 this adventure game shines through with flying colors. The fact that its rough edges will keep 
 a great many people from discovering one of the most rewarding games this year saddens me. All 
 said and done, Gothic is a classic, I plan on replaying it at least twice more to find everything 
 I missed, and any adventure or RPG fan would find at the very least enough to compel them to play 
 all the way through at the very least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xkjolith-chyldX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Worth the money. There is about six to seven different types of trades to learn and about the same 
 number of skills to learn. It is a little hard to learn at first, but the game overall is fun to 
 play and always room for a replay to try new things.
  The game is a little long winded with all the walking, but getting the spells and runes as you 
 go, make it fun. Once player's get the hang of it, time flies...
  The game really sets a bar in role playing. The idea that players are a hero and have no name, 
 EVER. Players are just him and that guy and anything player does, affects the relationships with 
 an entire town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  (Text portion of review applies to both Gothic I and Gothic II Gold.)
  
  If you do not force yourself to adapt to the interfacial idiosyncracies of Gothic I and Gothic 
 II, you are missing out bigtime. It takes about an hour to get into, but quickly enough, everything 
 becomes second-nature and makes absolute perfect sense.
  
  First of all let me say that, in spite of the main voice actor sometimes misinterpreting the context 
 of the lines and emphasizing the wrong words (Jerry, I didnt think you'd **show**  versus Jerry, 
 I didnt think **you'd** show) , these games have among the best voice acting and voice scripting 
 ever. The dialogue is well written, well delivered, interesting, quirky, and sometimes downright 
 hilarious. And the main character, especially by Gothic II, has a smooth, easy voice that is easy 
 to empathize with.
  
  The action part of these action RPGs is good enough, with a bit of hack-and-slash thats not too 
 complex, relying mainly on timing. As your melee skills increase you will deliver weapon strikes 
 faster and more successfully, and with some additional combos. Again, its nothing too intricate.
 
  
  Wizardry will find you relying on wiles and geographical advantage, particularly early on when 
 your spells are weak. Higher level spells can deal out damage pretty quickly. Changing spells in 
 mid-battle can be confusing, though, and it helps if all your ducks are lined up in a neat little 
 row (or if you got your brain-fingertip connection charged and ready) before getting into some 
 spell-based combat with multiple strong enemies.
  
  The spell effects look good. In Gothic I, you will find that you can run the gamut of melee fighter 
 and still have game time -- and experience points -- left to become a pretty strong mage. I played 
 as a mercenary, developed devastating strength and melee weapon acumen, and later advanced rather 
 far in the circles of the Water Mages. In the sequel, you are somewhat more limited; if you want 
 to play a truly mixed character, you need to tread the paladins path. The mercs will have restricted 
 access to magic, and the fire mages will not be swashbuckling swordsmen.
  
  The game world is crafted with love and attention. This is what makes it a great game. The attitudes, 
 personality conflicts, difficult terrains, and hostile beasts all give it the atmosphere of gritty 
 desperation and free-spirited adventure.
  
  At first, you will struggle to survive. When you finally do gain a foothold, enough that you dare 
 to venture away from human habitation, you will feel that you have earned it. Indeed, even with 
 your dearly bought skills, through much of the game you will encounter secret holes and hives that 
 contain beings who will send you scurrying with your tail between your legs, or your guts in your 
 hands. Until late in the game, there will always be challenges that will daunt you. Its not an 
 easy game -- another point in its favor.
  
  When I first started playing Gothic, I was confused, conflicted, and frustrated. I am glad I read 
 some of the reviews praising this game, and addressing the funky interface (which is not funky 
 at all once you get used to it  nothing could be simpler, really!) . Had I not persisted for a 
 few extra minutes, I would have missed out on one of the all-time great, immersive gaming experiences. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 3.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  I played Gothic for 10 hours or so before just quitting because I just couldnt stand it any more. 
 This has to be the worst controls I have ever seen for a game. They've made the game as if it was 
 first meant to be put on a console gamepad. But even that doesn't excuse why its so bad. I stuck 
 it out for 10 hours because I really did get into the 3 factions you could join, and how you could 
 do jobs for all of them. I even liked how the first town I went to was simple and easy to move 
 around in. Problem is, many of the jobs you have to do require you to travel at a painful slow 
 pace throughout the land. Ah, there is no map telling you where you are either, so its slow going. 
 The only map is ones you buy, and they are useless.
  
  Theres a very creepy feel to this game, and youll start to feel it fairly soon when you start 
 playing it. For starters, there are no females anywhere (and in Gothic 2 I didnt see any in the 
 short time I played it) . Its not that theres no females that is creepy, but what the characters 
 say to you that is really strange. Making all the npcs gay was there great storyline idea, but 
 too creepy.
  
  Difficultly of monsters is too unbalanced. You simply don't level up fast enough because there 
 aren't enough easy things to kill. So what happens is your forced to save the game before every 
 single battle incase things go bad, or you fight a bad guy who kills you in one hit. Also you can 
 die in weird falls off ledges. The games controls just are so that bad. Why do they throw in monsters 
 that kill you in 1 hit???
  
  10 hours this game couldnt get any better, I knew it never would. Things just ending up the same, 
 save every 2 seconds incase something huge kills you or you die from a glitch in the game. I haven't 
 played Gothic 2 as much, but it has the same control problems. Im not sure why this game got any 
 good reviews.
  
  The graphics are good, but they run clunky. I found it to run choppy either at 640x480 or 1600x1200, 
 it didn't matter.
  
  Gothic 3 is nearly out; I wont bother looking at it unless its completely different. Add females 
 please, and dont give all the npcs homosexual tendencies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynoisgod
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is by far, the most underrated RPG ever! Anyone who missed this gem a few years back should 
 get a copy any way they can and play it as often as they can. The only reason I didn't give this 
 a ten is that the battle system could be improved with a target lock. It's a little too realistic 
 for my liking, making it too easy to get your ass kicked if you make one wrong move. Other than 
 that, pure RPG perfection!
  
  I still haven't finished this game because it's story is so involving and rewarding to the player 
 that I just have to explore the lush, realistic world to interact with all the prison's denizens. 
 Finding someones once-hidden trove of weapons or spells is so invigorating I can't describe it!
 
  
  If you can get a copy on eBay, go for it. If you love Morrowind or Oblivion you will never stop 
 playing Gothic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I am a pretty hard-core RPG fan and enjoy games with a challenge and a good story. I started the 
 Gothic series by playing Gothic II and decided to give Gothic a shot after having enjoyed G2 so 
 much so this review will provide a perspective to those who've played the later game first.
  
  Gothic is a game that shares some general aspects that you'll find in a game such as Morrowind 
 or Oblivion. Gothic is a very open ended RPG that throws you into a large landscape you are free 
 to explore as you choose and which gives you a good handful of quests and options that you can 
 solve when you feel ready.
  
  The graphics in G1 are definitely well behind those of Morrowind but are still quite acceptable. 
 The fact that the game implements long range rendering makes a big difference in giving you a true 
 feeling of being part of the world. In Morrowind, nothing was rendered beyond a given rendering 
 distance, but in G1, far away mountains and geographic features are still rendered, but with less 
 detail.
  
  While G1 and G2 appear to be based on the same graphics engine, I would have to say the visual 
 presentation in G2 is significantly better. The textures and details to the environment are done 
 much better. Also, the plants and trees in G2 are far superior (even to Morrowind) and they provide 
 for a very lush and rich environment. G1 still has the sense of walking through areas with trees 
 and plants dotting the region, but not a true wilderness packed with flora.
  
  G1 is not packed with side quests as you'll find in Morrowind but there is still a handful of quests 
 to undertake and there are a number of different paths you can take in proceeding along the main 
 quests. At some point in the game, you have to join one of three camps, each having a different 
 effect on how the game progresses.
  
  There is no monster leveling as there is in a game such as Oblivion which means that the game starts 
 off very hard. After a short time, you gain a minimum level of combat effectiveness but there are 
 still monsters and regions in the game that you can't fight through until much later as you'll 
 get killed in a heart beat.
  
  Many people have commented on the control system in G1 and even after playing G2, I found the controls 
 in G1 to be quite cumbersome. For the first hour of the game, I was extremely frustrated because 
 I felt as if my weapon was more or less unresponsive to my commands. Once I got some armor and 
 a decent weapon, I was more able to survive. The controls are definitely tolerable but are rather 
 bizarre.
  
  The inventory system is one of the worst systems ever implemented. To move items in your inventory 
 you have to press the mouse button (or control) along with a movement key, a rotate key or a shift-movement 
 key to move items in units of 10, one or 100. To complete a transaction with a merchant, you have 
 to figure out that you have to press the enter key. To pick up an item, you have to press mouse-forward 
 and to drop an item, you have to press mouse-back. Even by the end of the game, I would occasionally 
 get the keys wrong.
  
  The difficulty of G1 is just about right. I found G2 to be much more difficult in terms of the 
 monsters you have to fight. G2 is a game that is mostly about killing one monsters at a time, but 
 in G1 it doesn't take too long before you can take on groups of monsters without having to rest 
 or recharge. The magic system in G1 is always much more enjoyable. In G2, the cost of magic spells 
 relative to the amount of mana you have was simply too high. In G2, you will find yourself casting 
 a few spells only to have to rest to get your mana back. In G1, you can cast a lot more of your 
 spells before having to recharge your mana. This makes playing as a mage much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of innovation in RPG games range. You could be a mage and fight monsters only 
 with magic, but there are a lot of magic resistant foes, so take your step carefully. If you'll 
 be a fighter, think of the enemies, that has high damage resistance and vulnerable to magic. And 
 there's a lot of time to spend on sniping out your enemies with long reanged weapons, like crossbow 
 and bow, it'll take a lot of time, but you sure are going to be victorious, if enemies don't come 
 too close too you. These things make the game difficult enough, so try to balance your character 
 well enought not to be bare handed in any situation. It's world is huge, it even loads only a couple 
 of times throughout all the game, so you'll have enough pleasure to see all the beauty of it with 
 removing a fog, that restricts you to look far, but uses less PC resources. A lot of NPC's in the 
 game are voiced, flora and fauna in it is alive, a lot of different monsters and bosses, that has 
 their own strategy of fighting. There's a zillion of side-quest, many of them are hard to find, 
 so try out of the possibilities of the game, try to get on the highest cliff, or descend through 
 a deep lake to find any hidden treasure or a quest there - it makes game more fun, when you can 
 explore it totally! The story behing this game is that you appear in the colony, that is separated 
 from the outside world with a magic barrier, and your purpose is to find the source of it's existance 
 and destroy it. There are few camps in this world, and each of them has their own politics about 
 solving the mystery of the barrier, but you'll have to choose only one camp to belong to, to get 
 their aid in finding the truth. There are different main quests and weaponry, when you choose a 
 different camp, so choose wisely! Good luck on finding your own way in this not such a big world 
 that has a lot of things to do in.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Gothic is set at time of great war between orcs and humans. However it doesn`t take you to epic 
 battles with hordes of squeaky griming creatures, well , not at traditional sense. The game takes 
 you to prison - the magical barrier upon witch the creators of it lost control long time ago, where 
 magical ore is dug for magical weapons wielding and traded for supplies and women. Within barrier 
 there is three main camps, where you can learn skills, meet different people, trade and rest. In 
 order to accomplish your missions and get out of the barrier you will have to choose sides and 
 friends carefully as once you join one camp, you can`t join other too, so gameplay and story will 
 depend on how manipulative you are and how you choose to do your missions. 
  
  The whole surroundings in game is "sucking you in", I know it was for me. With complex and rocky 
 landscape the adventuring and discovering things have become very rewarding and fun. There is just 
 no other feeling like you climbing the rocks and on top of it finding ancient ruins with few treasure 
 chests, not speaking of view you get from that cliff.
  
  The barrier is filled with all kinds of monsters witch vary from easy, such as meatbugs, to nearly 
 unbeatable such as giant trolls and undeads. The adventuring is always thrilling as you will never 
 know what is behind next hill, rock or tree. It keeps you alert even tho most of times when you 
 need to get from one colony to another you`ll have to run between them, as monsters regenerate 
 during some period of time ( a week or few days ) and could catch you unexpected.
  
  The leveling and experience system weren`t very complex allowing this game concentrate more on 
 action and story side. With each level from experience gathered from quests and defeating enemies 
 you get 10 skill points with which you can improve your dexterity, strength, one of the battle 
 skills ( bow, crossbow, one handed weapons, two handed weapons ) , hunting skills ( sneaking, picking 
 claws, fangs, furs and such ) , thief skills ( pick-pocketing, lock picking) or acrobatics ( witch 
 IMO is a MUST if you decide to play it ) witch fully covers all your needs during the game.
  
  The graphics and audio are nice ( oh but ver mind that as I`m old games lover ) . Even though 
 it`s fairly old game it has one of nicest landscapes I have ever seen in games. The ambiance is 
 also very high in quality ( the first times I played game, the install was corrupted due scratched 
 cd, so I played without all the men voices, witch made all dialogues silent, except with ladies, 
 witch are maybe 2 per whole game, and I sill loved it ) .
  
  In conclusion despite few bugs it is really great game holding great value of replay. Recommended 
 to any RPG fans and adventurers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch_no_freak
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay is really good. You can choose, which guild you want fallow. If you want be a good 
 man, you go to the army (or like that) , if you wanna be a guru, you fallow the ones, who smoke 
 all the time and have contact with their good. And you can too be a assassin.
  The enemys are very good made.
  My Score: 10 points
  
  Graphics
  The graphic isn't good. 
 And that's the only thing in this game, what isn't perfect. you can see sometime cants. and sometime 
 the picture twitches.
  But the game is already old. So it's a bit normal
  My Score: 8 points
  
  Sound
  I have to say, that the sound is verry amazing! But because 
 sometimes, the sound is ever the same, i have to make minus 1.
  My Score: 9 points
  
  Value
  I could play this game for a long time. It's not a game you can play only once. No, I 
 have plaied the game alreay twice, and I could play it too once.
  My Score: 10 points
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  I have already written enough things. So I come directly to the fact
  My Score: 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snid0
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Gothic is an older game and much underrated. 
  
  The story pulls you straight in and you really want to get that guy who beats you up at the start. 
 But first it is survive and the monsters are pretty hard at the start. (Buy, hey, what's the save 
 game for anyway!) levelling up is a good feeling and the skill points you gain need to be spent 
 wisely.
  
  There are numerous paths you can take through the game and this gives it a great deal of replayability. 
 However, all paths lead to the same ending which is a little hackneyed tbh. The voice acting is 
 variable, but mostly good, and some of the phrases have come into standard use in my household!
 
  
  The controls are not standard and take a bit of getting used to, but you will play the game for 
 long enough that they eventually become second nature. It is only really a problem if you switch 
 between games frequently.
  
  The game is fairly rare now and that may push up the price, but whatever you pay for it you will 
 most probably think it well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 1 and 2 are more or less on equal ground when it comes to gameplay and graphics. Gothic 
 2 is much bigger than Gothic 1, in fact pretty much the entire gameworld of Gothic 1 is contained 
 within Gothic 2.
  
  In my mind, while Gothic 2 is a nice step forward in many regards, I still feel that the story 
 of Gothic 1 is more engaging than its sequel. Undead dragons can't beat the story of the Sleeper, 
 the mysterious creature from another dimension who manipulates people's minds as they sleep. The 
 game's atmosphere is creepy and tense, more so than any other RPG I've played, with the possible 
 exception of Planescape: Torment.
  
  If you've already played Gothic 2 and liked it, it won't be an anticlimax to play Gothic 1. The 
 personality of Gothic 1 is quite different from #2, so it's unlikely you'll get a feeling of deja 
 vu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellrodt49
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Gothic has all the elements of a classic role playing game: an epic storyline; lots of combat with 
 plenty of beasties and human opponents to fight; a vast array of weapons and spells and items; 
 a plethora of chests and containers to loot; extensive and complex interaction with dozens of NPCs; 
 lots of quests to complete; and lots of puzzles to solve. Gothic makes better use of many of these 
 elements than the majority of role-playing games Ive played (and Ive been playing them for almost 
 25 years) .
  
  The story line is about as good as it gets in these kinds of games. The story is set in a medieval 
 fantasy world and unfolds inside a penal colony that is cut off from the outside world by a magical 
 barrier. This rather unique setting provides an interesting and immersive backdrop within which 
 the story unfolds. The game proceeds in chapters, like a book, and it pulls you in and very convincingly 
 makes you the major character in the plot as it unfolds. It is one of the more immersive games 
 Ive played.
  
  A major strength of the game is the extensive and complex interaction with NPCs. The NPCs have 
 convincing personalities and actually seem to have lives and daily schedules. You might find someone 
 out working in a rice paddy during the day and then encounter that same character sitting around 
 a campfire at a different location n the evening or even sleeping on a cot in a dilapidated shelter 
 by night. Some characters in the game will join you and help you for a time, but these remain independent 
 and are never under your direct control, which is another nice immersive element in the game. Now 
 for the bad part: all of the NPCs in the game are voice-acted, which would have contributed enormously 
 to the immersive quality of the game had the voice-acting been well done. However, my major gripe 
 about Gothic is the extremely poor, often cheesy quality of the voice acting in the English version 
 of the game. Its so bad its laughable. Gothic takes place in a medieval fantasy setting, and 
 you just can't have characters in such a setting speaking with exaggerated southern accents or 
 talking like Mafia goons or hip black guys from the hood or grizzled old sidekicks from western 
 movies. Its almost like someone went to great pains to make sure the voices in Gothic cover the 
 full range of American cultural stereotypes. It just doesnt work, and in my judgment this is a 
 serious distraction from the immersiveness and credibility of the game (sadly, the voice acting 
 in the English version of Gothic II is even worse. One can only hope they do something about this 
 before Gothic III comes out) .
  
  Combat in the game is nothing exceptional but is reasonably well done (though somewhat difficult, 
 especially in the early stages) . There has been much criticism of the Gothic interface, particularly 
 with regard to combat, but I personally found this to be a non-issue. Sure, the interface is a 
 little different from what most gamers are accustomed to. But before I had gotten very far into 
 the game, I had easily adapted to the interface and it was in no way a distraction from the immersive 
 experience of the game.
  
  I found the gameplay balance in Gothic to be a little inconsistent. The game seems to get progressively 
 (and almost exponentially) easier as you go along. For me, the most difficult and challenging part 
 of the game was the early chapters, particularly Chapter 1. In fact, I almost quit a couple of 
 times in the early going because everything and everybody in the game was handing me my arse on 
 a regular basis. I had to load saved games so often I feared I was going to wear out my hard drive. 
 But some of the later segments, particularly the search for the five focus stones, were almost 
 ridiculously easy. I would have preferred a little less challenge in the beginning and more challenge 
 in the later segments of the game.
  
  The graphics in Gothic are not up to current standards, but they are still impressive, especially 
 for a 2001-vintage game. The lighting effects, spell effects, and monster animations are well done 
 (my favorite monster animation is the harpy ) . Some of the objects in the game are not well presented, 
 especially some of the tree models and some of the cave interiors. But overall, the graphics are 
 fine. (By the way, the environments in Gothic look really great through a pair of stereo 3-D glasses 
 such as the ones made by e-Dimensional) .
  
  The sound is reasonably good for a game this old. There are realistic ambient sounds, weather effect 
 sounds, rushing water sounds, etc. When you are in the mines, the ambient sound conveys a totally 
 convincing sense of being in a cave. Game music is appropriate and unobtrusive. The monster sounds 
 (growls, grunts, roars, etc.) are okay, and there are some death cries (harpies and zombies in 
 particular) that are almost too well done. I did, however, experience moderate problems with stuttering, 
 clipping, and repeating during conversations with NPCs (my rig has a Soundblaster Live card) . This 
 occurred no matter which sound options I selected in the game.
  
  The game was very stable on my machine. I played for over 60 hours and experienced no major bugs 
 (version 1.08) and had only two crashes.
  
  The game is ultimately linear, as most games are (otherwise games would never be finished) . But 
 there are enough choices and side quests and alternative paths to give it a reasonably open feel.
 
  
  In summary, Gothic is a long, entertaining, well-done RPG which unfortunately has a couple of flaws 
 that make it fall just short of being a truly great game. Dont be put off because the game is 
 getting a little long in the tooth. If you havent played it yet, do so (if you can find a copy) . 
 You'll enjoy it. Gothic should definitely be part of the gaming experience of all RPGers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Gothic is a medieval rpg set in the world of Khorinis and surrounded by the Swamp Camp and New 
 Camp. You first arrive at the new camp. These three places allow you to take different missions 
 and a different course in the game. You can choose to be a mage or a warrior. I suggest you be 
 a fire mage for the old camp because at the end of the game you have to go to the new or swamp 
 camp anyway and if you go to the new camp you can end up being a necromancer. The story is great 
 and the enemies are plentiful. There are some technical problems because at one time during a particular 
 mission, one of your allies gets mad at you for attacking his "ally". But aren't those the ones 
 you have to kill? Plus you can't kill him but I suggest you get the latest patch. The story is 
 heavily driven and the land is huge. I would suggest this game to anyone looking for a great game 
 at a low price!!! I gave it a ten because you can get a great patch and with a substantial computer 
 you virtually have no lag!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Gothic 1 was easily one of the best PC RPG's in years when it came out in 2001. It has an evolving 
 story-line that really does change as you make choices. The environment is large and it is quite 
 a lot of fun just exploring and fighting in the dark-wooded areas between towns and villages. The 
 story-line is fairly original and its particularly cool that the game doesn't lead you by the nose 
 every step of the way. 
  
  The game is divided into story-chapters and more impatient gamers wont like the slow manner in 
 which the game starts. Well, that's because they're impatient gamers .
  
  Its certainly a game worth playing -- Its just that Gothic 2 blows Gothic 1 out of the water in 
 every possible way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttominda
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Gothic is a game that combines RPG and action, and I think it does very well. Unlike most of that 
 kind of games, is more an RPG than an action game. The most important thing here is to gain exp. 
 to learn more abilities and become stronger. But the action part is very entertaining and challenging. 
 The combat control is a bit strange at the beginning, but towards the end of the game it becomes 
 much more easy (as you improve your character's abilities) .
  
  The best thing in Gothic is the complete freedom you have, especially at the first chapters. So 
 you are as free as in Morrowind but with a much better interface and an amazing storyline. 
  
  I have played Gothic after Gothic II, which is a game I loved. So, It wasn't a surprise. However, 
 It seems to me that there isn't much difference between them in terms of quality. Gothic is a bit 
 shorter than the sequel and a worse technically, of course, but the gameplay experience and the 
 story is equally exciting.
  
  So, Gothic is a good action game and except Ocarina Of Time, the best RPG I ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_crazylemon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  First time I came in contact with Gothic, the controls seemed too crappy, so I abandoned it after 
 just ten minutes of play. I mean, two buttons for an action? That' s just plain complication.
 
  Several months later, I was in the mood for an RPG, so I decided to give Gothic a second chance. 
 I decided to ignore the controls and just try to do my best in looking at the bright side of it. 
 It turned out to be a very good decision.
  After just 30 minutes or so, the controls felt like the back of my hand, and I was amazed by the 
 excellent simulation of the social life in the Camps.
  The game's best part is, IMO, the immense replayability : each of the three "Camps" (the factions 
 of Gothic) offer one or more ways to go.
  The game also has a good story, decent graphics (of course, you can't expect a 2001 game to live 
 up for today's standards) and creates an original universe, different from other RPG's worlds.
 
  The game's bugs (lots of them) are the only serious problem of the game, but you should live with 
 that... It's only one problem, after all, and you won't even care about it after getting immersed 
 in the game (and you will, believe me) .
  Just don't miss this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  The game that is the best RPG of all times in Gothic, a truly fascinating game. Wether we only 
 played it once or are stil continuing to replay it, Gothic is a game for everyone, a game that 
 casted a spell on us and entrenched us to play more and more, to advance further in the story and 
 find out more about the plot of the game.
  
  The graphics, though not as impresive as the games that are made today, are pretty modest, as the 
 producers have probably worked more on a more vital aspect of the game, the mesmerising plot and 
 on the spell meant to attract anyone.
  
  The sounds are pretty great, that reproduce the basic scent of nature and it's "live" surroundings, 
 sounds that don't go in too much detail.
  
  The gameplay, even though it possesses some small bugs still offers you full control and flexibility 
 of the character you control.
  
  I believe that Gothic was, is and forever will be a true classic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  This gothic game, made it feel like you could choose what gang you wanted to work with, and the 
 more tasks you do, the high in the rank you can become.
  
  Each town, has there onw leader and to et noticed, you need to pay for protection in the town to 
 begin with, and then your allowed to leanr nw skills from people in town, once you have leanrt 
 new skills, you are ready to explore the world you are in and slay some strange demons.
  
  Depending where you go, some are weaker and some are stronger, you are best to go after the easy 
 pret to being with.
  
  There are missions to do, and you gain choose to do them and become more important and wherew the 
 guards armour and get the guards sword.
  
  The higher you go themore items are available to you.
  
  Furhter in the game, you up agains 
 some Big orcs, which try to take over the land, your job is to put a stop to this and stop the 
 orcs from taken over, but things get out of hand.
  
  Are you strong enough to take on the challenge and earn you reward, by bring the masters chiefs 
 head of the orcs.
  
  Or will you be running away like a chicken.
  
  The future is in your hands.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaikJonas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Gothic is one of the best games on the market. It is surprisingly good game. It draws player into 
 world of Gothic, a land surrounded by magical barrier, which is turned into large prison colony. 
 
  The main character has excellent attributes. It interacts with various people in the game, and 
 makes you feel in total control of its behavior and actions. The person can bake its food, rest, 
 sit, scratch his chin, makes its own weapon. The story is amazing, because it all actions are concentrated 
 on breaking the barrier and frees the prison colony. The game has unique landscape, which allows 
 the player to access almost any location in the game. There are many people to interact and reasonable 
 quests.
  The game has many bugs and glitches that could be overcome in cheat mode. The ending is little 
 disappointing. The final battle is extremely easy, and there was no bonus or task to kill the most 
 hated person in the colony, Gomez, which makes you feel cheated. The Gothic is astonishingly well 
 designed game with great story and worth of any RPG players time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mihai101103
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fanatic gamer, but i play a lot and one of the only games that realy change my thinking 
 of gameplay is Gothic .
  Gothic is more than a game because of feeling you have when you decide to enter the World of Gothic. 
 At first i had no idea if what this game got, i just bought it from the black market from a single 
 cd archive (it had only 300 mb) , but as soon as i've enter the character skin i couldn't stop. 
 I've just played ,and played ....... it took me 60 hours at first to finish it . But it was the 
 begining .
  I was so curios about the other guild aas well so ,if started again , and then again ...
 I 
 believe that the perfect game is : 40% Gothic , 30% Morrowind, 30% Wizzardry 8.
  
  P. S. ABOUT THE GRADE YOU 'VE AWARDED , IT DESERVE A HIGHER 
  EVEN IF THE GRAPHICS ISN'T THE BEST 
 , OR EVEN IF IT HAS A BUG OR TWO, BECAUSE IT IS A GAME THAT MAKES YOU FEEL THE REAL GAMEPLAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lumpy2005
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 11, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  Gothic I is one of the greatest games I played. No, it's the second gratestr game I played, second 
 only to Morrowind. Although the game has many bugs (some of which even force you to start the game 
 over) , a not so good combat system, and almost complete linearity, you're probably going to love 
 it (if you haven't already) .
  I never really care about bugs and graphics in a game. Gothic has many bugs, but very good graphics 
 as well. What really matters for me in a RPG are quests, storyline, gameplay, and freedom.
  Gothic has lots of original quests. Although most of them require you to retrieve an artifact or 
 another, the way these missions are described and how they fit seamlessly into the main storyline 
 makes them some of the best quests I have ever seen in an RPG. As for storyline, it's excellent 
 as well, and clichee free. The ending, especially, is beautiful. You probably know the basic plot 
 by know, so I won't spoil therest for you.
  The gameplay does not excell, like the other features, however. The fighting system is difficult 
 to understand and use, and will probably force you to load the last save game many times to fight 
 a certain enemy, at least at the beggining. A mage is screwed if a range warrior reaches him, and 
 using the spell "Ice Block", that freezes your enemy, is compulsory. However, by the end, you'll 
 be very powerful, and even able to freeze anyone that dares come near you and then finish them 
 one by one.
  The game's weakest point, though, is it's linearity, and almost complete lack of freedom. At the 
 beggining, you will be able to choose between 3 different factions, and each will have it's own 
 unique quests. To my disappointment, this small amount of freedom lasts only during the first chapter 
 (which ends after you become level 5) , and after that, the story becomes completly linear. All 
 that will be different will be the armor you get. As for quests, although they are very good, there 
 are hardly any outside the main quest. During my game, I only encountered 2, though there are probably 
 more than that. So all you can do, besides going on with the main story, is walking around the 
 land fighting monsters and getting some rewards from dungeons. Though you aren't likely to bewilling 
 to do that, thanks to the very addictive main quest and its storyline. You can't even get better 
 armor outside that quest, since you won't be able to get the armor off a dead NPC no matter how 
 hard you try.
  Al for levelling up, here's how it works: you start the game with no skills. As you kill monsters, 
 you gain experience points, and those points will eventually cause you to level up. At each level 
 up, you are awarded 10 learning points, which you may choose to turn into either attributes, or 
 skills, at the various trainers you find in each faction's camp, or out in the wilderness. This 
 system has it's merits, since it offers you more freedom, but is not too realistic, and I like 
 TES's way to do it more (for those who don't know how that one works: use a skill and you'll become 
 better with it)
  So, if you're a Morrowind fan, you might be discouraged by Gothic's almost complete lack of freedom, 
 and different levelling system, like I was the first time I played. But play it, a little "Quality 
 over Quantity" game won't hurt you, especially when that quality is outstanding, like Gothic's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namibianer1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Gothic one is one of the best PC games I've ever played and you can be shure, I've played a lot. 
 I can't think of any game which was so suprisingly good as this one. It features a unique story, 
 a gigantic world to discover. I bought it without actually knowing what it was about and now it' 
 my favourite game ever:
  -gigantic world
  -many NPC which inhabitate the world
  -Long gampelay with an extraordinary story
  -hundrets of weapons and magical items 
  -very 
 long playtime
  -many things to do (constuct your own potions, swords)
  -all kinds of different quests
  -3 factions to join, each with different armours etc.
  
  
 Normaly I don't play games more than once and this game I've played about 7-9 times and as I said... it's 
 long. The graphics might not be the best anymore today but the experience in this wolrd of gothic 
 is still unmatched in my eyes. The world feels totaly alive as do your fellow prisoners which inhabite 
 the world along a wide variante of creatures.
  There are many bugs but these are taken care of with the Patch for the game. Also the controls 
 are quite unusually but after you know them right, I concider them to be very good.
  
  I can realy reccomend this game to every single one out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilpat
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  First some history. I don't want to bore you so im gonna go for only the essentials. The kingdom 
 is being attacked by orcs. Orcs are really big and mean in this games so this is big trouble... 
 Luckily the king has access to magical ore that will give his army what might just be the edge 
 they need. However when the orcs get too close he realises that it must be protected and so he 
 calls for a group of powerful magicians to create a magic barrier around the mine. But something 
 goes wrong during the creation of the barrier and the entire mining colony becomes trapped inside 
 a magic dome. The prisoners working in the mines quickly take control and so the story begins with 
 you being thrown into this barrier which is now conveniently enough serving as a no-security prison. 
 In the very beginning of the game you meet Diego, a shadow from the Old Camp. He has come to introduce 
 you to the colony and tells you the basics. The basics are that there are three camps; - The Old 
 Camp: Old Camp is run by the ore barons who trade ore for goods with the outside world. They are 
 in control over the biggest ore mine in the colony and the king is in dire need of this ore to 
 win his war with the orcs. This means that the old camp often has different items for sale (or 
 at least when you get admitted into the castle courtyard.) The old camp is also the home of the 
 fire mages. - The New Camp: These rogues and mercenaries have set up their own camp away from obligatory 
 tasks and such nuisances. They do however have a goal... Having acquired a mine of their own, they 
 intend to gather as much ore as possible and detonate it to destroy the barrier. They are led by 
 the water mages. - The Sect Camp: The Brotherhood, as they call themselves, consists more of the 
 free minded prison colonists. They have denounced the traditional gods for an alternative one which 
 they refer to as the sleeper, and believe this new god will lead them to freedom. They do however 
 maintain trade with the other camps in form of swampweed, a halluconegenic plant that is smoked. 
 The Gurus are the spiritual leaders of this camp. I really enjoyed taking my time exploring the 
 world and especially getting a feel of the camps the npc's in them. Some of them are cool enough 
 to inspire you to play the game in a different camp or as a different class (though gothic has 
 no classes) while others were so annoying that I took them out into the woods and disposed of them. 
 I would recommend everybody to really take the time to explore the camps and listen to what the 
 npc have to say as it is the fundament for the mood and the story. The game is reasonably difficult 
 and you will have to save often, but you get into the habit of saving before doing anything big 
 and then it represents no problem. One other strength of the game is all the small things that 
 make it an organic experience. One of these features is that if you kill a wolf it won't drop a 
 jeweled longsword. You will however be able to take meat off the wolf and fry it for food. Or even 
 learn to skin it and take it's teeth for a trophy. Those kind of details really add more to a game 
 than one would suspect. Infact I probably ended up playing Gothic something like 300 or 400 hours 
 before i switched computers. (which made gothic unavailable for play untill they released the downloadable 
 international version not long ago) Even now, seven years since i first played the game i still 
 love going back to the mining colony . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozistyle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I bought & played this game some months after it was released. I saw it on the back selves of my 
 local game-shop. I asked the owner about that game and he replied that its a mediocre game. Anyway 
 I took my chances and bought that game. After the first five minutes playing it I didn't want stop 
 playing for anything in this world.
  I give much base on the scenario and I can assure you that this game has a "SCENARIO". The plot 
 seems too simple and regular in the begging but after the first impact with other factors you will 
 see how great it is.
  All the characters really match with the medieval environment and as a result these two create 
 a magnificent experience to everyone plays it.
  Everything in this game looks or better IS realistic. The sun goes up every morning and goes down 
 every night leaving its place to the moon. There are also climatologically changes like thunderstorms 
 or rain etc.
  But I still havent spoken about the strongest part of that game. The reason that this game is 
 a true magnum opus. Its the freedom that is given to you to choose your destiny in the game. There 
 are three camps in the game that you can join. The Old Camp, the New Camp and the camp at the Swamp.
 
  The first on is ran by Gomez (taught guy :) ) and his men. On the other hand the New Camp is ran 
 by the mercenaries and their leader Lee (cool guy) . Finally we have the Camp at the Swamp control 
 by the Gurus (no comment) . You are free to join any camp you want but take under consideration 
 that since you choose a camp you can't undo what you have done so make a wise choice. Every camp 
 has its own pros and cons. Myself I have beaten the game with all the camps, but the first time 
 i have joined the New Camp (nice place to live) . In order to become a member of a camp you should 
 accomplish some missions. I consider the easiest camp to join the Swamp camp and the most difficult 
 the Old Camp (I said that Gomez is a taught guy) . Anyway you are UNBOUND to choose you destiny. 
 Oh I haven't told you still anything about the Orc camp and generally the Orc land. You can't join 
 this camp and to be honest you can't even go close to that camp (except one time during the end 
 of the game) these Orc don't like humans at all. As for the Orc land I don't have many things to 
 say. Its a land at the north of the map (I think) that you are able to go but be aware of the Orcs.
 
  Another great part of that game is the dialogue one. All the dialogues have sound (you listen 
 to what the other says) and generally short. You choose what you say but be careful of what you 
 say and to who are you say this. Some words might cause DEATH.
  During the game you will make friendships (some will last till the next Gothic) and enmities (non 
 will last till the next Gothic) .
  Always have your eyes and ears open, everything can be a chance to become richer, stronger, spread 
 you reputation or something else and do not forget to keep an eye to your money. Money is too valuable 
 in this game dont waste it. 
  Also never underestimate magic. Spells, scrolls, techniques can be useful. Many spells are deadly 
 and can erase any threat so never overpass them. As the time passes you will fight many battles 
 and after them your foes weapon will lay on the ground. Don leave it. Take it. Always keep one 
 weapon of each type, who knows, you might need it. 
  Personally I find only two slight drawbacks in this. The first one is the combat-mode. It gets 
 a little bit monotonous some times especially in the begging, but its still very good. The second 
 one is graphics. I cant say that are awful, NO WAY, but there is something missing, but if we 
 take under consideration how huge is the map and all the other aspects of the game then you want 
 even care about the game. (thats way I gave it a 8/10 in the graphics) . 
  The sound effects and the music track selection suit and tie, nothing special though.
  I consider 
 this as the second best game EVER made (I think I should say that my best is Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time) . I am sure that you are gonna love this game as I did. A huge congratulations 
 and a big thanks you to Piranha Bytes for giving as the chance to play, feel and love this masterpiece. 
 Well done boys. :)
  
  Thanks for reading
  OZ
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Gothic is an absorbing and challenging game. Despite little technical problems that come with practically 
 every 3rd person PC rpg, giving the game a 7.2 is downright wrong. The massive amounts of spoken 
 dialogue alone gives the game higher than a 7.2 right there. It helps add to the story and events 
 and gives the game an even more absorbing feel. Other unique factor is that the enemies have the 
 same difficulty throughout the entire game.... so when you first start the game with a weak character 
 and see an ork, you had better run! Then you can fight the orks when your character's skill/experience 
 gets bulit up. So at the beginning of the game you have to be on your toes to stay away from tougher 
 enemies and take a more stealthy approach. Which is far better than the traditional "gain more 
 experience = harder enemies". Also the replayability is there, since you can choose to join between 
 three factions. The best way I can describe this game is a Morrowind feel... with spoken dialogue. 
 The game is fun, addicting, and one of the greatest rpgs I've played. I can't see how anyone who 
 likes a challenge would be disappointed with gothic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Gothic is a very hard game to love. It has some really cool unique features, a great story, and 
 a well-simulated world that I have never seen in any other RPG. But the game makes you hate it 
 sometimes. The graphics are ugly. The combat system is terrible, and so are the controls. Also, 
 the interface feels like a throwback to the Commodore 64 days. The game forces you to constantly 
 reload either by killing you all the time, or by crashing to the desktop. It took me a long time 
 to get into this game but once I did I enjoyed it quite a bit. I recommend this game for hardcore 
 RPG players who missed it the first time and havent been too pleased with recent offerings.
  
  The premise for this game is very unique. You are an anonymous prisoner, dropped into a prison 
 colony which is surrounded by a magic barrier. Once you get in there, the game is almost totally 
 open-ended. The game has a very realistic day and night cycle, where NPCs can be seen doing their 
 work during the day and then resting around a campfire or sleeping at night. There are three distinct 
 camps in the game, and each of them are very well fleshed out. In the first chapter, you make a 
 decision on which camp to join. It doesnt make a huge difference in the game, but it does determine 
 if some perks are open or shut to you. 
  
  Theoretically, you can walk off and explore anywhere at any given time, but you are so wimpy when 
 you start off the game that you have to stay just on the roads at first. Venturing off next to 
 a wolf or a lizard will get you killed fast. The controls for the game are simply awful, and that 
 makes combat that much more frustrating. Enemies will surround you and run circles around you. 
 Your character turns to face enemies extremely slow, like a piece of meat on a barbecue spit. There 
 seems to be a one second delay between every keystroke in combat and the appropriate action. This 
 causes you to get slaughtered constantly. Combat is badly unbalanced in favor of melee tank type 
 characters and against mages. The way to defeat enemies as a mage is to cast one spell, run away 
 for a minute until your enemies give up chasing you, and then returning to cast another spell. 
 
  
  The really cool setting and the feel of the game world are what kept me playing. The prison colony 
 feels so realistic and immersive. There is a lot of spoken dialog in the game. Every line is voice 
 acted and it most of the acting is really good. The only drawback might be that lots of the voices 
 sound the same. Your actions actually seem like they have consequences and the game world actually 
 changes a little bit in each chapter. Old friends become bitter enemies, and vice versa. The way 
 that you hold and swing a sword changes depending upon what your skill level is with it. The three 
 big factions in the game are crafted perfectly and they are a big part of the games story. So 
 many games, like Morrowind and Deus Ex: Invisible War, fail to get this part right. In fact, I 
 have never seen a game that nails it like this.
  
  The game is hard at first, but that makes it more satisfying later on when you have gained 15 levels 
 and you can defeat a lot of the enemies that you got beat up by earlier. This game truly gives 
 you the feel of surviving in a hostile prison colony, and then getting your revenge later on all 
 the thugs who roughed you up. This might actually be the best part of the game. No other RPG quite 
 gives you this feeling. 
  
  Gothic suffers from a horrible lack of polish and thats why its impossible to recommend to someone 
 who is looking for a pick up and play game. This is a very unique game that is good for hardcore 
 RPG fans who dont mind putting up with some annoyances to get a nice payoff later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phyrr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2004 3:12 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT MIND THE GAMESPOT REVIEW!
  
  Despite the clunky interface (which is easy to get used to after about 10 minutes) this game is 
 a WHORE when it comes to NPC interaction, quests and your regular RPG fun play. I don't understand 
 why people compare this game to Morrowind when the NPCs in that game are just canned responses. 
 This game actually makes you feel like you're part of a story and not just trying to finish it.
 
  
  The action element in fighting may be wierd for RPGers at first, but it also makes it a little 
 more in depth. Part of it is in fact building up your skills and stats but also learning how to 
 use combat combinations with your weapons (multiple strikes and twirls with weapons, guided by 
 your hand and it easy to implement.) . The higher your skill is, the more combinations you can do 
 which help in combat greatly. This does not make it a twitch aspect in any sense so don't be worried.
 
  
  The voice acting in this game is REALLY good and it is also in every line of text except when you're 
 reading a message or a book. In this game you choose your alliances, can gain ranks with the various 
 factions and even attempt at being a double agent.
  
  The graphics aren't top notch quality, but this game is also a few years old. However that means 
 that you're system will no doubt be able to run it well and at full resolution (which looks great) . 
 I've been an RPG nut for years and this brings in a new model for future RPG games to follow in 
 NPC interaction, storyline and just the general involvement. If you consider yourself an RPG fan 
 you will not go wrong in purchasing this game (let alone only for 10-20 dollars now) . I bought 
 Gothic and Gothic II which was great because I was able to hop to the sequel right away which continues 
 the story seamlessly. Definitely the way to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarshipCoyote
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2003 8:37 am PT
Review:  Gothic is a whole new game. Its not your normal role playing game. Its not about heroes that 
 save the day or anything so lofty. Youre a criminal being cast away from society and your given 
 the chance to make a difference in the your life inside the prison world they have constructed 
 for you and possibly the world. The society youre a part of is a dark and gothic one. In this 
 game the inmates have taken over the Asylum, and your one of the inmates. Its a definite different 
 twist on the common role play. Its system has a high learning curve, to the point that you need 
 to be taught in game how to master the skills you can have. Again the amount of choice is awesome, 
 not only do you have the right to chose your actions, you can chose your affiliations, and what 
 society you chose to be apart of. Who you ally with and who you dont. Your character develops 
 along your choices not along a preset rules associated with a specific class. All in all Gothic 
 goes the extra mile and is a mile stone in the genre. Its worse problem is the graphics interface 
 can overwhelm a computer quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2003 3:44 am PT
Review:  I just finished Gothic and was impressed by the story line and character development in the game. 
 The story has a beginning, middle and end  each of which is satisfying. As the story moves along, 
 so does your character, both in power and in recognition in the world. NPCs treat you differently 
 depending on how powerful you are, and they change their stance toward you during the course of 
 the game. When I first tried to take out the bandit camp by the Troll Focus I was rudely rebuffed. 
 When I came back later the entire camp ran away from me  a reasonable course of action considering 
 my powers at the time. Furthermore, Gothic does not suffer from some of the flaws that made me 
 dislike Neverwinter Nights and Morrowind. Both of those games suffer from my pet peeve: thousands 
 of NPCs, all of whom say exactly the same thing. While there is some of that going on in Gothic, 
 the variety of the NPCs personalities make the game a pleasure to play. The combat is good (another 
 problem with Morrowind, if not NWN) and the controls become second nature. I played as a mage and 
 was able to use my magical abilities to win the final battle  I never raised my sword once during 
 it  something most other games of the action/adventure set have tremendous trouble with. There 
 are some things I wish the plot had done differently. For example, I wish we knew more about the 
 protagonist  why was he put in the prison colony in the first place? Also I would have loved for 
 him to have some sort of love interest. They sort of teased you, having him show some concern for 
 the woman sent in with the shipment in the first scene. Overall, this is easily the best game I 
 have played all year, and I echo some of the other reviewers in wondering what the Gamespot people 
 were smoking when they rated this in the sevens? I cant wait for Gothic II to be released in the 
 US. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
